nt. Military leaders are always in demand with many groups as speakers at official, unofficial, and semi-official functions, and Air Force leaders are no exception. A search through any Air Force leader’s papers quickly reveals that the officer made countless speeches before groups ranging from military and veterans organizations to civic groups large and small. In many cases, either by personal choice or by request, the officer spoke on topics that extolled the capabilities of air power. Often the speech reached beyond the audience if its text was reprinted by the print media or rebroadcast by radio. For example, in the summer of 1947 Carl Spaatz gave a series of speeches in California, all of which 136 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 148 --- were picked up for broadcast over network radio. In these speeches he stressed themes of strategic bombing’s success in World War n, current Air Force weakness, and the need for a strong strategic force for deterrence.1  Air Force leaders were also asked to write pieces which appeared in various magazines or newspapers across the country. Here too they frequently chose or were asked to write on the benefits and promise of air power. For example, in 1951 Air Force Chief of Staff Hoyt S. Vandenberg wrote an article for The Saturday Evening Post  in which he stated that air defense could not protect America from a Soviet nuclear attack, and that the only hope was to deter such an attack through a strong strategic bombing force.2  The fact that Air Force leaders spoke or wrote about air power is not surprising, and many who heard or read their words realized the message came from a biased, and perhaps partisan, source and took the message “with a grain of salt.” But for many others in the audience the officer’s stature only added strength to the message and thus these speeches and articles became part of the popular culture c