bor’s defenses were dangerously weak and mismanaged and for predicting that the Japanese could attack Pearl Harbor with a carrier- borne attack force.3 8 Also implicit in the film’s message is that America in the 1950s has seen the light, that it recognizes Mitchell’s vision and has put its faith in revolutionary air power. The film did reasonably well at the box office, it ended the year as twenty-eight on the list of top money makers grossing $3 million, so millions saw its congratulatory message that all intelligent people knew Mitchell had been right all along.3 9  Throughout the prosecutor’s attack on Mitchell’s predictions the audience of the 1950s was expected to recognize that history had “proven” Mitchell right, and in the context of the fifties they were expected to pay particular heed to another prediction Mitchell makes in the movie. In one scene he tries to convince a general, who later heads the panel of judges at his court martial, of the effectiveness of bombing and tells him, “One of these days half the world will be in ruins from the air. I want this country to be in the other half.” The general had not listened, but America was reassured that Mitchell’s words had been finally heeded. As Mitchell walks 296 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 308 --- out of his hotel after the court martial he looks up at a formation of biplanes that suddenly turns into waves of jets streaking across the screen to the strains of the Air Force Song. Another movie from 1955, Strategic A ir Command,  presents the same reassuring theme, but the image of revolutionary air power is more understated. The film began as an idea Jimmy Stewart expressed to his friend, screenwriter Beime Lay. Both had been B- 24 pilots in World War II and both were still in the Air Force Reserve. Stewart suggested a movie about a reservist recalled to active duty during the Korean War. Lay had