f modem security,” while one from 1954 quotes Reichsmarschal Hermann Goering and Rear Admiral Toshitane Takata of the Japanese Navy to the effect that air power had been the decisive weapon in World War II and then quotes President Eisenhower: “...but you and I can logically deduce that we must have adequate [air] force-in-being the day war begins - or we will have no need for any other.”3 8  Perhaps the emphasis on air power in the early pamphlets stems from the fact that Eddie Rickenbacker served as chairman of the Legion’s Aeronautics Committee from 1946 to 1947. Rickenbacker’s connection with air power since his days as America’s leading ace in World War I are well known. He frequently spoke to groups and the press advocating air power throughout the interwar and postwar period, he was long-time head of Eastern Airlines, and he was a charter member of the Air Power League, served on its Board of Directors, and continued with the National Air Council on its Board of Governors. Rickenbacker’s role in instigating the Legion’s air power pamphlets, though, would at best have been indirect because the pamphlets were issued by the Legion’s National Defense Division and its successor after 156 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 168 --- 1947, the National Security Commission. Furthermore, the pamphlets continued into 1954, seven years after Rickenbacker’s tenure as head of the Aeronautics Committee.3 9 All of the Legion’s air power pamphlets but one have the same look, “feel,” and message. They are skillfully produced with eye-catching illustrations, bright colors, and short, screaming headlines. The text is non-technical but intelligent, and the writing style is smooth and energetic. The overall effect is a pamphlet that would appeal to the general public, which undoubtedly it was designed to do. The message is remarkably consistent despite spanning an eight year peri