clear war also found that 60% of those surveyed felt that America should continue making nuclear weapons. Positive depictions such as A Gathering o f Eagles  continued, and some magazine articles still highlighted SAC’s mission, but as we have seen even these reflect a changed attitude. The new wave of anti-air power works appearing in popular culture, though, represent the highest level of anti-air power sentiment since the end of World War II and in turn helped erode public faith in air power still further.4 0 345 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 357 --- The first of the new generation of attacks was Joseph Heller’s Catch-22  published in 1961. Using the media of farce and satire Heller sets his Cold War concerns into the world of a B-25 bomb group in World War II Italy. If The War Lover  is the photographic negative image of Twelve O 'clock High,  then Catch-22  is its demented nightmare version. Heller had been a B-25 bombardier in Italy during World War II who flew sixty combat missions but his novel is not a loony memoir of his experiences during the war. Writing during the Korean War, Heller said that he had in mind the next one, World War HI, and he waited for a more favorable cultural climate before publishing his work. A complex and allegorical story, Catch-22  has numerous levels of meaning, and as each level plumbs deeper meanings, the novel presents increasingly frightful images of air power. A best­ seller, the book sold over 5 million copies by 1970, and was made into a disappointing movie that same year. The novel quickly became a classic in American literature, thus ensuring that Heller’s images of air power would live on for generations.4 1 Even a superficial reading of Catch-22  presents a highly damaging attack on air power’s image. As opposed to the image of airmen throughout the fifties as dedicated and trustworthy, Heller’s AAF seems an in