commission on an inactive reserve basis. He resumed his career as a screenwriter under contract with Twentieth Century Fox and wrote many screenplays in the course of his career, including 13 Rue Madeleine.  In the Spring of 1946, however, he badgered Lay into starting the Twelve O 'clock High!  project they had discussed during the war. A large part of the pitch Bartlett used to sell Lay was their mutually shared sense of responsibility to inform the public about the fight to make strategic bombing work. Thus we see that Bartlett, like Lay, began the postwar period by presenting to the public his view that daylight precision bombing was the heart of air power, the means by which air power had revolutionized warfare. Like Lay in another sense, though, Bartlett transformed his public presentation of air power from that of a nimble rapier in Twelve 0  'clock High  to one of a brutal club in his only other air power project, A Gathering o f Eagles  (1963). This film, produced by Bartlett, tells of a B-52 wing commander who takes over a new base to whip it into shape. Like Strategic A ir Command  and Bombers B-52,  the intended message is to inform the public of the vital role SAC plays in protecting America through nuclear deterrence. The film is also meant to reassure Americans that the concerns raised by such novels as Peter George’s Red Alert  (1958) and Fail Safe  by Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler (1962) are unfounded. A nuclear war could not be 114 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 126 --- triggered accidentally or without presidential authorization. A Gathering o f Eagles  brings up yet another parallel with Beime Lay. Bartlett maintained a warm correspondance with Curtis LeMay - they too were on a first name basis - and this correspondance is what first prompted Bartlett to believe there was a need for the film and to conceive the storyline.6 2 WILLIAM WIS