is totally rehabilitated from a characterization of the worst sort of unscrupulous commander and Pell is toned down considerably. Most important, though, is that Saville, Abbott, and Pell are all redeemed by the end of the movie and the image of the Air Force is highly reassuring. To characterize as “fundamentally honest” a novel that portrays successful fighters as those who are twisted and unscrupulous, while everyone who possesses any normalcy and decency fails by the fighters’  standards and either dies or goes home in disgust indicates that the Air Force either did not understand the deeper meanings or did not find them repulsive. It objected to excessive drinking and adultery but accepted promoting those who obtained glory by getting their leaders killed. It is significant that both Roll Back the Sky  and The Hunters  were written by Air Force pilots writing about their own experiences in war. Up to this point almost all fliers had been air power advocates, and from the earliest days of flight they had been among its greatest, and loudest, champions. Furthermore, air power advocates had nearly always maintained a solid front in proclaiming through popular culture that air power was an unqualified benefit to humanity. In 1956, however, two pilots, both having the clearest possible view of what air power could do, presented some disturbing images of air power, jaded images that suggested air power might not be the progressive enlightening force that the public had been led to believe. Their image suggested that air power ate at the heart of the human spirit, and they presented these images through the same medium, popular culture, that their fellow airmen had long used to propagate the image of air power’s 334 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 346 --- innate nobility. But Taylor and Salter did not directly attack air power as a danger to the world. That attac