other film on nuclear war subjects.4 6 The third major air power film of this period, Bombers B-52,  released in 1957, also focused on one of SAC’s personnel problems, that of retaining experienced crew chiefs. Like Strategic Air Command,  this movie also uses the issue of SAC’s readiness to defend 300 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 312 --- America as the compelling reason why people should forego greater money-making opportunities and an easier life as civilians. The plot revolves around a senior crew chief, Master Sergeant Chuck Brennan played by Karl Malden, who has spent twenty years in the Air Force but who’s daughter urges him to retire and take a lucrative executive position in an aircraft manufacturing plant near San Francisco. Adding to the tension is the fact that Brennan’s daughter, Lois played by Natalie Wood, thinks her father’s position lacks respect, and that Lois begins dating an officer Brennan regards as an irresponsible playboy but who happens to be Brennan’s squadron commander. A major sub-plot is that Brennan’s proposed retirement comes just as his wing is slated to be the first to convert from B-47s to the brand-new B-52. Without experienced crew chiefs like Brennan, the audience is told, the mighty B-52 is worthless because it will never get off the ground. The movie went through several name changes during its gestation period, but through it all Beime Lay, though not mentioned in the credits, played a major role. In March 1955 Jack Warner, a long-time friend of Hap Arnold and a member of the Board of Directors of the Air Force Association, wrote to LeMay explaining that he had hired Lay to work on the film, then known as Toward the Unknown.  Warner asked LeMay to help Lay and Warner Brothers “help national defense in general, and the air force [sic] in particular” by giving all the assistance he could to the film. A letter in July from