ovel generated considerable interest in Hollywood. It was one of the first war movies to go into production after the war ended, but some production executives questioned how the public would react to the strident nature of the lead character Brigadier General K. C. Dennis. In the course of fighting for a critical strategic bombing mission Dennis has several heated arguments with his boss and a prominent reporter, assaults a Congressman, and is relieved of his command. Twentieth Century Fox pursued a deal with Haines, but eventually backed out and turned to Twelve O ’ clock High  instead. The two stories were so similar in fact, Fox executives worried they or Lay and Bartlett would face plagiarism charges, a concern that did not materialize.6 6  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer immediately bought the rights to Command Decision  and cast Clark Gable in the lead role. The film premiered in late 1948. That both Twentieth Century Fox and MGM would pursue, and Gable would star in, this critically acclaimed paean to American air power is hardly surprising: numerous executives of both studios were charter members of the Air Power League, and Gable was not only a charter member but also sat on the League’s board of directors.6 7 Haines’  conception of air power, as depicted in Command Decision , is that in a general sense air power has revolutionized warfare, but more specifically that strategic bombing holds the key to true success in warfare. In his story, Germany has developed a secret weapon that will turn the war around, a jet-powered fighter far superior to the allies’ conventional fighter. The jet will make the Germans unbeatable in the air, and thus the audience is told that air power can win the war for Germany. But the Americans hold an even more powerful weapon: daylight precision bombing. Bombing, the audience is 116 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 128 --- told, can des