ile: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 34 --- uses to power his fleet of airships. He mounts upon these ships a wondrous weapon of his own invention, and his airships have no trouble disarming the entire world, for as Newcomb writes, “no defence of person or property against an army flying the air where it chose, and pouncing down at any moment, was possible.” The hero forces all nations to submit to the authority of his private corporation staffed by American college students who will direct all human affairs. The hero, rising about nationalism, assumes the twin titles of “His Wisdom” and “The Defender of the Peace,” abolishes war, and oversees a golden age of peace and prosperity brought about by the reign of reason.1 2 By far the most frequent prophecies of air power had little to do with utopian altruism. Instead, numerous authors portrayed air power as a “blessed destroyer,” a miraculous force discovered just in time to save the nation from some overwhelming invasion or other external threat. Air war prophecies of this sort were part of the larger cottage industry of future-war literature that I. F. Clarke identifies, and as such, the relevant point is not that air power stories were more fantastic than stories depicting salvation through bigger armies or better navies, or that air power was depicted as more capable than land power or sea power. The relevance is two-fold. First, even before the first military air units were established, the airplane was connected with romantic nationalism. Clarke identifies two key characteristics that help explain the wild popularity of future-war literature during this period: rampant nationalism and the romanticism of war in Western Civilization before World War I.1 3  Both of these characteristics would become central factors in the cultural popularity of air power in the Twentieth Century, for as Michael Paris has observed, while many have highlighted the international utopianism of 23 Reproduced with permission of the copyrigh