into a unified group working to advance air power. He detailed Assistant Chief of Staff for Personnel, Fred Anderson, to recommend guidelines for such an organization. Anderson made his report in August 1945. Organizing  efforts began in October 1945 when a dozen AAF veterans, including Jimmy Doolittle and Jimmy Stewart, met to lay the groundwork for the Association. Carl Spaatz, then Vice Chief of Staff of the AAF and a Colonel Robert E.L. Eaton of AAF headquarters sat in on this meeting as observers. The Association was formally incorporated on 4 February 1946. The Air Force Association was open to any and all AAF veterans and its first president, Timmy Doolittle, enunciated the group’s close ties to the AAF despite the fact that it had no official ties to the service: “[the Association] was created for the benefit of its members and the Air Force they served so loyally.” While active duty AAF personnel could join as associate members, they could not vote on Association matters nor hold any office. The group’s organization called for local, state, and regional chapters along with the national office, and it planned outreach activities that included a monthly magazine and educational programs.1 4 The Association’s main means of disseminating its message was its magazine, Air Force , but it used other methods as well. A ir Force  began publication in July 1946 as the official journal of the Air Force Association, but it too had deeper roots. The Air Service published a monthly newsletter starting in 1917 and this newsletter continued almost uninterupted until the early days of World War n. Throughout these years the newsletter served as an in-house means of disseminating information throughout the Air Service and 141 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 153 --- the Air Corps. In December 1942 Arnold transformed the newsletter into what he described to its new editor