America. At one point Arnold states that he counseled caution but that Mitchell voiced his determination to sacrifice himself to make the Army and Navy listen. 189 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 201 --- Arnold reports that Mitchell felt he was the only one who was in a position to make a difference, for, as Arnold quoted Mitchell, “I can afford to do it. You can’t.”3 7 One measure of the effectiveness of this campaign, and the widespread sympathy for Mitchell and for air power in general, is that in 1946 Congress voted a special medal of honor to be posthumously awarded to Mitchell. This medal is frequently confused with the Congressional Medal of Honor, as, for example, when Huie states that, “Congress acknowledged the national shame and pinned the Congressional Medal of Honor upon Mitchell’s ghost.”3 8  The design of the medal and its inscription, though, as well as the wording of the bill authorizing the medal, make clear that it has no connection with the nation’s highest military honor.3 9  Still, this unique recognition of Mitchell by joint act of Congress is a reflection of the widespread sentiment after World War II that America was deeply indebted to Mitchell and needed to make amends for past treatment. The medal was presented to Mitchell’s son, William Mitchell, Jr., by Chief of Staff Carl Spaatz on 27 March 1948. Mitchell’s family later tried to follow-up on the official sentiments embodied in the medal by having Mitchell’s court martial conviction officially overturned. In this they were joined by the Air Force Association, and in 1956 their petition went before Air Force Secretary James Douglas. The petition was turned down, however, in recognition of the fact that while his motives may have been laudable, his insubordinate actions could not be officially sanctioned by any military organization, even the Air Force.4 0 Perhaps the public culminati