he German jets have turned the tide of battle. This sets the stage for a confrontation between the two that allows Haines to illustrate his notion of the true nature of air power. Kane recounts his experiences in the interwar Air Corps when the early pioneers of American air power flew obsolete aircraft, died carrying the air mail, and did everything they could to build public support. Now that 213 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 225 --- they are on the verge of building a true air force, including a strategic bombing force that can win the war, Dennis is throwing the whole thing in jeopardy by incurring shocking losses. At one point he asks Dennis: Do you realize how much the Navy wants our planes, for sub-patrol - and to protect the repairing of those battleships that air power couldn’t hurt? Do you know how much the Army wants our pilots for company commanders? Don’t you know the British want us to switch to night area bombardment?... Don’t you realize the fight its taken...to get us any planes at all?... And with time and planes and support we can [demolish] every factory in Europe. But the decision is at stake now.*3 Dennis counters that the promise of a future air force will mean nothing if Germany seized aerial supremacy. Strategic bombing was the only means to prevent that from happening, but it had to be used immediately regardless of costs. In either case air power will decide the course of the war according to Haines. German tactical air power can deny allied victory, but American strategic bombing will guarantee it. At one point Dennis tells Kane: Sir, wars are lost by waiting. The Allies waited at Munich. The French and British waited behind the Maginot Line.... But if we wait... we’ll be waiting for the Germans to put a roof on the continent, ...to confront our armies on D-Day at the Channel with an air force that’s already whipped us. I’m not try