cy stemmed from more than bureaucratic ambition. Certainly anyone in the Air Force who doubted the need for a bigger Air Force or who questioned air power’s capabilities would not get to a position of power and influence in the postwar Air Force, but the messages Air Force leaders consistently put forward in the popular culture campaign indicates that they earnestly believed the air power gospel they helped propagate, and that this belief was part of their motivation in trying to make the American public believe it as well. By the same token, one should not exaggerate the role of Air Force members in the popular culture crusade. Granted, Air Force figures such as Curtis LeMay played important roles in “selling” air power, but they were far out-numbered by civilian figures, many of whom 10 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 22 --- never had any official connection with the Air Force. Some, like Alexander de Seversky and William Bradford Huie, were an embarrassment to the Air Force and proved counter­ productive to air power goals. Similarly some air power advocates were aircraft industry leaders with a vested financial interest in a bigger Air Force. Far more important, though, were the many more civilian air power advocates who had no vested interest in advancing the air power cause. Writers, novelists, journalists, newspaper and magazine editors and publishers, playwrights, screenwriters, movie, television, and radio directors and producers, all played critical roles in spreading the air power gospel, for they decided what the public read, heard, and watched, and they did it with no apparent motive other than that, for a variety of reasons, they each believed in the cause of air power. The diversity among air power advocates is also seen in what they believed about air power. As in the computer analogy, convictions ran the gamut from extreme to pragmatic, but all