hatever the nation wanted to do in the air; as such it included both military and civilian aviation, and advances in one realm were seen as advances for the whole. In detailing “the winged gospel” Joseph Com has focused primarily on aviation enthusiasts, those who were most active in civilian forms of aviation, but the distinction between civilian and military realms of aviation are far more apparent today than they were at that time. Both realms saw themselves as partners in a common cause. Aviation enthusiasts emerged slightly before air power enthusiasts, but throughout the ages images 42 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 54 --- of flying seemed to go hand-in-hand with images of fighting in the air. Thus it is not surprising that shortly after a loose-knit group emerged dedicated to advancing the cause of aviation, another group would emerge dedicated to advancing the cause of air power. Air power advocates actually did little up through 1918 to advance their cause in the realm of popular culture. Those directly involved with military aviation before and during the war were preoccupied with the more immediate questions of technology, tactics, and survival.5 6  What the public saw on the subject of aerial warfare was more in the realm of fantasy than advocacy. As a consequence, little appeared in the realm of popular culture from air power enthusiasts aiming at convincing the public to espouse and support American air power. Still, caught up in the same excitement for aviation that was sweeping the American society of which they were a part, those who later became prolific evangelists for air power began shaping their larger visions and making their first proselytizing efforts during this period. Henry H. “Hap” Arnold, for example, recalled first thinking that airplanes would be a perfect means of invasion when he saw a painting sometime during his cadet days a