untered in adventure fiction or mythology. Dismayed me because, though I had been practicing the historian’s craft for more than two decades, I now had to acknowledge a major territory of ignorance in my understanding of the recent past.2 To understand the intellectual climate behind the rise of American air power one must grasp the full scope of this cultural fascination. Too often we forget that members of pressure groups are also members of the society they hope to reform. In the case of postwar air power advocates, their thinking was in part shaped by the euphoric cultural atmosphere of their youth when nothing seemed too fantastic to ascribe to the new miracle of aviation. Furthermore, works of early air power advocates, Billy Mitchell and others, which aimed to influence society through popular culture, helped to influence the thinking 18 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 30 --- of later air power advocates who were part of the interwar target audience. This is not just the story of the military influencing society, but also of society influencing the military. As members of American society in the early days of flight, those who would later become air power advocates were swept up in the same spirit of aviation euphoria that spurred the public imagination. Just as others were imagining all sorts of fantastic properties for aviation, air power advocates imagined similar properties for air power; just as aviation enthusiasts believed aviation would revolutionize human affairs, air power enthusiasts believed that air power would revolutionize warfare. The two realms were part of the same cultural phenomenon in the first decades after the Wright Brothers’  flight. Rumors o f War in the Sky: Air Power Prophecy up to 1903 Long before the appearance of air power advocates, before the first air force was organized, before any efforts to advance the cause of air po