d Command Decision.  Secondly, and more important, one must avoid making too much of simple characterizations of interwar America’s attitudes toward air power. Throughout the period American attitudes were in a state of flux shifting between the romantic and technological messianic images embodied in “the winged gospel” and the cult of the fighter ace on the one hand, and traditional 50 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 62 --- isolationism and anti-militarism on the other. In this milieu of conflicting images individual Americans varied both in comparison to one another and within their own mind, in where they stood in the spectrum between rejecting and embracing air power over the course of time between 1918 and 1941. In effect, with so many competing images to choose from, Americans could and did pick and choose images that seemed to fit how each individual felt about the immediacy of external threats. When the threat seemed remote, as in the postwar disillusionment of the early twenties, they might see air power as exciting, threatening, or overblown. When faced with the reality of World War II and the memory of trench stalemate, they tended to choose the image of air power as the great deliverer and minimized images of the costs of aerial warfare. Many more films about the Great War in the air appeared throughout the interwar period, but none matched the impact or stature of these three classics. Wings, H e ll’ s Angels,  and The Dawn Patrol  were seen by millions and set standards for later films about aviation and air warfare that are still influential, and the movies helped to shape images of air power in American popular culture. More important for shaping those images, though, was the air power debate carried out in print. The Hollywood figures whom we have discussed, unlike filmmakers of a later period, were not openly advocating any particular air powe