that at the close of the war Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson sent de Seversky to Europe and Japan as a special consultant to survey the effects of the strategic bombing campaign.3 9 The end of the war, though, saw no let-up in de Seversky’s writing, nor in his unique ability to stir controversy. He wrote numerous articles throughout the late 1940s, published primarily in American Mercury  and Reader's Digest.  One topic of these articles stirred immediate outrage that generated public debate. Based on his brief survey of bombing damage in Germany and Japan de Seversky claimed that the press had grossly exaggerated the effects of atomic bombs. Alluding to the prevaillence of wood and paper construction of Japanese housing, de Seversky stated that fire had done most of the damage at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, that the damage was quite comparable to the damage seen in Japanese cities that had been firebombed, and that if dropped on a “modem” city like New York it would do no more damage than a conventional “blockbuster.”4 0  The response was immediate and emphatic. Critics pointed out that the modem Japanese buildings that survived the blast and that de Seversky had pointed to to prove his point were actually built stronger than American buildings so they could survive Japan’s frequent earthquakes. More importantly, his critics charged, de Seversky was lulling Americans into a false sense of security at the very time world leaders were trying to gain international agreement on the control of atomic weapons.4 1 105 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 117 --- De Seversky’s other articles were less controversial but no less insistent, and in 1950, shortly after the outbreak of the Korean War, he brought them together in a book titled Air Power: Key to Survival.  The book was not nearly as popular as was Victory Through Air Power,  the Book of the Month Club did not car