ategic Air Force for our country.”5 1  Not only did Reader's Digest  run frequent reprints of air power articles from other magazines, it also commissioned several original articles from such authors as Huie, Beirne Lay, Jr., and de Seversky. In fact, it serialized nearly every chapter of Air Power: Key to Survival  in the years before the book was published. Many of Reader's D igest's  original air power articles came from its aviation editor and roving military commentator Francis Vivian Drake, and this may be either a cause or an effect of the magazine’s enduring interest in air power topics.5 2  Drake joined the magazine in 1943. Before that he had been a World War I fighter pilot in the R. A.F. and a civilian consultant for the Air Force during and after World War n .5 3  Drake contributed articles throughout the period on numerous military and naval topics, but most of his work stressed a large modem Air Force and strong strategic forces. Just as many of the nation’s leading general interest magazines gave the popular culture crusade a tremendous boost by opening their pages to air power enthusiasts, some of Hollywood’s most popular movie studios, producers, and directors immeasurably aided the cause through film. While air power had a long history of providing just the kind of drama, romance, and excitement for which Hollywood was always looking, in several cases one suspects there was more motivation than just “good box office appeal.” First, many postwar air power movies desplay a unique feature lacking in films from before the war. When John Monk Saunders or Howard Hughes wanted to extoll air power on film before World War n  they made movies like Wings  and H ell’ s Angels,  which showed little 166 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 178 --- more than romantic and dashing pilot characatures and lots of flying footage. During the war, though, films such a