bing as a critical part of America’s war effort in the public consciousness than all the articles, books, and speeches by all the other air power advocates combined. In the process they were crucial to projecting the tradition of the ACTS and the image of bombing as efficient, modem, and progressive into the postwar air power popular culture campaign. Twelve O 'clock High,  while not specifically claiming that strategic bombing alone won the war, did much to put that image into vivid artistic form. The book, written by 207 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 219 --- Beime Lay and Sy Bartlett, is quite explicit in claiming the importance of bombing to the war effort. In the opening scene, set after the war, the former adjutant of the 918th Bomb Group visits the old base where the group was stationed in England. As he stands on the overgrown runway a flood of memories overwhelms him and the authors state that his tears, the first since his childhood, were not bom of nostalgia, but: of the clear realization, emerging through the perspective of time, that here on this one station America might have lost the war. That this one rotten apple, decaying at a critically early juncture, almost spoiled the barrel. Americans remembered only victories. Did they know how perilously close the sequence of events at Archbury had come to destroying in its cradle the future giant of air power which, according to its victim, was the decisive factor in Germany’s plunge to defeat?7 2 The problem, and hence the plot, involves a B-17 bomb group that, under the command of an over-indulgent father-figure, sinks into the pit of high losses, self-pity, and spiralling morale. Why one group with a morale problem threatens to lose the war for America, according to the authors, is that the 918th’s impending collapse comes early in the war, in the Fall of 1942, when many military leaders in America