ir power advocates defended the institution but not the faith. Thus the institutionalization of air power in the Air Force wed the air power revolution to the fortunes of a bureaucratic organization, led the air power advocates away from their original vision, and paved the way for the disillusionment of the American public. All of this would tend to weaken the technological messianism that invested air power with its seeming powers of salvation. Weart offers a theory in a related context that may give yet another explanation for why people lost faith. In discussing why many eventually fell silent on the nuclear debate he points to “cognitive dissonance,” that people often choose to ignore the “dissonance” or discrepancy between their fears and their actions when the options become too complex for easy solution.6  In the air power context this could have been a factor, for as long as America had a nuclear monopoly or SAC bombers and air defense seemed to offer a reasonably valid measure of protection, people could put their faith in air power to protect them from enemy air power. Missiles that could strike suddenly with little or no warning, however, made countering the Soviet threat too complex for easy faith but the unilateral 324 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 336 --- disarmament that some seemed to advocate did not offer much of an alternative either. Increasingly people chose not to choose. They could not abandon air power but they could no longer continue the naive faith either. For whatever reason, people began to lose faith in air power and one reflection of this is the publication, and increasing popularity, of works in popular culture that questioned or attacked the dominant image of air power. Starting in the second half of the fifties and accelerating through the early sixties, novels and movies escalated their attacks and drew ever larger audience