s of the world?” Knebel laid the blame on budgetary constraints that forced the Air Force to design the F- 86 as an all-purpose aircraft intended to perform air superiority, air interdiction, and close air support missions. This meant that the much lighter MiG-IS could fly higher and faster, out climb, and out maneuver the F-86 in combat.6 5 Most calls for greater tactical air power, though, focused on Europe and the larger war with the Soviets that might come. In fact, if anyone doubted that the air power advocates learned how to exploit the new public image of tactical air power, Francis Vivian Drake’s 1951 Reader’ s Digest  article would remove all doubt. Writing of the projected build-up of American ground forces in Europe, Drake claimed that they were going there with inadequate tactical air forces and asked, “What does it take to convince the Administration that sending troops to Europe without air cover is an act o f suicide? Pointing to Soviet air strength he claimed they had 10,000 aircraft for supporting ground forces alone but that American air strength was planned to peak out at only 3,000. Drake called on the administration to institute an aircraft building campaign to rival that of World War II so that American ground troops would be protected by a tactical air force that could seize air superiority over Europe. Spaatz had stressed many of the same points in an article, also in Reader's Digest,  three months earlier and claimed that American tactical air power would face 10-1 odds in Europe. Decrying what he called the “Wall-of-flesh” mentality driving America’s planning for European defenses, Spaatz stated that tactical air 264 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 276 --- operations had inflicted 47% of the casualties suffered by the Communist forces in Korea and predicted that American troops would face the same fate if they could not prevent the Sov