ed widespread fears for the defense of North America and threatened to divert Air Force efforts into the air defense mission. By showcasing air defense capabilities, though, while continually reminding the public that the best defense was a good offense, the air power advocates retained the public’s trust. How many actually put their faith in Vandenberg’s image of victory through destroying the Soviet homeland faster than they could destroy America is impossible to say. Judging by images that predominated through 267 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 279 --- much of the fifties, though, it seems clear that most people put their faith in keeping the Soviets at bay through the threat of retaliation. In short, they looked to nuclear deterrence for salvation. The images raised by the Korean War were accommodated in like manner. By showing Americans that the Air Force could, with public support and enough aircraft, handle the tactical role while it provided air defense and nuclear deterrence, air power advocates retained control of the image of air power in the popular imagination and kept the American public solidly in the air power comer. The best indication of the air power advocates’  success in defending their air power image is that shortly after the end of the Korean War a Gallup poll showed that public faith in air power as the most potent force in winning any future war jumped to an all-time high of 81%.7 2 Understanding the shape and contours of air power’s image as it was fixed in the public imagination by the end of the Korean War is important because that image would not face another serious challenge for several years. It remained until the late fifties almost exactly what it had become in the early fifties. Yet another indication of the air power advocates’  success in maintaining and expanding popular support for their vision during the period of chall