wer advocates seem to have sensed that, having put its faith in strategic nuclear bombing, the public needed a single person, a face, to associate with the image of strategic air power, one that would reassure the public that SAC could deliver on the promises of security through air power. Whether the one person at the head of SAC through most of the fifties actually fit the image of strategic bombing built up over several decades, or the LeMay mystique was a media creation is hard to say. Either way, he became the embodiment of strategic bombing and many saw SAC as a reflection of LeMay. 293 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 305 --- The glowing, theatrical, often celebratory tones of the general interest magazines in their treatment of SAC during the 1950s is perhaps the most controversial aspect of the phenomenon. Such a tone is not surprising coming from noted air power advocates like Francis Vivian Drake, but when it is adopted by staff writers, such as those at Life, it shows how deeply the faith in air power generally, and strategic bombing particularly, had penetrated in some circles. Granted such laudatory and melodramatic tones were products of the nature of the magazines’ genre, for they were primarily forms of entertainment and thus had to keep their material light and action-packed. They did not bear the burden of investigative journalism or impartial judgment that magazines such as Time  or Newsweek bore. Still, Hubbell’s reference to nuclear war as a “Sunday Punch” trivializes a subject that would certainly spell unmitigated disaster for the entire world and helped create reassuring images of nuclear warfare that helped make it thinkable. And building up the leaders and followers of America’s nuclear forces as larger-than-life heroes contributed to the technological messianism that prompted society to look to the bomber for salvation. A FEW  GOOD ME