ere is no evidence to suggest that these pamphlets circulated widely among the general public. But there was one pamphlet that took an entirely different approach, one that sought to reach the entire population. In October 1947 the Legion published a pamphlet, Keep America Strong in the Air,  that it sent out to all its organizations. The pamphlet billed itself as “Aids for COMMUNITY Action!” and “An Activities Handbook for Posts and Departments on The American Legion Air Power Program.” This large pamphlet, 47 pages, not only outlined a comprehensive campaign to get the Legion’s air power views into nearly every form of mass communication, it also gave sample texts for Legionnaires to use.4 1 Each department and Legion post was given pointed instructions on steps it should take to implement the program, and detailed instructions on how to accomplish the steps. The departments were asked to establish department Aeronautics Committees, headed by “an active aeronautically-informed chairman,” and to set up Area, Division, and District Aeronautics Committees. The departments were also told to hold at least one statewide Aeronautics Conference each year, to form Aeronautics Speakers Committees, and to include at least one air power item in each edition of the department’s publications. In detailing how to organize air power conferences the pamphlet urged, in bold print, that Legion officials should arrange for a U.S. senator or representative to serve as speaker, and if that was impossible they could make do with a governor, mayor, or state representative. It also covered how to arrange publicity to ensure maximum public attendance of these conferences and how to arrange radio coverage to help the speakers 158 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 170 --- reach an even larger audience. This pamphlet also states that every Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps air installation