ion.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 262 --- no affordable new or dramatic improvements in air defense in the foreseeable future, but the Alsops claimed the Air Force was turning a blind eye to this “official warning that the United States had become nakedly vulnerable to Soviet air attack with atomic weapons.”4 0 In March Stewart broke the news of the Lincoln Project in a Saturday Evening Post article co-authored with a noted scientist, Ralph E. Lapp. The two authors gave a detailed description of numerous innovative systems, some still in development and some only theoretical, ranging from new types of radar and acoustic locating devises to guided missiles and pilotless drones. They also presented as new, ideas that were relatively old. For example, they spoke of the polar concept as if they had just discovered the secret and were sharing it with the public for the first time.4 1 More important is the fact that they were in effect playing on the old theme of technical messianism by offering a new brand of savior to deliver the nation from a new danger. In describing how several of these systems will interact they claimed: [scientists] even foresee a time when these wonderful machines will actually control the interception of enemy bombers, making the whole defense operation automatic, from the blip on the radar screen to the destruction of the invading enemy. This sounds like science fiction. But practical men are now pressing forward with the experiments in this eerie new field. The new system would not be cheap. It would cost as much as $20 billion. It would, though, destroy 85-95% of any incoming bomber force and protect America until the day when intercontinental missiles, which were also only theoretical but which the authors claimed would not be practical for many years, made the system obsolete. When the Air Force and the press ignored them, the Alsops charged that partisan interests in the Air Force and apathetic newsmen were standing in the way of the