f them it’s like losing the battleship M issouri”1 2 A unique chapter in the SAC literature came in 1955 from Arthur Godfrey. In the concluding installment of an eight-part autobiography published in Saturday Evening Post 283 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 295 --- Godfrey explained that his crusade for air power was the sole reason he remained active in broadcasting. Devoting almost the entire article to his cause, he explained why he thought America needed more air power and why the only acceptable air power was the nuclear air power of SAC. “Guided missiles, radar screens and fighter planes are no substitute for long-range bombers.” Unlike most other SAC articles, this one does not purport to be a factual expose written by a professional journalist. There are no visits to SAC bases, no descriptions of heroic SAC pilots, no flights on the most advanced bombers, just one man’s opinion and he delivers that opinion with all the certainty of a zealot. What makes this article noteworthy is the author’s notoriety. As one of the most popular figures in America entertainment Godfrey’s name was sure to draw millions of readers to his words. Furthermore, Godfrey details his long association with the military and aviation, as well as his close friendship with LeMay, all of which was bound to lead many readers to think he knew what he was talking about. Godfrey’s reasoning was simplistic, but it was straight forward. The Soviets were a threat and they were building a massive bomber fleet. Since air defense had never turned back a World War II bomber force the only thing that could save America was deterrence by having a bigger bomber fleet. Such a simplistic approach to an intractable but frightening problem was bound to appeal to many.1 3 In 1957 James Michener contributed a book-length feature, published in Reader's Digest , to the growing body of SAC literature. Miche