erges as one of the chief culprits. The President, the Soviets, the Army, and academic deterrence theorists all comes in for a good roasting. Even the film’s lone hero, RAF Group Captain Lionel Mandrake, often appears to be a twit as when he ceremoniously comes to attention and orders General Ripper to give him the recall code. Arguably, though, the characters most memorable for their lunacy are Air Force officers. General Jack D. Ripper orders his planes to attack in order to foil what he thinks is a Communist plot to undermine America by polluting its people’s “precious bodily fluids.” Major “King” Kong, pilot of the only B-52 that fails to receive the recall signal, rides the bomb 354 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 366 --- out of the bomb bay whooping like a cowboy riding a bronco. Air Force General and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff “Buck” Turgidson, after learning of the Soviet’s “Doomsday Device,” stakes out the ground rules of the new Cold War by declaring “Mister President, we must not allow a mineshaft gap!”5 8 Like Burdick and Wheeler, Kubrick sees the danger of air power as more than just a failure in the system starting nuclear war. Once again the threat comes from the people who populate the air power world, but in Dr. Strangelove  the problem is not that airmen are robots. Rather, airmen are so fanatically wedded to their faith in air power and then- paranoid view of a world filled with threats which they feel only nuclear bombing can meet that they threaten to plunge the rest of humanity into oblivion. Ripper’s paranoia stems from his own sexual fixations, and his solution is to unleash the bombers. Kong so relishes the thought of nuclear warfare that he personalizes it as “nuclear combat toe-to-toe with the Ruskies.” Even after learning that the “Doomsday Device” will destroy all life on earth if so much as one bomber reaches its target,