nd Sy Bartlett represent not only two significant air power advocates, but also a phenomenon that helps explain some of the driving force behind the crusade for air power in the postwar period. Both men, like countless others, served in the AAF during the war, but at war’s end they left active service and resumed their civilian careers. For these two men that career happened to be writing, which they soon put to use in the air power cause. Between the two of them they played key roles in bringing about what is widely regarded as the best air power film ever made, Twelve O 'clock High,  and three films collectively known as the “SAC Trilogy,” Strategic Air 110 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 122 --- Command, Bombers B-52,  and A Gathering o f Eagles.  In countless other cases, though, individuals left the AAF convinced that air power was a revolutionary new force in warfare and they took that conviction with them into their comer of the world. Some, like Jimmy Stewart and Clark Gable, found influential ways to bring their support before the public, but many other unknown air power advocates discovered small though significant opportunities to “carry their spear” in the fight for air power. Beime Lay was bom in 1909 in Berkeley Springs, West Virginia, but he called Charlottesville, Virginia, home. He graduated from Yale in 1931, entered Air Corps pilot training and graduated in 1933.5 4  Lay then spent the next six years alternating between active duty and the inactive reserve as Air Corps appropriations dictated, until 1939 when he was recalled after the war started in Europe.5 5  During that period Lay turned his hand to writing and described his pilot training experiences in I  Wanted Wings  which became a best seller in 1937. When the book became the basis of a movie by the same name in 1941 Lay collaborated on the screenplay. After America entered the war La