ould be done to stop it: In truth, whoever has control of such irresistible forces will be lord over all nations, and no human skill will be able to resist his destructive power....no lock, no fortress, however impregnable, will avail to save anyone against the will of such a necromancer. He will cause himself to be carried through the air from East to West and through all the uttermost parts of the universe.6 Yet another angle of this rational/utilitarian approach is reflected by Robert Paltock’s 1751 novel The Life and Adventures o f Peter Wilkins.  The hero stumbles on “a race of winged persons” in Africa. While carried aloft Wilkins uses his gun to establish a small empire and speculates that “truly, had my Countrymen but the [means of flight] to convey their Cannon...from place to place, the whole world would not stand before us.”7 Others saw nothing but tragedy if war expanded to the skies. In 1759 Samuel Johnson warned of the darker side of war in the air and wanted nothing to do with flying. Writing in Rasselas,  Johnson warned, “If men were all virtuous...I should with great alacrity teach them all to fly. But what would be the security of the good, if the bad could at pleasure invade from the sky? Against an army sailing through the clouds neither walls, nor mountains, nor seas, could afford any security.”* Military figures also saw advantages to attacking from the air, but before the arrival of airplanes, balloons were the only means available. Balloons were used in several 21 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 33 --- wars in Europe and America before the Twentieth Century, though with disappointing results.9  In yet another parallel with later air power predictions, though, the failure of balloon warfare to live up to fanciful expectations did not inhibit speculation in popular imagination: the years leading up to 1903 saw a steady stream of future-war