n the Council’s Board of Governors - Land’s affiliation may have been more a result of his position as president of the Air Transport Association than his connection with the Navy - the Council continued to emphasize land- based air power and gave little attention to naval air power issues. Finally, both groups’  obscurity makes a couple of points in its own right. First, it illustrates the diversity within the air power advocates’  popular culture crusade. At a time 152 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 164 --- when other groups and individuals were making their own unique contributions through many channels, a group of “airminded” individuals perceived a need for a grassroots movement organized solely around the idea of fighting for air power at the national, state, and local levels, and they formed the Air Power League. Their pamphlets may or may not have reached many people, but their main effort was intended to be a face-to-face “each one reach one” approach to spreading the gospel of air power. To what extent they succeeded in this oral campaign may be lost forever in the mists of time, but for the purposes of this study it is important enough to note that one group made a formal effort to organize and educate the masses - to reach their “hearts and minds” as it were. The fact that they failed in this grass-roots effort and sank into near-oblivion points to a second, and perhaps most important, observation. Perhaps the sole raison d ’ etre  of advancing air power was not enough to hold a grassroots movement together. The League sought to establish a service organization complete with clubhouses and regular meetings,3 2  but it was to be a service organization with only one narrow-focused service to perform. It saw the nucleus of the local clubs coming from Civil Air Patrol members, air veterans, and airminded business and professional leaders,3 3  but all o