irplane. Along side renewed predictions of universal peace and harmony wrought by aviation came patently preposterous claims: flying would cure diseases, or, by affecting human evolution, bring about a superhuman species, “Alti-man.”2 2  In this cultural environment of super-heated expectations it is not surprising that wild predictions for the airplane extended into the realm of warfare. As we have already seen, futurists had been predicting a revolution in warfare if it entered the third dimension, and the appearance of a physical manifestation of those visions coupled with the “in the air all things are possible” mentality coursing through popular imagination added new momentum to the prophecies of air warfare. The outbreak of World War I took aerial warfare out of the realm of fancy and, like the invention of the airplane, gave popular imagination a concrete image upon which 27 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 39 --- to focus. The overall effect of the appearance of war in the air on the depiction of air power in popular culture was, however, decidedly mixed, and in many respects was less than one might have expected. The reasons for this lack of impact are varied. First, and perhaps foremost, many of those who had previously speculated about air warfare were merely attempting to predict the future, not necessarily urge the adoption of overwhelming air power. When the war broke out, the unexpected totality of war and the magnitude of events overwhelmed many commentators through four years of carnage, and considered reflection of prewar attitudes were generally possible only years afterward. As Gerald Linderman has argued for the Civil War generation, such reevaluation often does not occur for many years after the fighting stops.2 3  That the same is true of World War I air power can be seen in the fact that the writings of Billy Mitchell and Giulio Douhet di