e infamous climax to Mitchell’s career demonstrates the influence of his theories on the air power debate. In 1925 Mitchell was court-martialed for slanderous comments made about his superiors. On 5 September, in response to two recent air crashes, Mitchell released a press statement railing against what he called “the incompetency, criminal negligence, and almost treasonable administration of the National Defense by the Navy and War Departments.” One measure of Mitchell’s stature in the public debate on air power was that President Calvin Coolidge personally pressed the charges against Mitchell. With Mitchell being the most public air power advocate, many at the time felt the court- martial was really a trial o f his ideas and of air power itself. In a legal sense, this notion is clearly false. More important, though, Mitchell’s critics realized they could not prosecute even such a blatant act of insubordination without dealing with Mitchell’s arguments. Despite the clearly defined legal issue facing it, the court-martial elected to hear a lengthy debate on the pros and cons of Mitchell’s theories. While the court-martial remained officially a trial of Mitchell’s actions, the courtroom debate of his ideas tacitly acknowledged the unofficial question in many minds: did Army and Navy resistance to new ideas on air power justify Mitchell’s comments? Whether Mitchell’s theories were right or wrong, though, he was clearly guilty of the charges leveled against him and on 17 December the court convicted him of insubordination.9 0 The court-martial sentenced Mitchell to five years suspension without pay, which Coolidge amended to five years suspension at half-pay. Mitchell resigned from the Army in protest. His campaign to change public attitudes toward air power, though, brought some of the results he desired. First, and foremost, it focused public attention on his 56 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  F