cene. Taking his place would be Harold H. Martin and Wesley Price, both writing for The Saturday Evening Post,  and Fletcher Knebel, a writer for Look.  Together they would contribute a significant number of articles highly supportive of air power. The cause was also aided by what appears to be an increase in patriotic spirit among the popular magazines most likely brought on by the heightened Cold War tension and the 229 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 241 --- Korean War. Magazines like Saturday Evening Post , Life, and Look  had been willing to publish air power articles before, but in this period the frequency increased noticeably, and highly complimentary pieces came from unnamed editors or writers not usually associated with the air power cause. These magazines gave supportive treatment to other branches of the military, but their articles on air power usually adhered so closely to the air power “party line” that they amply supplemented the writings of known air power advocates. In this regard it is important to keep in mind that many leading figures controlling most of these magazines had maintained at some time or another ties with air power advocacy groups.1  Together with the air power advocates they would help the air power revolution meet the challenges of this period and establish the air power image more firmly within popular culture. THE REVOLT OF THE ADMIRALS AND THE POPULAR CULTURE CRUSADE The first challenge to the air power revolution was an affair commonly known as the Revolt of the Admirals. In 1949 the Navy launched a two-pronged attack on the heart of the air power cause, an attack that questioned the effectiveness of Air Force strategic bombing and the wisdom of relying on it as the cornerstone of national defense.2  The “revolt” clearly resulted from a combination of interservice competition for inadequate defense budgets, the Navy’s que