superficial reading of Catch-22  presents a highly damaging attack on air power’s image. As opposed to the image of airmen throughout the fifties as dedicated and trustworthy, Heller’s AAF seems an insanely inverted world were the most despicable acts are perceived as normal. Group commander Colonel Cathcart has his men bomb an Italian village for no other reason than obtaining good strike photos, because he is convinced that civilian targets yield the best bomb patterns. Mess officer Milo Minderbinder starts out trading government property on the black market and expands his operation until the entire AAF is integrated into his corporation M & M Enterprises. His corporate motto, “What’s good for M & M Enterprises is good for the country,” is an obvious parody of 346 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 358 --- former head of General Motors and Secretary o f Defense Charles E. Wilson’s “What’s good for General Motors is good for the country” and ties air power into the notion of the Military-Industrial Complex. Minderbinder even makes a deal with the Luftwaffe to bomb his own airfield in exchange for buying his excess products.4 2 Other characters are no better. Some appear pathetic, as in Squadron Commander Major Major who is so afraid of his responsibilities he jumps out his office window whenever anyone comes in. Others appear subject to bizarre delusions of grandeur, as in General Peckem, a Special Service Corps commander who schemes throughout the novel to bring every bomb group in the AAF under his command. Every character exhibits some form of abnormal behavior, but the harmless ones fall victim to the dangerous ones as they destroy everything that stands in the way of their schemes. Indeed the only “heroes” often appear the most crazy of all but they are heroic because they escape. One pilot, Orr, ditches his plane on every mission as he practices for his es