retaliation. At the same time, though, the Korean War forced a shift from the earlier exclusive emphasis on strategic bombing to one depicting a broader conception of air power. The end result was a set of conflicting and often contradictory images of air power encompassing overwhelming strategic forces that could somehow stop incoming enemy bombers at their source without launching a preemptive strike, along with powerful tactical and air defense forces able to meet any contingency but which could not stop a concerted nuclear attack on America. This development set the stage for the elevation of SAC in popular culture through the late-fifties that portrayed America’s nuclear forces as the only thing standing between America and nuclear devastation. By the mid-1950s, however, doubts emerged in the popular culture depiction of air power. Air power advocates still portrayed the Air Force as the best possible defense in a hostile world, but other voices questioned the wisdom of massive retaliation as national policy. More important, though, is a subtle but perceptible shift in public mood reflected in popular culture. Joseph Com has called the fifties the twilight years of America’s romance with aviation, and the same seems to be true with its acceptance of air power as a concept possessing unlimited potential.1 0  Taking its place by the end of the decade was an image in popular culture that increasingly depicted air power as a malevolent threat. Increasingly air power’s image as the best deterrent to war had to compete with the image 13 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 25 --- of the Mad Bomber, best reflected in Generals Jack D. Ripper and Buck Turgidson in Dr. Strangelove,  both of whom threatened to plunge the world into a nuclear holocaust. The importance of the popular culture air power crusade is not just what each individual air power enthusiast said or bel