icers; several other figures served in the military before or during the war, and that military experience figured prominently in their crusading efforts in the postwar period, but although they often maintained an official connection to the military, such as reserve status, they lived their lives primarily as civilians. Furthermore, we will deal in this chapter only with those military figures whose advocacy can be subjectively deemed to have been outside of their official position with the military. For example, both Arnold and Spaatz wrote articles for popular magazines while they served as leader of the AAF and the Air Force, but their writings began before, and extended after, they assumed that position. Other leaders, like Hoyt Vandenberg, are not included though they wrote pieces for popular consumption during their Air Force career primarily because their writings were confined to, and could 92 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 104 --- thus be construed as an extension of, their official capacity. Vandenberg’s writings, and others of the same category, will be considered in later chapters. HENRY HARLEY ARNOLD Bom in 1886 in Gladwyne, Pennsylvania the second oldest son of a doctor, Henry H. “Hap” Arnold planned early in life to become a minister. His father, who had served as a surgeon with a volunteer cavalry unit in Cuba during the Spanish-American War, desparately wanted Henry’s older brother to attend West Point. After Dr. Arnold had secured an appointment, the elder brother announced he wanted to become an electrical engineer and the appointment went to Henry.2  Arnold began his military career at West Point with inauspicious record. A mediocre student, Arnold also showed an early rebellious streak. He was a member of a secret group called the “Black Hand,” a group which rebelled against West Point’s notorious discipline by creating as much mischief a