s won true honor by remaining virtuous even though the fighter world regards him a failure. In direct contrast to Saville are the two figures in the novel who achieve the most success in the fighter pilot world but who act despicably. One is Lieutenant Pell, a new pilot straight out of training. Pell is an egotistical loner desperate for glory and willing to do anything, moral or immoral, to become an ace. Pell is placed in Saville’s flight and immediately begins undermining Saville’s reputation with the other flight members and the Group’s leadership. The other villain is Colonel Imil, the group commander. Imil was an ace in World War II and an ace again in Korea. He cares about one thing, and one thing only: chalking up the best kill record for his group. In a dramatic scene that reveals both 330 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 342 --- Pell’s and Irail’s true values, Pell abandons his element leader during combat to pursue and shoot down his fifth enemy aircraft. His element leader, having been left unprotected by his wingman, is killed, and Saville demands that Pell be grounded. Pell lies about what happened, and Imil suddenly turns on his old friend, berates him in front of the Group, and says, “A man with five victories, and you want me to ground him? What’s wrong with you? He ought to be a flight commander.”1 6 Other characters sharpen the perversity of the dichotomous world of the fighter pilot. Major Abbott, another World War II ace who seems to have lost the winning edge, is treated like a pariah by everyone in the Group and feels like his life has lost all meaning. He is transferred to a staff job in Seoul but he can not stay away and comes back to visit. The two element leaders in Saville’s flight, Corona and Daughters, figure out what Pell is doing, but Daughters is killed by Pell’s betrayal, and Corona returns home at the end of his tour wanting no