document that circulated widely throughout the press and Congress. The document claimed that the Air Force knew the B-36 was inadequate but that corrupt dealings by the bomber’s manufacturer, Consolidated-Vultee, sustained its acquisition. Worth later recanted the charges but not before they prompted two sets of congressional hearings, the first in August to investigate the charges, and the second in October on interservice rivalry and differing conceptions of national defense.1 1  While the cancellation undoubtedly enraged the Navy, the recently increased anti-Navy rhetoric of the air power popular culture campaign certainly contributed to the Navy’s desperation. Supporters of the Navy rallied to their cause and responded in kind to the air power advocates’  charges. In the midst of the controversy, for example, James Stahlman printed and circulated a pamphlet arguing that strategic bombing accomplished little in the war to justify the heavy losses suffered by vulnerable bombers.1 2  Navy advocates pointed to the numerous pro-air power articles in Reader’ s Digest  in recent months and asked for a chance to state their case. The editors did not quite grant equal time, but they did set up in the May issue a “point - counter-point” feature where Fletcher Pratt presented “The 234 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 246 --- Case for the Aircraft Carrier” and Francis Vivian Drake responded with “The Case for Land-based Air Power.” The two “cases” contested in a “rigged court,” for while Pratt got to state his case, Drake was given the opportunity to make his own case and respond to points raised by Pratt. Not only was Pratt not afforded the opportunity of rebuttal, but at no time had a naval partisan been given the opportunity to refute a pro-air power article as Drake was allowed with Pratt’s article. Still, Pratt did not help his cause when he made such obvious error