emphasis on entertainment. Because of the vagaries of topics and categorization as well as the restrictive focus on general interest magazines, I have not attempted a statistical analysis of the frequency of air power articles. In all other categories, such as novels, movies, pamphlets, and television shows, I quite frankly used everything I could find. While computer searches and secondary literature turned up more than I ever suspected, the fact that no study of this kind has previously been attempted left me on my own with few lists of pertinent works in most genre. While there are several good studies of war and aviation movies, there is little on novels and almost nothing on radio and television shows. Thus while I strove for thoroughness and creative approaches to finding more material, I am left with the nagging conviction that there is more out there that I did not find and that some media have been more thoroughly covered than others. 9. Com, The W inged Gospel , chapter 3. 10. Ibid, 138. 16 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 28 --- CHAPTER 2 PROLOGUE It seemed to people at the time altogether fitting that something truly monumental in human affairs should arrive so close to the turn of the century. Many within Western civilization felt that the West’s advances in science, technology, and culture were only beginning to achieve their potential and that progress was Western civilization’s God- given destiny. There were voices of dissent questioning all this progress, but the general mood assumed the West was about to embark on a brave new future that would chart new frontiers. Few, though, expected that one new frontier would include the realization of an age-old dream, the conquest of flight.1  When the flying machine burst on the scene it captured popular imagination to an extent perhaps unparalleled in history. The dawn of flight seemed to embody perfect