one” of a nation’s defenses. Secondly, Sikorsky’s warning was not meant to shock the world into abandoning air power as Wells had hoped to do; quite the contrary. Sikorsky hoped to shock America into adopting air power as its first line of defense and to nurture it through a comprehensive program meant to encourage civilian and commercial aviation.9 6 The air power image advanced by Mitchell, Moore, Sikorsky, and other air power advocates was not immediately or easily accepted in America’s popular imagination. Others pointed to the same images but characterized them as an impending tragedy that America should resist, not embrace. In 1923 The Nation  published M. W. Royse’s two- part article, “The Next Air War.” In part one Royse lays out a sober prediction of what 59 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 71 --- future air war would be like based on the record of bombing in World War I, the rapid pace of technological development, and the expansion of air forces throughout the world. He then calls for strong international moral sanctions against all forms of bombing against any target in the second installment.9 7  Another voice of warning came from Stuart Chase in 1929. In his view, air power in the shape of the bomber was so potent that a small air fleet, using explosives and poison gas, could inflict such death, destruction, and panic that it could bring an entire nation to its knees in as little as two hours.9 8  These two examples point to an important aspect of the air power debate running throughout the twenties and thirties. Opponents and proponents of air power were each trying to sway public opinion through popular culture and each group relied on similar images to convey its message. In fact, compared to Mitchell, Moore, and Sikorsky, Royse’s warning seems almost tame and overly technical. Michael Sherry has stated that the American public’s image of air po