eighth most popular 335 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 347 --- film of its year and grossed over $6 million. More people saw it than any other nuclear movie except Strategic Air Command.  The popularity of the book and film posed such a clear threat to public support for America’s reliance upon nuclear air power that the Eisenhower administration considered attempts to discredit the movie, and government experts attacked Shute’s notion that bombs could wipe out all life on earth.2 2 The central premise of the novel is that a nuclear war involving several nations in the northern hemisphere has elevated radioactivity in the atmosphere of the north so high that all animal life dies. The radioactivity is working its way south, and as the main characters in Australia monitor that spread they await their own doom. The plot revolves around the activities of the characters as they approach their imminent deaths. Much of the action is pedestrian as people strive to maintain normalcy while the clock ticks down, and there is the obligatory romantic interest, but this is what gives the book’s anti-nuclear message its power. Most people can see themselves and their own petty schemes coming to nothing as they watch death approach. But on a few occasions Shute reveals glimpses of what happened in “The Short War” and it is not a reassuring view of air power. The Short War, as the Australians call it, lasted only 37 days and during that time, according to scientific estimations, at least 4700 nuclear weapons were detonated by all belligerents.2 3  The duration certainly complies with those air power advocates who predicted short wars in the nuclear air age, but the novel’s outcome was hardly the happy results promised by the airmen. The number of nuclear weapons and the world-wide tragedy that results also served as one man’s response to those air power advocates, such as de S