While the Air Force claimed in the years leading up to Korea that it supported its commitment to provide the Army’s tactical air power needs, the continued lack of enthusiasm is best seen in the difficulties working out joint doctrine with the Army and the fact that in 1948 the Air Force down-graded Tactical Air Command from a major command to a subordinate command within Continental Air Command. This latter move indicates another element of the close air support problem. What support for tactical air power there was in the Air Force generally saw it as an air superiority role which seemed closely related to air defense, so Air Defense Command and TAC were joined into one organization to facilitate cooperation between the two. With the Air Force’s emphasis on strategic nuclear bombing few Air Force leaders envisioned a war that would pit large ground forces in prolonged combat. The difficulties in working out joint doctrine between the two services hurt close air support efforts early in Korea.5 4 On the whole the Air Force provided effective close air support in Korea as Army leaders themselves were quick to point out. Major General William B. Kean, 25th Infantry Division commander, stated, “The close air support rendered by Fifth Air Force again saved this division as they have many times before.” General Walton H. Walker, Eighth Army Commander, told a group of Air Force evaluators, “if it had not been for the air support that we received from the Fifth Air Force we would not have been able to stay in Korea.”5 5  Not everyone agreed, though, that the Air Force was doing all it could do. The Alsop brothers acknowledged that it was doing “superbly well with what it had,” but they felt that the Air Force’s emphasis on air superiority in Korea was ignoring the other 258 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 270 --- half of its tactical air responsibility. Others agreed