.  Warner asked LeMay to help Lay and Warner Brothers “help national defense in general, and the air force [sic] in particular” by giving all the assistance he could to the film. A letter in July from Warner Brothers registering the plot line with the DoD Motion Picture Section states that Lay was to be the film’s producer. About the same time Lay wrote to LeMay that the title had been changed to Flight Line Chief,  and arranged for the project’s writer Sam Rolfe, who had written the screenplay for The McConnell Story,  to get various tours at SAC 301 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 313 --- headquarters and the NCO Academy. In November Lay again wrote to LeMay saying that he was working on the first draft of the script and that the working title was now simply Flight Line,  a title that did not seem to excite LeMay. Finally, in April 1956 Lay reported to LeMay that he had completed the second draft and was sending it to Jack Warner for final approval.4 7  According to the credits for the final film, however, Rolfe wrote the story, Irving Wallace wrote the screenplay, and Lay played no role at all. Perhaps because of Lay’s ambiguous role this film’s presentation of revolutionary air power themes is far less than any air power film up to this point. The movie is clearly a work of air power advocacy, and revolutionary motifs are present but less often than in earlier films. As in Strategic Air Command,  the Air Force and strategic nuclear bombing are presented as the only forces keeping the peace and protecting America from nuclear devastation. In a tense scene where Brennan explains to his daughter the importance of what he does, he tells her, “We got to keep our ships and our crews combat ready. And when they’re ready no one will dare lay a hand or a bomb on us and maybe someday that will keep you and your children alive.” The film even places the air power revo