to millions of viewers that their only chance for security was through strategic nuclear deterrence.6 5 The dominant role of nuclear bombing in America’s official and cultural defense thinking was a curious episode in American cultural and military history. Despite critics, faith in strategic air power remained strong in both official and unofficial circles through much of the fifties, but in the second half of the decade criticism escalated in both realms. In military and diplomatic areas observers noted that Massive Retaliation left few choices between Armageddon and acquiescence. If a “small war” flared up the U.S. had too few conventional resources to try and meet the new threat, so American leaders had to choose between sending in nuclear weapons or accepting the situation. Both the French disaster at Dien Bien Phu and the crisis in Laos illustrated America’s restricted options.6 6  The inflexible nature of Massive Retaliation stems from a fallacy long buried deep in the air power gospel. Just as early aviation enthusiasts had felt that the airplane freed them from the constraints of gravity and physical barriers, air power advocates felt that the warplane freed them from many traditional constraints of war. When theorizing about strategic bombing, for example, they rarely stopped to consider under what circumstances bombing an enemy into submission would be an appropriate strategy, or more important, when it would be inappropriate. Moreover, they did not consider what sort of postwar relationship the U.S. could hope to maintain with a nation that had been bombed to the point of collapse. Nuclear weapons only aggravated this fallacy. 313 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 325 --- The Kennedy administration moved American defense policy away from a slavish reliance on nuclear obliteration, but official policy could not easily alter cultural attachment to image