yond the mere goal of converting the masses to the cause of air power. It also spawned a revolutionary world view that sought to reshape attitudes and reinterpret past events. Air power advocates believed that air power, in its broadest sense of all activities related to aviation, called for a new way of looking at the world, both literally and figuratively. Thus in these early postwar years the popular culture campaign focused not only on advocating larger military air forces, in a larger sense it sought to “reeducate” the American people in the new “world view” that went along with the postwar conception of air power. The early years of this postwar air power crusade were frequently characterized by a simplicity, often a naivete, in the air power advocates’  claims. The Soviet Union did not emerge immediately as a widely perceived threat, and thus for several years advocates presented air power as an all­ purpose answer to any threat that might arise. Moreover, technological change, specifically missiles and nuclear weapons, was in such a state of flux that no one could say with any certainty what would be the future nature of warfare. But these early postwar years also found the air power advocates free of the bureaucratic responsibilities and allegiances that would shape much of the popular culture message in later periods. The AAF was still part of the Army, and thus air power advocates could make wild claims for air power without being held totally responsible for 177 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 189 --- delivering on their promises. Even after the Air Force gained independence in 1947, air power advocates could claim that parsimonious defense budgets kept the Air Force from realizing its true potential. Furthermore, the Strategic Air Command, which became the focus of much of the popular culture campaign in the fifties, did not immediately emerge as a