e that Snowden has been eviscerated by a piece of flak. The truth then dawns on Yossarian: all that is vital to humanity is pouring out of the wound inflicted by the new order just as Snowden’s vital organs spill out of his wound onto the aircraft floor. “He gazed down despondently at the grim secret Snowden had spilled all over the messy floor. It was easy to read the message in his entrails.... The spirit gone, man is garbage. That was Snowden’s secret.”4 5 What salvation was there for Heller if air power was actually damnation? His picture was not reassuring. For Orr and Yossarian it was escape to a place far enough away that they were out of the airmen’s reach. But this was only individual salvation for the threat still remains. As Yossarian says when told that his running away may actually help the schemers succeed, “Let the bastards thrive, for all I care, since I can’t do a thing to stop them but embarrass them by running away.” For everyone else all Heller could offer was to try to find the courage to persevere, like the chaplain who could not muster the courage to even believe in God but who, buoyed by Orr’s example, finally resolves that he will persevere against the Colonel Cathcarts and the General Peckams.4 6  Not 348 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 360 --- everyone caught these higher levels of meaning, and the humor might have kept others from taking even the more obvious meanings too seriously, but Catch-22  injected at least a note of cynicism into the popular culture image of air power, and in many people’s imaginations it dealt a severe blow to the notion of air power as a redeeming force. A more serious and dramatic attack on air power was Fail-Safe  written in 1962 by two political science professors, Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler. Published the same month of the Cuban Missile Crisis, the novel benefited from contemporary fears of nucle