bombing and some even denounced air power as a scourge on humanity, but after the war such concerns faded away as debate focused on the atomic bomb.2  This lack of opposition to air power continued for the most part until the mid­ fifties and left air power advocates with a clear field to preach their revolution. 320 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 332 --- For several years air power advocates exploited their opportunity and through popular culture preached faith in air power with considerable success. Throughout the late forties they shaped their image of revolutionary air power while keeping institutional concerns, such as the call for an independent Air Force, buried within the framework of the air power gospel. The challenges of 1949 through 1953, though, forced them to defend their revolution and its emphasis on strategic bombing. The image they shaped in this period increasingly emphasized the institutions of air power, particularly the Air Force and SAC. The emergence of strategic nuclear bombing and SAC during the early fifties as the ultimate expression of air power wed the air power revolution to nuclear weapons to such an extent that support for air power meant support for nuclear warfare while opposition to nuclear warfare increasingly meant opposition to air power. But in the last half of the decade growing segments of the American public began having serious doubts about nuclear weapons, and as a result they began questioning their faith in air power. In the latter half of the 1950s several factors helped spark a dramatic surge in the anti-nuclear movement in America. Both Spencer Weart and H. Bruce Franklin credit the launching of Sputnik in 1957 with the dramatic rise of anti-nuclear sentiments and literature in the U.S. and that event undoubtedly was the main overt impetus, but there was something more, something less tangible, that helped make