nding America’s strategic bombing doctrine in the nation’s popular imagination. Not only was daylight precision bombing portrayed as a secret weapon based on Yankee ingenuity, it also pictured the Eighth Air Force as a heroic underdog winning against the odds. To the extent that postwar Americans understood the finer points of the bombing doctrine’s specific tenets, their understanding was quite likely shaped or crystallized by the book and especially the movie. The image that Twelve O 'clock High  put before the public, though, was one of bombing solidly within the tradition of the ACTS. The tone throughout both the novel and the movie is one which extolls the AAF’s bombing as efficient, progressive, almost scientific. It is a precise surgical instrument operating on only the nerve centers, leaving the vaunted German war machine unable to function. Bombing accuracy is touted throughout, to the point that, in perhaps one of the movie’s best known scenes, and at subsequent points thereafter in both works, any bombardier who’s accuracy is not up to the group’s standards is publicly humiliated by being relegated to “The Leper Colony.” Needless to say, the Air Force was as anxious to help with Twelve O 'clock High  as Zanuck was desperate to have Air Force assistance. In asking for aid Zanuck wrote directly to Air Force Chief of Staff Hoyt Vandenberg, and Vandenberg got personally 210 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 222 --- involved with helping production, for example by giving his wartime friend, director Henry King, wide latitude in his use of Air Force facilities. The Air Force even gave Zanuck and Twentieth Century-Fox a commendation for producing the movie, citing its “impressive portrayal of Eighth Air Force activities during the early stages of World War H ”7 7  Air Force involvement, though, did little in shaping the plot or the script. The Air Force did o