uate. But it is not enough to support two air forces with duplicate establishments.” This, according to Spaatz, prevented the Air Force from acquiring the forces it had long requested which left it weak in both strategic and tactical air power.1 9 As the Revolt of the Admirals wound down in October Arnold sounded a conciliatory note in a Collier's  article. Sounding somewhat like Clemenceau, he stated that modem warfare had become too important to be formulated by service partisans in the arena of public opinion. Fixing equal blame on the Army, Navy, and Air Force, Arnold called for a “new kind of War Advisory or Planning Board” made up of high level civilians from industry, labor, and science, as well as retired four or five star flag officers form all three services. Together they would sort through all the claims and ideas from the 239 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 251 --- three branches and weigh them “in relation to our foreign policy, war and peace objectives, international conditions and our economic situation.”2 0  Arnold could afford to be magnanimous. The B-36 had survived congressional scrutiny and the Air Force had been vindicated while the Navy had been chastised, Navy Secretary Sullivan had resigned, and CNO Admiral Louis Denfeld had been fired.2 1 In the battle waged in the popular culture arena air power had taken a few solid blows but air power advocates had defended their cause well enough that no serious harm had come to either the image of air power or strategic bombing. Spaatz met questions about bombings effectiveness in World War II by calling on the heroic tradition from that same war. Drake met questions of the B-36's vulnerability with facts and figures that made the air power case look very scientific. Ultimately, the charge that the Navy’s attack was motivated by their own desire to acquire the strategic bombing mission put the Nav