fort to conduct a grassroots advocacy movement through popular culture. EDITORS AND PUBLISHERS, DIRECTORS AND PRODUCERS Many air power advocates would have been powerless to get their message into the mainstream of popular culture if the people who controlled access to the media had 160 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 172 --- been unwilling to convey the air power message. Several of those media were controlled by the individuals considered in this section. Editors and publishers determined what appeared in much of the printed media in America, particularly magazines, newspapers, and books. Directors and producers decided what Americans would see on their movie screens. Certainly not all of the nation’s editors, publishers, directors, and producers can be considered air power advocates, but a significant number proved consistently willing to present the air power message through the media in which they worked. Some may have done so for fairly innocuous reasons, such as a general concern for military preparedness, a desire to let all sides have their say, or even that they felt a particular story contained good drama that would draw patrons. Others, though, showed a pronounced tendency to push air power topics or maintained close ties to air power advocates or advocacy groups. The willingness to carry air power topics was such a pronounced trend that one author who attacked what he called the air power advocates’  “solid wall of propaganda” claimed that newspaper and magazine editors would not accept for publication any piece that questioned air power.4 5  While one should not assume that carrying an air power piece automatically made an editor, publisher, director, or producer an air power advocate, enough individuals gave indications of a favorable predisposition toward the air power popular culture crusade that the group as a whole warrants consideration. One