ringing before the public five of the films most successful at conveying the air power message: Twelve 0  'clock High, Above and Beyond, Strategic Air Command, Bombers B-52,  and A Gathering o f Eagles. 168 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 180 --- The films that conveyed the air power advocates’  message to the public cannot be entirely attributed to high-placed air power advocates within the film industry, for such a claim would be tenuous at best. Studio executives were still in the business of making money and they had to, and did, consider such factors as whether a story would draw enough paying customers to make a profit. In this light it is significant that each movie in the SAC trilogy was made by a different studio. In fact, no studio earned the reputation of the Air Force’s film company. Still, air power advocates were highly successful at getting their message before the public, and for its part as the willing conduit the film industry played a sigificant role in the popular culture crusade. When one considers Hollywood’s skill at making films that would draw large crowds coupled with the new style of postwar air power film, the “message movie,” the union of air power advocates and the film industry may have been the most effective part of the popular culture campaign when it came to influencing the average American’s views toward air power. The combination of individual air power advocates and advocacy groups and the groups they worked through to reach the American public with their message was a potent team. While it is impossible to say with certainty how many people air power advocates reached with their message, it is quite conceivable that they reached every man, woman, and child, which was a major part of their goal. Whether they succeeded in convincing the majority of Americans to espouse the faith of air power is quite another matter. Obviousl