lture crusade shifted focus slightly. In keeping with the trend away from theoretical arguments and predictions to more institutional emphases air power advocates less often stressed the concept of strategic bombing and instead emphasized the institutional embodiment of America’s long-range strategic bombing force, the Strategic Air Command. Furthermore, rather than focusing on the need for SAC and the efficacy of 275 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 287 --- strategic bombing, air power advocates sought to build public faith that SAC could deliver on the promise o f strategic bombing.1 Air power advocates also continued to extoll other applications of air power, such as air defense and tactical missions, and they sought to create an image of the Air Force as modem, efficient, and progressive. Articles appeared occasionally reminding the public that should a Soviet attack come America’s air defense system stood ready with the most advanced systems and dedicated personnel. Other works showcased the heroism, superiority, and self-sacrifice of the fighter pilot. Some works even highlighted non-flying activities within the Air Force, such as research and development, and showcased future wonders that would keep the Air Force on the cutting-edge of high technology. There were occasional pieces bolstering the image of the air power revolution, but by and large the air power advocates relied on the foundation laid in the late forties and trusted that the public still saw air power as reshaping the world and society. There was little dissent within the air power community during this period, but when some did raise complaints, as in the 1945-1953 period they leveled their criticisms at someone other than the Air Force. The main emphasis, though, was on glorifying SAC, bolstering its reputation, and seeing to its every need. Numerous magazine articles focused on the comma