nerally appeared as the ultimate definition of air power. In 1953 the ABC series March o f  Time  broadcast an episode titled “The Air Age.” While the episode featured aviation of all sorts since the dawn of flight, particularly Korean War fighters, much of its emphasis focuses on the contribution of strategic bombing to World War II. The show even extolls the B-36 for its size and destructive capability.6 1 In 1956 CBS launched a year-long series, A ir Power,  a weekly documentary-style program narrated by Walter Cronkite. Like the M arch o f Time  episode three years earlier, this series outlined aviation developments throughout the history of flight and showcased virtually all air power missions. Numerous episodes focused on the contributions of tactical forces in both World War II and Korea, and air defense received considerable attention. In fact, the premiere episode was a dramatization of a Soviet air attack against North America and depicted how America and Canada would attempt to stop the incoming bombers. In this dramatization, though, air defense forces could not stop all the bombers and the audience is told that the only hope for avoiding nuclear devastation is the threat of retaliation that would leave the Soviets more devastated than America. Several 311 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 323 --- later episodes focus on strategic bombing in World War II depicting it as a new weapon that could destroy a nation’s ability to wage war. In case anybody missed the connection with postwar nuclear bombing, one episode stated that in the nuclear era one plane with one bomb could do what it took 60,000 men to do to the Romanian oil refineries at Ploesti. The series concluded with a final reminder that security could only be gained through a strong bombing force that would deter a Soviet attack on America. “The New Doctrine,” an episode that compares Soviet and