.2 8 Throughout the postwar period Eaker remained an advocate of strategic air power, though the images he projected grew more complex by the early sixties when he wrote his column. In his early speeches his advocacy focused on strategic air power and the Air Force as the first and best deterrence against future aggression. In this he was echoing the themes raised by many air power advocates of that day, but in his early 99 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 111 --- warning of the threat to America should some other nation aquire atomic weapons, Eaker was ahead of many of his colleagues. Eaker even went so far as to advocate a strategic force ready to destroy any nuclear production facilities in other countries the moment America learned of their existence.2 9  Eaker’s image of air power was that of the Douhet tradition and it was solely embodied by the Air Force. Through the mid-fifties his view of the Air Force and nuclear deterrence as the embodiment of air power seems to have remained unchanged, but by the early sixties his views had changed significantly. He still saw nuclear deterrence as a major part of America’s defense establishment, but it was a part in which the Air Force and Navy played equal roles. Moreover, he also saw a significant deterrence role played by the Army and Nato ground forces deployed around the world.3 0  His image of air power, then, was still in the tradition of Douhet, emphasizing massive destruction through the air, only now it was delivered by both aircraft and missies and it was backed up by ground forces as an integrated defense team. The old air power crusader had become part of the defense team railing against a changed world. CURTIS & LeMAY The youngest of the military figures considered here, Curtis E. LeMay also represents the new generation of Air Force leaders for whom Eaker was making room. LeMay also represents an entir