ect of unification. Arguing that the 1947 compromise was leading to greater service rivalry and no agreement on strategic planning, Spaatz called for a reorganization similar to the original plan backed by the Army and the old AAF: one 237 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 249 --- chief of staff commanding all three services under one civilian secretary. In a veiled allusion to the current crisis, Spaatz claimed that strategic priorities could not be set in the committee-style approach of the JCS as it stood at that time. He felt that one chief of staff with advisors from all branches who would be removed to a separate promotion list to guard against service bias, could set strategic priorities which would then form the basis for dividing the defense budget.1 7  In his next installment, in the context o f describing what he saw as a new sense of optimism in Western Europe, Spaatz attempted to minimize the impact of the Navy’s charge that strategic bombing could not prevent a Soviet occupation of NATO countries. Spaatz ascribed Western Europe’s new spirit, in part, to its faith in the atomic bomb and American air power. In a reference to the Navy’s charge Spaatz stated: “Europeans feel safer because they know that American bombers give them a first line of defense. But they also realize that this line would not necessarily save them from occupation by ground forces in the early stages of another war.” The reason, according to Spaatz, that they did not fear Soviet occupation in the early stages was because American aid was helping them rebuild their own ground forces to resist that invasion. Unmentioned in this article, though, is Spaatz’s faith that strategic bombing would devastate Soviet industry thus making it possible for the stronger, but still outnumbered, Western European forces to drive the Red Army out of their territory.1 8 Spaatz’s most direct reply cam