until the war is over.... Wholesale destruction of the populated areas of an enemy country is a poor way to promote a lasting peace.” Gallery was quick to point out that he supported a strategic force of long-range bombers, and he saw a balanced and unified effort by the Army, Navy, and Air Force as the only approach to true national security. There was a strong tinge of hypocrisy in Gallery’s attack on strategic bombing, for the year before he had written a memorandum urging the Navy to make the strategic bombing role its main focus and to try to seize the role away from the Air Force. On the whole, though, it was an even-handed and insightful counter­ offensive to the attacks led by Huie.1 4 Former war correspondent Richard Tregaskis weighed in on the side of the Navy in an October Collier's  article. While stating that the U.S. needed B-36s and the ability to launch nuclear attacks deep into Soviet territory, Tregaskis recounted the heavy losses suffered over Germany when bombers went beyond the range of fighter cover. Without new, bigger carriers to handle modem jet fighters to escort the B-36s, and fighter-bombers to launch atomic strikes against Soviet air defenses, Tregaskis claimed the B-36 crews would be “sitting ducks.” This especially because, according to Tregaskis, the B-36 was vulnerable to interception, that American fighters found it easy to intercept it, and that the Air Force was suppressing the results of these intercept tests. He also returned to the unification issue and stated that the current arrangement meant that “the Army - Air Force axis can in effect dictate Navy strategy.” As to the charge that the Navy was trying to “steal” the strategic bombing role away from the Air Force, Tregaskis noted that Navy 236 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 248 --- officials had repudiated the infamous Gallery memo and that Navy Secretary John L. Sulliv