lfill their mission at a moment’s notice. But the most important theme echoed old strains of technological messianism and raised expectations of salvation through air power to its highest and most overt expression. Deliverance was no longer just a vague promise based on eschatological imagery, systematic theories, or brutal predictions. Now it had a name, and that name was SAC. It even had a face, and that face was Curtis E. LeMay’s. When air power advocates sought to shape SAC’s image as the public’s salvation in the nuclear age the general interest magazines carried the bulk of the burden. Other media, especially film, might put the message in more vivid or memorable images, but the steady flow of magazine articles ensured that the public got numerous and frequent reminders that their faith must remain in nuclear air power. The showcasing of SAC in America’s general interest magazines began before the end of the Korean War. At the end of 1950 Harold H. Martin’s Saturday Evening Post article provided one of the first close-up examinations of SAC in the popular culture campaign. In a portent of future magazine coverage, Martin’s depiction is celebratory almost to the point of being a paean. For example, the caption under a picture of a B-36 reads, “The big atom-bombers are kept in top condition by ceaseless attention to 280 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 292 --- maintenance.” Of the significance of SAC’s forces Martin states, “this country’s ability to survive a war with Russia depends upon SAC’s being constantly ready to move out fast and hit hard as soon as the whistle blows.”6  In extolling the crews, Martin stresses how much more demanding, physically and mentally, atomic bombing is than World War II bombing: “The slightest sign of stupidity, sloppiness, carelessness, indecision or confusion under stress is marked down on a check list, and a voluminous rep