terrent, but that air power was “the best preventive of aggression that exists.” It then drove the point 197 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 209 --- home visually on its back cover by depicting a mushroom cloud with the caption, “Peace Through Air Power - Or This.” The concept of air power as nuclear deterrence was at the heart of the “Air Power is Peace Power" slogan popular with air power advocates during the late forties. First introduced by Spaatz in a radio address in 1947, the theme was so common it became a virtual symbol, as can be seen by the logo adorning all American Legion air power pamphlets well into the fifties. The concept of nuclear deterrence was perhaps most forcefully stated, among air power advocates at least, by William Bradford Huie in a 1949 Reader’ s Digest  article, which he stated was meant as a warning to the Soviets. After detailing America’s supposed nuclear capabilities Huie boasted: “we can do to Russia, if Russia attacks us, what Rome did to Carthage.”5 3 The postwar linking of strategic bombing with atomic weapons by air power advocates was part of an old tradition of promising quick and easy victory through air power, in this case, through atomic bombing. Stating that Americans had accepted air power without understanding its revolutionary potential or the new nature of modem warfare, Spaatz, in a 1948 Life article, explicitly linked bombing and nuclear weapons to the notion of quick victory through air power in an effort to further the public’s education and to bolster its faith. In one of his first articles written after his retirement, Spaatz reiterated the old notion that air power allowed a nation to by-pass traditional defenses and strike directly at the enemy’s heart. Writing in the midst of escalating tensions with the Soviets, Spaatz claimed that the Soviet Union’s power rested on “a relatively few decisive target are