ntractable but frightening problem was bound to appeal to many.1 3 In 1957 James Michener contributed a book-length feature, published in Reader's Digest , to the growing body of SAC literature. Michener was not an air power advocate. He had served in the Navy in World War n, and in 1953 he wrote The Bridges at Toko Ri , a best-selling novel showcasing Korean War naval aviation. According to the biographical sketch accompanying the article, though, he wrote it in response to the 1956 Soviet 284 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 296 --- invasion of Hungary as a testament to his belief that America was safe from Communist aggression. He wanted to tell the public about SAC, and in doing so he stresses many of the standard themes found in other SAC articles. Two events that Michener highlights, the response of a SAC base to a no-notice inspection and the annual SAC bombing and navigation competition, provide the suitable backdrop for showcasing SAC’s capabilities. The dedicated people of Loring Air Force Base work round the clock to bring their base through the inspection with flying colors. The description of the bombing competition stresses not only the technical sophistication of the ground and air crews, but also the continuing legacy of American bombing accuracy. After downplaying the legend of “pickle barrel bombing” Michener adds, “Many planes laid their bombs practically on target. And a few did actually ‘hit the pickle barrel’  scoring what is called a ‘shack.’”1 4 While Michener’s account stresses many of the standard themes, though, he adds a human touch as well. Looking at SAC “from the bottom up,” Michener makes enlisted members and the wives of SAC the heroes of his story. His testimony to the importance of SAC to America, for example, comes from the mouth of a B-52 maintenance master sergeant’s wife. When interviewed by Michener in the midst of a civil