he whole show. We could lose the war if we don’t knock out German industry.”7 5 Both the book and the film highlight the effort to paralyze German industry by bombing ball-bearing factories, and in this they showcased the core of America’s strategic bombing doctrine. In each version the justification for launching the dangerous mission is that by knocking out this one critical set of targets strategic bombing will have a magnified effect that will cripple the entire German war effort. The motif of the ball-bearing effort was based on the 1943 Schweinfurt-Regensburg raid and it is no surprise that the authors would highlight this particular mission. Aside from its notoriety as one of the bloodiest bombing raids of the war, Lay had gone along on the raid as an observer and had written a report for Curtis LeMay, the mission leader, that was published “almost verbatim” by The Saturday Evening Post.1 6  In both the novel and the movie the 918th successfully bombs the target and the message is clear: “Savage” has rebuilt the group into an efficient weapon and saves strategic bombing, though in the movie it comes at a cost to “Savage” 209 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 221 --- of a nervous breakdown. The ultimate meaning of the salvation of daylight precision bombing is also clear. Because of the efforts of men like “Savage,” strategic bombing prevailed over its critics and doubters and this secret weapon went on to win the war. The salvation of daylight precision bombing and its importance to the war effort, as depicted in this movie, along with its success at the box office, made Twelve 0  ’ clock High  one of the most effective tools in enshrining the mythology surrounding America’s strategic bombing doctrine in the nation’s popular imagination. Not only was daylight precision bombing portrayed as a secret weapon based on Yankee ingenuity, it also pictured the Eig