r movie to boost the Air Force’s image. When LeMay, by now Air Force Chief of Staff, heard that support had been refused, he personally intervened and gained Sylvester’s quick compliance.5 3  Despite the detailed 307 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 319 --- requirements list submitted to Sylvester’s office Bartlett got considerably more support on location at Beale Air Force Base in California and at SAC headquarters. LeMay was quite pleased with the final result for he claimed that of all the air power movies this one came the closest to conveying “a true picture of what the military was all about.” The public did not share LeMay’s sentiments. A reflextion of the changed public mood toward air power, the movie finished out the year at only forty-eight on the list of most popular movies.5 4 Before leaving the “SAC trilogy” one common feature bears consideration. Critics have focused on the depictions of family relationships shared by several air power films of the postwar era, particularly Above and Beyond , Strategic A ir Command , Bombers B-52 , and A Gathering o f  Eagles.  In all of these films female family members, usually wives, rebel against the demands the Air Force makes upon their husbands or fathers. Invariably, though, the female character “comes around,” accepts the demands, and is reconciled with the male character. Some critics see this plot device as an extraneous romantic digression that detracts from an otherwise good movie, but others have seen it as a reflection of the sexist expectation that women are supposed to submit to male authority and the dictates of hierarchical society.5 5  While this latter observation is certainly valid, the near ubiquity of this depiction of family strife hints at yet another effort to convey the importance of air power to contemporary audiences. In every case the source of conflict is the airman’s commitment to