itary Requirements, 1957-1961  (Athens: Ohio University Press, 1975), chapter 1 . 67. For the transition from Eisenhower’s defense policies to the Kennedy administration’s see Aliano, American Defense Policy,  for a comparison of the two administrations within the context of the Cold War see Gaddis, Strategies o f Containment  and Freedman, The Evolution o f Nuclear Strategy,  and for the formulation of defense policy in the Kennedy administration see Alain C. Enthoven and K. Wayne Smith, How Much is Enough? Shaping the Defense Program, 1961-1969  (New York: Harper & Row, 1971). 319 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 331 --- CHAPTER 8 THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF AIR POWER: END OF THE POPULAR CULTURE CRUSADE Opposition to the image of the bomb began in popular culture almost immediately after the atomic bomb blasts at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Most notable in this regard was John Hersey’s Hiroshima , published in 1946. The book was a best-seller, was reprinted in The New Yorker,  and was read in half-hour installments over ABC radio. Other works also appeared that same year. Hermann Hagedom wrote an epic poem, “The Bomb That Fell on America,” and in March Lewis Mumford’s “Gentlemen, You Are Mad!” appeared in Saturday Review.  About this same time the Bulletin o f the Atomic Scientists  emerged as a forum for anti-nuclear debate.1  With the exception of Hersey, though, these and other works were obscure or reached a relatively small segment of the public, and they represent a minority view toward the atomic bomb. Furthermore, all of these works focused on the bomb itself, not the image of air power. Before World War II there had been considerable debate over the morality of bombing and some even denounced air power as a scourge on humanity, but after the war such concerns faded away as debate focused on the atomic bomb.2  This lack of opposition to air power continued fo