and military injustice. In this latter area he wrote The Execution o f Private Slovik  in 1954 and The Hero o f Two Jima  in 1962, but another work in 1964 indicates an evolving attitude toward air power. After World War II rumors circulated around the world that the pilot of the Enola Gay , Paul Tibbets, had gone insane or had become an alcoholic or a criminal. Those rumors had their basis in the story of Major Claude Eatherly, a pilot in the 509th Composite Group, who had flown the Hiroshima weather ship that determined where the first atomic bomb would be dropped. After the war Eatherly sunk into a life of drinking and petty crime. He later claimed his role in the “crime of Hiroshima” led to his actions and that the Air Force was persecuting him to keep him from sharing his guilty conscience with the world. At Eatherly’s request Huie wrote a book about the sorted affair.6 0 Given Huie’s two most recent works on military injustice, one might have expected this story to be a denunciation of the Air Force. On the other hand, given Huie’s past as a rabid air power advocate one might have expected it to be a whitewash of the Air Force. What Huie actually wrote is an even-handed account where he lets the facts speak for themselves. He denounces neither the Air Force nor Eatherly. Eatherly appears as a 357 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 369 --- glory seeker who brought his mistakes upon himself. He was disappointed that he did not get to drop one of the atomic bombs and later tried to glorify what role he did play. After the war he wanted to stay in the Air Force but was thrown out in 1947 for cheating on an exam. He later signed on as a mercenary hired to smuggle guns into Cuba for a right-wing group plotting a coup and then he was to bomb Havana when the coup broke out. Caught and arrested for this crime he spent some time in jail after which he drifted in and o