eproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 270 --- half of its tactical air responsibility. Others agreed, including some Army and Marine Corps officers, and enough complaints arose to prompt Congressional hearings in 1951 on Air Force ground support. Congress charged that air leaders were hypnotized by strategic bombing and air superiority and passed legislation that same year mandating that TAC retain major command status. The Air Force took various steps to rectify the situation, including establishing training programs in Seoul and Japan to train air and ground commanders in air-ground coordination and pressing for more tactical aircraft.5 6 As with the air defense issue, though, air power advocates followed a popular culture “damage control” policy lest the sudden interest in tactical air power threaten the preeminence of strategic bombing. In his 1951 Saturday Evening Post  article, Vandenberg claimed that those who sought to distinguish between strategic and tactical roles did not understand air power. Speaking of the three roles of strategic bombing, air defense, and support of surface forces, Vandenberg stated, “Although those three jobs seem pegged to different objectives, it is impossible to separate them in practice because - and this is a principle ignored too often - air power is indivisible. We don’t speak of a ‘strategic’  or a ‘tactical’  Army or Navy, yet those terms constantly are applied to the Air Force.” This statement introduced a complex argument that may have eluded many of his readers but it reinforced the image of revolutionary air power, for Vandenberg went on to say that every aircraft’s primary role was to “win the air battle on which final victory on land and sea is predicated.” While he talked about the importance of destroying enemy aircraft in the factory or in the air, his thinking about the best way to use air power to help front line tr