h the dramatic rise of anti-nuclear sentiments and literature in the U.S. and that event undoubtedly was the main overt impetus, but there was something more, something less tangible, that helped make the cultural atmosphere ripe for dissension through the late fifties and early sixties.3  A contributing factor to the growing fear of nuclear weapons was a vague but increasingly perceptible loss of faith in the revolutionary promise of air power. Some of this can be traced through what did appear in popular culture between 1956 and 1964, but it can also be detected in what did 321 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 333 --- not appear or what was no longer present. What did appear beginning in the last half of the decade was a series of novels making the first tentative assaults on the images of air power, and in the early sixties the trend quickened with escalated attacks. These novels did not signal an all-out abandonment of faith in air power, a point bom out by the fact that movies made from the early novels tended to dilute or down-play the anti-air power sentiments. In the early sixties, though, the films made from novels with anti-air power sentiments retained and even heightened the attacks on air power images. This chapter will examine the shape of the anti-air power literature in popular culture, but one should also note what did not  appear, or more precisely, what was no longer present. Something had changed in pro-air power circles and in society’s response to air power. As the fifties wore on the air power popular culture campaign emphasized less and less the revolutionary image of air power. Each succeeding installment of the SAC trilogy contained less emphasis on revolutionary themes. Magazine articles bear out this trend as well. Increasingly emphasizing institutions, especially SAC, few articles extolled the brave new future of air power as had cha