1948, and followed it in 1952 with Above and Beyond,  a movie about Paul Tibbets’  role in the Hiroshima bombing. 167 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 179 --- There were other, more informal ties between Hollywood and air power advocates. Many ties predate the war, when flying was “all the rage” among Hollywood personalities, and from the Thirties when March Field in Riverside County outside Los Angeles, was commanded by then Major H.H. Arnold and was a popular filming location. Arnold had long realized what the film industry might do for air power. He had appeared in two movies in 1911 as a stunt flier, and he did much to court a favorable relationship, especially with such figures as Mayer, Zanuck, and Jack Warner.5 7  Warner had served briefly with the AAF during World War n, heading its First Motion Picture Unit which would later produce the documentary The Memphis Belle,  and Warner and Arnold had together come up with the basic idea that became Warner Brothers’  Air Force.™  After the war Warner served on the board of directors of the Air Force Association.5 9  His interest in air power endured, for in 1955 Warner wrote to Curtis LeMay stating that his studio had hired Beime Lay to write an Air Force movie for them and asking LeMay to help his studio “help national defense in general, and the air force [sic] in particular.”6 0  The movie came out in 1957 as Warner Brothers 'Bombers B-52. One did not have to be a studio executive, though, to exert effective pressure for the air power cause. Two popular and successful screenwriters and producers, Beime Lay, Jr. and Sy Bartlett were dedicated air power advocates and were, between the two of them, key figures in bringing before the public five of the films most successful at conveying the air power message: Twelve 0  'clock High, Above and Beyond, Strategic Air Command, Bombers B-52,  and A Gathering o f Eagle