ent symbol of security in American popular culture through much of the fifties. IM PACT OF THE KOREAN WAR O N THE POPULAR CULTURE CAMPAIGN While the nation was still debating air power’s response to the Soviet atomic bomb, another Cold War shock came to the American public. On 25 June 1950 North Korea invaded South Korea, touching off the international phase of the Korean War. The American combat experience in that war pointed out the Air Force’s weakness in tactical air power, which began yet another challenge to the air power advocates’  devotion to the preeminence of strategic bombing. Many Air Force defenders blamed the weakness on inadequate force levels, but critics charged that the weakness actually stemmed from the Air Force’s neglect of the tactical role in favor of their preferred strategic mission. Much that was said of the air power advocates’  popular culture response to the air defense debate could be said of this controversy. While the Air Force tried to refute the charges, air power advocates set about depicting great tactical capabilities while stressing the preeminence of strategic bombing. When critics claimed the Air Force neglected tactical air power, they generally meant close air support. The Air Force d id have a long history of turning a blind eye to providing airborne firepower to troops in forward fighting positions. The lack of enthusiasm stemmed primarily from the airmen’s conviction that it was the least productive means of inflicting damage on the enemy from the air, but close air support had 257 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 269 --- also gained a reputation as early as World War I as the deadliest mission of the whole air war.5 3  While the Air Force claimed in the years leading up to Korea that it supported its commitment to provide the Army’s tactical air power needs, the continued lack of enthusiasm is best seen in the diffi