men as grave threats. Once again, these attacks on air power built slowly. The 1957 novel On the Beach  implicated air power only indirectly and the 1959 film said even less. The works of the early sixties, though, Dr. Strangelove, Fail-Safe , and Catch-22  for example, took on the image of air power directly. These new attacks were unique both because they would have been unheard of ten or fifteen years earlier and because they were so popular. Between the declining fascination with aviation and recurring images of the “Mad Bomber,” the American public rapidly lost that curious kind of faith that seemed to invest air power with almost mystical properties. The technological messianism that had led many to look to nuclear bombers for salvation from the threat of nuclear devastation was exorcized and popular imagination began to see the nuclear bomber for what it was, a brutal weapon that should be reserved for only the most brutal necessity. No longer did magazine articles proclaim in effusive prose that nuclear bombers were the answer to every military conflict. Even the 1963 film, A Gathering o f Eagles,  the last of the “SAC Trilogy,” avoided most of the old images of revolutionary air power. Similarly, there was a new and more realistic attitude toward air power in popular imagination. People outside 372 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 384 --- the Air Force community ceased talking about “Air Power,” or as it came to be called in Air Force circles, “Airpower,” as if it were something bigger than the sum of its parts. Instead they envisioned it as a tool in the larger American military structure. The general public did not turn against air power completely. In a sense they accepted it as a facet of modern warfare, and the Air Force enjoyed generally as much support as did the Army and the Navy. An indication of the new public attitude is how outrageous and ou