r more frequently air power advocates felt constrained to claim that strategic bombing, and thus air power, had won the war, or at least had taken the greatest share of fight out of the enemy. This campaign ran the gamut from speeches, to articles, to books and movies. The wartime bombing campaign, though, was projected in a carefully contrived manner. First, invariably the emphasis focused on the bombing campaign against Germany. This was because of a second characteristic, one that stressed the inherent wisdom of industrial bombing and the precision of American bombing efforts. There were occasional references to the conventional bombing campaign against Japan, but these pale in comparison to the number of references to precision bombing against Germany. Even the atomic bombings got little notice from most air power advocates in the popular culture campaign. There were occasional veiled references that bombing had ended the war without invasion, but even the efforts to establish atomic weapons as part of the air power revolution rarely mention Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Instead, air power advocates presented World War II strategic bombing as a heroic struggle against the enemy in Germany and critics at home, and their depiction was solidly within the tradition of the ACTS. Strategic bombing was efficient, progressive, and scientific. Claims that bombing had won the war were controversial in official military circles, and thus AAF personnel at times moderated their statements. In the more official venue of Foreign Affairs,  for example, Spaatz stated that strategic bombing had been decisive in 204 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 216 --- the overall effort to defeat Germany, but that it could not have won the war alone because time did not permit such an approach. After he had retired, though, and in the more public arena of his Newsweek  column, Spaatz was less d