sed and seaborne air arms, research, and civil and commercial development in various aspects,” the group changed its name to better project its goals to the public.2 5 The League seems, in early 1946, to have genuinely sought a non-partisan position between the AAF and the Navy. For example, it listed among its major policy objectives encouraging research and development in fields important to both military and naval air power, it claimed both AAF and Navy personnel on its list of speakers, and it promised to make both AAF and Navy technical and training material available to local Air Power Clubs.2 6  Trouble arose over one of its other policies, though. On 20 November 1945 the League’s executive committee adopted a resolution calling for a unified military establishment with co-equal Army, Navy, and Air Force. The decision was endorsed by 22 of the groups 27 directors; three opposed the measure and two abstained. The League’s president, head of General Electric Charles E. Wilson, claimed in his report to the members that this decision prompted the Navy to officially withdraw its endorsement of the League because, as Wilson saw it, the Navy opposed unification and saw the group’s resolution as favoring the AAF over the Navy.2 7 148 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 160 --- The League reasserted its non-partisan stance, but a sudden change in the tenor of its statements appeared by the end of the year. In a September “report to the people of the United States” the League stated that peace could only be assured through air power, and concluded: [t]hus air power has essentially superseded the older defense arms. Armies and navies are merely time-bound auxiliaries; they serve only to support the great air armadas which will determine the outcome of any conflict.” The report continues by stating that the AAF’s plan for a 70-group air force is too small and it detaile