efforts, the Association was at least making some efforts, and undoubtedly they yeilded results in many locations. Likewise, one should not minimize the significance of the Association’s magazine, which is still in publication today, and it certainly carried the air power message to some people who might not otherwise have heard the air power gospel. By the same token, though, the magazine was not a mass-circulation periodical. It served a self-selected audience that 144 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 156 --- primarily comprised members of the Association and therefore did not reach the general population directly. All in all, while the Air Force Association’s greatest success seems to have been in building support for air power on the legislative and industrial levels, it also made some, if indeterminate, contributions to the popular culture campaign as well. THE AIR POWER LEAGUE and THE NATIONAL AIR COUNCIL One of the most intriguing, but least known, air power advocacy groups was the Air Power League and its successor, the National Air Council. What little we know about the group comes from a number of hard-to-find pamphlets published by the Air Power League between 1945 and 1948 and a journal published by the National Air Council beginning in 1949 and running at least two years. Organized on 18 December 1944, and known through the late 1940s as the Air Power League, the group’s board of directors, twenty-six in all, included such notable aircraft industry executives as Eddie Rickenbacker, Lawrence D. Bell, and Charles E. Wilson, but it also included news media figures like William Randolph Hearst, Jr. and Amon G. Carter, a Fort Worth area newspaper, radio, and television station owner. Furthermore, the board also boasted none other than movie star Clark Gable.2 1  The League set as its goals the standard litany of air power concerns shared in whole or in p