nsible for America taking a back seat in aviation progress after World War I?” “Has it been acknowledged by Axis and Allied leaders that Air Power is 159 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 171 --- the most powerful striking force in the world?” “Can a second-rate air force hope to win any future war?” and “What kind of a future does America face if it remains a third-rate Air Power?” For newspapers the pamphlet provided a text for announcing upcoming conferences, along with three sample editorials and three letters to editors. For public gatherings the pamphlet included a ten and fifteen minute speech suitable for general audiences or even radio, and it printed fourteen quotes suitable for any occasion.4 4 In assessing the American Legion’s air power campaign it is tempting to suggest that the program outlined in Keep America Strong in the Air  proves that it actually carried out a wide-ranging crusade and that it reached millions of Americans across the country. This may be true, but there is no way to authoritatively assess its extent or impact on a national scale. One also wonders how enthusiastically local members who had served in the ground and non-flying naval forces in World War II reacted to this program and how enthusiastically they implemented it. Still, the Legion’s pamphlet campaign, in general, illustrates the wider dimensions of the air power crusade, that is, that a group not normally asssociated with air power advocacy saw revolutionary potential in air power and took steps to convince the public of the virtues of air power. In a more specific sense, the public education program illustrates yet another facet o£ and the wide applications within, the effort to conduct a grassroots advocacy movement through popular culture. EDITORS AND PUBLISHERS, DIRECTORS AND PRODUCERS Many air power advocates would have been powerless to get their message into the