the fear without too much thought about the veracity of the facts. A similar example of dealing in images not necessarily based on facts was the air power advocates’  emphasis on the seventy-group plan. This plan had been shaped by the AAF in the closing days of World War II before any specific adversary had been identified, and in the postwar years it became a virtual shibboleth within the air power cause as the absolute minimum to protect America, yet the air power advocates never explained why the magic number seventy remained the same after the Soviets emerged as the main threat. Spaatz, for example, referred to the figure numerous times, including a Newsweek  article one month before the Soviets exploded their bomb. In this article Spaatz once again bemoaned Congress’  failure to provide for a seventy-group Air Force, authorizing instead only 48 groups. Not only would this action leave the Air Force too weak to meet its strategic and tactical missions, according to Spaatz, it would also concede to the Soviets their ambition to have the world’s largest air force.2 8 The image of a threatening Soviet air force became so pervasive by the late forties that other authors began writing about it. Writing in 1948 for The Saturday Evening Post, Wesley Price concluded that the Soviets were “spawning giant bombers and a hornet swarm of jet interceptors” and he quoted Air Force Secretary Stuart Symington that “Russia was building about twelve times as many planes as we were.” Alluding to a potentiality that would soon become a reality, Price stated that “defense planners...must consider what our position would be if [Soviet bombers] should hit us after Russia acquires atomic bombs.... All our industrial centers would be under the gun.” This image 244 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 256 --- was made even more threatening when in December of that same year Frank Kluckho