ar dangers. In his attitudes toward strategic bombing, for example, he ascribed opposition to “an instinctive moral objection to... the subjugation of civilian populations to the hazards of war” and then mocked such morality for preferring that the hazard be borne by young men in uniform on a far-off battlefield.7 2 Curtis LeMay also remained true to the air power gospel, but here too the one­ time paragon of America determination became a symbol of the reactionary fringe. Like Twining, LeMay tried to get America to “buck-up” and accept the sacrifices of a hard line in the fight against global Communism. In his 1965 memoirs, for example, he offered his oft-quoted formula for ending the war in Vietnam: “My solution to the problem would be 363 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 375 --- to tell them frankly that they’ve got to draw in their horns and stop their aggression, or we’re going to bomb them back into the Stone Age.” Such sentiments were out of step with the predominant views, however, and he drifted farther into the outfield of political and military debates. No better example of this exists than the fact that the man who was once lauded as America’s best hope for peace and security ended up as the running-mate of an extremist third party candidate in the 1968 Presidential elections.7 3 By 1965, then, the cultural views toward air power had gone through a dramatic evolution. The air power advocates’  popular culture campaign had not come to a complete halt but it was a mere shadow of its former self. Some advocates had changed their tone considerably, while others had drifted away to other pursuits. More important, those that remained found their message relegated to the outskirts of the new cultural debate. Where once air power advocates had promised quick, easy, and painless victory through air power, now they lectured Americans on the need to accept grea