air power should be. This is all the more surprising because he said that one of the Air Service’s key weaknesses when it entered World War I was its lack of a clear doctrine.9  Despite fighting hard for strategic bombing in the early days of World War H, Arnold does not seem to have envisioned it in the same manner as other American bombing strategists who were emphasizing systematic precision industrial bombing. He stated that when Douhet’s theory “came out in 1933,” it conformed very closely with the theories the Air Corps had worked out by that time, and that Germany’s use of bombing against Poland was the same methods the AAF would use later in their campaign against Germany.1 0  Throughout his account of the air campaign in World War II his emphasis on organizing and building up forces and getting results from their bombing seem to convey no more sophisticated a strategy than defeating the enemy’s air forces and then inflicting as much damage on the enemy as possible in as many ways as possible.1 1  This depiction of wartime bombing presented to the public conformed well with that which he predicted for postwar air power presented in his November 1945 article, “If War Comes Again.” War in the future, according to Arnold, would be dominated by a sudden and devastating surprise nuclear attack carried out by jet bombers, rockets, and even orbiting spaceships. “Push-button” war was already a reality he warned, and only overwhelming American air power could defend against it.1 2 95 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 107 --- CARLA. SPAATZ A more influential figure in the postwar popular culture campaign was Carl A. Spaatz. Bom in 1891, Spaatz, like Arnold, was a native Pennsylvanian. His father was a local newspaper editor who had also served in the State Assembly. Spaatz graduated from West Point in 1914, entered pilot training in 1915, saw action in World War I,