atlantic flight. While numerous aviators became popular public figures, the public outpouring prompted by Lindbergh’s feat illustrates the extent to which aviation was connected to emancipation and secular spirituality in the public mind. Lindbergh was more than just popular. Clearly he meant more to people than just temporary attraction to a media figure. The immediate and persistent honors, the official and unofficial awards, every painting and sculpture, every poem and sermon coming from around the world and lasting throughout Lindbergh’s life attest to the meaning one man’s flight had brought to peoples’  lives.6 3  While to the modem reader this may seem a graphic picture o f unabashed deification, public attitudes toward the airplane and the machine age, not Lindbergh, shaped this response. Technology had seemed to many a vague lurking menace in modem life. The airplane appeared to possess the potential to counter that menace - the machine that would liberate the human spirit and carry it beyond old bounds. Now the “Lone Eagle” confirmed that potential. Single-handedly he took on both machine and nature and emerged victorious.6 4 The airplane was not a universal religious symbol per se,  nor was it the only wonder to evoke rapturous imagery. For those in the general public drawn by the 46 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 58 --- romance of aviation, however, the traditional strains in American culture of technological liberation and evangelical religion combined to evoke a sense that the airplane was a new form of technology, a transcendent marvel, that possessed the potential to overcome old limitations and which opened up a whole new world of possibilities. This sense of the airplane’s radical potential, found in varying degrees among members of the general public, was a crucial precursor to the rise of American air power, for it prepared many to accept t