here of grave international danger. Likewise, the erosion of faith in salvation through air power seemed to coincide with the fading cultural fixation with the airplane as flying became commonplace and new wonders, like space travel, captured the public’s imagination. In the interim, though, air power advocates reflected and exploited the love affair with the airplane in their effort to convert the nation to the gospel of air power. Air power advocates had come a long way since the interwar era in winning widespread public support for their cause. Taking advantage of both the cultural fascination with aviation and the unprecedented public support for air power generated by World War n, they had used popular culture as a prominent part of their campaign to “make America an air power nation.” Following a trail blazed by Billy Mitchell, they 370 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 382 --- shaped their faith in air power into a message that extolled air power’s revolutionary potential and promised not only salvation from the dangers of war, but also a better tomorrow through air power. Placing their message in those forms of mass-media which many Americans turned to for entertainment and diversion, air power advocates made their image of air power a major part of the popular imagination’s conception of security in a time of danger. Outside factors, especially the fear of Communist aggression and Soviet attack, aided air power advocates in gaining support for their cause, and thus they crafted their popular culture campaign to present air power, specifically strategic nuclear bombing, as the only adequate defense against the Communist threat. When other factors, such as the Korean War and interservice rivalry, challenged the image they hoped to instill in the public consciousness, air power advocates eluded the challenges and kept their image relatively intact. For a br