verance from all manner of ills. Moreover, the popularity of these works hints at a public eager for such images. Those who tell the story of Western society’s response to the airplane are remarkably similar in their accounts: human flight unlocked ancient passions that filled popular culture with stirring rhapsodies and eschatological visions. As Joseph Com and others have shown, the American public embraced the airplane as fervently as any other nation.1  As in other Western nations, America’s fascination soon extended to military uses for the airplane. Thus air power gained a growing hold on American popular culture throughout the 2 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 14 --- interwar period and into the 1950s. Many Americans saw air power as an integral part of what they believed was a glorious new air age. Within the context of enthusiasm for aviation and cultural themes proclaiming the arrival of a brave new air age, it is not surprising that some members of society would imagine a revolutionary role for air power just as others were imagining a revolutionary role for aviation in general. Often the same individuals prophesied of a great future for both aviation and air power, for they saw the two as part of the same movement, the same force for change. Those who saw great potential for air power saw themselves as visionaries, prophets who had grasped the ultimate shape of things to come. Air power proponents had reveled in the fascination with aviation in popular imagination, and in that state they had “dreamed dreams and seen visions.” They were often arrogant and ridiculed those who opposed their views because they believed their vision was as inexorable as the tide. Simply stated, the prophets of air power believed the airplane had revolutionized warfare. They often considered armies and navies obsolete, not only because were they too vulnerable to air powe