in national defense. Like the general interest magazine campaign, the effort to venerate SAC through movies continued into the early sixties. In 1963 Universal studios released A Gathering o f Eagles  starring Rock Hudson. The film grew out of a conversation between LeMay and Sy Bartlett, co-author with Beime Lay of Twelve O 'clock High.  LeMay expressed his concern to Bartlett that recent novels like Peter George’s Red Alert,  at the time being turned into Dr. Strangelove,  would harm SAC’s reputation. Bartlett “instantly” saw the need for a movie to explain to the public SAC’s importance. He then wrote the stoiy on which the screenplay was based and produced the film. Delbert Mann, who as a bomber crewmember in World War II flew 35 missions and who had always wanted to make a movie about bombers, directed the film.5 1 Much had changed by the early sixties, though. As the next chapter will show, air power was under attack from several directions and images of revolutionary air power seemed naive and had almost totally disappeared from popular culture. Of all the movies highlighting strategic air power, A Gathering o f Eagles  deals with revolutionary themes the least. Like the other two films of the SAC trilogy and the SAC articles of the fifties, it 304 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 316 --- showcases SAC in the most complimentary terms. But there is little more to its message than the reassuring images of SAC vigilance in ensuring effectiveness, that its people are dedicated and make great sacrifices in performing their mission, and that SAC’s positive control procedures virtually ensure that no one could accidentally or maliciously start a nuclear war. The plot involves a base armed with both B-52s and ICBMs that has just failed an operational readiness inspection. In the wake of this failure the wing commander is fired and Colonel Caldwell, played by Huds