c Air Command.”2 2 The biggest addition to SAC during the fifties, though, was missiles, and despite Blair’s dissmissive attitude toward them, air power advocates incorporated this new capability into the image of an all-powerful SAC. Two notable figures in presenting this development were Corey Ford and James Perkins. In August 1958 the two writers collaborated on an article in Reader’ s Digest  glorifying the men and mission of SAC’s B- 47 bases in Spain,2 3  and that same month they contributed an article in The Saturday Evening Post  telling the story of the commander of SAC’s First Missile Division, Major General David Wade. The tone of the article is virtually indistinguishable from the SAC articles focusing on bombers. The authors say of Wade and the importance of his mission, “There’s no second place in a nuclear war...he doesn’t propose to see this country runner- up to any power on earth.” On the skill demanded of the new missileers the authors quote Wade, “the slightest error in calculation, the least lapse in split-second timing, can spell failure,” and again, “handling these complex devices executes heavier demands than any other weapons system in history.” When asked where he finds such superb people, Wade responds: “Any good SAC man.” All of this, the authors state, will change SAC from “an all-bomber force to a modern bomber-missile force capable of reaching and destroying any enemy aggressor on the globe.”2 4 Ford and Perkins return to the subject of SAC’s ICBMs in 1960 with an article in Reader's Digest  describing the test launch of an Atlas missile. The authors describe the 289 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 301 --- missile with awe-inspiring hyperbole, “deadliest weapon of the free world” and “engines that deliver 7,500,000 horsepower - enough power to light four cities the size of Los Angeles,” yet they include images of frightful destruc