ity in the days when television’s power was first being felt, his voice reached millions of Americans through his popular radio and television programs. Bom in 1903 in New York City, Godfrey was a high school drop-out who joined the Navy in 1920 and served until 1924. He also served in the Coast Guard from 1927 until 1929, and at the outbreak of World War n  he gained a reserve commission as a lieutenant commander and remained a longterm naval reservist. He maintained a sailing interest throughout his life. Interestingly, the various biographical sketches on him list no aviation or air power organizations among the various groups and organizations to which he belonged.7 7 Godfrey broke into radio in 1930, but his popularity did not really begin until after World 120 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 132 --- War II when he starred in such highly rated shows as the Arthur Godfrey Time  which aired on CBS in 1946, and Arthur Godfrey's Talent Scouts  which began with CBS in 1947 and continued through at least 1956.7 8  Godfrey’s success on radio led to his transition to television in 1948 with Arthur Godfrey’ s Talent Scouts,  which ran on CBS until 1958, and Arthur Godfrey and His Friends  which ran on CBS from 1949 until 1959. Both shows were enormously popular. He is the only star in television history to have two top-rated prime time shows at the same time, and his popularity, which ran strong through the mid­ fifties, made him a media celebrity.7 9 Like Huie, Godfrey was a Navy apostate. After the war he had been a well known Navy advocate, so when he converted to the air power gospel and became an outspoken air power advocate it got considerable media attention and became perhaps one of the popular culture crusade’s greatest coups. Godfrey had been using his radio and television “bully pulpit” since before the war to proselytize for the Navy. The Navy was eager