ey were patriotic. A graphic example of the widespread faith in SAC can be seen in a 1958 advertisement run by Kelsey-Hayes, an aircraft and missile component manufacturer. In a tribute to SAC the ad shows a smiling boy lying in bed giving the “A-okay” sign to a formation of B-58 Hustlers flying past his window. In the background is superimposed the figure of an Air Force enlisted man and beneath the picture is the caption, “He awakes secure...thanks to ‘SAC.’”5  Because of such images displayed prominently in popular culture during the fifties and into the sixties, culturally and officially, to paraphrase Henry Stimson, air power seemed to be the one true god, LeMay was its prophet, and the Strategic Air Command was the one true church. SEMPER PARATUS: THE IMAGE OF SAC IN MAGAZINES Magazines played a significant role in shaping the image of SAC in the fifties. Numerous articles appeared in nearly every major general interest magazine and they were nearly unanimous in the themes they stressed and the images they created. First, they were unwaveringly laudatory. There was no mistaking the editorial stand on the virtues of SAC in these articles. In fact, some of the claims made for or about SAC by such air 279 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 291 --- power advocates as Francis Vivian Drake and Harold H. Martin are so exaggerated they rival some of the more extreme claims made for air power in the late forties. Secondly, they dwelled at length on SAC’s eternal vigilance. Another standard theme was the competence, professionalism, and dedication of SAC’s personnel. Related to this theme were the constant reminders of the sacrifices SAC crewmembers made to be ready to fulfill their mission at a moment’s notice. But the most important theme echoed old strains of technological messianism and raised expectations of salvation through air power to its highest and most ove