ld dream, the conquest of flight.1  When the flying machine burst on the scene it captured popular imagination to an extent perhaps unparalleled in history. The dawn of flight seemed to embody perfectly the popular mood of progress. Human reason had shattered one of the most fundamental and age-old limitations of human experience, gravity. Science had opened up a whole new dimension, both literally and figuratively. Popular imagination did not just revel in the new physical freedom, though, for the technological breakthrough was as much an aesthetic experience as it was a physical one. Just as the body could now soar into the heavens and dance among the clouds, so too could the human spirit and imagination. 17 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 29 --- It is perhaps difficult for modem readers to appreciate how deeply the dawn of flight moved Western imagination in the first few decades of the Air Age. We have grown up with the commonplace reality of aviation, and technology during our lifetime has moved on to new wonders, such as space travel. But historians who have studied the impact of aviation on Western culture are unanimous in their efforts to convey the full magnitude of the cultural forces sweeping Western society and unlocking primordial yearnings and passions. In his history of Europe’s early response to aviation Robert Wohl attempts to make his readers feel just how profoundly that earlier generation had been moved, and how different from our own that generation’s response had been. In his introduction he writes: What I discovered both fascinated and dismayed me. Fascinated me because the stories I read equaled or surpassed in high drama anything I had encountered in adventure fiction or mythology. Dismayed me because, though I had been practicing the historian’s craft for more than two decades, I now had to acknowledge a major territory of ignorance in