ification of SAC and nuclear bombing. The message he conveyed to other air power advocates, as seen through his correspondence with them, is that SAC’s mission is paramount. If SAC needed more pilots then America needed to see a movie that would convince them of that need (Strategic A ir Command)-,  if SAC needed more crew chiefs, America needed another film illustrating that need as well (Bombers B- 52); if critics have begun to undermine SAC by suggesting nuclear war could be triggered accidentally then America needed a movie to reassure the public that it could not happen (A Gathering o f Eagles).  LeMay represented an image of air power to the public and the public could take that image into account with everything he said. With his behind-the- scenes work to advance that same image, however, few could prove, though many may have suspected, that what they saw or heard was partly the work of LeMay. Civilian air power advocates played a key role in the popular culture campaign and their efforts were the most critical for several different reasons. First, many Americans would suspect a military figure of partisanship for obvious reasons. Naturally a career flier 103 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 115 --- would think air power is important because he had devoted his life to it, and an Air Force general would never think the Air Force was big enough or had airplanes that were good enough. A civilian, however, even one coming from a limited military background, would have at least a thin veneer of impartiality. Secondly, no matter how gifted a writer a military figure might be, writing was still a secondary venture and was limited to the medium of the printed word. Military fliers brought expertise, civilians brought diversity and talent. Some civilian advocates were gifted and award-winning writers. Others were stars of stage, screen, radio, and later, televisi