age 339 --- looking at those fires was like looking down into the door of a furnace, and I thought about all the people burning down there and how they must hate me and want to kill me, and I couldn’t blame them.... I was just all sick inside and I felt like I couldn’t move.... I was afraid of them, afraid they’d kill me. I could feel them hating me and wanting to kill me. I can still feel them hating me.”9 Moreover, the whole Group experiences a psychosomatic onset of mysterious problems. Most noticeable is the group commander who seems to be slowly decaying before their eyes until he is killed on a bombing mission.1 0 But just when it appears that Taylor is building to a powerful statement, he backs off. Wilson’s problem becomes a main focus through five chapters and climaxes on a firebombing mission over the target. Before the mission he had told Richardson that he was too sick to fly but the pilot, sensing that Wilson was just scared, orders him into the plane. Wilson’s fear mounts through the flight, and then just short of the target he abandons his bomb sight. Richardson, in an “animal-like” rage, confronts him and without a word spoken by either Wilson returns to his position and completes the bomb run. After the flight Wilson explained that Richardson had forced him to confront and conquer his fear and thereafter performs like the perfect bombardier.1 1 After this Taylor says little more about bombing and turns instead to Richardson’s feelings about war. In this vein, though, Taylor does not question the nature of air power, or even modem warfare, but war in general. Richardson had always wanted to be a soldier and had joined the AAF hoping to find glory and fulfillment in war. What he finds, however, is that war is just fear and death. There are no heroes. One could sense in this a repudiation of the glory of air power that was often a part of the air power advocates’ message but Taylor does not develop this theme. Instead Richardson repudiates the quest 32