hrough popular culture gives several revealing insights. First and foremost, it tells us what air power advocates wanted the general public to believe. Secondly, it reflects the degree to which shapers of public opinion - editors, producers, directors, and others - thought that air 8 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 20 --- power needed to be stressed in popular culture or would be popular with the paying customer. This approach also gives, to some degree, an indication of how the public responded to the air power crusade, although one should remember that seeing a movie pitching the strategic bombing message does not mean that the viewer accepted the message or became committed to it. Likewise, subscribers to magazines that regularly ran articles advocating air power themes might not even read the articles, and if they did read them they might not accept the argument. Still, the appearance of such themes in media that depended on paying customers is some reflection of the public mood. Finally, tracing the evolution of themes appearing in such avenues of popular culture indicate how popular culture affected the air power advocates’  campaign. As we shall see, larger world events and changing public mood affected how air power was portrayed in popular culture. Who were these air power advocates? The term would seem to imply a hardcore group of activists who pushed for a singular goal or a set agenda. Looking at the material appearing in popular culture, though, it is clear that this is hardly the case. Air power advocates varied in their commitment to the cause and in the goals they sought. This caveat might best be illustrated by way of an analogy. In our current popular culture the computer has its own group of advocates and enjoys something of the same “conventional wisdom” air power enjoyed in an earlier period. The gamut of advocacy runs from the hardcore com