t Saville dies in the course of combat, having never achieved the highly sought status that defines the hero in the fighter world, the status of ace. All who do reach this status are grotesque caricatures of depravity, thus conveying the image that success in air combat can only be achieved by the most anti-social elements.1 3 By all measures short of combat, Saville should be honored in his world. He was a superb pilot in peacetime who had flown with the Air Force acrobatic team and had won a 329 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 341 --- prestigious air-to-air fighter competition. When he arrives in Korea his group commander, who had flown with Saville before the war, is glad to have such a famous pilot in his unit and makes Saville a flight commander. Saville, though, is also depicted throughout the novel as a sensitive, thoughtful individual as best seen when he courts a young Japanese woman while on leave in Tokyo.1 4  The same aggressive nature that made Saville a good fighter pilot also compels him toward the goal of becoming an ace, but as aerial victories elude him, he becomes at first frustrated and then introspective. In the meantime, he watches the methods used by his fellow fighter pilots to achieve success, and he is increasingly revolted. He searches for what it is within himself that makes him feel that failure to become an ace will equate to a personal defeat. In the end, he achieves his second kill by shooting down the leading enemy ace but rejects the accolades by ascribing the victory to his wingman, who died on the mission.1 5  By the time Saville dies, four missions short of the end of his tour, he is at peace with himself and the fact that he has won true honor by remaining virtuous even though the fighter world regards him a failure. In direct contrast to Saville are the two figures in the novel who achieve the most success in the fighter p