attacked the dominant image of air power. Starting in the second half of the fifties and accelerating through the early sixties, novels and movies escalated their attacks and drew ever larger audiences. By the end of the period depictions of air power that would have been unthinkable in the early fifties were becoming best-sellers and classics. These works not only reflect the loss of faith in air power, they undoubtedly accelerated it as well. They also changed another aspect of the popular culture air power debate. By 1963 works that unquestioning lauded air power were becoming rare. A Gathering o f Eagles  was the last film glorifying SAC, it did poorly at the box office, and it was the last positive depiction of air power until well into the 1980s. The same was true of general interest magazines. Positive portrayals would still appear, especially in Reader’ s Digest , but the new tone is best captured by James Atwater’s 1963 Saturday Evening Post  article that examines SAC’s Minuteman  missile operations. While it gives SAC’s side of the story thoroughly, the old cloying praise is gone and is replaced with guarded respect and healthy scepticism.7 The assault on air power from the mid-fifties to the mid-sixties, then, is both an indication of, and a spur to, the public’s loss of faith in air power. It is ironic in a way that one of the leading causes of the demise of the cult of air power would be popular culture, 325 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 337 --- because popular culture had been such an effective tool in building that cult from the earliest days in the first place. In a sense air power advocates learned that “he who lives by the sword dies by the sword.” THE EARLY YEARS: A CHANGE OF TONE Beginning in 1956 works began appearing in literature that took the first tentative steps toward questioning the cult of air power. The trend continued through th