iew that the bomber was the basic air weapon, their thoughts turned to bombing strategy.1 0 2 As it emerged during the thirties, daylight precision bombing, as the doctrine was called, expressed great faith in the ability to both paralyze any nation’s ability to wage war and to minimize civilian casualties. Assuming that any industrialized society, especially one mobilized for war, would have certain key industries upon which several other industries depended, the ACTS theorists believed that destroying a select number of key targets would have a magnified effect on the enemy’s entire economy and paralyze their ability to wage war.1 0 3  Finding and destroying these key targets placed an emphasis on accuracy, which would also minimize bombs falling on civilian areas around the target. Significantly, this emphasis on bombing accuracy was a marked departure from Douhet’s theories and Mitchell’s post-court martial writings. Emphasizing bombing accuracy also played into cultural images of American technical superiority and frontier marksmanship. Both images would help “sell” strategic bombing to the American public when the time came to employ the strategy in war. From the ACTS the doctrine of daylight precision bombing radiated out to the whole Air Corps. The school preached this new gospel to every student who went through its program until, by the start of World War II, nearly every Air Corps officer had attended the ACTS program.1 0 4 62 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 74 --- The conception that air power was synonymous with bombing was even shared by those who opposed air power or questioned its advocates’  claims, and they spoke out in popular culture during the thirties. For example, in 1932 Arlington B. Conway, in an article published by The American Mercury,  took on the notion that bombing cities would be devastating and decisive. He concluded that target