and widespread in America than elsewhere. He attributes this to two factors. First, Americans had long been prone to “technological messianism,” a vague but long-standing attitude that machines and technology would and could solve physical and social problems. A more important factor to Com, though, is that America had long felt a strong affinity for religion, often of an evangelical characteristic.2 5  The airplane touched deep and powerful images within Judeo-Christian heritage: images of the heavens as the realm of God, the angels - and now man. Writing of these technological and religious connections, Com depicts a cultural milieu in which shades of earthly salvation through technology intermingle with images associated with divine salvation in the heavens, and he portrays America’s attraction to the airplane as at once eschatological in scope and tangible in conception: heaven on earth; salvation wrought by the human hand.2 6  It is not surprising, therefore, that images of salvation transferred to the realm of war. Somehow the airplane with its miraculous properties would end the scourge of war or would save America if war came. As we have seen, these images were not new, for Benjamin Franklin, Stanley Waterloo, and Simon Newcomb had all seen salvation of some sort in the gift of flight. But the advent of human flight and its unparalleled cultural 29 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 41 --- popularity made such extravagant expectations a major part of the popular imagination’s view of air power. Utopian prophecies in future-war literature continued, but with the popularity of aviation, images of a utopian air age entered the mainstream culture. These new depictions followed two general threads of logic. Some felt that the airplane not only lifted one physically, but also mentally and spiritually to a higher plane of reasoning and attitude. In this way the a