ck eye because of the main reason for the 359 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 371 --- coup attempt. The new president, Jordan Lyman, used the international fallout from the Iran War to negotiate an international nuclear disarmament treaty which the Pentagon had almost universally opposed. Worried that the Soviets would cheat on the treaty and attack the U.S. once America had destroyed all its nuclear weapons, Scott orchestrates a plot that involves virtually every branch of the military. Once again airmen see air power as the only solution to international tension and are willing to resort to the most extreme measures rather than relinquish their vision. There are several redeeming military characters, chief among them being the hero of the story, Marine Colonel “Jiggs” Casey who uncovers and helps foil the plot. Another military figure who remains loyal and plays a key role in bringing down the conspirators is a top Air Force leader General Rutkowski, commander of Air Defense Command. Also Admiral Palmer, Chief of Naval Operations, refuses to go along with the plot, but these characters cannot erase the stigma the novel placed on the entire military. The book quickly became a best-seller, remaining on the best-seller list for 49 weeks, and was soon made into a movie. The movie version dropped the Iran War motif and made the disarmament treaty the sole reason for the plot. It also strengthened the role of Scott, played by Burt Lancaster. For example, the plot is foiled only after Scott had already launched the coup. All of these changes made its anti-air power message stronger, though it retained its negative image of all the services. Columbia pursued the project and inquired about military support, and when they were turned down they appealed to the White House but to no avail. Columbia dropped the project and Paramount bought it but did not pursue Pentagon s