eriences in I  Wanted Wings  which became a best seller in 1937. When the book became the basis of a movie by the same name in 1941 Lay collaborated on the screenplay. After America entered the war Lay served two staff tours in England working as one of Eaker’s “original seven” setting up the Eighth Air Force, and then was given command of a B-24 bomber group, the 487th. Exactly one month after the group’s arrival in England in April 1944, however, Lay was shot down over France. His 1945 book I ’ ve H ad It  tells the story of his brief command and his efforts to escape back to allied territory.5 6 After the war Lay, by now a colonel, reverted to reserve status with the AAF and returned to writing. During the war Sy Bartlett had discussed with Lay the necessity of collaborating on a book about the strategic bombing campaign against Germany, a project 111 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 123 --- that resulted in the best-seller Twelve 0  'clockHigh!  Bartlett felt Lay’s experience as an author, screenwriter, and bomb group commander made him a perfect choice for a co­ author.5 7  Twentieth Century Fox bought the movie rights in a package deal that included Lay and Bartlett writing the screenplay, and Darryl F. Zanuck, head of production at the studio and, as a charter member of the Air Power League, a firm supporter of advancing air power, produced the film.5 8  After the success of Twelve O 'clock High,  Lay went on to other film projects, most notably Above and Beyond  (1952), Strategic Air Command (1955), and Bombers B-52  (1957). One significant aspect of Lay’s career as an author and screenwriter is that after the war he maintained more than just a reserve officer’s ties with the Air Force. Through this entire period he maintained a prolonged correspondence with Curtis LeMay, intimate to the point of being on a first name basis with the notoriously gruff SAC