a trivial one, for it highlights how strongly the bombing advocates who arose in the Air Corps actually believed their theories. One point overlooked by scholars studying the rise of American strategic bombing is that many of the leading figures in developing advocating, and implementing America’s bombing doctrine, men such as Arnold, Spaatz, Eaker, and Hansell, had spent either much or most of their World War I and interwar careers as “fighter jocks.” At a time when these men could have benefited by perpetuating the myth of the fighter ace and when most within the Air Corps considered fighter pilots superior and all other pilots, they were the key actors elevating bombing to the central position in Air Corps strategy. Within the Air Corps, doctrinal evolution moved American air power inexorably in the direction of bombing. A key factor in this development was the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) which had evolved into a hotbed of air power theory. As one historian observed, it “proved to be the only common location of experienced Air Corps officers who had enough time for creative thinking.”1 0 1  Officially, it was just a training school. Unofficially, though, the ACTS served as an influential “think tank” and catalyst that built grassroots support for its emerging strategic bombing theories throughout the Army flying 61 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 73 --- community. All faculty members certainly read Mitchell’s works, but some point to other figures, such as Douhet, who also influenced their thinking. By the end of the twenties the faculty had begun to give considerable thought to how air power could independently win wars, and since most of them shared the view that the bomber was the basic air weapon, their thoughts turned to bombing strategy.1 0 2 As it emerged during the thirties, daylight precision bombing, as the doctrine was called, expressed great