ly out of the blue, and Lynch replies: it strikes me that in this century something awful has been let loose among the so- called civilized peoples, something primitive and barbaric.... If I can do my part in keeping this worst side of mankind in hand, I’ll be satisfied, whatever happens to me. What happens to Lynch, though, is that he is killed, and in describing the scene Hersey plays on the intellectual theme by stressing repeatedly how Lynch’s brains were splattered all over the cockpit.3 4 More important is Boman’s British girlfriend Daphne. A sensitive, introspective woman, she first senses Marrow’s spiritual emptiness and represents Hersey’s response to the air power’s emotive appeal. Aviation had exerted a strong emotional hold on popular imagination and in the postwar environment Cold War fears had turned that emotional attachment into a desperate faith that air power could save America from the Soviet threat. Through Daphne the reader learns that Marrow, and by extension air power, is just a thin veneer of strength and potency that in reality is a greater danger that perpetuates war. Part of Daphne’s insight comes from the fact that she had known other fliers and that Marrow’s sickness is not confined to him or to the American airmen. She had been engaged to an RAF bomber pilot who was so obsessed with killing and destroying that when his first tour ended he transitioned to night fighters so he could go on killing and destroying. “He was like a blood brother to [Marrow].... As like as two peas in a pod.”3 5 341 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 353 --- Her important insight, though, concerns the significance of men like Marrow. In describing to Boman the crucial episode where Marrow tried to seduce her she says, I understood, then. It was from [the RAF pilot] that I understood. I said, “I know all about you.... That feeling when the plane shudders becau