ge 3 --- A PEOPLE’ S AIR FORCE: AIR POWER AND AMERICAN POPULAR CULTURE ,  1945 - 1965 DISSERTATION Presented in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Degree Doctor of Philosophy in the Graduate School of The Ohio State University By Steven Charles Call, M.A, M.S. * * * * * The Ohio State University 1997 Dissertation Committee: Professor Allan R. Millett, Advisor Associate Professor John Guilmartin Associate Professor William ChildsApproved by Advisor Department of History Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 4 --- UMI Number: 9731597 UMI Microform 9731597 Copyright 1997, by UMI Company. All rights reserved. This microform edition is protected against unauthorized copying under Title 17, United States Code. UMI 300 North Zeeb Road Ann Arbor, MI 48103 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 5 --- ABSTRACT Central to the rise of American air power was America’s cultural fascination with aviation. Just as many Americans ascribed near-miraculous powers to airplanes in general, many also predicted salvation through air power. Interwar figures like Billy Mitchell used popular culture to urge the public to trust air power for national defense, but isolationism and anti-militarism limited the success of these efforts. World War n, though, brought unprecedented public support for air power and ended American isolationism. After the war, air power advocates continued the popular culture crusade. Using media that average Americans turned to for diversion and entertainment, air power advocates waged a lengthy campaign to convert the American public to their gospel of revolutionary air power. Capitalizing on public support, air power advocates used speeches, radio addresses, magazine articles, novels, and movies in the late forties to spread their notions that air power ha