standard motifs that were part of the revolutionary image of air power. The global reach of strategic bombing is emphasized when Holland’s wife does not believe that he could fly from Texas to Alaska and back without stopping, and when Holland’s squadron flies the new B-47 non-stop from Florida to Japan. Both traditions of strategic bombing also find their way into the movie. Twice the destructive capabilities of nuclear weapons, the Douhet tradition, is showcased. In the first instance Holland tells his wife that one B-36 with one atomic bomb could do the job of a thousand World War II bombers. Later, Hawks, a thinly-disguised representation of LeMay, tells a group of B-47 crewmembers, “One B-47 and a crew of three carries the destructive power of the entire B-29 force we used against Japan.” But the one bomb run scene emphasizes the continuing legacy of the ACTS tradition. Bombing from 43,000 feet, Holland’s B-47 crew scores a “shack,” Air Force parlance for a hit less than ten feet from the target. The film even includes a scene that exhibits the mystical faith that was often a feature of the air power advocates’  message. When Holland first sees the B-47 the background music becomes haunting and ethereal while Holland, in awe, murmurs, “well, she’s the most beautiful thing I’ve ever seen in my life, General. Well, just look at her...look at her.” The Air Force was involved both officially and unofficially in the making of Strategic A ir Command.  Lay consulted often with LeMay on the project from its earliest formative stages through post-production problems seeking LeMay’s feedback and help on numerous issues. LeMay encouraged Lay in his focus on Reserve manning problems, noting that such forces “must be in being and ready to go when the whistle blows if we are to adequately defend the country in the atomic age.” LeMay also arranged for declassified 299 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: