eliminated all natural and man-made boundaries because in the air mountains, rivers, and borders were meaningless.4  Interwar air power advocates applied much the same reasoning when they claimed that the warplane had negated America’s traditional oceanic isolation.3  During World War II, though, a new idea arose that the airplane had also conquered the polar ice cap, thus bringing about a new geographical conception of the northern hemisphere. This new reality, some argued, necessitated a new standard depiction of the world, called a polar projection, which viewed the world with the north pole at its center. To understand why postwar air power advocates and others found this new image so revolutionary one needs to understand that how we depict the world helps shape our image of geographic reality. The standard depiction of the earth on a flat map uses the Mercator projection. This depiction indicates that the direction of travel from Chicago to Moscow is east, over New Brunswick and England. From a polar perspective, however, the shortest distance is north over the Arctic. As simple as this reorientation sounds, writers of the time treated it as a revolutionary concept. In numerous works throughout the late forties authors describe this concept to their readers as if they had just unlocked one of the hidden secrets of the universe. The writers of a 1944 high school geography text, for example, devote the first three sections to the new idea and its implications. Their revolutionary attitude is best captured by the book’s frontispiece, which depicts a youth enlightening an older man with a map drawn from a polar perspective, and by one of the book’s review question which asks, “Why has the ‘dreaded’  Arctic come to be called the ‘friendly’  Arctic?”6  William Bradford Huie stated in 1946 that the Mercator projection 179 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 191 --- h