he copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 162 --- others who can do much to advance the cause of American air progress.” In short, it became a special interest pressure group similar to the Air Force Association. The group did provide a film library for distributing aviation films to schools, clubs, and civic groups, but this limited service hardly compares to the bold outreach plans of the Air Power League.3 0  The group also funded research and gave awards to military members, and it sponsored a series of lectures in conjunction with the Library of Congress, but here too the scope of outreach, by the very nature of the activities, was limited.3 1 In the grand scheme of things the Air Power League and the National Air Council seem to have played little more than a cameo role in the popular culture crusade. They did not even get their Warholian “fifteen minutes of fame,” but the groups’  few publications suggest several observations. First and foremost, judging by the League’s list of directors and charter members, many leading Americans with no apparent vested interest felt strongly enough about advancing the cause of air power through a public information campaign that they were willing to give a considerable sum of money to have a strong voice in the League’s efforts. While roughly 130 of the group’s 305 charter members had an obvious stake in promoting air power, that leaves roughly 170 who did not. Most important in this regard is the relatively large number of charter members who occupied an important place in shaping public attitudes. Publishers such as Hearst, Luce, and Gannett controlled much of the news people read. Movie producers such as Mayer, Goldwyn, Selznick, and Zanuck controlled not only the movies they personally produced but also the production companies they controlled or helped run. The heads of M.I.T. and the Mayo Clinic lent an intellectual veneer to any pronouncements the Leag