status is that starting in the May 1945-April 1947 edition of Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature  “air power” appears for the first time as a separate subject heading for listing articles.1  Before that edition, beginning with the July 1932-June 1935 edition, the entry under the term “air power” said merely “See Aeronautics, Military.” This latter 89 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 101 --- practice resumed with the March 1961-February 1963 edition, and the March 1959- February 1961 edition omits the heading “air power” entirely. Between 1945 and 1959, though, whether because of personal conviction or simply reflecting the increased public usage, the editors of the Reader’ s Guide,  like many air power advocates whose writing they listed, treated air power as something bigger than the sum of its parts, as a concept whose borders encompassed far more than just aviation. The period following World War II witnessed a virtual flood of air power advocacy works in American popular culture bombarding the public imagination with the virtues of and pressing need for, a strong air power establishment. This flood coursed through several channels: popular magazines, books, novels, radio, movies, television, even a Broadway play and a popular comic strip. No medium seemed inappropriate for conveying the air power advocates’  message. While the message continued well into the 1960s, the torrent seemed to crest in the mid- to late-fifties. The roughly twelve years following 1945 constitutes a “Golden Age” of air power advocacy in popular culture. Several factors help account for the sudden and prolonged surge air power literature: (1) the prominent role played by air power during the war generated support for, and interest in, air power topics within the American populace; (2) the threat of the Cold War and the nuclear arms race made the public susceptible to the technolo