cked up impressive tallies of trucks destroyed, rail lines cut, and bridges destroyed, and it frequently halted daylight movement of Communist forces and supplies, but the damage was quickly repaired and movement continued under cover of darkness. More important, Korean War experience showed that air interdiction could seriously impede efforts to mount or halt a major offensive, when the need for reinforcements and supplies was at its highest, but it was not effective enough to disrupt enemy firepower during periods of static warfare. Even during periods of heavy offensive action enough mortars would still find their way into enemy hands to do serious damage.6 0 Thus front line troops constantly faced enemy mortars throughout the war. This limitation to air interdiction’s capabilities was far too complex, though, to be widely appreciated by the general public, so the images of air power efficiency still held sway. 261 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 273 --- Air power advocates also tried to counteract the criticism by showcasing Air Force close air support efforts. In the wake of the Inchon landing Spaatz gave Air Force close air support much of the credit for turning the tide of battle: “Day and night our planes bombed, strafed, observed, and harassed. The situation changed from despair and retreat to attack and annihilation.” And a month later he denied Army charges that the Air Force’s favored plane for close air support, the jet-powered F-80, was too fast for the job by extolling its ability to not only defend the troops but to defend itself against enemy aircraft.6 1  Perhaps the greatest effort, though, came when the Air Force turned to long­ time air power advocate Howard Hughes and asked him to make a movie featuring Air Force close air support in action.6 2 The film came out in 1952 as One Minute to Zero.  Hughes turned to another air power advocate fo