and lists only four articles in all categories.2 5 Fears had been growing about the size of the Soviet Air Force, so when they gained atomic capability fears of imminent air attack had already been primed. Air power advocates had been contributing to that fear. In 1947 W.B. Courtney drew on images of revolutionary air power to portray America locked in a struggle with Russia for aerial supremacy that would decide “moral, economic and political world leadership.” He portrayed himself as a modern-day Paul Revere responding to a third lantern signaling that the new threat came by air. His grim assessment of America’s standing versus the Soviets in air power: “Russia is in the lead on all points of foresight, research and future war potentials.”2 6  A 1947 American Legion pamphlet claimed that the Soviets had 40,000 aircraft compared to the combined total of only 28,000 for the Air Force and Navy. The pamphlet also stated that the Soviets dedicated 58% of their $13 billion budget to their air arm while the U.S. devoted only 33% of its $9 Billion dollar budget. The latter figure accounts for only the Air Force budget and does not include the substantial amount the Navy spent on aviation, and the source for the figure on the number of Soviet aircraft, a W.B. Courtney article in Collier %  actually puts that number closer to 32, 000.2 7  This playing fast-and-loose with facts that could be easily disproved seems astounding, but at the time the Legion sought to create the image that American air power had fallen behind 243 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 255 --- Soviet air power and that the gap was widening. Most people that the pamphlet aimed to influence would react to the fear without too much thought about the veracity of the facts. A similar example of dealing in images not necessarily based on facts was the air power advocates’  emphasis on the seventy-group pla