er as the primary focus and urging it on the public as the nation’s best means of security. Wesley Price, for example, compared American air power to the Soviet’s air strength across the board in a 1952 Saturday Evening Post  article and claimed there were glaring weaknesses in all areas that needed immediate action to reverse many years of failing to heed the air 266 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 278 --- power advocates’  recommendations. While America could not afford to neglect air defense and tactical air power, though, Price reminded his audience that the nation with the best strategic bombers held the key to aerial supremacy and thus to ultimate victory.7 1 In effect the air power advocates appropriated two potential threats to the preeminence of strategic bombing in the public’s eyes and not only used them to rally the public behind their quest for a larger Air Force, they also managed to keep popular imagination focused on strategic bombing. Thus the whole affair turned into a “win-win” situation for the air power advocates’  agenda. Much the same could be said of the whole period from the Revolt of the Admirals to the end of the Korean War. The three major threats to the air power advocates’  notion of an air power revolution threatened to derail their effort to convert the public to their way of thinking about air power. The Revolt of the Admirals seemed another example of inter-service bickering, but the Air Force appeared the winner in the whole affair. The B- 36 had been vindicated of corruption charges, and the Navy appeared hypocritical in trying to discredit a role it seemed to be seeking for itself. The Soviet acquisition of the atomic bomb created widespread fears for the defense of North America and threatened to divert Air Force efforts into the air defense mission. By showcasing air defense capabilities, though, while continually remindin