ally, atomic bombing is than World War II bombing: “The slightest sign of stupidity, sloppiness, carelessness, indecision or confusion under stress is marked down on a check list, and a voluminous report is made which evaluates not only the proficiency of each member of the crew but the effectiveness of the whole crew.” Many World War n  bombing veterans, according to Martin, had to be eliminated. With public memories of wartime bombing heightened by such recent movies as Twelve O 'clock High  and Command Decision , this must have been powerful imagery. Martin also combines the traditions of Douhet and the ACTS by extolling both the precision of the crews’  bombing and the tremendous destructive capacity they deliver. The crewmembers wield greater force than “all the power for destruction possessed by all the armies of the world, from the time of Alexander of Macedon to the present,” but their “swift, sure precision” and “drill-ground precision” leads to “bull’s-eye accuracy.”7 In 1951 Life ran a pictorial essay on SAC, calling it, “the very essence of airpower.” Life barely mentioned the ongoing war and debates about air power roles, focusing instead on what would become standard features of SAC articles. The description of the average base emphasized security, as when a photo caption states, “SAC cooks, like all other personnel at Barksdale Field, ...carry arms and ammunition when on duty or marching to work.” The bombers were extremely complex and demanding when it came to maintenance and flying, but their range and ability to reach 281 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 293 --- their targets were touted in great detail. The aircrews were highly trained and dedicated, but the sacrifices they made to remain combat ready received considerable attention as well. The article even melded the twin traditions of strategic bombing into its overall image of SAC capabili