production prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 178 --- more than romantic and dashing pilot characatures and lots of flying footage. During the war, though, films such as Air Force  and Winged Victory  were specifically crafted to send a message that went far beyond the earlier romantic stereotypes of aviation films. Now air power advocates wanted films that conveyed the revolutionary potential of air power, films that would convince people air power had rewritten the book on traditional forms of warfare and that the state of America’s Air Force was vital to the fate of the nation. Secondly, in several cases Hollywood figures were willing partners in the popular culture crusade. Two major studios provide excellent examples. In 1945 two executives at Twentieth Century-Fox, Joseph M. Schenk, president, and Darryl F. Zanuck, vice president in charge of production, became charter members of the Air Power League, and the studio made a corporate donation to the League’s Foundation.5 4  Shortly thereafter, in 1947, after briefly considering William Wister Haines’  novel and play Command Decision, the studio settled on Twelve 0  'clock High  and Zanuck, who had produced the World War II paean Winged Victory,  produced the hit movie.5 5  The other studio, Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer provides a similar story. Samuel Goldwyn, Louis B. Mayer, E.J. Mannix, vice president and general manager, along with one of their leading stars, Clark Gable, were all charter members of the Air Power League. Gable, who had served as a B-17 crewmember in the Eighth Air Force during the war, also served on the League’s Board of Directors and on the Board of Governors of its successor, the National Air Council.5 6  The studio produced Command Decision,  starring Clark Gable, in 1948, and followed it in 1952 with Above and Beyond,  a movie about Paul Tibbets’  role in the Hiroshima bombing. 167 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited