pyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 248 --- officials had repudiated the infamous Gallery memo and that Navy Secretary John L. Sullivan had publicly rebuked Gallery for his comments.1 5 Air power advocates were quick to defend both the B-36 and the concept of strategic bombing as a whole. In his reply to Pratt’s article Drake called Pratt’s argument a “ jumble of contradictions and picturesque smokescreens” and charged that the Navy was growing less realistic about future warfare. In modem war the atomic bomb was such a revolutionary weapon that it had to play a key role in any American war plan and that could only be done through strategic bombing. In defending the B-36 Drake noted that the performance differential between it and modem jet fighters was much smaller at the B- 36's operating altitude o f40,000 feet which, coupled with the expectation o f attacking at night, meant that “at best interception is speculative.” He even reassured his readers that at that altitude America’s own best fighters could not intercept the B-36. Drake also struck back at the Navy by quoting the 1948 Navy memorandum written by Gallery: the time is right now for the Navy to start an aggressive campaign aimed at proving that the Navy can deliver the atom bomb more effectively than the Air Force...if the Navy makes delivery of the atom bomb its major mission, the Navy can become the principal offensive branch of the national defense system. Drake charged that the only reason the Navy attacked the B-36 was because it competed with Navy ambitions to acquire the nuclear role and thereby dominate national defense.1 6 Spaatz, too, joined the fray. He began on 9 May with an article aimed at an old sore spot for the Navy, the subject of unification. Arguing that the 1947 compromise was leading to greater service rivalry and no agreement on strategic planning, Spaatz called for a reorganization similar to the original plan back