TIS & LeMAY The youngest of the military figures considered here, Curtis E. LeMay also represents the new generation of Air Force leaders for whom Eaker was making room. LeMay also represents an entirely different approach to air power advocacy than that followed by the embattled cadre of the interwar years and the Billy Mitchell days; LeMay did his most influential work advancing the cause of air power behind the scenes. Bom in 1906 in Columbus, Ohio, LeMay’s early life was remarkably different from most air power 100 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 112 --- advocates. His family was poor and moved around from town to town, state to state as his family followed what jobs his father could find. LeMay entered Ohio State University in 1924 supporting his studies by working the night shift at a local steel foundry but at the end of four years he was 15 credits short of the requirement for graduation. He had completed the ROTC program, though, and was determined to get into the Army as a pilot, and through some creative and determined efforts entered pilot training in 1928.3 1 LeMay served a succession of assignments through the thirties, completed his college degree at Ohio State in 1932, and even managed to achieve a dual rating as both pilot and navigator along the way.3 2  LeMay rose rapidly in rank with the rapid expansion of the AAF starting in 1940 and entered the war as a Bomb Group commander flying B-17s in England and ended the war as a Major General commanding the XXI Bomber Command. After the war LeMay went on to head the Strategic Air Command from 1948 to 1957 and ended up as Chief of Staff of the Air Force from 1961 until his retirement in 1965. Throughout the postwar period LeMay played a crucial part in the campaign to convert the public to the cause of air power. During his career he did some writing and gave numerous speeches, but as he himself sai