ney, a prolific champion of aviation and air power, wrote in 1937 of the “bestiality” of bombing in Spain and warned of some necessary precautions to minimize casualties, but by 1939 his views had changed. 64 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 76 --- Reflecting on the air war in Spain and China he commented on how well it worked despite Fascist and Japanese handicaps. Democracies like America, he warned, needed to catch up and learn how to do it better than the dictatorships.1 1 0 Yet another interpretation of interwar examples of bombing was that they had been conducted stupidly. In The New Republic  in 1937 Jonathan Mitchell stated that Fascist bombing of such cities as Guernica was, in the view of American commentators, totally unnecessary as it served no military purpose. Moreover, it was counter-productive in that it stiffened Spanish morale.1 1 1  Similarly, Thomas R. Phillips stated that bombing Madrid had been a waste of effort and equipment, in part, because the bombs used had been too small to effect any real damage.1 1 2  One obvious implication of this line of thinking was that better bombers and better strategy could yield the results air power advocates had predicted. After observing the Battle of Britain, both Arnold and Spaatz concluded that Germany had missed a golden opportunity through faulty bombing doctrine. Arnold’s characterization is revealing: “it was not...in any way a display of Air Power.”1 1 3 One peculiar twist to the air power debate in the late thirties relates less to bombing and more to the advocates’  claim that the airplane had made navies obsolete, but the end result was to encourage the public to see the Air Corps as America’s premier service. Many who saw little need for American involvement in another foreign war or an offensive military strategy saw the bomber as the perfect weapon to repel invasion in the Western Hemispher