ps and our crews combat ready. And when they’re ready no one will dare lay a hand or a bomb on us and maybe someday that will keep you and your children alive.” The film even places the air power revolution into a historical perspective when the Wing Commander tells one of his B-52 crews: For centuries its been the job of a successful general to win wars. But in this nuclear air age its the job of a successful general to prevent wars. Now we think that the way to prevent wars, to deter major aggression, is through superior long range nuclear air power, poised and ready to takeoff at a moment’s notice. As with previous films, Bombers B-52  also employed traditional images of strategic bombing’s effectiveness, but unlike previous works it stresses only the tradition of Douhet. In a scene where crew chiefs are undergoing training for the new aircraft, an 302 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 314 --- instructor tells the class, “on a single mission one [B-52], just one, can carry greater destructive force than that of all the bombs dropped by the entire Allied air forces during the whole of World War E L ”4 8 But revolutionary themes could be easily over-powered by the human drama. The tension between Brennan and his daughter over her embarrassment with her father’s job, and that between Brennan and his squadron commander, first over the latter’s reputation as a carouser, and later when he starts dating Brennan’s daughter, creates dramatic scenes that compete with the main plot. The main plot, that Brennan is important to the Air Force and should stay in, does remain the focus throughout, and with an improbable plot twist in the film’s climax all parties show their dedication, but this is hardly revolutionary. Much the same could be said for people remaining in the Army, Navy, or Marines. In the final analysis, Bombers B-52  extolls the Air Force as preeminent in nat