ght some of the results he desired. First, and foremost, it focused public attention on his 56 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 68 --- arguments in a way congressional hearings could never do and to a greater extent than did his magazine articles. Secondly, it helped bring institutional changes, albeit minor, to the Army’s air forces. Third, the trial gave air power advocates a martyr. The perception that Mitchell had been crucified for his air power theories crystallized those ideas for many air power advocates, and added a personal sense of poignancy to their belief that they were part of a revolutionary movement. Parallels with past figures who had suffered for their faith or for a cause were inescapable and powerful.9 1 Mitchell’s resignation in 1926 freed him from the constraints of public office. Afterward, he spelled out his ideas in even more graphic language. For example, in an article published by Collier's  in 1928 Mitchell stated that the essence of modem war was bombers and missiles carrying toxic gas, cities rendered uninhabitable, and nations thus reduced to impotence. Moreover, he issued a stem warning that America was unprepared to fight in this arena.9 2  As Mitchell’s depiction of air power became more graphic and shocking, though, his public following fell away. The public had found his early ideas acceptable for they were primarily defensive. His later expressions, however, were too offensive for a nation firmly committed to isolationism and anti-militarism. His 1930 book Skyways  sold poorly, and he found it increasingly hard to get articles accepted for publication throughout the remainder of his life.9 3  Clearly Mitchell’s offensive-minded strategies had outpaced American sentiments, but as a new war loomed larger by the end of the decade and into the next, more and more Americans would come to not only espouse many of his ideas but to r