targets on land. And in October 1939, with war underway in Europe, W. B. Courtney crowed about America’s pilots and warplanes, particularly its precision bombing.1 1 7  But the negative treatments of bombing could actually inspire support for bombing. Too often, as in Churchill’s and Courtney’s cases, images of Nazi brutality through bombing could be interpreted later as justification to give the enemy a dose of his own medicine. Some, for example John Chamberlain, made this point explicitly.1 1 8  Or as in Jonathan Mitchell’s depiction of Fascist bombing in Spain as stupid and inefficient, one could reach the conclusion that technologically superior American precision bombing would bomb 66 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 78 --- much more efficiently and humanely. How, for example, was the average American supposed to interpret one of the most shocking images of bombing to appear in popular culture before the war, Pablo Picasso’s painting Guernica?  With no text to guide the viewer one could walk away with either a disgust at the method or an urge to do the same to the perpetrator. Too often images in the public’s imagination encouraged the latter. The anger and thirst for revenge present in American society in the opening days of the war tapped a latent support for air power and together they unleashed an unprecedented level of public enthusiasm for the air war. The latent support was in part a product of the popular culture campaign waged by the air power advocates, but also in part a result of America’s passion for aviation and the technological messianism embodied in the airplane. One indication of latent public support is found in survey data gathered by Gallup polls on the question of increasing the armed forces in the years leading up to World War II. The polls generally indicate a majority opinion that all forces should be increased, but the majority fa