ugh. In the early postwar years they trumpeted the fact that no World War II bombing mission had every been turned back. In the Revolt of the Admirals they used the same approach to deflect criticism of bomber vulnerability, and now they used that faith to tell the American public that the only way to stop a Soviet attack was to deter it by threatening swift nuclear retaliation. One month after calling for greater air defenses, for example, Spaatz observed in his column that the “ability to launch a powerful retaliatory offensive is still our best defense against atomic attack.” And in a piece written on the eve of the Korean War he stated “the atomic bomb and strategic air power are primary factors maintaining the balance of military power and thus the peace of the world.”3 4 247 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 259 --- Not surprising, the most blunt and controversial argument came from de Seversky in his 1950 book Air Power: Key to Survival.  De Seversky did not totally dismiss the notion of air defense and conceded that America would fight for aerial supremacy over North America as well as over the Soviet Union, but he was emphatic that the best defense was a good offense. In describing the ultimate consequences of his vision he pulled no punches: When we reduce the enemy’s aerial might, we reduce his ability to deliver destruction, the atomic kind included. Should we succeed in keeping him out of our skies altogether, we will for all practical purposes have eliminated the atomic threat. True, the enemy will probably crash through to drop bombs - many or few - despite everything. But he will know that these cannot score a decision. He will be acutely aware that his own skies are wide open to our aircraft for overwhelming punishment.... As in any other type of bombing, the final outcome will be decided by the relative ability of belligerents to absorb punishme