cks on air power ever in postwar popular culture, and most of them were turned into movies that were as severe or more so than the original novels. A NEW  M AG E IN  THE SKY: EARLY SIXTIES AND AIR POWER A S  THREAT The increasing level of concern over air power from the mid-fifties on was a part of the larger growing concern over nuclear weapons. A survey taken only months after Sputnik showed that 75% of those surveyed felt hydrogen bombs would be used against 344 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 356 --- America in any future world war and that such attacks would kill 70% of the population. Fueled by such sentiments, the anti-nuclear movement grew dramatically through the late fifties and peaked around 1963. Surveying titles listed in Reader’ s  Guide to Periodic Literature , Spencer Weart reports that anti-nuclear articles rose dramatically in the late fifties and reached a peak in the early sixties. Because of the intimate connection between nuclear weapons and the dominant image of air power, the anti-nuclear movement became inextricably intertwined with the growing doubts about air power. The twin heightened concerns even became a factor in the 1964 Presidential election, for many saw Republican candidate Barry Goldwater, a reserve Air Force general and staunch air power supporter, as “nuke-happy.” Some pundits went so far as to twist his campaign slogan, “In Your Heart You Know He’s Right,” to “In Your Heart You Know He Might.” It is not surprising then that the early sixties saw a significant escalation in the tenor and popularity of attacks on the air power image. The changing public attitude was not complete. The same survey that found such concern about nuclear war also found that 60% of those surveyed felt that America should continue making nuclear weapons. Positive depictions such as A Gathering o f Eagles  continued, and some magazine articles stil