d.” THE EARLY YEARS: A CHANGE OF TONE Beginning in 1956 works began appearing in literature that took the first tentative steps toward questioning the cult of air power. The trend continued through the decade with the attacks becoming increasingly bold and straight-forward. Some of these novels were turned into major motion pictures with “big name” stars like Robert Mitchum, Steve McQueen, and Robert Wagner, but the movie studios lagged behind the novelists in their willingness to challenge the air power gospel. In every case the film version toned down the anti-air power elements that had been major features of the novel upon which it was based. Perhaps the changes were made because studio executives still felt an attachment to the cause of air power, perhaps it was simply that they believed the audience was not ready to see their air heroes depicted as borderline pathological killers. In either case, this reluctance to undermine the image of air power in film reflects the slow and incremental nature of the changing attitude toward air power in popular culture. One novel that came out in 1956, Ward Taylor’s R oll Back the Sky,  is a good example of the tentative nature of early negative depictions of air power. The book is a psychological drama dealing with the bombing campaign against Japan in the last six months of World War n. Taylor was a career Air Force officer who flew B-29s in the Pacific theater during the war and he returned to that subject in this novel written while he 326 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 338 --- was still in the Air Force. The plot revolves around a B-29 pilot and his crew and begins about the time of the 9-10 March 1945 firebombing raid on Tokyo. The image of air power, as conveyed through the thoughts and reaction of the pilot, his crewmembers, and the entire group of which they are members is, at best, schizophrenic. On one leve