df --- Page 386 --- like North Vietnam after they had proclaimed for so many decades that air power could win any war, all air power advocates could do was complain that they were not allowed to conduct the air war the way they wanted, and they called for more bombing. With wide segments of the public already questioning the level of aerial destruction, claims that air power could only work against a minor power like North Vietnam if the bombing effort was escalated did not enhance the public’s faith in air power’s ability to win wars without inflicting unacceptable levels of destruction and massive civilian casualties. To many Americans it seemed that this high technology weapon could only win by sinking to uncivilized levels of barbarism. The use of air power in Vietnam was hardly the only controversial element of that war and the Air Force was not the only government agency to draw fire from those who opposed the military’s methods. Still, on the eve of America’s most controversial war, air power had experienced a rapid fall from grace in the eyes of the American public. Furthermore, air power advocates had not yet adjusted to the new public attitudes toward their cause or their favored methods. The gulf between the airmen and the American public would widen during the war and plunge the image of air power to its lowest point in public esteem since the 1930s. That image would slowly regain some ground, but it never approached the level of public trust enjoyed in the mid-fifties. Even the dramatic results of the air war and the sight of precision guided munitions flying down elevator shafts during the Gulf War could not awaken the old faith in the preeminence of air power. Significantly, works in popular culture since Vietnam that portray air power in a positive 375 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 387 --- light, such as Tom Clancy’s novels, show air power ser