g its “impressive portrayal of Eighth Air Force activities during the early stages of World War H ”7 7  Air Force involvement, though, did little in shaping the plot or the script. The Air Force did object to minor plot elements, such as frequent drinking, ramming a B-17 with a tractor so it could be listed as destroyed and then used for spare parts, and a few technical errors, all of which were omitted from the film.7 8  Throughout its involvement, though, the Air Force did not attempt to influence the film’s depiction of strategic bombing’s contribution to the overall war effort. In fact, the principle reaction of all Air Force people who commented on the book and the script was simply an overall impression that the story was remarkably accurate. When requesting copies of the film for educational use inside the Air Force, Major H.O. Parsons, Deputy Adjutant General of Air Training Command, stated simply that “It portrays forcefully the responsibilities of the combat unit commander as weil as those of the individual crew member and the necessity of self-discipline to the welfare of the group.”7 9  Thus the film’s depiction of the role of strategic bombing is, like the book, solely the product of Sy Bartlett and Beime Lay. The other major work of fiction dealing with the strategic bombing campaign was Command Decision  by William W ster Haines. Haines had been a successful writer before World War n, and during the war he served in intelligence in the AAF, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel. After the war he wrote Command Decision , first as a play in 1946. The play was so successful it moved to Broadway where it became a hit and Haines 211 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 223 --- quickly brought out a novel version in 1947 that was serialized in the Atlantic Monthly and condensed in Reader’ s Digest.  In 1948 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer turned the play into a movi