m toward daylight precision bombing that stands in stark contrast to the depiction in Command Decision.  In a London staff meeting, for example, the head of the target selection committee, frustrated at their inability to determine where the factories are located, comments, “don’t take it too seriously. We’ve still got plenty of hospitals and orphanages to prang.” And of Brett, 361 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 373 --- Haines states, “he had read Douhet, Seversky and the propaganda of the Army Air Corps.” An infantry colonel asks Brett: Well, I’ll hand it to you flyboys... you’d won this war three times before I hit Africa and twice before I hit Marseille.... There’s just one thing I would like to know: with all this victory through air power.... What are us dogfaces doing out here in the mud? The most recurring theme, though, is the frequent references to the heavy toll in casualties and property caused by inaccurate American bombing. Throughout his journey across France Brett encounters the scars and the animosity generated by “precision” bombing, particularly in Strasbourg.6 8 Not all air power advocates drifted away, some clung to the “true faith,” but they were invariably relegated to the fringes as they sounded more out of step with society. Spaatz ended his literary career just as the new decade was starting. His last Newsweek column ran on 17 April 1961 and he went out arguing for the B-70 bomber.6 9  The next year Ira Eaker began a column that was carried by the Copley News service for 18 years and offered to as many as 1400 newspapers each week. Most of these newspapers, though, were small city and local papers. In 1963 Eaker claimed his column was carried by “over 31 papers weekly,” thus in reality Eaker was something of a “voice crying in the wilderness.” He continued to support air power topics like the B-70, but he also wrote on anti-Communism a