rial appearing in popular culture, the message presented by air power’s champions enjoyed the mantle of “conventional wisdom.” That is, the mainstream of America’s reading public was confronted with a preponderance of material that presented the air power message with little debate. Thus for the average American, such a barrage would seem to imply that the “best minds” must agree that air power represented progressive military strategy, and any forward-thinking person would see the wisdom and inherent superiority of air power. While many raised arguments against air power’s message, those arguments could hardly compete for the public’s attention because of the magnitude of exposure the air power message enjoyed at the height of its impact. For example, Marshall Andrews, writing in 1950, complained repeatedly that the public was only hearing one side of the air power debate because newspaper and popular magazine editors would not accept articles attacking air power’s capabilities. He further stated that anyone who questioned those capabilities was ridiculed and reviled as anti-modern.7 Air power advocates owed the preponderance of their message to the channels through which their message was carried, and this in turn reflects the popularity of their message. While air power’s champions certainly worked through “official” publications such as A ir Force  magazine and A ir U niversity Q uarterly Review , as well as numerous aviation magazines, such venues had a limited audience which by its self-selected nature make it less reflective of the larger public. These magazines were in effect “preaching to the converted.” Far more revealing, and therefore the focus of this study, is the message aimed at the general public as a whole. Thus by popular culture I mean media that aimed 7 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 19 --- at the largest audience possible. In writing book