to Egypt, and win devastating victories in the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, despite the facade of glittering success, the ruthless, incontrovertible laws of attrition were at work. By the end of 1941, the Germans had lost the sharp edge on the ground as well as in the air. Having spent two years on the offensive, Hitler was unwilling to forgo the initiative, and German ground and air forces once again went over to the offensive in the summer of 1942. It is worth noting that several different types of attrition occurred during the war: "offensive," "reactive," and "imposed." In the summer of 1942, as in the previous two years, the attrition of aircraft and pilots resulted from offensive operations. Had the Germans not launched the major offensive in the east, little attrition of the Wehrmacht's strength would have taken place. Having established an equilibrium in the east in the spring of 1942 after the winter defeats, the Germans were in a position to fight on the strategic defensive. Had they done so, they could have substantially rebuilt and refitted both their ground and air forces. Their air strategy in 1941 and 1942 in the west suggested the possibilities involved in such a strategy. By pulling back from the Channel, the Luftwaffe fought at times and places of its choice. The inadequate range of British fighters and the inability of British bombers to exist in a hostile environment made it impossible for the RAF to tackle the Luftwaffe and its fighters except on German terms. Thus, while the British could attack coastal targets, they could not and did not win air superiority over western Europe. The Germans could contest French airspace when there was reason to do so. In the east in the summer of 1942, the Germans embarked on a strategy to break the back of the Soviet Union by conquering the Caucasus and large portions of southern Russia. The resources available for such wide-ranging aims were completely inadequate. To offset weakness on the ground, the German h