cs but lacked power to work at higher elevations. In the summer of 1942, British engineers, after studying the aircraft, decided that with a better engine, the "Mustang" would possess excellent characteristics at higher altitudes. By October, "Merlin" engines had been installed and the first test flights conducted. As things turned out, the Allies had developed the hottest piston engine fighter of the war. The road to production, however, was not easy; there was reluctance to push its development, since it was not entirely a home-grown product. However, tests conducted in the early summer of 1943 indicated the P-51's potential as a combat fighter and suggested that the aircraft did have the capability to provide long-range escort for the bombers. 67 Tests and modification over the summer added an 85-gallon internal tank to the fighter which placed its range without drop tanks at over 400 miles. Problems remained concerning engine modifications and other design changes, but beginning in November 1943 "Mustangs" began to reach the United Kingdom.68 Meanwhile, the air battles in July and August forced the Germans to adjust their air strategy. They could no longer support the attrition of those months, while the American threat forced them to cut commitments in the Mediterranean and Russia. Defense of the Reich became the top priority, and beginning in July the Luftwaffe transferred Gruppen from Russia to the west. The process continued throughout late summer as the east and Mediterranean lost their fighter cover. The situation was so critical that transferred units received no time to transition into the western defense system. The III Gruppe of the "Udet" Geschwader left the eastern front on August 2. Arriving at Münster-Handorf, the unit met its new commander who announced his intention to make them combat-ready as soon as possible. Within four days, the Gruppe had flown its first mission and on the following day was declared combat- ready.69 Fighter strength in Germ