gainst England" [my emphasis]. Such territorial gains would allow the German air force to strike at the heart of English power and also serve as a buffer against air attacks on "the economically vital Ruhr. 9935 The Luftwaffe's chief of intelligence, "Beppo" Schmid, argued in late November 1939 for an exclusive air strategy. The Wehrmacht, he suggested, should not carry out any operations against the French, but rather the entire strength of the Luftwaffe, with whatever help the navy could provide, should concentrate against English imports. German air strategy would emphasize attacks on English ports and docks, and Schmid noted that, "Should the enemy resort to terror measures-for example, to attack our towns in western Germany-here again [retaliatory] operations could be carried out with even greater effect due to the greater density of population of London and the big industrial centers. "36 While elements from Schmid's memorandum were present in an OKW Directive of November 29, Hitler was unwilling to go quite so far and risk all on an air-sea war against Britain before certain preconditions had been met. The OKW stated that an attack on British imports could not occur until the army had either defeated the Allied armies in the field or until it had seized the coast opposite Britain. 37 The great fall campaign never took place. Hitler himself does not seem to have abandoned the idea of such a campaign until January 1940 when an aircraft carrying the plan crash-landed in Belgium. However, the weather, one of the worst winters in memory, resulted in repeated postponements until January. Thereafter, Hitler, supported by Army Group A, forced the OKH to alter the plans for the western campaign to a massive armored thrust through the Ardennes. The new strategy aimed not at creating the strategic basis for an air and naval offensive against Britain but rather at the strategic overthrow of the Allied position on the continent. While many army commanders doubted the oper