ence agents did not last long. For security reasons, Hitler forbade deep reconnaissance flights into the Soviet Union until shortly before the invasion, and the Luftwaffe did not possess reconnaissance aircraft with the range to reach the Urals. 53 Nevertheless, there were glimpses behind the curtain of Soviet security. Shortly before "Barbarossa," the Russians allowed several German engineers to see the new aircraft factories in the Urals and the extensive production that was already underway; their reports went unheeded. 54 This underestimation of Russian capabilities lay not only in misreadings of Soviet resources but in the nature of the war that Hitler was launching. This war was more than a political or strategic struggle. It was an ideological war, a crusade, waged to encompass not simply the defeat of an enemy nation but the utter destruction and subjugation of a whole people. The purposes for this campaign in Hitler's eyes were to (1) capture the Lebensraum (living spaces) for the Germanic peoples, (2) destroy the Jewish-Bolshevist regime, (3) root out and destroy the Jewish population (along with several other unfortunate nationalities), (4) reduce the Russian people to a servile mass, and (5) capture the resources to conduct a war against the Anglo- Saxon powers. It is now clear that the German military, with few exceptions, concurred with the ideological framework within which Hitler determined to wage "Barbarossa. "'55 From the first, the Führer made clear to his commanders that the coming campaign was a battle of extermination. . . . Annihilation of Bolshevik commissars and communist intellectuals. . . . The struggle must be conducted against this poison. There is no question of the laws of war. . . commissars and members of the secret police are criminals and must be treated as such [i.e., shot].56 Shortly before the beginning of "Barbarossa," the head of the Luftwaffe's air mission in Rumania returned from meeting Göring to report to his leading subo