he eastern front totalled only 495 useable tanks.54 Considerable resupply took place over the next months, but operations in late winter caused heavy losses. Hitler initially considered three possible spoiling attacks, but by the end of April had settled on "Operation Citadel," aimed at clearing the Kursk salient. 55 Manstein had suggested this possibility as a means of inflicting such heavy losses on the Russians as to prevent a summer offensive. Instead of launching "Citadel" in May, Manstein's suggested date, Hitler postponed it, eventually choosing July 5 in order to strengthen his armored forces in the east. By June, troops preparing for the offensive had received 900 tanks and 300 self- propelled guns, 56 but by then "Citadel" had raised serious doubts. On June 18, OKW staff urged Hitler to cancel the offensive and to establish an operational reserve in Germany to meet any reverse in the Wehrmacht's three theaters.57 Guderian argued strenuously that the Russians had built up their defenses, and even Hitler admitted that thinking about the pending offensive made him sick to his stomach.58 But he did not cancel the offensive. Perhaps the rhetoric of his April operational order for "Citadel," announcing that a "victory at Kursk must serve as a beacon for the world," indicates the underlying reason for his decision.59 He could not publicly admit that the initiative had slipped from his hands. The pause to build up armored strength allowed the Russians time to prepare. The Central Front, on the northern half of the Kursk bulge, controlled no less than six Russian armies and on the critical northern neck of the salient deployed three armies in two echelons. The Voronezh Front on the southern half of the salient held the line with four Russian armies with a second echelon of two armies behind the neck. Three Soviet armies lay in reserve within the salient, while three more armies lay north of Orel and one to the south of Kursk. In addition, the Russians had dug two o