squadrons, the figure was 46 percent; and for bombers, it was 59 percent. One week later, the figures were 64 percent, 52 percent, and 52 percent, respectively. 101 Conversely, aircraft losses for July through September give the impression that the Germans were running out of aircraft as well as aircrews! (See Table IX.102) Table X103 indicates the cumulative effect of losses from May through September. These losses indicate the Luftwaffe's heavy commitment for the period. The impact of losses over southern England combined with inclinations already present in Luftwaffe doctrine to induce a change in German air strategy early in September. Attacks on Britain's air defense system through September 6 had given no indication that Fighter Command was weakening. As a result, Göring-at Kesselring's urging and with Hitler's support-turned to a massive assault on the British capital. This all-out effort, directed at London's East End and the Thames docks, accorded well with Douhet's theories and the German's own belief that ruthlessness could pay extra dividends. Hitler's conversion to the assault on London reflected a predilection that would haunt the Luftwaffe in the coming years: his insatiable fascination with a retaliatory air strategy in reply to enemy bombings. On September 4, the Führer declared in Berlin: "When they declare they will attack our cities in great measure, we will eradicate their cities. . . . The hour will come when one of us will break, and it will not be National Socialist Germany!''104 105 The results of the great September 7 raid on the London docks were indeed spectacular. Over the night of September 7-8, London firemen fought nine fires that they rated over 100 pumps, and one fire on the Surrey docks of over 300 pumps. The attack of September 7 did not entirely step over the line into a clear terror bombing effort since the primary target was the London docks, but there clearly was an assumed hope of terrorizing the London population. The relief