ategic operations could achieve a decisive impact by destroying the enemy's will to resist. By 1926, training manuals argued that bombardment might "have a direct, although not . . immediate effect... by attacking the enemy's aircraft industry." The destruction of that target system would lead to the collapse of the enemy's air force. The possibility of attacking the enemy's aircraft industry was only one among many, but the critical point was the suggestion that the enemy's economy possessed "vital parts" or "sensitive points," the destruction of which would bring an entire section of economic life to a halt." It would not take a great intellectual jump for Air Corps thinkers to argue that the destruction of a vital portion of the enemy's industrial potential would cause the collapse of this entire economic structure and, therefore, his will to resist further. This change in thinking from a position that emphasized a balance between pursuit, attack and bombardment to a heavy emphasis on bombardment was the result of several factors. First, the advocates of a more balanced approach left the school to be replaced by individuals who favored bombardment.56 The second was probably due to the influence of Douhet, whose writings were now available in translation, as well as Mitchell's increasingly strident advocacy of airpower, especially the value of bombardment. 57 While, as suggested earlier, Mitchell never lost interest in pursuit, his publicity campaign for airpower, contributing directly to his court-martial, emphasized the potential of attacking industrial centers and the possibility for directly destroying war-making potential.58 Those at the Air Corps Tactical School found it relatively easy to emphasize the latter while ignoring the former aspects of Mitchell's arguments. Finally, certain technical changes, such as heavier bomb weights and more capable bombers, suggested a greater capability for bombing than had hitherto been possible. The result was that, while