sive. Hitler fully recognized the diplomatic difficulties when he commented before meeting with Franco and Pétain that the need of the hour was a gigantic fraud. 10 Conversations with the French and particularly the Spanish led nowhere, and upon return to Berlin Hitler remarked that he would sooner have "three or four" teeth pulled than face another conversation with Franco. Hitler had missed the bus." In the early summer in the full flush of victory, he might well have persuaded Spain to participate. After Mers-el-Kebir, had he granted substantial concessions to France in terms of the eventual peace treaty, he might also have enlisted Vichy support. However, with the Wehrmacht's overwhelming success, he felt no need to cut Spain in on the loot or to mitigate the onerous terms he wished to impose on France. Now in the fall of 1940, it was too late; the Spanish and the French recognized that the war was not over. The former made impossibly high demands concerning the price for Spain's entrance into the war; the latter decided to wait on further events despite bitterness against the British for Mers-el-Kebir. There remained only the Russians as a means of pressuring the British. Since Hitler had hoped to end the war in the west so that he could solve the eastern question, one can wonder how seriously the Führer ever considered the possibility of a closer alliance with Russia. Nevertheless, in November 1940, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Vyacheslav Molotov, arrived in Berlin to explore further cooperation between the dictatorships. The Russians overplayed their hand. Stalin seems to have believed his diplomatic position was stronger than, in fact, it was. Thus, Molotov was at his most truculent, brushing aside German suggestions that the Soviets interest themselves in the Persian Gulf, Iran, and India. While such goals were not entirely out of the range of Soviet expectations, Molotov emphasized more concrete and immediate aims in Europe. Among other items, he suggested