h a program. The warning signs had been apparent earlier. The Americans especially had made no secret of their production plans. As the Germans fell behind in the production race, their losses mounted and attrition levels reached new highs, but they coped for a time. They coped until the gap between their production and Allied production reached such an extent that the Luftwaffe was effectively destroyed by numbers as well as quality. In the first years of the war, the Germans had confidently expected that their technological expertise and qualitative superiority would permit them to handle the numbers of aircraft that their Soviet and Western enemies produced. The rate of attrition was such that bit by bit the Germans lost their technological superiority. Moreover, the quickened pace of attrition forced the Germans to produce aircraft that were qualitatively inferior in a desperate attempt to keep up with the enemy's growing numerical advantage. On the pilot side, the wastage forced the Germans to settle for pilots whose training was manifestly inferior to those of Allied air forces. Even against the Russians, the qualitative difference between the pilots of the opposing sides narrowed after 1942; and by 1943, the Soviets also enjoyed overwhelming numerical superiority. In retrospect, it is difficult to understand how the Germans were able to get individuals to fly against such overwhelming odds. Several factors undoubtedly came into play. The most obvious is the fact that from the summer of 1943, German fighter pilots were desperately struggling to save their homeland from Allied bombing. In such circumstances and considering their ideological indoctrination, it is not surprising that German pilots continued to fly in the face of terrible odds. There are several other factors. The most important of these was the outstanding quality of middle-level leadership. The explanation for how squadron and flight commanders kept their organizations together lay in a rigid re