crews. From the summer of 1941, the Luftwaffe entered a period in which losses proceeded at such a pace that a recovery in terms of crew flying experience could only come with a long halt to operations. However, failure in Russia in 1941 virtually insured that the Luftwaffe would never receive a respite. In fact, the increase of Allied air efforts in the Mediterranean and west meant that the demands on the German air force would continually increase, thus exacerbating an already serious situation. This deterioration of aircrew skill level shows up most clearly in Table XIX127 in the two column summarizing losses not due to enemy action. The most dangerous trend in 1941 was a production program that one can perhaps best describe as inadequate. The Germans had entered the war with a surprisingly low production rate. However, given the resource limitations under which they worked, production levels reflected economic reality. The victories of 1940, however, fundamentally altered Germany's strategic and economic situation. Not only had the Germans captured large stockpiles of raw materials in France and the Low Countries but the modern industrial plant of those nations was now under their control. Moreover, the success in the west made Eastern Europe, including the Soviet Union, more amenable to cooperation with the Reich; finally the occupation of France gave the Germans direct access to Spanish and Moroccan raw material resources (particularly tungsten and iron ores). With these resources at their disposal, the Germans were in a position to organize the new conquests in tandem with their own war economy in order to increase drastically their armament production. They did no such thing. 128 There were several basic reasons for this failure. This omission did not, one must stress, result from a belief in a so-called "Blitzkrieg" strategy. Rather, the Germans now allowed themselves to be deluded by the speed of the first victories over Poland and France into believing th