pset the Balkans and had provided an entree into the region for the British. Worse news soon followed. In November, "Swordfish" torpedo bombers, flying off the carrier Illustrious, attacked the Italian fleet in the harbor of Taranto. By the time two strike forces of 12 and 9 aircraft had completed their mission, they had sunk 2 new and 2 older Italian battleships and had altered permanently the Mediterranean naval balance in the Royal Navy's favor. 25 The collapse of Italian ground forces in North Africa in December 1940 completed the catalogue of disasters. Beginning on December 9, British mechanized units within the space of two months destroyed an Italian army that had invaded Egypt and moved forward into Libya to capture Bardia, Tobruk, and Benghazi, and by the beginning of February the British threatened to drive the Italians entirely from North Africa. With the fall of Tobruk on January 12, 1941, the British had captured well over 100,000 Italian troops and destroyed nearly the entire Italian army in North Africa. 26 The Italians, with their "parallel war," had wrecked the Axis' strategic position not only in the Balkans but also in the Mediterranean. The Germans now had no choice but to restore stability to the southern flank before "Barbarossa." As early as August 1940, they had considered sending a panzer corps to Libya to aid in the drive to Suez, but the Italians had rebuffed the offer.27 The destruction of much of the Italian battle fleet at Taranto and the military disaster in Greece forced Hitler to stronger action. On November 20, after pointed recriminations at the lack of diplomatic discipline and military incompetency of Italy, the Führer proposed that Germany send strong air units to Sicily to make long-range attacks on the British fleet in the eastern Mediterranean. 28 The Italians, in no position to refuse any offer of help, speedily acquiesced. By the beginning of January 1941, Fliegerkorps X, mostly drawn from units operating in Norway, had ar