iful bloodbath (Tolles Blutbad!)''43 During this period, most assigned aircraft supported the army's advance. For July and August, Luftwaffe reports to OKW headquarters contained the constant refrain that battle emphasis in the east lay "in supporting the army's advance (Schwerpunkt Kampfeinsatz zur Unterstützung der Angriffsarmeen)."'44 46 As in 1941, the Germans inflicted heavy aerial losses on their Russian opponents, while losing relatively few aircraft themselves. But a constant attrition of air units took place, and the cumulative effect of such losses was devastating. From May through September 1942, Luftwaffe bomber units in the east lost approximately 120 bombers per month, while fighter losses were almost exactly the same. Aircraft losses on the eastern front were approximately 60 percent of all Luftwaffe losses for all theaters (see Table XXV45). For bomber squadrons, monthly losses represented approximately 15 percent of total actual strength for all theaters. Fighter losses averaged nearly 20 percent per month. In spite of this steady attrition lasting over five months, the Germans maintained unit aircraft strength on the eastern front at a uniform level. In August and September, the general staff withdrew a number of long-range bomber wings that had suffered particularly heavy losses, but prompt replacement by rehabilitated and refreshed units from the zone of the interior kept frontline strength at the same level.47 But improved supply and replacement procedures designed for maintaining strength should not disguise the overall state of the Luftwaffe in the east―a state which as early as June 26, the OKW War Diary described as "strained. 948 Adding to Luftwaffe difficulties was the fact that as the army hurtled forward, the distances over which supplies moved rapidly increased. Army Group South was already the farthest removed of the army groups from the supply system. As Sixth Army, with its supporting flak and air force units, approached Stalingrad i