2 bombers with 2,126 damaged. Despite these losses, frontline strength rose from 593 crews and aircraft in February to 787 in August-a reflection of the massive production and crew training programs. 114 These heavy losses prompted the British to introduce "Window" (the use of chaff) to confuse German radar. The British official historians have criticized the fact that "Window" was introduced at such a late date; whatever the merits of the case, one can still doubt whether "Window's" use at an earlier date would have equaled the stunning effect that its introduction had in late July 1943.115 "Window" enabled Bomber Command to deal the Germans a series of devastating blows at the end of July. The most terrible of these, code-named appropriately "Gomorrah," began on July 24 with an attack on Hamburg. "Window" blinded the entire defense system, and intercept operators of 'Y' Service listened to the rising frustration of German controllers and radar operators, attempting to make sense of radar screens that indicated thousands of bombers. 116 But the destruction of Hamburg came not from any one raid but from the cumulative effect of several raids conducted under perfect weather conditions.117 On July 25, three American bomb groups attacked the city with the aim of plastering the Blohm and Voss U-boat yard and the Klockner aircraft engine factory. On the following day, another attack by four bomb groups added to the destruction within the city, but both American attacks had difficulty in finding their targets. In the first case, smoke from the still-smoldering fires obscured much of the city; in the second raid, the Germans laid a smoke screen as the bombers began their approach. On the evening of July 27, the second great RAF attack occurred. This time destruction took place on a wholly different scale from anything in previous experience. Much of the fire-fighting force was on the city's western side to fight smoldering coke and coal fires; this factor, combined with th