#########  STRATEGY FOR DEFEAT unwillingness, even at this late date, to look at the major reason behind Germany's desperate plight: overwhelming Allied productive superiority. Hitler and Göring dredged up many excuses to explain why Allied bombers were flying deep inside the Reich, but one recurring theme was that of the cowardice of Germany's fighter pilots and their refusal to press home attacks on bombers.3 Korten himself discovered during the winter of 1943-44 that the desperate ground situation in the east as well as the temptation to use the bomber forces for retaliatory attacks on Britain made creation of a "strategic" bombing force totally impractical. Thus, although Korten accomplished a major restructuring of the air staff, he could not alter fundamental misconceptions governing the conduct of the air war.4 NIGHT DEFENSE OF THE REICH Bomber Command's efforts continued full scale in the fall of 1943. In September and October, Harris' forces launched a series of devastating attacks on towns and cities in western and northern Germany. On September 5, British bombers achieved a heavy concentration on the Mannheim-Ludwigshafen area and destroyed both towns. On October 4, the command pulverized Frankfurt am Main and on October 8 destroyed most of Hannover's city center. The most damaging attack came on October 22 against Kassel when the pathfinders dropped target indicators so accurately that at least 86 percent of attacking crews bombed within 3 miles of the aiming point. The resulting concentration created a second fire storm within a three-month period. Seven days later, fires still burned. Despite these successes, when weather conditions were bad and pathfinders relied on H2S to find and to mark targets in cloud cover, results were less satisfactory. In fact, outside the range of Oboe, British bombers found it almost impossible to achieve accurate, concentrated bombing in bad weather. Nevertheless, despite problems in the fall, Harris embarked on what he re