ft on operations, with 183 more aircraft destroyed due to other than combat causes. 105 Efforts to maintain a high tempo of operations floundered because of combat losses. Depots for replacement aircraft now lay behind the Rhine, as the original replacement centers at Toul and Le Bouget were vulnerable to aerial attack. 106 Ferrying operations were often hazardous affairs that sometimes cost the Germans the aircraft in transit. 107 Thus, the effectiveness of the Gruppen fell off rapidly after an initial surge when first on operations. By June 11, the Luftwaffe had had to withdraw five Gruppen from France because of heavy losses and replace them with units from Germany. The shattered units returned to the Reich for new aircraft and new pilots. 108 At the end of June, the Luftwaffe's strategic position, as well as the Reich's, gave the Germans small cause for optimism. A Luftwaffe intelligence report summed up the situation. While Allied air operations over Germany had declined due to the invasion, the authors felt that Allied bombers would soon return to Germany. In France, air attacks had destroyed the transportation system, while bombing attacks in Germany had extensively damaged the fuel industry. Production of aircraft fuel was off by 70 percent, synthetic fuel production was down by 60 percent, and refinery output (including Rumania) had dropped to 70 percent of total capacity. The report noted that aerial attacks on transportation and petroleum industries had provided substantial aid to the ground battle in the west. Particularly worrisome from the German perspective was the possibility that the Allied air forces might do in the Balkans what they had accomplished so successfully in France and Italy; that is, destroy the rail and road system. In conclusion, the report warned that the great danger was a continuation of attacks on the synthetic fuel industry. Thus, the German high command needed to provide adequate support for the great fuel plants. 283   ## p. 28