y the German leadership in the summer of 1940 represented a decisive turning point in World War II. In effect, Germany's leadership had sealed her fate before the campaign opened. Hitler had turned to Russia in the summer of 1940 as a possible solution to the British dilemma. While the idea of a fall 1940 campaign had to be shelved temporarily, contingency planning for an invasion of Russia began almost at once. By the end of July 1940, serious planning was underway in the OKH. On August 5, General Erich Marcks presented a strategic study that sketched in outline a framework for the proposed campaign. Marcks posited as the main strategic aim the destruction of Soviet armed forces. The Wehrmacht would advance at least as far as the line Archangel-Gorki-Rostov to prevent the possibility of bomber attacks against Germany. The main thrust would occur north of the Pripyat marshes and attempt the capture of Moscow. Subsidiary drives in the north and south would protect the flanks of the advance on the capital and prevent a Soviet spoiling attack on Rumanian oil resources. Marcks suggested that the decisive battles would occur in the first few weeks with the armored drive playing the critical role; these penetrations would hopefully destroy the main body of the Red Army in the border areas. The study estimated a slight numerical advantage in favor of the Wehrmacht and certainly a decisive qualitative superiority. Once German troops had pierced the Red Army's forward lines and had begun the exploitation phase, Marcks believed that the Soviet command and control system would collapse, allowing the Germans to destroy Soviet armies piecemeal. The study suggested that a period of between nine and seventeen weeks would be necessary to achieve the campaign's objectives. 50 Further studies in the fall of 1940 followed the direction that Marcks had suggested. While certain problems emerged in the war gaming of operations, such as the distances involved in Russia, most officers conc