und Rüstungswirtschaft 1918-1943/45 (Boppard am Rhein, 1966) is a valuable source of the prewar and early wartime periods. The British memoir sources on the air war are extensive and enlightening. Marshal of the Royal Air Forces Lord Tedder's With Prejudice (London, 1966) is observant and perceptive, although perhaps somewhat reticent. Arthur Harris' Bomber Offensive (New York, 1947) is contentious and argumentative but lively and readable. Sir John Slessor's The Central Blue (London, 1956) is a clear, intelligent discussion of the career of one of the more important airmen of the Second World War. Slessor's Air Power and Armies (London, 1936) is one of the most realistic books about airpower written in the prewar period. Two important memoirs on the role of British scientists in the winning of the war have appeared in the last several years: R. V. Jones, The Wizard War (New York, 1978); and Solly Zuckerman, From Apes to Warlords (London, 1978). Aileen Clayton's The Enemy Is Listening (London, 1980) provides an interesting insight into how the British 'Y' Service established itself in the first years of the war. OFFICIAL HISTORIES The official histories that have come out of the Second World War have been at a consistently higher level than was the case with those of the First World War. The historians of the Militärgeschichtliches Forschungsamt, Federal Republic of Germany, have recently produced the first two volumes of what can best be described as a "semiofficial" history of Germany's role in the war. The first volume, Wilhelm Deist, Manfred Messerschmidt, Hans-Erich Volkmann, Wolfram Wette, Das deutsche Reich und der Zweite Weltkrieg, Vol. I, Ursachen und Voraussetzung der deutschen Kriegspolitik (Stuttgart, 1979), sets the highest possible standards of scholarship and historical objectivity. It examines both the larger questions of German preparation for the war as well as the specific rearmament issues involved with the three services. The second volume, Klau