mander of the pathfinders, somewhat uncharitably called such crews "fringe merchants.''49 But Bennett was as hard on himself as he was on his crews. Unlike other group commanders, he had flown a tour on operations and had been shot down over Norway in 1942. He walked out to Sweden. Recently, he observed that one of the great failings in Bomber Command's leadership was that no other senior officer besides himself had any grasp of the operational conditions under which their crews fought, because they had not flown combat missions in this war. 50 In retrospect, the Battle of Berlin was a mistake-one in which Harris came close to wrecking his command. The objective was obvious and at the outer limits of bomber range. The pathfinder force lost approximately 150 percent of its strength; and as Bennett notes, the battle "had been the worst thing that could have happened to the Command."'"ยน Thus, at the end of March, Harris had arrived at the same point that Eaker had reached in October 1943. At night, unescorted bomber formations on deep penetrations suffered prohibitive losses. As the official historians suggest: "The implication was equally clear. The German fighter force had interposed itself between Bomber Command and its strategic objective. . . ." For Harris, the message was unambiguous: His forces needed the "provision of night fighter support on a substantial scale.""2 Yet, Bomber Command's defeat may have had a beneficial side effect. Harris, who so often balked at the Air Ministry's directives, followed his orders to the letter when it came to "Overlord," and Bomber Command provided essential support. Whether or not he did so willingly, Harris had no choice. Night raids deep into Germany were no longer possible except at prohibitive cost. Bomber Command's losses during this period should not obscure the fact that the German night fighters also were having a difficult time. Bad weather, the low level of skill among new crews, and defensive fire from the bombers a