ilized industrial powers. This conflict had the scale, characteristics, and balance of strength between both sides which we might well experience in a future conflict. Though over time we were able to bring our massive productive superiority to bear in this war, it nevertheless was a struggle which challenged our staying power and stamina. The length and attrition of that conflict suggest that should we ever face another war on a similar scale, the clash of power may neither be short nor quickly decisive. We may again have to face a battlefield environment and set of challenges which are wholly different from what we have faced in recent conflicts. Only a few of our senior officers can call directly upon the experience of World War II to guide them in leading the Air Force. Our combat experience base is limited mainly to the events of Korea and Vietnam. Should we have to fight a large scale war again, only history can provide the necessary insights. If history has had one direct lesson for the student of war, it is that nations and their armed forces will not be fully prepared for the war that comes. If this is so, we must acquire by an extensive study of past conflicts, a flexibility of mind and intellectual rigor that will permit us to deal with the unexpected and adapt to changing conditions as they are, not as we forecast them to be. History clearly points out that those who ignore the past are doomed to repeat old mistakes. This book is a comprehensive analysis of an air force, the Luftwaffe, in World War II. It follows the Germans from their prewar preparations to their final defeat. There are many disturbing parallels with our current situation. I urge every student of military science to read it carefully. The lessons of the nature of warfare and the application of airpower can provide the guidance to develop our fighting forces and employment concepts to meet the significant challenges we are certain to face in the future. dout & Martin C ROBERT C. MATHIS G