ea of telling the Führer that American fighters have penetrated into the territory of the Reich?" Göring snapped. . . . "Herr Reichsmarschall,” Galland replied with imperturbable calm, "they will soon be flying even deeper.” Göring spoke even more vehemently: "That's nonsense, Galland, what gives you fantasies? That's pure bluff!”’ Galland shook his head. "Those are the facts, Herr Reichsmarschall! . . . American fighters have been shot down over Aachen. There is no doubt about it!" Göring obstinately held his ground: "That is simply not true, Galland. It's impossible." Galland reacted with a touch of mockery: “You might go and check it yourself, sir; the downed planes are there at Aachen."... Göring finally declared: "What must have happened is that they were shot down much farther to the west. I mean, if they were very high when they were shot down they could have glided quite a distance farther before they crashed." Not a muscle moved in Galland's face. "Glided to the east, sir? If my plane were shot up...' 9996 Now in November 1943, escort support for bomber formations reached deeper into the Reich. On the 3rd, despite bad weather, fighters escorted the bombers to Wilhelmshaven. Using radar control H2X, an American modification of the H2S system, the force bombed through the clouds. Two things were significant about the raid. First, the number of bombers involved, 539, points up how quickly the pipeline of crews and aircraft from the United States had compensated for October's losses; second, escort fighter support kept the bomber losses down to 7 (with only 3 due to enemy fighters).97 The Germans found the appearance of American fighters at this range most alarming. German losses were so heavy that Galland held a special meeting with I Jagdkorps' division commanders on November 4.98 Contributing to the day fighter losses was the fact that many German fighters did not possess direction finders to locate their bases in bad weather.99 The Wilhelmshaven raid result