ividuals at the Air War College for their help and guidance: Colonel Donald Frizzell, Lieutenant Colonels Donald Baucom, David MacIssac, David Lupton, and James True; and my colleagues in the ARI, Dr. David Mets and Dr. Kenneth Werrell. My special thanks to John Schenk and Dorothy McCluskie of the ARI for their thorough and detailed editorial assistance. I would also be remiss if I were not to express my thanks to those who helped with the typing of this manuscript and with arrangements for my travels: especially Edna Davis, Jo Ann Perdue, Mary Schenk, Betty Brown, and Norma Todd. I must thank Rose McCall for the excellent graphics and Steve Garst, Air University Review, for designing the cover. In the academic world, my colleagues Professors I. B. Holley and Hans Gatzke deserve thanks for their help and advice. At the Ohio State University, Kenneth Watman and Bruce Nardulli were especially helpful in reviewing the content of the final manuscript. I should also like to thank Harry Fletcher for his considerable help in guiding me through the archives at the Albert F. Simpson Historical Research Center. In addition, I received substantial assistance while working abroad in European archives. In Great Britain, Group Captain "Tony" Mason afforded me access to critical materials in the RAF Staff College archives; "J. P." McDonald guided me through the materials available in the Public Record Office (PRO) from his post in the Air Historical Branch; and "Freddie" Lambert and Suzanne Marsh provided invaluable research assistance. I must also thank Professors Paul Kennedy, John Gooch, Brian Bond, and Richard Overy for their help as well as friendship that they extended to me while I was in Great Britain. Dr. Noble Frankland provided his time and his vast knowledge at the Imperial War Museum. I also must thank the staffs at the PRO, the Imperial War Museum, and the RAF Staff College. In Germany, the staffs at the military archives in Freiburg and the Militärgeschichtliches Fo