the Italian homeland. Kesselring formed German troops awaiting shipment to Tunisia into three scratch divisions. Despite Mussolini's demand for equipment rather than soldiers, two new panzer grenadier (motorized infantry) and two new panzer divisions moved into the peninsula during June 1943.92 As all had just received equipment and men, they hardly represented a combat-tested military force. Again the temptation, which proved irresistible, would be to use the Luftwaffe to bolster weak ground forces. While Allied armies rested and trained, Anglo-American air forces attacked German bases in Sicily and Sardinia and raided coastal targets to soften up defenses. Beginning in mid-May, Allied air forces began a bombardment of the Italian island of Pantelleria, located 70 miles southwest of Sicily. After three weeks, Italian forces surrendered before landing operations began; the only casualty was a soldier bitten by a jackass.93 While Pantelleria provided a base to extend fighter coverage to Sicily, its real value lay in conditions it provided for the study of the effects of aerial bombardment.94 Allied airmen, using the recommendations of scientists in these air operations, particularly over Sicily and Sardinia, gave no respite to the Luftwaffe. Germany's June fighter losses were 131, while a further 72 bombers were lost. 95 July brought the invasion of Sicily and the greatest air battle of the Mediterranean war. The Tunisian defeat caused a reorganization of German air forces in the south. Luftflotte 2 divided in two, with Luftflotte South East controlling the Balkans and a new Luftflotte 2 controlling Italy, Sardinia, Corsica, and Sicily. A general replacement of commanders also occurred. Richthofen arrived as Luftflotte 2 commander, accompanied by a number of staff officers and commanders from the eastern front. Galland, now inspector of fighters, went to Sicily to control fighter operations. Along with these changes, considerable reinforcements arrived in the theater