e.46 Such attitudes played an important role in Luftwaffe thinking throughout the remainder of the thirties. Knauss himself went on from the Air Ministry to become the head of the new Air War College in Gatow. There, under his leadership, the emphasis remained solidly on "strategic" bombing until the outbreak of the war. Nearly all lectures concerned the "strategic" uses of airpower; virtually none discussed tactical cooperation with the army.47 Similarly, the emphasis in the military journals centered on "strategic" bombing. The prestigious Militärwissenschaftliche Rundschau, the new journal of the War Ministry, founded in 1936, published a number of theoretical pieces on future developments in air war. Nearly all discussed the use of "strategic" airpower with some emphasizing that aspect of air warfare to the exclusion of others.48 One author commented that European military powers were increasingly making the bomber force the heart of their airpower. The maneuverability and technical capability of the new generation of bombers were such that "already in today's circumstances the bomber offensive would be as unstoppable as the flight of a shell."'49 Major Herhudt von Rohden, eventually the head of the general staff's historical section, went so far as to argue that unlike the army and the navy, only the air force was in the position to attack the enemy in depth and to launch immediately "destructive attacks against the economic resources of the enemy from all directions." Moreover, von Rohden stressed, the Luftwaffe should not be an auxiliary to the other two services. Interservice cooperation did not mean dividing the Luftwaffe up and parceling out its personnel and materiel to support ground or naval tactical purposes. Rather, interservice cooperation meant using the Luftwaffe in a unified and massed 'strategic' air war" that could provide for better long- range support. 50 The failure of the Luftwaffe to progress further towards a "strategic" bombing capability