ons. In September, only one major raid penetrated deep into German airspace; the results duplicated what had happened over Schweinfurt in August. Forty-five bombers and crews were listed as missing out of 338 aircraft dispatched to attack the bearing and aircraft factories near Stuttgart.55 For the remainder of the month, Eighth licked its wounds and attacked the occupied districts of western Europe. There, Allied fighters kept bomber losses within tolerable limits. Meanwhile, the flow of aircraft and crews from the States swelled Eighth's groups: Its effective aircraft strength climbed over the 300 mark, while the number of available aircrews went over 400, both for the first time. 56 In October, the daylight air battle peaked, and American losses in deep penetration, unescorted raids ended illusions that bomber formations could protect themselves. Defeat over Schweinfurt sounded the death of prewar doctrine and the assumptions on which it had been built. Yet if October was a serious setback, the cost paid dividends. By carrying the war to Germany, the daylight bombers forced the Luftwaffe to come up and to fight. In the short run, bomber casualties reached unacceptable levels, but German fighter losses, relatively speaking, were even more costly as to their long-term effects. In essence, Eighth's operations imposed a high enough attrition rate to prevent the recovery of Germany's fighter arm after the losses suffered over the summer. Eighth's October operations began on the 8th with an attack on Bremen and Vegesack. The attacking formations lost 30 bombers with a further 26 receiving major damage. Three-quarters of the 1st Bombardment Division's aircraft received flak damage. This attack initiated a week of heavy operations culminating with a second great attack on Schweinfurt on October 14. On October 9, Eighth's bombers flying over Denmark and the Baltic hit Danzig and Marienburg, and a diversionary force hit the Arado factory at Anklam. Both the Arado works and