t Scandinavia, the Germans completed preparations for a move against the West. On May 10, 1940, the Wehrmacht began an offensive aimed at the strategic overthrow of its opponents. Operations against Holland and northern Belgium by Army Group B confirmed Allied expectations as to German strategy and fixed their attention away from the decisive threat. Meanwhile, German armor moved through the Ardennes until it hit the Meuse. By the evening of the 13th, Panzer Group Kleist had three bridgeheads across the river. Within less than two days, the Germans achieved operational freedom and were rolling towards the English Channel. At that time, Germany's opponents believed that the Wehrmacht enjoyed overwhelming superiority. As we now know, except in the air (and even here German superiority was not overwhelming), the Germans did not enjoy a significant, quantifiable advantage.47 Their victory was due to an operational plan whose serious risks were more than offset by corresponding advantages that would not have been present in a more conventional operation. Second, German training and doctrine were more realistic and demanding than those of their opponents. Third, the army and the Luftwaffe had closely integrated their plans to meet the overall demands of German strategy. German air attacks that accompanied the start of the offensive aimed at achieving air superiority over the Low Countries and northern France. In the first hours, a significant portion of the Luftwaffe's effort struck at Allied air forces and their ground organizations. Neither the Dutch nor the Belgians were capable of serious opposition as most of their equipment was obsolete. The British had stationed a significant force of bombers and fighters ("Hurricanes") in northern France to support the British Expeditionary Force. 48 The French air force, unfortunately, was in great disarray as it was transitioning to a newer generation of aircraft (as had the Luftwaffe in 1937-38 and the RAF in 1938-39 with simil