nd, reporting that he had had only 250 fighters the day before to meet the American onslaught, pleaded for "fighters, fighters, nothing but fighters" from industrialists and managers. 194 The "Fighter Staff" performed an extraordinary job in restoring order and dispersing production to less vulnerable locations. Where Milch and Sauer ran into bureaucratic red tape and recalcitrance, they hustled offending individuals off to the Berlin SS offices of Ernst Kaltenbrunner. 195 German fighter production, even under the attack, began a dramatic rise. 19% One must, nevertheless, interject a word of caution, for production figures in the Strategic Bombing Survey included aircraft that industry repaired after they had received major damage. Given the tempo of Allied air operations, the Germans had large numbers of aircraft to repair. Concurrent with production problems went the difficulty of finding pilots to fill cockpits. Up to the summer of 1942, the training program had run on a peacetime leisurely basis, with dancing classes and skiing holidays for future pilots. 197 Thereafter, the training program ran into difficulties. Fuel shortages and demands from the front for more pilots led to reductions in training hours. Air transport commitments to Tunisia and Stalingrad curtailed instrument and bomber training programs. In 1943, more fuel was available; and through better management, the Germans doubled the number of new fighter pilots coming out of training schools. The rise from 1,662 new fighter pilots in 1942 to 3,276 in 1943 was barely enough, however, to cover wastage at the front (2,870). 198 In fact, training schools produced barely enough pilots to keep up with losses. Thus, there was virtually no opportunity to build up a pilot reserve. More dangerous for the future of the fighter force was the fact that flying hours in schools for German pilots were less than half of what British and American pilots received. Production shortages meant that German pilots received