ber, however, Göring scotched the tactic and suggested that even the Americans would not be so wasteful of material. He suggested that crews not drop tanks when empty but only in combat.73 An intercepted "Ultra" message on October 12 warned fighter crews that they should only drop tanks in the most desperate circumstances.74 This refined and reinforced defense system enabled the Luftwaffe to win a series of substantial tactical victories. Warned by radar of an American raid, German fighters scrambled and concentrated. Twin-engine fighters fired rockets into the formations to break up flying cohesion and to hit aircraft. Single-engine fighters individually and in groups attacked from all directions. The aim was to break formation integrity; once German fighters had done that, individual B-17's were easy prey, while damaged aircraft that fell behind were in a hopeless situation. The defensive system proved remarkably effective in October, but it did contain weaknesses. Above all, it depended on the fact that no American fighters were present. Operations in July, when American fighters, using primitive drop tanks, had pushed deeper into the Reich and caught German fighters by surprise, underlined this factor. Luftwaffe fighters would only engage American bombers out of range of Allied fighter support. Using this rule of engagement, much of western Europe now had targets that were relatively free of Luftwaffe coverage. German success in the fall also depended on close cooperation between the single-engine and twin-engine fighters, with the heavier fighters playing a key role in breaking up the integrity of American formations. Without such support, the single-engine fighters faced a much more difficult task, but the Bf 110 had no chance of survival against enemy fighters. Thus defense of the Reich's airspace depended on the continued existence of a zone over which Allied fighters could not operate because of their inadequate range. There were already signs that this sit