tler's fascination with numbers also served to distort the maintenance and supply system. Theoretically, the Luftwaffe based its approach to airpower on the belief that a flying unit was not combat-ready unless it possessed modern, reliable aircraft backed up by a first-class maintenance organization and supply system. Using this rationale, frontline units had to receive adequate numbers of replacement aircraft and reserves of spare parts. In an "after action" report on the Czech crisis, the chief of the Luftwaffe's supply services reported that these requirements had not yet been met. Among other items, he underscored the fact that the number of aircraft engines in maintenance and supply depots represented only 4 to 5 percent of total engines in service. The basic reason why this situation. existed was in Göring's refusal to follow recommendations that the Luftwaffe devote 20 to 30 percent of production to provide adequate inventories of spare parts.67 Instead, the Germans assigned production almost exclusively to firstline strength because of the political outlook of the top leaders and their fascination with numbers. This practice continued throughout the war. As a result, the Luftwaffe was chronically short spare parts and had to cannibalize with a direct and negative impact on operational ready rates. THE LUFTWAFFE'S IMPACT, 1933-39 The Luftwaffe's initial strategic purpose had been to deter Poland and France from launching a preventive war against the Reich. It was neither notably successful nor unsuccessful in this role. Hitler's diplomatic skills, particularly the 1934 Non Aggression Pact with Poland, were more important in altering the European diplomatic balance of power. The French, at least in the early period of German rearmament, were somewhat blasé about the implications of the Luftwaffe. As late as September 1937, one military leader told the British that with "a veritable forest of guns" over the Maginot Line, France could prevent the German air for