nters of war industry.' "29 However, Hitler cast his strategy so as to achieve the capture of the Soviet Union's oil production region, a goal which as already suggested-was virtually unattainable given the forces available. Thus, there was no possibility of cutting the Soviets off "from their most important centers of war industry" except to deprive Russia of a limited percentage of her oil production. Nowhere in his directive did the Führer suggest using the Luftwaffe to strike Soviet industry or petroleum production; given the megalomaniacal extent of Hitler's summer aims and the weaknesses of the ground forces, the Luftwaffe would be completely employed in supporting the army's drive. Before the main summer offensive began, Hitler decided to eliminate Soviet forces on the Crimea Peninsula. On May 8, Eleventh Army, supported by Fliegerkorps IV and VIII, attacked the Russians on the Kersch Peninsula. Aided by a continuous flow of close air support, Manstein's ground forces broke through Russian positions and routed substantial Soviet forces. On May 19, Halder recorded the successful completion of operations and the capture of 150,000 prisoners with considerable equipment.30 While the Germans mopped up Kersch, the Russians launched a spoiling offensive on the southern front. They hoped to dislocate German preparations by capturing the critical transportation center of Kharkov. After initial success, the Russians ran into strong resistance. Soviet infantry pressed Sixth Army back on Kharkov, but the Russians hesitated to unleash their armor. Having hesitated, they lost the opportunity. The Germans had reserves in the area; Kleist's First Panzer Army, supported by Richthofen's "Stukas," sliced northwards and in one great sweeping thrust isolated the Izyum salient and attacking Russian forces. Once again, Stalin turned a serious military situation into catastrophe. He refused to allow a withdrawal until too late. By the end of May, the Germans had destroyed two Russia