er day.21 But the cost was inordinately high. By the time the army relieved the pocket in May 1942, the Luftwaffe had lost 265 transport aircraft, or 30 percent of its transport force at the end of February.22 The negative impact on training was, of course, substantial. Having weathered the last crises in late winter, the Germans now faced the problem of what their strategy should be for the coming year. Halder, who had remained as Chief of Staff, argued for a defensive strategy in the east in which the army would launch no major offensives but rather husband and rebuild its strength.23 Hitler, convinced that he alone had prevented a disaster during the winter, disagreed. Ever the gambler, he determined to knock the Soviets out of the war. But this decision would prove difficult to execute given the extent of losses since "Barbarossa" had begun. In fact, only by tasking their allies-the Hungarians, the Italians, and the Rumanians—to defend large segments of the front were the Germans able to build up their forces for the summer offensive. The condition of the German army gave little cause for optimism. At the end of March 1942, OKH reported that out of 162 divisions in the east, 8 were suitable for offensive operations, 3 could be brought up to full offensive capability after a short rest, and 47 could perform limited offensive tasks. The rest were only suitable for defensive warfare.24 In an effort to upgrade the combat capability of deficient divisions, the army reorganized itself. The results, however, were less than satisfactory. Army Groups North and Center lost virtually all motor vehicles so that their divisions were no longer capable of even limited mobile operations.25 Of 65 divisions detailed for the coming offensive, only 21 either had trained as new units or had received rehabilitation in rear areas. The remaining 44 divisions had reinforced and rehabilitated while serving in the frontline. Shortages of vehicles and horses severely limited the mobility o