r the standpoint of "war to the knife," but I am not in favor of "frightfulness".. Also, single bombs from flying machines are wrong; they are odious when they hit and kill old women, and one gets used to them. If [however] one could set fire to London in thirty places, then what in a small way is odious would retire before something fine and powerful. 16 When the Zeppelin campaign failed, the Germans attacked London with the heavier-than-air bomber. That campaign, even if it did not achieve great material damage, did lead to the creation of the Royal Air Force."7 The defeat of 1918 and the conditions of the Versailles Treaty eliminated aircraft from the German arsenal. Not only was Germany denied access to new technology as represented by the submarine, the airplane, and the tank, but the peace also severely limited the size and capability of Germany's military services. The victorious Allies, however, could not prevent the Germans from thinking about their experiences and the weapons of the last war. Hans von Seeckt, father of the Reichswehr, insured that the miniscule army left to Germany included a small body of officers (180) who had had experience in the conduct of the air battles in the Great War. As was the case with the development of motorized/mechanized warfare, Seeckt showed considerable prescience with respect to airpower18 and saw to it that its advocates possessed at least some voice within the army. 19 Limitations imposed by Versailles forced German aviation into a narrow framework. Nevertheless, extensive subsidies to civil aviation contributed to the survival of Germany's aviation industry, and preparations for air rearmament during the Weimar Republic played a significant role in the establishment of the Luftwaffe during the Nazi period. 20 Germany's lead in civil aviation was such that by 1927, German airlines flew greater distances with more passengers than their French, British, and Italian competitors together.21 This experience in long-distan