ed the first stages of rearmament, the Spanish Civil War occurred. Hitler willingly provided substantial aid to the rebels, especially in the air, but regarded the war mostly as useful in distracting Europe's attention from the growing danger of Nazi Germany. For the Luftwaffe, Spain was a helpful testing ground for its aircraft and tactics. The Ju 52 quickly showed its limitations as a bomber and was soon relegated to its World War II role as a transport; the He 51 biplanes proved inferior to Russian aircraft supplied to the Republic. By 1937, the Germans had introduced the Bf 109 fighter, the He 111, and Do 17 bombers, as well as a few Ju 87 dive bombers. All these aircraft soon indicated their relative worth. On the ground, the 88mm flak gun proved itself effective not only as an antiaircraft weapon but also against ground targets. The fighter commander Adolph Galland, however, felt that the combat experience gained in Spain led the Luftwaffe to overestimate the performance of antiaircraft weapons, thereby distorting future programs for the air defense of the Reich." 72 73 Perhaps of greater importance, the Germans learned invaluable combat lessons in Spain which they quickly absorbed into their doctrine. The development of close air support and cooperation with the army came directly from the Spanish Civil War. Wolfram von Richthofen, Manfred's cousin, arrived in Spain out of favor with the Air Ministry in Berlin. His conception of air war upon arrival was not substantially different from most other Luftwaffe officers at that time; in other words, close air support for the army ranked at the bottom of his priorities. However, once in his position as Chief of Staff to the Condor Legion, Richthofen recognized that the theories of airpower and Spanish political realities did not have much in common. The stalemate on the ground, the lack of suitable "strategic" targets, and the great Nationalist weakness in artillery led Richthofen to consider using his forces to su