ined a firm believer in the importance of gaining and of maintaining air superiority. Unlike many British or his successors in the Air Corps Tactical School, Mitchell argued strongly for pursuit aviation as well as bombers. In his first book, he suggested that the proper ratio of aircraft within the Air Corps should be 60 percent pursuit, 20 percent bombardment, and 20 percent observation. For him, the first task in air war would be the defeat of the enemy air force; not until that mission had been achieved could effective bombardment take place. While Mitchell did rate the defensive possibility of bombers quite highly, he regarded enemy pursuit forces as the most serious threat to successful bombing operations. Thus, the task of American pursuit was not necessarily to escort bomber formations but to seek out and to attack enemy fighters, so In the early 1920's, the thrust of teaching at what was eventually the Air Corps Tactical School followed Mitchell's arguments closely. The instructions on air tactics drew heavily on the lessons and experience of the First World War; and based on that experience, pursuit aviation received pride of place. The school emphasized aerial "barrage" as a technique to protect ground forces. Because close protection of the bomber or observer aircraft in World War I had proven costly, a more flexible and aggressive use of fighter formations was advocated. Since pursuit aircraft had been largely responsible for achieving air supremacy, the school argued that pursuit aviation was the Air Service's chief arm. 51 One tactics course went so far as to claim that, "Pursuit in this relation to the Air Service... may be compared to the infantry in its relation to the other branches of the army. Without pursuit, the successful employment of the other air branches is impossible."'52 Nevertheless, if pursuit aviation received pride of place at first, certain factors pushed the school's doctrine in another direction. The goal of air superiority seeme