tion raids. But the RAF showed little interest in drop tanks, and the Air Staff dismissed the notion that British industry could develop a long-range fighter of sufficient capability to take on German fighters. In March 1940, prodded by Dowding who argued that the RAF needed a long-range fighter to protect international trade, Air Vice Marshal W. S. Douglas, Assistant Chief of Air Staff, suggested: It must, generally speaking, be regarded as axiomatic that the long- range fighter must be inferior in performance to the short-range fighter.... The question had been considered many times, and the discussion had always tended to go in circles. . . . The conclusion had been reached that the escort fighter was really a myth. A fighter performing escort functions would, in reality, have to be a high performance and heavily armed bomber.86 Unfortunately, Douglas' view reflected most views in the Air Ministry. Portal informed Churchill in June 1941 that a long-range fighter could never hold its own against short-range fighters; thus, the former could never fly where they could expect opposition from the latter. Churchill's response to this gloomy conclusion was that such a view closed "many doors.''87 Confirming the Prime Minister's assessment were disastrous losses suffered in 1942 by RAF bombers during unaccompanied daylight operations into Germany. In April 1942, 12 "Lancasters" made a low level, deep penetration attack on the M.A.N. Works in Augsburg. The RAF initiated heavy fighter sweeps and bombings of coastal targets to distract German fighters. Nevertheless, over northern France, 20 to 30 Bf 109's jumped the "Lancasters" and shot down 4. The bombers encountered no further fighters but lost three more aircraft to flak in the target area, while the remaining five aircraft received damage. In December 1942, a major attack on the Phillips Radio Works in Eindhoven lost 16 percent of the attacking force of 93 bombers, while a further 57 percent were damaged.88 Thus far, w