omber stream. While such changes helped keep losses down, they decreased bombing accuracy. By January, German commanders had recognized that "tame sow" tactics were proving most effective, although some problems remained with the "SN2” radar. 32 The German success in January was such that it had virtually won the Battle of Berlin, although Harris did not admit defeat until March. Nevertheless, Bomber Command's operations in February suggest High Wycombe's recognition that Berlin had become a dangerous target. Most of February's attacks were against less dangerous objectives in southern and western Germany. The two missions along the northern route through the heart of the German defenses suffered heavily. The first lost 4.8 percent, while the second lost 9.5 percent of aircraft dispatched. Not until March 24 did a major raid against Berlin recur. Night fighter defenses thus forced the British to deflect the offensive from Berlin to attack what Harris regarded as subsidiary targets. 33 Among these was a heavy raid on Schweinfurt. After great wrangling between the Air Staff's Director of Bomber Operations and Harris, Bomber Command finally attacked the ball bearing plants seven months after the first American raid. 34 For the first part of March, Bomber Command's efforts centered on attacking targets in southern Germany. Moreover, the commitment to the invasion had already begun to draw attention to targets in France. At the end of the month, however, the British mounted several major deep penetration raids into Germany. They brought a sudden and costly end to the Battle of Berlin. The first on March 24 hit the German capital with one last massive blow. Losses were heavy, 73 bombers were destroyed for a missing rate of 9.1 percent of aircraft dispatched.35 On the 26th, Bomber Command again devastated Essen in an accurate Oboe attack carried out through dense cloud cover. German defenses were off balance, and the British lost only nine bombers.36 The accurate bombing o