h in 1936 was disastrous for the future course of the Luftwaffe but in a sense other than that which most historians have suggested. First, he provided the glue that held the Luftwaffe together in the early rearmament years. He got on relatively well with other Luftwaffe leaders, including Milch, and all respected his qualities of intellect and leadership. Second, and equally important, Wever possessed both a practical military mind and a first-class strategic sense that thought in terms of the long pull and not just immediate, operational problems. Given the financial and raw material constraints on rearmament, Wever could not have created a "strategic" bombing force in the thirties in terms of what the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) would have in 1943 and 1944. Nevertheless, his presence would have mitigated the rather haphazard approach that characterized the Luftwaffe in the late thirties and early forties. The caliber of Wever's successors underlines his importance to the Luftwaffe. Albert Kesselring, his immediate successor, was a troop leader par excellence, but overall he was not an effective Chief of Staff and did not get along well with Milch. The back-biting between the two led to Kesselring's replacement by Hans-Jürgen Stumpff within a year. 52 The latter proved little better than Kesselring; and in February 1939, Göring named Hans Jeschonnek as Chief of the Luftwaffe's General Staff. Despite his brilliance at the Kriegsakademie, Jeschonnek proved no better than his predecessors. He was arrogant, shortsighted, and had had several bitter run-ins with Milch. 53 Moreover, Jeschonnek fell under Hitler's spell and swallowed the line that the Führer was the "greatest commander in history." As a result, he never possessed the independent judgment that his position required. Shortly after Munich, Hitler demanded a fivefold increase in the Luftwaffe by 1942, an impossible goal given the economic constraints and the megalomaniacal proportion of the program.