the Luftwaffe far from centers of supply, and difficulties in maintaining and supplying its forces there- especially after Army Group South and Army Group Center lost contact with each other-were considerable. Hitler's refusal to countenance withdrawals intensified the already considerable burdens on air units. His demand that the Crimea be held forced the Luftwaffe to maintain a considerable airlift by Ju 52's and He 111's, including some bomber units. The use of bomber units against Russian spearheads was at times successful and given the desperate situation on the ground, unavoidable. It was certainly not cost-effective. 164 By this time, the Russians were conversant with Luftwaffe operations, and they not only possessed aircraft in large numbers but their troops were equipped with ample antiaircraft support. Thus, German air operations tended to be decreasingly effective and more costly. By mid-December, Luftflotte 6 reported that Russian air strength was such that the enemy was launching 3,200 sorties a day to support ground operations. 165 Even more depressing for German ground forces was the fact that the Russians had noted the disappearance of German fighters and had therefore re-equipped many fighter units with ground attack aircraft. Those could now range over the battle areas with minimal fear of Luftwaffe fighters. 166 The decrease in German aircraft strength in the east resulted in the remaining units being used as fire brigades, rushed from one frontline spot to another. A log book of an He 111 pilot on the eastern front during the 1943-44 period articulates this point. In his first 25 missions between August 8 and September 6, 1943, he did not fly a single mission lasting more than 10 minutes over enemy territory. In his next 25 missions between September 7 and 22nd, he flew only two missions lasting more than 10 minutes over enemy territory-one of 15 minutes and one of 2 hours duration. In his next 50 missions, he flew only three that lasted more tha