o show that having one's house demolished is most damaging to morale. People seem to mind it more than having their friends or even relatives killed. At Hull, signs of strain were evident though only one-tenth of the houses were demolished. On the above figures, we should be able to do ten times as much harm to each of the 58 principal German towns. There seems little doubt that this would break the spirit of the people. 75 The basic problem for Cherwell's argumentation was that Bomber Command was already suffering serious losses at night, while other theaters were making demands on bomber production. The raid of November 7, 1941, underscored the damage that the Reich's night defenses could inflict on British bombers. From a force of 400 aircraft, Bomber Command lost 37, or 9.25 percent. Aircraft attacking specific targets suffered even higher losses: bombers attacking Berlin lost 12.5 percent of their number, at Mannheim 13 percent, and in the Ruhr Valley 21 percent. Night no longer provided an impenetrable veil for bomber operations; as it turned out, this would not be the last time that circumstances would force Bomber Command to rethink its basic strategy and tactics.76 In January 1942, disenchantment with the results of the bombing offensive thus far led to the appointment of Sir Arthur Harris as leader of Bomber Command. Harris possessed an unshakeable belief that, with the necessary resources, his command could win the war by itself. Fortified by a strong personality and intolerant of differing views, Harris was an ideal leader to shake the lethargy from the command. Interestingly, it was not until late 1942 that Harris became a complete convert to an "area" bombing strategy." Nevertheless, as suggested above, the realities were already pushing him in that direction. Harris established excellent relations with the Prime Minister, and over the course of the spring and summer of 1942, he bombarded Churchill with memoranda.78 In these he argued forcefully that o