lt economic crises, caused by a lack of foreign exchange, marked the course of German rearmament throughout the 1930's.' Beginning in 1930, a worldwide depression had caused a sharp dropoff in the value of German exports that continued through 1934. Thereafter, only a marginal recovery took place. As a result, holdings of foreign exchange steadily dwindled, and this shortage of hard currency in the thirties set definite limits on the level of raw material imports available to support rearmament.8 9 As early as the fall of 1934, the German cotton industry held reserves for no more than two weeks' production, rubber plants for two months, and the petroleum industry for three to three and one-half months. Moreover, foreign suppliers already were becoming doubtful as to the liquidity of the German economy and, as a result, would not deliver on credit. By 1935, this situation had caused significant portions of German industry to draw down stockpiles. From March to December 1935, stockpiles of major industrial raw materials fell dramatically; and for the remainder of the 1930's, the German economy lived a hand-to-mouth existence, scratching to find sufficient foreign exchange to pay for imports. By 1937, the German economy was suffering serious shortages of steel because of a lack of ore imports, while the industry itself was operating at barely 83 percent of capacity. 10 These economic difficulties affecting rearmament most likely played a role in pushing Hitler into the confrontations of 1938. Here again, despite substantial financial gains made by the Anschluss with Austria, efforts to expand the rearmament program, to build up synthetic and munition industries, to begin the massive construction of the Westwall project, and to mobilize for the Czech crisis severely strained the German economy. In November 1938, Hermann Göring admitted that the German economic infrastructure had reached a point of maximum economic distress." As a direct result, the Oberkommando der Wehr