thdrawn to the mainland and used Sicilian bases only as forward operating areas.98 Losses for the month were heavy. In July, the Luftwaffe lost 711 aircraft (10 percent of the German air force at the end of June) of which 246 were fighters (13.3 percent of all fighters) and 237 bombers (14.4 percent of all bombers). In August, Allied air forces, now operating from Sicily, pounded southern Italy and inflicted a further 321 losses. At this point, reinforcements and resupply to units in Italy dried up, while a number of squadrons (with total complement of 210 aircraft) withdrew from Italy after a severe mauling over Sicily. Only one unit returned to the Mediterranean; the rest remained at home to help defend the Reich. 100 Irrationality marked Hitler's conduct of operations during the Tunisian and Sicilian withdrawals. In both cases, he forbade retreat until the last possible moment. As a result, ground crews escaped from Tunisia by the desperate expedient of packing two to three individuals behind the pilot's seat in fighters. 101 In Sicily, ground personnel fled across the straits of Messina by ferry. Nevertheless, the Führer's order that no withdrawal preparations occur forced retreating squadrons to abandon nearly all their maintenance equipment and most spare parts. 102 These victories in the Mediterranean played a critical role in the winning of the war. They provided American ground forces with an invaluable lesson on the quality and competence of their opponent. Without that experience, bought at high but not exorbitant cost, it is hard to imagine a successful lodgment on the coast of France. 103 Also important for eventual victory was the attrition of Luftwaffe strength. Admittedly, the Germans themselves aided and abetted that process by placing their Mediterranean forces in strategically indefensible positions. They thus insured that the Luftwaffe would fight at a disadvantage. Much of this failure was directly attributable to Adolf Hitler. Nevertheless, Ger