e strategic victory. By the spring of 1942, attrition had reduced both sides in Russia to desperate straits. While the Germans enjoyed a small qualitative edge, the explanation for their successes in the summer lay in the Soviet blunders in the Crimea and at Kharkov in the spring. However, the numerical scales were rapidly turning against the Wehrmacht, as Soviet production hit full stride and as Western aid reached Russia in increasing quantities. In the Mediterranean, the scales had already tilted against the Germans; the British collapse in North Africa in May is explicable only in terms of gross military incompetence. We have already delineated the weaknesses of ground forces available for the summer; the Luftwaffe presented a similar depressing picture. The Luftwaffe deployed approximately 2,750 aircraft in the east, the bulk being assigned to Army Group South for the summer offensive. But major commitments in the Arctic as well as the need to aid the hard-pressed and equipment-starved northern and center army groups required significant numbers of aircraft. As a result, only 1,500 aircraft were available to support the main drive. 34 On June 28, the summer offensive began as Fourth Panzer and Second Army jumped off. Three armored, three motorized infantry, and nine infantry divisions led the opening phase that hit the Bryansk Front. Led by "Stukas" and other bombers from Fliegerkorps VIII, German armor broke through and raced for Voronezh. 35 By July 2, the Germans had advanced 80 kilometers; and as the official Russian history suggests, the situation was near disaster. 36 Meanwhile on June 30, Sixth Army attacked from north of Kharkov to complete a pincer movement south of Voronezh. This time, however, the pincer arms closed around few Russians. The Soviet high command had finally absorbed the lessons of the past year; when threatened with encirclement, it pulled troops back without hesitation. This response to German breakthroughs characterized Soviet strate