ame degree of success under another commander. Nevertheless, the Battle of Berlin suggests that a new commander in late 1943 might have shown greater flexibility (never Harris' strongest attribute), thereby avoiding the worst aspects of the defeat that now took place. However, Harris' popularity with the public and aircrews made his position invulnerable. Harris could not have selected a more difficult target. Berlin lay deep in central Germany and thus demanded that an attacking force fly a considerable distance and time over hostile territory. On the long run in and out, the bomber stream provided a concentrated target to which German night fighters could react. The fact that Berlin was a great metropolitan center exacerbated the difficulties confronting its attackers. It was easy to bomb within city limits; it was another matter to achieve the concentration on which "area" bombing depended. Moreover, Berlin was beyond most British navigational and target-finding aids, while the city itself was too large and had too few terrain features for H2S to be as effective as it had proved in the Hamburg and Peenemünde attacks. Finally, the months of darkness occurred precisely during those months of dreadful weather conditions over central Europe. Thus, the Berlin raids took place during inclement weather that forced the pathfinders to mark and the main force to bomb through heavy overcast. In fact, the cloud cover over Berlin from November 1943, when the offensive began, until mid-February 1944 allowed reconnaissance aircraft to photograph the results only twice. 12 Yet daunting as these difficulties were, the British faced a German night fighter force that was recovering rapidly from the defeat suffered over Hamburg. Thus, Harris embarked on a strategy that was direct and obvious, that maximized the exposure of his bombers to fighter attack, that minimized the potential of evasion, and that took place during the year's worst weather. On the other side of the hill, the Ge