rough the fall of 1941 were as much the result of Stalin's incompetence as of German military brilliance. In his search for internal security, the soviet dictator had quite literally destroyed his army's officer corps in a purge that lasted from 1937 through 1939.71 Unfortunately, the purge had hit hardest at those in the high command who possessed the most realistic sense of operational and tactical matters, including the strategic difficulties that Russia would face in a major European war.72 Stalin compounded the problems facing his armies in his reaction to the German victory over France. The Russians overplayed their diplomatic hand in the fall of 1940; then when ominous signals accumulated as German troops deployed to the east, Stalin lost control of the situation. He disbelieved the evidence that pointed to a German invasion. Admittedly, the Germans threw considerable misinformation at the Soviets, and the cover plan for "Barbarossa" was a carefully worked out attempt to throw the Russians off the scent.73 The last minute deployment of air units to operating bases in East Prussia and along the frontier also helped deceive the Soviets. Not until June 19 did Fliegerkorps VIII move to East Prussia from deep inside Germany where it had replenished supplies and drawn new aircraft and crews. 74 Finally on the evening of June 21, Stalin allowed his high command to issue a strategic warning to troops on the frontier. The warning from Moscow came so late that it reached few frontline units.75 Surprise was almost complete, and the dispairing signal of a border patrol-"We are being fired on, what shall we do?"-indicates the level of unpreparedness. The reply from higher headquarters "You must be insane, and why is your signal not in code?"-points out the disadvantages under which the Soviets began the campaign." BARBAROSSA: THE INVASION In the early morning hours of June 22 from the Baltic to the Black Sea, the Wehrmacht stormed across the frontier. German aircraft, cro