n air superiority strategy to a direct attack on London during the Battle of Britain. Moreover, in their approach to "strategic" bombing, the Germans showed a greater awareness of the difficulties involved in finding and hitting targets at night or in bad weather than did other air forces. For instance, their preparations in developing blind bombing devices like "Knickebein" were further advanced by a full two years than those of the RAF. When Adolph Hitler launched the Wehrmacht against Poland on September 1, 1939, to begin the Second World War, the Luftwaffe was in a considerably better position than it had been the previous fall. The staff and commanders had solved most of the teething problems that had marked the transition into a new generation of aircraft in 1937 and 1938. Air units possessed modern equipment, and anti- aircraft and airborne forces gave the Germans capabilities that other European air forces could not match. In 1939, the Luftwaffe was closer to realizing the potential of the aircraft, while the doctrine of close air support and cooperation with the army placed the German air force in the position to have a decisive impact on the coming battles beside the army's armored forces. Nevertheless, there were problems. Above all, there were serious deficiencies in the character of the Luftwaffe's leadership since most of those occupying top positions were incapable of thinking for the long pull. On the technical and production side, the Germans appeared well on their way to disaster. By the spring of 1939, British aircraft production was approaching German levels and in 1940 would actually surpass German output. 105 The fact that Göring had shunted Milch aside and turned the technical and production side over to Udet insured that this ominous trend would continue. Further exacerbating the Luftwaffe's dangerous position were certain critical research and development decisions taken in the last month before the outbreak of war. In December 1938, Milch p