. He argued that the coming war would be nearly all air combat and that Britain could only gain and maintain air superiority through a "resolute bombing offensive" against enemy cities and industries. Such a strategy would force the enemy to use his air strength in a defensive, not offensive, role, thereby diverting strength away from the primary task of "strategic" bombing, which alone would be decisive. Aerial bombardment would help intimidate the poorer and more unreliable segments of the population and would force the enemy to divert further strength from his strategic effort. Ground operations would rarely occur, and armies would mostly serve as frontier guards while the bombers flew overhead. 20 Slessor reasoned that it is difficult to resist at least the conclusion that air bombardment on anything approaching an intensive scale, if it can be maintained even at irregular intervals for any length of time, can today restrict the output from war industry to a degree which would make it quite impossible to meet the immense requirements of an army on the 1918 model, in weapons, ammunition, and warlike stores of almost every kind. 21 Considering that "strategic" bombing represented the raison d'être for the Royal Air Force, it is surprising that so little was done to prepare for this task. Prewar doctrine called for trained aircrews to precede the bomber force and to mark the targets for following aircraft. In the late 1920's, when asked how trained aircrews would find their targets, Tedder replied, "You tell me!"'22 Unfortunately, the RAF would not really face up to this problem until 1941 when analysis of mission photography revealed that half of the bombs dropped on Germany were landing in the countryside. 23 Admittedly in the late 1930's, there was no clear conception of the parameters involved in the coming air war in terms of weapons or tactics. There was considerable difficulty in estimating capabilities with so little prior experience. In 1938, the Joint Pla