akia, the Germans were still in a difficult strategic and economic situation, and they, therefore, eagerly incorporated Czech potential into their economic system. The euphoria after victory over France, however, led most of the Luftwaffe's leadership to disregard the low production figures for German industry and to ignore the possible integration of western European economies, including France, into the German war effort. Exacerbating all of the production problems was a major labor shortage. With so many German men mobilized for service with the army, a large deficit existed in manpower available for industry. In Britain, women filled many of the shortages caused by the rapid expansion of the armed forces. 138 However, Germany's ideology interfered directly with economic good sense-Hitler refused to allow the widespread use of women in the factories as had occurred in World War I. The result was that in the summer and fall of 1941, an acute shortage of workers existed throughout the armament industry. There were not enough German men to go around. While the Germans had millions of prisoners of war captured in the Polish and western campaigns, most of those worked in the countryside to keep German agricultural production at acceptable levels. But there was a manpower pool of enormous potential in the summer of 1941: the hundreds of thousands of prisoners that were falling into German hands as the Wehrmacht surged into Russia. However, ideology intervened with a vengeance. Hitler refused to allow the transfer of any of these prisoners to the Reich for work either on farms or in factories. 139 Thus, while German industry was desperately short of workers, hundreds of thousands of Russian soldiers were starving to death in inadequate Wehrmacht prisoner of war camps. By February 1942, of the 3,900,000 Russian soldiers that the Germans claimed to have captured, only 1,100,000 remained alive; of these, only 400,000 were capable of being moved to the Reich to work in indu