now Commander of Luftflotte 4, launched massive aerial attacks on the city itself. 52 For the next week, Stalingrad felt the fury of German air attacks as the Luftwaffe supported the army by trying to break the will of Stalingrad's defenders and population. From this point forward, the Nazi effort centered on the struggle for Stalingrad a struggle minimizing the flexibility and adaptability of German units while maximizing the dogged determination of their Russian opponents. The house-to-house struggle sucked more and more troops into the dying city. What German strategy had once viewed as a blocking position for the advance into the Caucasus now became the focal point for Hitler. By the end of October, the Germans had captured most of the city, but Russian resistance clung tenaciously to the banks of the Volga. In the south, Army Group A remained halted at the end of its long supply lines. Everywhere on the eastern front, the Germans now lay in overextended positions. Meanwhile, their Russian opposition, unlike the previous year, had conserved and built up its strength. Beginning in mid-October, increasing numbers of Soviet aircraft challenged the Luftwaffe. By early November, Russian aerial interdiction efforts were seriously interfering with Sixth Army's supplies, 53 Even rising aircraft production in Germany had little impact on the force structure, because commitments and opposition that the Luftwaffe faced were extracting an even higher price. The attrition on the eastern front from May through October 1942 represented a major portion of the Luftwaffe's overall strength. In this time frame, bomber losses (aircraft written off) in Russia equalled 51 percent of all bombers at the end of April, while the corresponding figure for single-engine fighters was 48.6 percent. 54 Thus, Hitler's decision to defeat the Soviet Union in 1942 insured that neither the Luftwaffe nor the army would receive a respite to recuperate from the winter defeats of 1942. Perched precario