ower in the interwar period argued strongly and seemingly persuasively that the airplane would be the decisive weapon of the next war and would relegate armies and navies at best to the role of policemen and at worst make them irrelevant to the final outcome. In effect, they were stating a belief that airpower had negated the general principles of war and that the experience of the past was of no consequence. However, the war that did come on September 1, 1939, resulted in a conflict quite different from what anyone, including the airmen, had expected. The air war was not independent. It was dependent on all the strategic, logistical, economic, social, and productive variables that had governed military operations since the beginning of time. As one historian of the bombing offensive has noted: Thus we are left with one clear reminder of a painful truth: The laws of war applied as much to the strategic air offensive waged over Europe's skies through five-and-a-half bitter years as they did to the sailors and soldiers on the distant seas or in the mud and sand below. Occasionally, the airman may have felt himself living and fighting in a new dimension, just as the air force commander may have sometimes felt he enjoyed a freedom of manoeuvre denied to admirals and generals. But the airman died, and the air force commander was defeated and stalemated unless the laws were kept. When they were kept, success came; until they could be kept, hope was kept alive by courage alone.ยน When one strips aside the layers of myth and legend from those dark days over Europe when "strategic" bombing ground Germany's cities into dust, there is no doubt that airpower played a decisive role in the winning or losing of the war. But that decisive role was no greater than the victory in the Atlantic that allowed America to bring its industrial and military power to bear or the victories of the Red Army on the eastern front that slowly but surely wore away the Wehrmacht's fighting edge. Altho