from 56 percent to 35 percent of the March total. 25 As the campaign progressed, "Ultra" intercepts and decrypts played an important role in providing Allied air commanders with a picture of the campaign's effectiveness on the transportation system. 26 A mid-May appreciation by Commander in Chief West (Rundstedt) warned that the Allies were aiming at the systematic destruction of the railway system and that the attacks had already hampered supply and troop movements.27 On June 3, a report dealing with attacks on the railroads concluded: In Zone 1 [France and Belgium], the systematic destruction that has been carried out since March of all important junctions of the entire network-not only of the main lines has most seriously crippled the whole transport system (railway installations, including rolling stock). Similarly, Paris has been systematically cut off from long- distance traffic, and the most important bridges over the lower Seine have been destroyed one after another. As a result. . . it is only by exerting the greatest efforts that purely military traffic and goods essential to the war effort. . . can be kept moving. . . . The rail network is to be completely wrecked. Local and through traffic is to be made impossible, and all efforts to restore the services are to be prevented. This aim has so successfully been achieved- locally at any rate-that the Reichsbahn authorities are seriously considering whether it is not useless to attempt further repair work, 28 The success of these interdiction efforts was a major contribution to the winning of World War II, for it placed the Germans in an impossible situation. Since much of the Wehrmacht consisted of infantry whose equipment was horse-drawn, the Germans depended on railroads for movement of reserves and supplies to the battlefront. Removal of that support made it difficult to redeploy forces once an invasion occurred. Thus, the Germans lost the battle of the buildup in Normandy before it began. Unlike the batt