cons that now existed throughout Germany. What was surprising was the fact that the bombers after their turn south of Brussels flew straight at those beacons for 25 minutes and then continued on the same course for a further 35 minutes. Bennett objected to the route in strong terms. 39 He later suggested that there was a near mutiny among his pathfinder crews when they saw the routing.40 At 2322 hours, the bomber stream crossed the coast. Within 20 minutes, the German controller ordered fighters to concentrate at "Ida."'4' Adding to the doom awaiting the bombers were unusual weather conditions. For nearly the entire length of the long leg, the skies remained clear with few clouds. Moreover, strong contrails formed at the bombers' altitude, a rare occurrence considering the relatively low height at which Bomber Command operated.42 In such conditions, the bombers were in a hopeless position. German fighters, vectored to the "Ida" beacon from the west, found themselves in the bomber stream even before reaching station. Upon arrival at the beacon, fighters from the north and the west were among the bombers. All then flew with the main force to Nuremberg, while more fighters linked up and slaughter of the bombers took place. In Britain, 'Y' Service's listening stations picked up with distressing frequency interception plots and victory calls by German fighter pilots.43 By the time the bombers turned south on the attack leg, they had lost 61 of their aircraft. By the raid's completion, they had lost a further 47, a total of 108 altogether. The "Halifaxes" of 4 Group had a particularly rough night with 20 aircraft missing and a loss rate of 20.6 percent.44 As a fitting end to the disaster, not only did the attacking forces fail to achieve a concentration on Nuremberg but many aircraft blown off course bombed Schweinfurt.45 Losses over Nuremberg, when combined with those earlier in the week, meant that Bomber Command had lost 190 bombers in seven days (73 in Berlin, 9 in Es