rcraft attacking were insufficient to eliminate Schweinfurt as a production center. • The conduct of the Schweinfurt/Regensburg attack raises interesting questions. The size of the attacking force and dual targets reflect an overestimation of both the accuracy and effectiveness of bombing. 142 Thus, there was a tendency to underestimate the aircraft needed to destroy a target and to overestimate the damage inflicted. A second point has to do with the ineffectual cooperation between the British and American strategic bombing forces in England. Despite the friendship between Eaker and Harris, and Eighth Air Force's earlier cooperation in the assault on Hamburg on July 25 and 26th, Bomber Command headquarters showed no interest in supporting the precision bombing offensive by hitting at night what Eaker's forces had hit in the day. It is worth noting that the Air Staff's Director of Bombing Operations, Air Commander S.O. Bufton, was strongly urging in the summer of 1943 that Bomber Command follow up any American attack on Schweinfurt. He suggested that RAF crews be told that history might "prove that tonight's operation, in conjunction with the day attack which is taking place at this moment, will be one of the major battles of this war. If both operations are successful, German resistance may be broken and the war ended sooner than could be possible in any other way."143 But Harris had set his face against bombing any "panacea" target, and Eight Air Force went down the dark road to Schweinfurt twice in 1943-alone. The heavy losses that American bombers suffered in the summer directly reflected the insufficient range of escorting fighters. This was a result of Anglo- American attitudes that regarded the use of long-range fighter aircraft not only as technologically impossible but in some cases as not really necessary. As late as mid-June, even after the heavy losses on the Kiel raid, Eaker placed range extension tanks for fighters fourth on his list of priorities. In f