ers offered the possibility of breaking the enemy's morale. Naturally, he felt that the newly created totalitarian society of Germany could endure the pressures of bombing better than the fractured societies of the British and French democracies. Thus, if Germany possessed a "strategic" bombing fleet, her putative enemies-Poland and France-would think seriously before incurring the risk of air attack on major population centers. Above all, Knauss argued that the creation of such a bombing fleet offered a greater possibility for affecting the European military balance than did the establishment of army divisions or the construction of naval surface units. The creation of such a bomber force aborted for several reasons. First, the army was hardly enthusiastic about such a strategic conception. Colonel Konrad Gossler, head of the Truppenamt's operation section, argued that a clear separation between the homeland and the combat front no longer existed. Thus, both opposing air forces possessed the same opportunity to attack their enemy's homeland. Moreover, since the beginning of time, Gossler argued, each new weapon had led many to conclude that the old weapons of war were no longer needed. This had simply not happened. Finally, he objected that such a conception, if realized, "might destroy war by making it impossible for both sides." Such arguments would lead inevitably to pacifism!34 More decisive for the actual establishment of the Luftwaffe was the discovery that German aircraft industry lacked the designers, industrial capacity, or experience to build such a "strategic" bombing fleet. During the summer of 1933, Milch and his planners found that they could barely squeeze 1,000 aircraft out of industry for the first production program. Most of that effort consisted of training aircraft to expand the flying base. 35 The "combat" aircraft hardly deserved that characterization. From a January 1933 industrial base of 4,000 workers, the aircraft industry expanded to 16,8