nding or on the airfields themselves. In doing so, they imitate the landing procedure of German fighters or effect surprise by approaching the airfield in fast and level flight. The difficulty in distinguishing friend from foe often makes it impossible for the flak artillery to fire on them. 144 One must note here "Ultra's" impact in indicating to Allied air commanders the effectiveness of their tactics and the severe difficulties the Luftwaffe was facing. Intercepted messages did not always reveal what the Allies wished to know (such as bomb damage), but operational intercepts undoubtedly helped keep the pressure where it hurt the Germans the most. One can glimpse what this pressure meant in the war diaries and messages of the fighter squadrons. The 2nd Gruppe of Jagdgeschwader II scrambled 16 aircraft on March 13. Returning pilots claimed two "Mustangs" as certain and two as probable, but one German aircraft crashed on return (pilot killed), two aircraft were missing, a fourth was lost when its pilot bailed out, and a fifth crashed near Lübeck. On the 6th, this same group launched 15 aircraft against a Berlin raid: one pilot was killed, one missing, and one wounded when he jumped from his aircraft. 145 The war diary of the 3rd Gruppe of Jagdgeschwader Udet makes similarily depressing reading. On March 15, the Gruppe launched 20 aircraft; 2 pilots were killed (aircraft destroyed), 2 pilots had to parachute to safety, and 2 crash landings took place. On the next day, nine aircraft scrambled; two pilots were killed, four pilots were wounded (one severely), and one pilot parachuted to safety unhurt. On the next day, operations cost the unit one killed and two more pilots wounded (one badly). Thus, in a three-day span, a unit with about 25 pilots had lost 5 killed and 6 wounded (2 severely). 146 Fighter pilot losses were not confined to the inexperienced. Given the overwhelming odds, the law of averages began to catch up with Germany's leading aces. In March, two Gesch