nnek, among other accomplishments, had finished first in his class at the Kriegsakademie, usually a sure sign of promise for a quick rise to the top of the military profession.28 By October 1933, 228 officers up to the rank of colonel had transferred from the older services. By January 1939, a further 70 had followed along with 1,600 noncommissioned officers (NCOs) and enlisted men. Blomberg demanded that individuals selected for transfer represent the "best of the best."'29 The high quality of these officers should not obscure the fact that the Luftwaffe's officer corps and general staff, never in their short careers, reached a level of homogeneity and competence that the army officer corps and general staff enjoyed. The simple mechanics of expansion alone ruled out such a possibility. From 1933 to 1935, the Luftwaffe developed a personnel strength of approximately 900 flying officers, 200 flak (antiaircraft) officers, and 17,000 men. In addition to the army, the officer corps came from widely different sources; many pilots entered the Luftwaffe directly from civil aviation, while veterans of the First World War further fleshed out the officer corps. From this mixture, the Luftwaffe expanded to a strength of 15,000 officers and 370,000 men by the outbreak of the war. 30 Within the officer corps alone, the sheer magnitude of the expansion resulted in an entirely understandable lack of coherence and a notable lack of strategic competence. Shortly after the surprise Japanese attack on Hawaii when Hitler asked his military staff for the location of Pearl Harbor, none, including his Luftwaffe officers, could locate the American naval base.31 Luftwaffe officers, understandably given the shortness of their service's lifespan, had an immense task of catching up and maintaining currency in the technical aspects of their service. The result was that they became at best technocrats and operational experts with limited vision. 32 Thus, with perhaps the exception of Wever and t