hapter. The repercussions of this situation were not immediately apparent since the Luftwaffe's size and strength proved sufficient to meet initial wartime demands in Poland and France. But in long-range terms, this unbridgeable gulf between the general staff and the Luftwaffe's technical departments made industrial planning almost irrelevant in the consideration of German strategy. There was no person or agency, except Göring, in overall charge of strategic planning, force structure, or industrial production. The results led directly to the situation of 1943-44. Beginning in 1936, but with increasing force in 1937, the Luftwaffe transitioned into its second generation of aircraft. The emphasis from above on statistics complicated an inherently difficult process. As Göring stated, what mattered were numbers "to impress Hitler and to enable Hitler, in turn, to impress the world."59 Milch at least mitigated some of the worst aspects of this numbers craze. In 1935, he recognized that most models in production were obsolescent and refused to increase their production levels. But to stop aircraft production just because nothing better was yet available would have been counterproductive, especially since a national goal was to expand aircraft production capacity. Fortunately for the Luftwaffe, the Ju 52, produced as a bomber during this period, proved an outstanding transport aircraft and formed the backbone of the Luftwaffe's airlift force throughout the Second World War.60 Complicating the introduction of new aircraft were the difficulties experienced by German engine manufacturers in producing engines that met comparable performance standards of American and British industry.61 The fact that the Ju 52 was not an adequate bomber in any respect led to pressure from the bomber units for replacement. As a result, the Air Ministry rushed the Ju 86, He 111, and Do 17 into production before complete evaluation. None of the three was fully satisfactory with the Ju 86 virtually