er 25 damaged. The German success over Schweinfurt had not come cheaply nor did fighter operations over the course of the month. By the end of August, the Germans had lost 248 single-engine fighters (16.2 percent of their then available total single- engine fighter force) along with 86 twin-engine fighters (11.6 percent of the twin- engine and night fighter force) in air battles in the west. 182 In fact, the whole emphasis in the European air war had shifted radically away from a contest on the periphery to a massive battle of attrition over the Reich. Concurrently, Allied fighter forces were feeling their way deeper into the Reich and consequently restricting the area over which German fighters could intercept the bombers. Thus, at the end of August, the daylight air war in the west was peaking with each side inflicting serious damage on the other. It still remained an open question as to which air force could last the course. LOSSES, PRODUCTION, AND STRATEGY On August 18, 1943, the Luftwaffe's Chief of Staff, Jeschonnek, placed a gun to his temple and blew his brains out. His suicide was the direct result of the two massive blows Allied bombers had launched the previous day and evening (Schweinfurt/Regensburg and Peenemünde). While neither raid represented a decisive blow, together they clearly indicated the bankruptcy of Germany's air strategy. If there were others who deserved a significant share of the blame, and Hitler as well as Göring spring readily to mind, then Jeschonnek's role typified the part that so many of the officer corps had played in Germany's fate. Like too many of his brother officers, Jeschonnek had ignored the industrial, logistical, and technical basis on which modern war between industrialized states since the American Civil War has been fought. That curious blindness which led him in early 1942 to wonder what the Luftwaffe would do with 360 fighters had now led his air force and nation into a hopeless situation. The battles on the peripher