now discovered a less- than-unanimous agreement with his emphasis on the defense of the Reich. One colonel suggested that a diversion of Bf 110's from the front to night fighters was "unthinkable." Milch replied that the front would have to make-do-the threat was over Germany. 167 Milch and other advocates of air defense faced more substantial opposition to their policies from Hitler's natural inclinations. As suggested above, the Führer had become increasingly upset in the spring of 1943 over the scale and success of RAF raids. He warned his military aides shortly after the first Hamburg attack: "Terror can only be broken with terror." Attacks on German airfields made no impression on him, he commented, but the smashing of the Reich's cities was another matter. It was the same thing with the enemy. "The German people demanded reprisals. 168 Hitler's attitudes had a disasterous impact on air strategy after August 1943, but his line of argument was already clear. Moreover, efforts to build up the night fighter force were further complicated by Göring's sheer ignorance. It is worth noting that by late August, the Reichsmarschall was doubting whether night fighters were worth the considerable expenditures in man-hours and materials. 169 Considering that his staff was wasting them in daylight operations, one can only wonder at the muddle at the top. As for daylight operations, the Allies-for the first time-placed significant pressure on the Luftwaffe. The fighter sweeps of Fighter Command, accompanied by American fighters in large numbers, had combined with Eighth Air Force's bomber operations to make Western Europe the critical theater of air operations by the late summer of 1943. Neither Göring nor many of his more sober commanders had expected this development. In January 1943, the Reichsmarschall suggested increases in the day fighter forces but not because of worries over Allied aircraft production, rather the emphasis was on fighters for the fighter bomber mission