fighters. 174 In mid-June, Milch reported after a trip to the west that morale among the fighter pilots was excellent, but the number of available aircraft was "much too weak." He urged that the Luftwaffe quadruple fighter forces in the west and that as a minimum a full month's production of Bf 109's and Fw 190's go to units in western Europe. 175 Fighter losses in the west showed an alarming rise as early as March, and in that month the Luftwaffe began to transfer experienced pilots from the east to compensate for its losses in the west. The real pressure arrived in late spring with the first penetrations into German airspace. 176 The rise in fighter losses showed a direct correlation with Eighth Air Force operations. By June, it was clear that the American bombers represented a very different threat to Germany than did Bomber Command. The attack on Hüls suggested that the American bombers were going after specific segments of the German economy. By the end of the month, Jeschonnek recommended that the Luftwaffe request an updated list from Speer as to the critical points in the economy needing additional air defense protection. 177 Eighth Air Force's operations in July and August created a crisis. For July, Luftflotte 3 noted that the size and defensive power of bomber formations penetrating into its airspace had reached a level where the only possibility of attack required a timely, massed concentration of German fighter forces. 178 Arguments over exactly how many aircraft B-17 and B-24 gunners shot down in defending themselves have obscured what really occurred in these air battles. First, it is clear bomber crews claimed many more aircraft than in fact they shot down, but the cumulative effect of German fighter losses in these battles was impressive. In July, the Luftwaffe lost 335 single-engine fighters in the west. 179 Admittedly, a percentage of these losses was not directly attributable to combat, but the pressure of stepped-up air operations and losses for