or this error lay at Montgomery's door. However, a portion of the blame also lies at the door of American commanders who were more interested in distant objectives like Paris than with Falaise and with frontline troops who were less than enthusiastic at closing the gap and facing German troops breaking out. In the gap itself, Allied tactical air caused terrible damage to German troops and their equipment attempting escape. Little equipment got through the blasted roads and columns, but thousands of the toughest, most experienced veterans did escape. And in Germany, there was plenty of equipment, through Speer's efforts, to turn those troops back into the formidable formations that had resisted so long and so well in Normandy. The collapse became complete as the Germans raced for the frontier. On August 17, American and French troops landed in Southern France, and the German position in the west dissolved. Once again, German leaders threw the Luftwaffe into battle to mitigate collapse on the ground. The Luftwaffe made large numbers of fighter and bomber attacks on rapidly moving Allied columns, but its air operations had little significant impact on the drive towards the German frontier. The Luftwaffe suffered heavy losses. By August 14, Luftflotte 3 was down to 75 operational ready fighters. The numeric balance was so unfavorable and the enemy advance so dangerous that the Luftwaffe high command immediately returned squadrons to the front from Luftflotte Reich that had just begun to refit with new pilots and aircraft after July's losses. These units were severely attrited just in moving to airfields in France as Allied fighters once again savaged the refitted squadrons. The haste of the retreat forced the Germans to abandon enormous amounts of materiel, supplies, and aircraft. By early September, most of Luftflotte 3 was back on German airfields in utter disarray. Its new bases did not even have flak protection against Allied fighter sweeps. 127 Losses in the collap