y of reasons. The Nationalists had been in a position to destroy utterly Madrid, Barcelona, and Valencia with incendiaries but had not done so because of the delicate political problems involved in a civil war. Franco had not attacked the major ports because these lay within the "international zone" and had not authorized attacks on armament factories since Spain possessed so few.78 Conversely, Captain Heye of the Seekriegsleitung (naval high command) gained a different impression after talking with Luftwaffe officers during a 1938 visit to Spain. He reported on his return to Berlin: Disregarding the military success accompanying the Luftwaffe's use in immediate support of army operations, one gets the impression that our attacks on objects of little military importance, through which in most cases many women and children . . . were hit, are not a suitable means to break an opponent's resistance. They seem to strengthen his resistance. . . . The memory of the air attack on Guernica by the [Condor] Legion still today affects the population and permits no friendly feelings for Germany in the population of the Basques, who earlier were thoroughly friendly to Germany and in no manner Communistic.79 Significantly, whatever their attitudes towards the effects of bombing, the Spanish Civil War confirmed in some Germans' minds the belief that fighter aircraft and civil defense measures would be of importance in the coming war. In 1937, Udet increased the proportion of fighters to bombers from the existing 1-to-3 ratio to 1-to-2.80 Moreover, unlike their counterparts in Britain, German airpower experts "believed that civil defense measures could appreciably reduce casualties in an air attack. ''81 Spain also indicated the difficulties of hitting targets by both day and night. The experience gleaned from night attacks proved generally beneficial, while the problem of hitting targets accurately in daylight missions helped push Udet towards his conception that every bomber shou