res those on the ground with exaggerated forebodings of what it is capable of doing." Establishment of the Royal Air Force as an independent service reinforced this tendency to accentuate the importance of the airplane in attacking morale. The political rationale behind the RAF's creation seems more to have been the launching of reprisal raids on Germany than the defense of British territory. As one recent commentator has noted: "Indeed, an essential continuing characteristic of the RAF was established in its very creation; it was an offensive service arm which was created to deal with defensive needs." Trenchard, himself, once he had returned to France to command the independent bombing force became a convert to the concept of attacks on German industries and cities. This formative period determined his attitude towards airpower for the remainder of his life. By the summer of 1918, the British were strong advocates of the creation of an independent "strategic" bombing force drawn from Allied air forces. In response to a French position paper asking whether or not it was desirable to establish a coordinated plan for attacking targets within the Reich, the RAF replied with an emphatic yes. British representatives to the Inter-Allied Aviation Committee suggested that "strategic" bombing "must be conducted in pursuance of a carefully conceived policy and with a thorough elaboration of detail." Attacks on enemy railroads and airfields in the vicinity of the battlefield should be the task of units assigned to cooperate with ground forces. The "special long-range striking force" would have a more important task: "the dislocation of the enemy's key industries." They argued that "a general inter-Allied plan for bombardment of military, industrial, and morale objectives in Germany by an Allied strategic striking force should be formulated without delay." The launching of attacks by the pooled resources of Allied air forces would force the Germans to divert significant resour