uce the items. The Ford Willow Run plant and the many other great industrial plants then operating in the United States underline this point. Milch, from early 1942, had pushed the German aircraft industry in the same direction. The problem was that such a concentration maximizing production was particularly vulnerable to bombing, especially the type that the Americans were waging. The threat posed by the American bombing in the summer of 1943 caused the Germans to begin dispersing their aircraft industry to less vulnerable areas. Efforts, however, to scatter its industry to occupied or allied countries foundered on several difficulties. First, German occupation policies had robbed most foreign firms of workers and machines. 186 In addition, bureaucratic squabbling within the Third Reich directly affected dispersal plans to occupied territories. At the same time the Luftwaffe was desperately trying to move production outside Germany, Sauckel was robbing occupied territories of the skilled workers such a dispersed production would require. 187 The dispersal effort received added impetus from the great attacks made on the aircraft industry in the winter and spring of 1944. Critics of the "strategic" bombing campaign have often cited the growth of German fighter production in 1944 as evidence of the campaign's failure. In fact, attacks on German industry were effective in keeping production within tolerable limits and in helping to maintain Allied superiority. The mere act of dispersal reduced production efficiency. German industry's vaunted production of 36,000 aircraft in 1944 was only 8,000 above what the Japanese produced that year. 188 The numerical increase in 1944 over 1943, consisting almost entirely of fighters (a percentage rise of 55.9 percent), hides the fact that German production rose only 23.9 percent in terms of airframe weight. 189 Unhindered by Allied bombing, German production would have risen far higher and far faster. The target of 80,000-plus airc