k and in the north resulted not only from disagreements within the high command as to the next objective and the need to refresh exhausted mechanized units but also from a logistical system that could barely supply frontline forces, much less build up reserves.87 The demands placed on the frontline units reflected the grievous underestimation that the Germans had made of Russian strength. Often badly led and consisting of ill-equipped and ill-trained troops, Russian counterattacks strained the entire German structure. Halder admitted on August 11 that: [The] whole situation shows more and more clearly that we have underestimated the colossus of Russia-a Russia that had consciously prepared for the coming war with the whole unrestrained power of which a totalitarian state is capable. This conclusion is shown both on the organization as well as the economic levels, in the transportation, and above all, clearly in infantry divisions. We have already identified 360. These divisions are admittedly not armed and equipped in our sense, and tactically they are badly led. But they are there; and when we destroy a dozen, the Russians simply establish another dozen. 88 These Soviet attacks on Army Group Center failed to gain any appreciable tactical success and clearly expended an immense number of Russian lives. Yet, in the long run, they had an important strategic impact. The wear-and-tear on German units, attacked in the Yel'nya and Smolensk battles, was perhaps of greater importance than any tactical victory Soviet forces might have gained. The battle of attrition had begun with a terrible vengeance. Having advanced as far as they had in the entire French campaign, the Germans discovered the geographical difference between continental distances and those in Central Europe. The Russians possessed strategic depth; and even if they had not fully utilized it in the first months, it was an inevitable strategic advantage. For the Luftwaffe, these same factors were operative. The