ourse of warfare in general and air war in particular also were present in Germany. Conversely, and not surprisingly, the peculiar forces that had guided and molded German history exercised their influence on the growth and development of the Luftwaffe. Like their counterparts in other nations, German airmen believed that their air force would be able to exercise an important, if not decisive, impact on a future war. To them, aircraft would be the definitive "strategic" weapon in the coming conflict.' Those currents within the German military, typified by Erich Ludendorff's conceptions of total war and the mobilization of the population, not only made the mass movement of the Nazi Party attractive to many officers but also led to a greater acceptance of airpower theories among the air force officer corps.8 On the other hand, Germany's location and strategic situation presented the German miliary with a reality that they could not ignore; one major defeat on land might well seal the fate of the Reich before the Luftwaffe could have an impact. That represented a strategic situation quite different from that facing British and American airmen. Besides reflecting its society, the Luftwaffe reflected the traditions and values of the Prussian officer corps. Like their brother officers in the army, Luftwaffe officers would prove imaginative, innovative, and highly competent in operational and tactical matters. They would, however, prove themselves lost in the higher realms of strategy and grand strategy, and it would be in those realms that the Reich would founder. After the war, the German generals and admirals would rush into print to prove that defeat had been largely the result of Hitler's leadership. In fact, their strategic concepts in the war proved to be as flawed as had the Führer's. The German generals and admirals aided and abetted Hitler's strategy in 1940; and when it succeeded beyond their wildest expectations with the fall of France, they reacted in awe, sus