o the problem: There are two factors-moral[e] effect and material effect-the object being to obtain the maximum of each. The best means to this end is to attack the industrial centres where you: a. Do military and vital damage by striking at the centres of supply of war material. b. Achieve the maximum of effect on the morale by striking at the most sensitive part of the German population— namely, the working class. 10 The actual conduct of operations, however, pointed out most of the considerable problems that Bomber Command would face in the Second World War. Aircrew training, lack of aircraft, and serviceability, as well as weather and navigational difficulties, all combined to keep Trenchard's bomber force at a rather limited stage of effectiveness." Some of these problems, including even the thorny problem of nighttime navigation, were examined at least in conception, if not in detail, by elements within the Royal Navy Air Service in the years before creation of the Royal Air Force. 12 Nevertheless, the full complexity of the problem of accurately placing bombs on targets unfortunately remained obscure to many post-war commanders. With the coming of peace, the British government made wholesale cuts in military expenditures. For all intents and purposes, by 1933 the British had disarmed almost as thoroughly as the Treaty of Versailles had disarmed the Germans (the Royal Navy was, of course, an exception). Trenchard, once again as Chief of Air Staff, confronted a dwindling establishment of squadrons and personnel due to decreased military funding. With relatively few resources, RAF commanders justifiably feared that loss of aircraft or crews to the navy (for aircraft carriers) or army (for close air support missions) would threaten the existence of their service. 13 Army and navy leaders may well have persisted in demands for the return of such aircraft precisely to remove one of the hungry mouths at the treasury's increasingly spare dinner table. 323   ## p. 324