er tactics. The weight of their bomb loads would put German pilots at an even greater disadvantage against Allied fighters. 81 On June 5, 1944, Luftflotte 3 contained 815 aircraft, of which approximately 600 were in commission. 82 The hope was that fighter forces from Luftflotte Reich would build up aerial forces in France to required levels. Unfortunately for the Germans, their forecasters misread the weather for June 6 so that the invasion caught their entire command structure by surprise. (Rommel was in Germany celebrating his wife's birthday.83) Through the night and daylight hours of D-day, the Allies enjoyed complete air superiority with Allied air forces flying 14,000 missions in support of the invasion. They lost only 127 aircraft. By the end of the first day, the British had landed 75,215 troops and the Americans 57,500. In addition, some 23,000 airborne troops had dropped behind the invasion beaches. 84 Throughout the day, the Luftwaffe was hardly seen. But Field Marshal Sperrle did issue a pompous order of the day to his troops: Men of Luftflotte 3! The enemy has launched the long-announced invasion. Long have we waited for this moment, long have we prepared ourselves, both inwardly and on the field of battle, by untiring, unending toil. Our task is now to defeat the enemy. I know that each one of you, true to his oath to the colors, will carry out his duties. . . . Great things will be asked of you, and you will show the bravest fighting valor. Salute the Führer.85 Sperrle's words could not have been further removed from reality. Luftflotte 3 launched less than 100 sorties of which approximately 70 were by single-engine fighters. That evening, the bombers and antishipping squadrons mounted 175 more sorties against the invasion fleet. 86 For the day, the Germans lost 39 aircraft with 21 damaged, 8 due to noncombat causes.87 The Luftwaffe now scrambled desperately to get its fighter forces from Germany to fields in France where they could bring some relief