ate city. Conditions limited the "wild sow" force of day fighters even more. In single-engine, short-range fighters, they had to receive a vector to the correct city as limited range and lack of radar gave them little chance of intercepting the bomber stream. Almost from the first, the British caught on to the "wild sow" tactics. Their response was twofold. First, they launched more spoof missions to confuse and mislead defenses, and deception tactics became more complicated as the year continued. The second response reduced time over target to a minimum. In October, the British scheduled no raid to last more than 26 minutes over target. 15 As a result, "wild sow" fighters had little time to identify and to attack bombers. If "wild sow" tactics represented an expedient, the Germans were moving rapidly to redress the balance between bomber and fighter. In particular, they solved the "Window" problem. In the summer, German scientists had been developing a new radar set, the "SN2." It operated on a longer wavelength than older radars; and although it could lock on to targets at a relatively long range, it had the disadvantage of an excessive minimum range. However, "Window" had little effect on its wavelength, and thus it could distinguish targets in the clouds of aluminum strips. The Luftwaffe immediately began a crash program to re-equip night fighters.16 As with all new systems, there were teething troubles with the device, and frontline units squabbled with industry as to who was at fault for initial failures. Nevertheless, by mid-winter, technicians had resolved most defects. 17 In addition, some Ju 88's and He 219's began to appear in the force as replacements for outdated Bf 110's. But the re-equipment program still lagged because night fighters received lower priority than the bomber force. Therefore, despite its limitations, the Bf 110 remained the backbone of night fighters. One other major equipment change occurred that had a major impact on bomber losses to