n the 24th, 351 on the 25th, and 300 on the 26th.81 Whether, in fact, the Luftwaffe had managed to destroy that many aircraft is beside the point; a defeat of immense proportion had overtaken the Red Air Force-a catastrophe overshadowed only by events on the ground. On the main battlefronts, aided by Luftwaffe close air support and interdiction missions, German armies surged forward against a collapsing opponent. Within four days, Manstein's panzer corps had advanced nearly 200 miles to the Dvina River; and by the end of the month, the entire Russian position in the Baltic region was in shreds. The greatest disaster occurred, however, on the central front in an enormous double envelopment around the cities of Bialystok and Minsk. When the armored pincers of Panzer Groups 2 and 3 met behind Minsk, they inclosed elements from four Soviet armies. By the time that mopping-up operations had finished on July 9, the Germans had claimed 287,704 prisoners and destruction of 2,585 tanks.82 Probably another quarter of a million Soviet soldiers had died or been wounded in operations leading up to this final collapse. The German drive, however, did not remain stationary. As the infantry hurried forward to encompass and destroy the pocket, mechanized forces from Panzer Groups 2 and 3 swung out again to meet on July 19 at Smolensk to complete another envelopment of Soviet forces. By the time that they had reduced the Smolensk pocket, the Germans had captured a further 100,000 prisoners, 2,000 tanks, and 1,900 guns.83 Only in the south did the Germans fail to gain a significant success. Nevertheless, even there Army Group South closed up on Kiev and was breaking into the big bend of the Dneper River. On July 3, Halder noted optimistically: On the whole, one can already say that the task of destroying the mass of the Russian army in front of the Dvina and Dneper has been fulfilled. I believe the assertion of a captured Russian general to be correct that we can calculate on meeting e