r, Spaatz, and Doolittle played a major role in the command changes. January's weather did not cooperate with American commanders who had hoped to launch their air forces against the Reich to win air superiority. Arnold made clear in a Christmas message what he expected to be accomplished in 1944. The overriding aim was destruction of the Luftwaffe: "Destroy the enemy air force wherever you find them, in the air, on the ground, and in the factories [emphasis in original]. "115 Nevertheless, conditions were sufficient to allow the Germans a glimpse of what they could expect. As early as the start of 1944, Luftwaffe intelligence gave a clear picture of the pattern of upcoming day raids. They noted the following characteristics. First, fighter bombers and twin-engine aircraft, such as "Mosquitoes," "Mitchells," and "Marauders," would attack targets throughout France and the Low Countries. Concurrently, four-engine bomber formations would sweep into Germany while clouds of fighters, upwards of 1,000, would accompany the raids. Finally, the B-17 and B-24 formations would attack a number of targets to divide and to confuse the defenders.116 Because of bad weather, nearly all of the day raids in January used radar for bombing. In mid-month, conditions cleared for a short period, and Eighth dispatched its forces deep into Germany against the aircraft industry. Although only one-third of the 663 bombers dispatched bombed the primary targets, a major air battle did develop. Out of 174 bombers attacking the A.G.O. Flugzeugwerke at Oschersleben, the Germans shot down 34. The day's losses reached the level of the attacks on Schweinfurt in 1943-60 bombers. The cause of such losses were two- fold: the masssive Luftwaffe opposition and the fact that only one group of P-51's could provide the deep support that such a raid required. 17 The attack again showed the Germans the importance that Eighth Air Force attached to destroying Germany's aircraft industry. A decrypted "Ultra" messa