chte der Deutschen Luftwaffe (Stuttgart, 1968), has important documents on the prewar development of the German air force. H. R. Trevor Roper's Blitzkrieg to Defeat, Hitler's War Directives (New York, 1965) is a useful collection of the directives that Hitler issued through the OKW headquarters. The war diary of that headquarters is available in a multivolume set edited by a number of Germany's leading military historians (Kriegstagebuch des Oberkommandos der Wehrmacht). This series has important information on the Luftwaffe; but given the emphasis on the conduct of ground operations, its coverage is somewhat uneven on the air war. It is very useful on German strategy. Franz Halder's diary, Kriegstagebuch, edited by Hans Adolf Jacobsen (Stuttgart, 1964), is an important source on German strategy in the first three years of the war. It does touch tangentially on air force matters. There are a number of other diaries that are also of interest but of less immediate concern to the historian of the Luftwaffe. Joseph Goebbels, Diaries, 1942-1943, edited by Louis Lochner (New York, 1948), is interesting and informative on the opinions of one of Germany's most important political leaders. The various volumes of the "strategic" bombing survey carried out by American economists immediately at the end of the Second World War contain much important statistical information as well as useful analyses of the impact of the "strategic" bombing campaign on the German war economy. The final volume of the survey, The Effects of Strategic Bombing on the German War Economy (Washington, 1945), has a particularly important set of summary charts on German armaments production. In this same area, the final volume of Sir Charles Webster's and Nobel Frankland's The Strategic Air Offensive Against Germany, Vol. IV (London, 1961), has an interesting collection of documents on the British side of the "strategic" bombing offensive as well as several useful tables. Hans-Adolf Jacobsen, Dokumente zu