ith large fighter and flak forces. However, the air defense system, although not intended to protect the civilian population, was behind the British. This reflected the fact that German strategy was by definition aggressive and offensively oriented. The Luftwaffe trained its fighter forces for offensive operations in enemy airspace. Consequently, the burden of defending the Reich fell on the flak units. However, the relative freedom with which RAF bombers crossed the night skies over Germany during the summer of 1940 raised serious questions. As a result, at almost the same time as the British, the Germans began work on the problem of night controlled, aerial interception. From the beginning, the Germans had emphasized the role of flak in the defense of the Reich. This partially resulted from a misreading of the lessons of Spain where antiaircraft had proven effective against low flying aircraft, the profile of most missions in that war.92 But despite the relative ineffectiveness of flak against high altitude targets, the Germans continued to place strong emphasis on flak throughout the war for use against enemy aircraft. Two factors played a role in this crucial decision. Hitler found antiaircraft guns more congenial than aircraft and more within his frame of reference. Also important was the fact that antiaircraft guns, blasting into the night, provided the population with a psychological crutch no matter how ineffective the weapons might be. Goebbels, with support from the Gauleiters (Nazi district leaders), berated Milch as late as 1943 because there were insufficient antiaircraft guns for defense of the cities. 93 The use of antiaircraft guns, however, did involve diversion of scarce aluminum resources that would have been better spent on aircraft. 94 In July 1940, the Luftwaffe established the 1st Night Fighter Division in Brussels under General Joseph Kammhuber." The general staff combined various units, including a few flights of Bf 109's, a flight of Do 17'