western fighter forces, the unit be broken up and its personnel and aircraft divided among other squadrons in the west. 102 Given the German's emphasis on unit cohesion, this represented an important departure in policy and an admission that severe frontline shortages of pilots and aircraft existed. On November 20, Schmid warned his commanders: One can estimate that for the foreseeable future, the provision of aircraft will be numerically so small so that for the future our inferiority compared to the British and Americans will remain. It is therefore the responsibility of the commander to act so that with the aircraft on hand . . . every possible loss will be avoided. With enemy attacks, it is important that the 3rd Division carries out timely aerial reconnaissance to report where the enemy formations are flying and whether they are accompanied by fighters. By such action, we will be able to avoid feeding night fighters against enemy day fighters. 103 On November 13, Eighth went all the way to Bremen with fighter escort as 345 P-47's and 45 P-38's supported the 143 bombers. The P-47's provided the short- range cover while the P-38's, with two 150-gallon drop tanks, held off German fighters near the target. The attacking bombers lost 16 aircraft but only 2 to German fighters. 104 A more massive attack on Bremen thirteen days later, despite fighter support, cost the attackers 25 bombers; but considering bomber strength, 491 aircraft, losses were only 5.1 percent. That was an attrition rate that Eighth could accept. The November 26 raid is important because for the first time, Eighth dispatched 600 bombers (128 aircraft also attacked Paris). In December, despite the weather, Eighth launched eight major raids against the continent. The size of these raids, in some cases, came close to doubling and, in many cases, actually did double October's attack on Schweinfurt. On December 11, 523 bombers hit Emden; on December 13, 649 bombers attacked a number of targets in German