e um den Bombenkrieg 1940-45 , Rowohlt, Berlin, 2003. Obviously many issues are contentious in this debate. Th  e most parochial issues are those that concern historians as such. To what extent can the historian merely report or dissect the diff  ering positions without engaging his own sense of moral judgment. Second, what sort of rhetoric is legitimate in an historical account?  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 11 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 439wonder whether we Anglo-American readers, for whom the Second World War remains above all the most righteous military cause, do not seek to evade the questioning the book provokes by pointing to the admittedly charged language. (And so, too, may those German readers who fear the apologetics implicit in the work.) Y es Friedrich resorts to the images  we usually associate with Holocaust literature… but children and adults did end up incinerated. Discursive fastidi- ousness should not serve as a defence mechanism to draw too much comfort from the flaws that are documented. Sebald’s thesis of literary repression is also flawed. In the early post-war period, as Volker Hage’s collection shows, German accounts of bombing and urban destruction did appear. 14 But they were not backed up in major essays or novels. No German dialogue on those issues came into being, such as that generated by Germans themselves on their own war crimes and genocide. As Pfeiffer rightly notes, there was in fact extensive though often specialized lit-erature on the latter subjects. Rather than an outright taboo, there has been an inhibition against producing or citing material about German suffering as such. Y es, we have had surveys of the air war — the ones written by the victors and the important scholarly work carried out at the Freiburg centre for mili-tary history. 15 But such works rarely dwell on the experience of being bombed. Commentators have also raised the question why non-neo-Nazi Germans could not write this history so graphic