ure of the subject, it must include an analysis of moral questions as well as an historical account. Actually the discussion about means is a two-fold debate though often a rather muddled one. War is an evil and is recognized as such, but there are lesser and greater evils, and there has been general agreement in the West that the evil of war should be kept to a minimum. This imposes limitations on recourse to war ( jus ad bellum ) and on the waging of a war once it is deemed necessary (jus in bello ). The concept of “necessity” is usually the licence for resorting to war and employing means in warfare that are harmful — but necessity remains a subjective standard. And even necessity has in some cases been ruled out by international agreement as an excuse for bringing harm to civilians, although such agreements are often not honoured. War involves a means-end calculation in several ways. Just war doctrine suggests both that recourse to war, and the conduct of a war already decided upon, must meet certain criteria. Waging war cleanly will nevertheless cause death and destruction and so recourse to war — codified as  jus ad bellum  — must be a last resort, undertaken only if the good achieved can outweigh the harm that will ensue. In the second sphere, war is limited by imposing constraints on the conduct of hostilities, that is, by observing jus in bello . At the heart of these constraints are two major moral priorities: first, preservation of the distinction between civilians and military combatants; second — and again, as in the case of recourse to war — the invocation of proportionality as a standard to be met: the harm done should not be disproportionate to the good supposedly achieved. An  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 3 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 431aggrieved State should not go to war lightly and, once engaged in war, it should not employ a level of violence disproportionate to the provocation. Conversely many military men, such as General She