n the other, there is the German retort that the Allied block ade — formally contrary to the rules of war, which allowed a close blockade at a harbour entrance but not the interdiction of distant shipping routes — also killed civilians never had quite the same force, since the eff  ects were indirect and hard to visualize as an immediate consequence. 2 (Th e same disjunction of cause and eff  ect has also attended the debate on economic sanctions against Iraq or other off  ending governments: are sanctions that aff  ect a population as a whole justifi  ed against dictatorial regimes that supposedly keep their populations in thrall?) By 1918, moreover, it was evident from the emerging implications of aerial warfare, especially with the Zepellin raids over London, that the question of harm to civilians had to be considered. In view of the issues raised by aerial bombing in general, debate has often centred not on the degree to which military necessity might justify harm done to civilians, but on the question whether military necessity really came into play. In other words, even if the issue of taking civilian casualties in one’s stride were suspended, might not victory be possible without such cruelties. Debate on use of the Hiroshima bomb, and even more so the Nagasaki bomb, has usually focused on the question of their necessity to end the war. Was either needed to compel the Japanese to surrender? At least, did those advocating the use of the bomb believe it was needed to bring about their surrender without a great loss of American lives? 3 Was the second bomb equally necessary? Might a greater interval between them have been allowed? But a major reason that civilians have become (or became) a target is of course that modern technology makes civilians instrumental in warfare. The growing dependence of warfare on society as a whole — especially the role of labour in arming a nation — rendered the civilian-combatant distinction ques-tionable. Modern warfare was so dep