eful diversion of airpower from a better use. 9 Dresden, too, was probably attacked largely because the Soviets complained that Britain and the US were not contributing their fair share in the winter of l945 to the forthcoming land battles within Germany. In the early days, however, the arguments for bombing were not offi- cially developed in terms of morale and retaliation. They followed the more tortuous course of reasoning about the scale of civilian casualties permissible to set back Germany’s war industry. Although Harris and others thought ter-ror as such was permissible because it must surely weaken the enemy’s will, the Allies did not officially accept such  a justification. Nonetheless, the earlier notions of collateral damage themselves proved sufficiently elastic — any indus-trial or transport capacity contributed to the German and Japanese war effort. How much devastation was permissible? In targeting Sodom and Gomorrah for incendiary attacks, even God was willing to allow innocent victims. Once the tide had turned, violence was ingrained and the capacity to infl  ict damage — but largely indiscriminate damage — had been vastly enhanced. Only Hitler and Goebbels were frank enough to declare that the V-1 and V-2 attacks in the latter stages of the war were indeed designed to wreak terror, hence their V designa-tion for “ Vergeltung , ” meaning reprisal or retaliation. But they could not win that battle. 9  Overy, op. cit . (note 8), pp. 103-04.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 9 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 437The German debate and the issue of taboos In retrospect, what has been striking about the post-war German discussion of these issues is the relative absence of political reproach except in extreme right-wing circles, at least until a few years ago. Dresden, for all the implicit reproach in the discussion about it, never became a Hiroshima. Of course, the fatali-ties, despite propagandistic inflation, were lower: 35,000, not 70,000-100,0