hich each and every death inflicted was intentional. Some Germans, I believe, were silent not merely because they could not reconcile themselves to the deaths, but because they really did understand where the chain of murderous warfare began. “[As young survivors, we took] no oaths of revenge against the Allied bombers. In a certain sense we felt a solidarity with them; they would destroy that system that we ourselves […] had erected but which we did not have the strength to over-throw, ” Peter Wapnewski writes. 16 Even Friedrich, who is outraged by the suf- fering inflicted, states: “The destruction of the cities helped the cause of elimi-nating Himmler and his adherents, who had taken hostage these places, this history and this humanity, all Germany and all Europe. ” But it was Germany, too, which had taken these hostages, “...whether through violence, approval, or anger, out of equanimity or impotence. A different Germany was nothing but hypothetical — a would- or might-have-been. ” He goes on to say, however, that it is also hypothetical to ask whether the confl  agration might have been unneces- sary: “Did Hildesheim have to be destroyed for its railroad station? Was this the reason, was there really any reason? Did those who set the fires intentionally and in anger want to win at any price, or was this the price that had to be paid for their victory? Certainly this was their effort. If this represents no tragedy as part of the Allies’ history, was their total success the same for the history of the Germans?” 17 Critical historians, have simply labelled the book demagogic and flawed. In effect, this is a strategy of compartmentalization, which I do not share. Friedrich raises serious issues that we cannot seriously deal with if we merely object to inflammatory language or lack of balance. Friedrich does understand that after the 1940 defeat in the West, there seemed no choice for the British but to strike at the enemy with whatever weapons were available if the