ians, the slavery, lynching and segregation of African-Americans, and the internment of West-Coast Japanese-Americans during World War II. But the “good war” is still too fresh in their memory or too necessary a perception to be subjected to the same emotional scrutiny. The fierce controversy over the Enola Gay exhibition in 1995, however flawed the explanatory material might have been, revealed the great resistance to this sort of scrutiny. 18 In fact, Hiroshima and Nagasaki can be questioned and discussed, but the conventional air war remains beyond widespread popular re-evaluation. The recent histories of America’s bombers, especially Stephen Ambrose’s history of B-24 Liberator raids, are cast in the heroic mould. Thomas Childers’ moving study, which evidently inspired Ambrose (though he never acknowledged it), of his uncle’s B-24 war, Wings of Morning , likewise did not seek to question the rationale for bombing raids up to and including April 1945. 19 Childers, however, was explicitly writing a book about subjective experience — the very dangerous one that ordinary Americans undertook on orders — and he has promised a counterpart volume on experience of the war from the ground. But no one has suggested that if American soldiers are supposed to resist immoral orders or commanders are punishable for giving them, any aspect of the air war should come within that moral category. What the air-war discussions — German, British and American alike — reveal is that much of the discussion about the legitimacy or “just war” justifica-tion of massive aerial bombardment was beside the point. In large-scale national wars, even in cases where societies were under totalitarian control and citizens were not thought to have any influence over their rulers, reprisal became an accepted course of action. As a British Liberal MP wrote in 1942, “I am all for the bombing of working class areas of German cities. I am Cromwellian — I believe in ‘slaying in the name of the Lord’ , becaus