rale was not seriously impaired. The Survey’s minimizing judgments were long accepted and cited by domes-tic opponents of President Johnson’s and Nixon’s resort to heavy bombing of North Vietnam. More recent assessmen ts such as Richard Overy’s view, how- ever, have challenged the Survey’s early dismissal of air-war effi   cacy. According to Overy, the Allied attacks produced a downward spiral of industrial collapse for the Th  ird Reich, above all when bombing concentrated on strategic industrial targets. Germany relied on synthetic oil from hydrogenation for three-quarters of her consumption, and the “oil offensive” cost Germany 90 per cent of her syn-thetic production between May and September 1944. 8 Destroying railway lines precluded adequate fuel transportation and thus limited use of German fighter defences, which rendered Allied bombing all the more effective, thus destroy-ing more fuel supplies, etc. We cannot test the counter-hypothesis, namely what would German production have achieved without the bombing? German pro-duction declined only from the second half of l944, and part of the downturn admittedly followed after Romanian oil sources were finally overrun by Soviet troops and the Reich was fighting huge battles on two fronts. Still, one can agree that to think of bombing as counter-productive (which some of its critics tended to claim) seems as simplistic a conclusion as to believe that it alone could have defeated the Third Reich, as Bomber Harris 8  Th  e various reports of the US Strategic Bombing Survey became available as from October 1945; see John K. Galbraith, A Life in Our Times: Memoirs , Houghton Miffl   in, Boston, 1981; Richard Overy, Why the Allies Won , Norton, New Y ork, 1995, pp. 230-232.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 8 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 436insisted. Intuitively, it does seem incredible to think that the massive and con- tinuous attacks on a densely