rfare. The growing dependence of warfare on society as a whole — especially the role of labour in arming a nation — rendered the civilian-combatant distinction ques-tionable. Modern warfare was so dependent upon war production at sites far away from the fighting that the concept of a front line tended to seem irrel-evant. Surely a belligerent nation was entitled to destroy the industrial capacity of its adversary, since that seemed such an integral part of the military effort. But was it entitled to attack the civilians who worked in such production facili-ties? As is well-known, the doctrine of “collateral damage” was first put forward among British air strategists to cope with th is issue. Civilian casualties had to be accepted as a by-product of attacks on a physical plant used for war production or even related civilian production. 2  Geoff  rey Best, Humanity in Warfare: Th  e Modern History of the International Law of Armed Confl  icts, Methuen, London, 1983. 3  Barton J. Bernstein has sorted out much of the argumentation in many essays. Of course, quantitative issues then intrude. How many lives would have had to be saved? Th  e Stimson-Bundy claim was that the atomic bomb was believed to forestall an invasion of Honshu, planned for 1946, and which might have cost “a million lives. ” Th  e argument was refi  ned, for the fi  rst invasion planned for the autumn of 1945 would probably have taken place in Kyushu, a smaller island, with a smaller estimated number of casualties. On the other hand, when those objecting to the bomb have suggested that no invasion was really necessary, defenders of the bomb’s use suggest that a blockade of Japan would probably have cost more Japanese lives than did the bomb itself. See McGeorge Bundy’s refl  ective weighing of the issues in Danger and Survival: Choices about the Bomb in the First Fift  y Years , Random House, New Y ork, 1988.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 5 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 433No earlier d