ars ago. Dresden, for all the implicit reproach in the discussion about it, never became a Hiroshima. Of course, the fatali-ties, despite propagandistic inflation, were lower: 35,000, not 70,000-100,000. 10 The reasons for this reticence are not hard to find: West Germany remained dependent on the British and Americans for its post-war security against the Warsaw Pact alliance. Also, to raise the subject of German suffering seemed, for many “good” post-war Germans, to be tainted by neo-Nazi politics; it might be acceptable for the Japanese to play the role of unique victims because of the atom bomb, but that had indeed been a new and terrible weapon. And even the Japanese did not harp on the equally destructive conventional air raid on Tokyo in April 1945. Still, debate was renewed a few years ago and along two separate tracks. First of all, the issue of German victims re-emerged, most sensationally in a book by Jörg Friedrich, “Der Brand: Deutschland im Bombenkrieg 1940-1945” (The Fire: Germany in the Bombing Campaign). The Friedrich book, appeared at a moment many writers were opening issues of German suffering in the war and asking whether post-war German culture had “repressed” any sustained discussions of Germans’ status as victims. as was claimed most notably by the late literary scholar and novelist W . G. Sebald in his Zurich lectures, pub-lished under the title “ Air War and Literature. ” In the same connection Günter Grass published his novel “Im Krebsgang” (Crabwalk), which gradually circled around and then told the story of the sinking of a German liner in the Baltic that was evacuating 9,000 refugees fleeing the Soviet invasion. 11 None of these authors could be suspected of neo-Nazi tendencies: Friedrich had written about German war crimes; Grass was a maveri ck leftist whose subject was the maim- ing or survival of ordinary people caught up in a German history they perhaps should have earlier resisted but didn’t; Sebald had written melancholy tales of