d course of action. As a British Liberal MP wrote in 1942, “I am all for the bombing of working class areas of German cities. I am Cromwellian — I believe in ‘slaying in the name of the Lord’ , because I do not believe you will ever bring home to the civil population of Germany the horrors of war until they have been tested in this way. ” 20 Of course, bombing for pedagogical purposes is not meant to imply that five-year-olds deserve that lesson. Rather it presumes that 18  See Philip Nobile (ed.), Judgment at the Smithsonian: Smithsonian Script by the Curators at the National Air and Space Museum , Marlowe & Company, New Y ork, 1995. Th  e aft  erword by Barton J. Bernstein is a valuable summary of the debates since 1945. 19  Th  omas Childers, Wings of Morning: Th  e Story of the Last American Bomber Shot down over Germany in World War II,  Addison Wesley, Reading, MA, 1995; Stephen E. Ambrose, Th e Wild Blue: Th  e Men and Boys who Flew the B-24s over Germany , Simon & Schuster, New Y ork, 2001. 20  Geoff  rey Shakespeare to Archibald Sinclair, cited in Hastings, op. cit . (note 15), p. 147  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 15 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 443German parents need to learn it by watching their innocent infants die. But even without this degree of righteous anger, we tend to accept reprisal. Potential reprisal certainly became an acceptable recourse during the Cold War, when massive retaliation rested on “mutual assured deterrence, ” and the second-strike or counter-city strategy was largely accepted until the l980s, when the consen-sus about nuclear deterrence started unravelling. Still, for most of us, such reprisal must be stochastic or actuarial. What remains unacceptable is the targeting of individual civilians. What is acceptable is reprisal with the statistical certainty that a given percentage of civilians must be killed thereby. In the final analysis, those of us who would accept the air war say that under certain conditions it m