ncluded in his On the Natural History of Destruction , transl. Anthea Bell, Random House, New Y ork, 2003; Günter Grass, Im Krebsgang , Steidl, Göttingen, 2002.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 10 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 438German-Jewish refugees and their inability to work through the impact of per- secution in their later lives. Obviously all were moved by the numbers (half a million killed in the air war; 9,000 on the ill-fated ship) and needed to let the dead finally speak out. Friedrich’s book is an attempt to describe the aerial war from the viewpoint of those bombed, which it does in unsparing detail. It has broken through what was a virtual taboo about open discussion of the approximately half a million German civilian deaths in the Anglo-American air raids of l940-45 and the destruction of cities and cultural treasures. Let us separate the book from the problem or problems it raises. At the emotional core of his account Friedrich stresses the horrors of incendiary bombing: death by burning in melting asphalt, by incineration in cellars, by asphyxiation through carbon monoxide and deprivation of oxygen. There is no shortage of accounts of large explosive bombs and of bomb-blast effects on the human body; he also gives due credit to guidance systems and the marking of targets by flares. But the incendiary bomb, dropped in thousands, remains the real technological protagonist, burning its way through the roofs of Gothic and Renaissance landmarks as well as private housing. He describes the shrivelled or carbonized remnants of victims being brought in baskets for burial, the destruction of families, the efforts at civil defence and the dispersal of children (a measure which the population hated). He points out that as much destruction followed during the final year of the war as in all the previous years before: devastating raids not only on railroads or in return visits to towns smas