em because the plane had four  > be opened and closed. The solu  1 cabin and the rear gunner's com  partment and connect the two with a  tube just large enough for an airman  gh Still fixated on its self-perpetu  to crawl thre  ated myth that the strategic bomber could defend itself against enemy fighter aircraft without escorts to drive  away enemy fighter planes, the Air  Force had the most power-  ful and most advanced defensive th  an airplane. There were five power  could be installed in  armam  driven gun turrets: two on top of the  fuselage, two underneath, and one in  er forward turret by  the tail. The upp i itself had the firepower of a PT boat, mounting four .50 caliber machine guns, The tail turret was a hybrid: one 20mm ¢  annon flanked by a pair of 50  caliber machine guns, This combina  tion cannon/macl in proved  insatisfactory because of the different  velocities and ranges of the projectiles;  commanders in the field soon ordered  the cannons removed. For aiming and  firing, an automated computer gunsight  compensated for such variables as altitude, air temperat  29's airspeed. Gone were the primitive but reliable ring-anc  World War I vintage. Gunners, except the tail gunner, fired fic arm. Advanced r  were comfortable and y dar systems,  sighting stations for both came off the assembly line. B~29 aircrews arriving in the Mariana Islands in  bombing and navigation, were hurriedly fitted to the planes as they  1944 were insufficiently trained in the airplane and its sophisticated equip  ther  ment. The reason was simp was a shortage of B-29s in the United  St for training purposes. Most crew training was done in specially fitted  B-17s that were inadequate at best I  formance and its theoretically robust defensive firepower, woul  1¢ plane’s two principal attributes, its high-speed/high altitude per  1evertheless  success  ve to be paradoxes. The B-29s would be used with remark:  over Jar at alditudes of $000 to 7000 feet, ht, with most of the plan