e n ai of which would put the bomber ata d t hea incrementally See © pic well-defe  nber nber my t 4 and  f hig ive bombs. His  ib the value of defending fighter  aw in Douk  hat bombing of cities y  tions, leading to  ir power.” The Luftwaffe’ night-after-night  itly British civilian morale  of Germany's cities was equally a  4 iat Germat inder heavy stress in 1944 and r -rmined. The concentrated firebombing of aj th for five months in 1945 killed about 400,000 ‘ { ¢ that many, but there were no riots in ( ‘ Unit  armistice and intent on fur-  A > ch i} I eee iste ib] 1 t US I f unified control of air by the N He publicly challenged the Navy as guardian of | ( to Navy bra  = —  December 30, 1918: Brig, Gen. William “Billy” Mitchell at an airfield in Coblenz, 85 bag  Rhenish Prussia, Germany, (Courtesy National Archives) al flight tb lo show how effective | 1 th against former Germar i 121. First his squadron of Air Se t repor he Troyer 1 Tu p igne his bombers sank d,t nd and the ot US. battleship Alabama. In 1923, Mitche low an ) 1 smbers conduct ful aerial at on two old Ameri i ! tleships, P nd New ji Overnight, Mitchell had made himself i tn or far I} d wspap rit I y the millions who had watched the batt lerously ut I nk on newsreel ibord ‘ould destroy al t 4 t 1 he Na rerished t a tleships. Navy officials, as might be exy 1 l wince ; snsidered his tests unrealistic: the ships | 1 red at icer effective tung A t Ww t ¢ th o»mbardiers’ low : low t to the target 1 hte ° planes to harass the crews of the lumbering bor porta th 1 weatl perfectly clear. Mitchell stoc t. His rat hat th He was saying that incipal threat to the 1St uld no | A  f the Middle A Ar tl had not 1 the ter urt fror emy naval f it I ile f By exten , the tir threat would particularly imperil Americar essions in the far-flur Lin ance toate rel w i : idg chind him. 1 ished him to For Pacific regior Chief of the Air Servic k of cx ted for the r opy peak ths lat he Na ir S 24 bro uy t 7 d up igel and f