. At that time there 4 8th Air I ren erned in Sweden and 101 in Switzerland n 2,000 men—alon th their impounded B-17s and B  I cale, wherever U.S. armed force  h rculating “literally ¢ t out the comfortable \ f harm’s way—with full flight pay as if th r en One example umors” were these ha omments by an out oken 1 Air Force t sreat harbor ic u my lef crossed th vastlin to di Lesol The mountair ma t ut towering wind-swept crags that invited us  tzerland. Many crev  had to, t  1¢ in ther  were mer  leceit to  Had those aircrews irposely flown intact airplanes into neu  out over neutral territory, also se met en forced  ecoming interr  planes or were they als intarily leaving the war for a  refuge? The U.S. diplomat had interviewed the  U.S. flyers and wrote  e he had talked with told him they did not want to fly again, and I ut the war. Moreover, some said t  | ndir y sendir  vat “a d  ey felt had been c > his findi  s which cau  ns. He summed  uicide sti  t forced landings were  portionat  not genuine, that c Thi bomb on t  of both the 8th and 15t  as a major fa  demoli  ith its devastating conclusion,  was overall commander  k of General Spaatz, wh  Air Forces, and understandably sensitive about air-  v morale. He immediately sent a team of his staff officers to Swe  ly to interrogate flyers. Their report contradicted the  ty, and apparently was satisfied, But Gene  out the original r  $ not nearly so sanguine, He cabled Spaatz that it was  his view that such landings in neutral countries were “i itional evasion of  Spaatz didn't He angrily wired  ort indicated that nearly  irfac rhere  riotism and high morale of “his boys” by remit percent had landed in Sw  Arnold ordered  and Switzerland, Apparently the results of those  the Air Force's leader and he turned to more pressing probler  rele t 1 ase nably many 8th and 15th ton ished when they Abortin pilots and their cre Sas ter of turning out of formation en route to the tar befor Waging ny uircraft and returning to b