-25 inte irrier O tions, w t 1 unessentials to reduce takeoff weight. The pilots would take va  typically stiff mv cean breeze blowing acr  April 18, 1942: The first of 16 North American B-25 Mitchells, Lt. Col. James Doolit ts t gai ficient  tle at the controls, off the U.S. aircraft carrier Homet en route to bomb Tokyo and flying speed during their short takcoff rolls and would time the r  environs. (Courtesy National Archives) es ' 1 tod ret as the carrier's bow pitched up n extra preciou tuc onductec  ng in World War II j Sig ai  edit since he w ing ay len Ailnba hive vse hia ea  w circumstances?  Benham neh a it 10 pun re  “ lyn wk wl ce ie Ch the B-25s and their aircrews were  not. Or had Chennault’s rudimentary na  All the B-25s managed to reach t  rainland after their hap ne that made it to Siberia. Most  inute later the plane went ¢  mpletely out of co sulabeiinet-ninuvtinate ho, Date nuzht, “Well, th sana it  ine-gunners to d {gta bt ep Bae an of the crews bailed out safely over Chinese-held territ«  hazard bombi  x runs ¢  me were pinned against the cabin. It Kelly had been hollering to the  m ) last, sual didn't Ar ix Along hal aoe ana ag. ip lanc e air being killed. Eight y " 10 i apar 1 brought hi hl age yd ct jected to a drumhead military er ae whee sit lun ment had : res ti he 1 rv tar vth D 1 abn xe a plat a w onmilitary targ namely the Doolittle air body was found near t ibn ay ik ga men 1 nternational law.” The maximum sentence Kellv o : ton oes leah had vs was death gineer-gunner were sentenced to death; the ei uso bath ca (i mer ied, contrary to the creative vaganda pho- al odie a ak Tra bled ya he tograp r lerican Newsy i ne hes aE ei win at shot by a firing squad and given formal, r cot ot osc it sg, tel kv ae 1  Dometic ot 0 shad a rd ay wii gti hid hc Nc et ve Th tipi lh a ay ak Cu ro sie ol Ks iit tia hk hha Pa  ct way ul ok hts i gri-l the thical 1 wth vst il ii ri 1 93 ovie /  yeti Ha pc py tf r 1 oft | 1 fn ttle had ging he gi la shee ed