topover at John Ros Islands. In the background, his Bo  Archives)  destroying these critical tiny suppliers, the mantra went, war production would  be severely impacted. An important phus of a city-burning raid was that fires  ing the factories themselves. The logic  would spread to adjacent areas cont was irresistible: with firebombe the war would be-over-much sooner: saving both American and Japanese lives  Following the devastatingly successful firebomb raid on Tokyo on March  9/10, the low-altitude nighttime raids over Japan continued without letup for  five months until the Japanese surrender, The B-29s ranged across the entire  tion, mostly at night but during daytime hours as well, laying  waste to Japan's largest cities and saturating industrial targets. Navy carrier  based tactical dive bombers and fighter-bombers joined in the assault, stri  ing accurately at airfields to destroy the Kamikaze planes that were harrying  5— The Cructbles 81  ratio  or  the Navy's surface fleet and hitting other military facilities in prep the invasion that never came, The Navy's contribution was modest: only 4 percent of all the bombs dropped. The day the war ended, Navy planes dive- bombed an airfield near Tokyo.  As far as the flyers and their commanders were concerned, the entire pop ulation of Japan had become legitimate targets of the massive night-day bomb ing campaign. If there was some rationale to this concept, it was that the  Japanese government had ordered all its civilians into a Volunteer Defense  Corps to defend their country. In one issue of the Sth Air Force’s Week gence Review that summer, a commanding officer commented critically  of those back home who called the indiscriminate bombing “wicked and inhu- mane—therefore un-American. We are making war,” he wrote, “and m  ony  ing it in the all-out fashion which saves American lives, shortening the  which War is and seek to bring about an enduring peace. We intend to seek out and destroy the enemy where he or