Strategic Bombing in World War II  Top: Republic P-47 Thunderbolt. Fondly called “the J 47 was the principal U.S. fighter escort over Germany. Bottom: Two Luftwaffe Focke Wulf 190 fig flight testing. Acknowledged as the best German piston-engine fighter, it was the equal or the better of the two top Allied fighters, the North American P-S1D Mus: tung and the RAF’s Supermarine Spithre Mk V. (Courtesy National Archives)  by its pilots, the brawny P  iter planes just rolled off the assembly line at Oschersleben in 1944 await  group that we used the tactic of ‘dive and zoom.’ We stayed  oh a then zoomed back to higt  the next attack The newest models of the plane had water-ir  performance at all altitudes and an innovative paddle- | propeller to improve  low-altitude climb rate.  rhe distinctive twin-boom, twin-engine Lockheed P-38 Lightning y ¢ escort. It was fast; its nwo Allison liquid-cooled I  each at takeoff ga  long-ré  t a maximum  speed of over 400 miles per hour at 25,000 feet. It was also heavily armed,  with four .50-caliber mach s and one 20 mm cannon grouped together  in the nose. But the big, heavy plane was an awkward d. hter and was at  a disadvantage in combat against the more maneuverable Luftwaffe sit At high altitudes, the P-38's acce  slow. The plane also suffered from “compressibility” in h  yn was sluggish ar  engine fight i} ; BF 109s and Fw 190s easily dove away from P-38s, their pilots justif The «  rt in such maneuve  concerned that their planes would be torn a  ‘0 turned  bite on the long missions,  an overrated  out that the plane's characteristic; when one eng ght fire and the pilot had to bail out  Like the trouble: c the Allison V-1710 engines in th l Allisons were susceptible to the combination of intense cold and high ht ghter Com  t  38 were equally unde  ity in the winter skies over Europe and in February 1944, VIII F  ational P-38s were  mand reported that 40 percent of its ope  engine trouble, The P-38 proved to be better suited fo