k know what shit hittin’ the fan means till you've seen a Liberator flip over ing with it crewmen who were unable to get out in time. Few B-24 aircrew on its side in the middle of a forty-plane formation,” one pilot recalled urvived ditching As a result, the inherently less stable B-24s generally flew in looser for Significantly, the plane was designed to be less costly to build than the mations to minimize collisions, in turn reducing the effectiveness of their  and its main components demanded less labor and fewer specialized massed defensive firepower. In mixed-aircraft missions, B-24s were typically  This meant that several companies across the country were simultane- flown 3,000 to 5,000 feet below formations of B-17s, exposing the B-24s  to manufacture the B-24. All of these factors contributed to the to greater danger from antiaircraft fire and mak more inviting  nerally happy to  ber built—over 18,000 by war's end, compared to about 13,000 B to enemy fighter aircraft. B-17 aircrews, in fact, were  7s—more than any other American warplane of any type fly such mixed missions knowing that the Luftwaffe would go after the B-24s  Davis wing. Above 20,000 feet the B-24 demanded Compared to the B-17, the B-24 was difficult to fly. Charles A. Lind  ectly to the  continuous and physically demanding hands-on flying because it was prone who was a civilian employee of Chance-Vought Aircraft once Amer o high d This problem was magnified during the tight-formatior into the war, wv the latest U.S. fighter and bomber aircraft and flying that wa keystone of U.S. air tactics over Germany. “You don't sed high-level military and civilian authorities on what he had learned of  the in-flight performance of plane had tested.’ His was a well  purposeful and ven  t a commission to | FDR and w a B-24 for the first  decision not t  as a result of his role Ameri  time. He wrote later that  chief spokesman for the  st Committee. In April 1942 he tes:  1 not been impr  t it was ar and po