more planes involved ler il fi f Vir t der. A gathered h ibin ' T t 10f t C 1 t | ind not at th e ter g h heir posi vith t ig d isl eto ull.” A le ph t I 1 ut t ind { met it Thre i v ver dre lon  14¢€ Strategic Bombing in W  t were in reality intense  ead, at their particular altitu fly through  raft fire that the plane  best artillery piece of the war. In it  deliver up to twe 20-pound time-fu  20,000 feet. When a shell  f ray spev through 3 t. The “fi »f disintegrating bombers that ly among bomber formation’ Jemoraliz : = t 1 flown above 20,000 feet; at s cutoff of the ing vearby 1 result of a direct hit from z c if tal if not quickly atter zing of the fac 1 “close mi irplane, and forcing it out ie) as the main mechanical cause of anoxia vas 4 common occu ( ft t Luftwaffe predators. Or ‘ ‘ rence among the waist, t turret, and t nner most exposed ¢ shrapr t Radio opera also at high risk becau luties required uncont 4 ; A 5 them to mo S n normal on wh y plugged int nd i I 3 the + ntr ygen supply, and t irry nefficient portable bortl aces that r I It was not until 1944 that improved masks t 4 more reli y  en equipment was fitted to new B ind B-24s planes and retrofitted to  onditions at takeoff and assembly over home base fi " more form: doescary-in the unitate han ld be ed. One B-17 pilot mpleted 31 missions in RRP esronT Ab about 20,000 feet alGtad eeipe 1943 a 344, remembers that w ni af s the low-lying ¥( t, the t I itside air ter over England at h se in | 1 his w ick from missions : s riesninve 30 dear Beanie al orecs | er Germany. He recalls hugging the ground after he crossed the English RSA es eae FE. The fected Cha 1, str gto through the fog, O: not, he it a base = : irplane 9 2 cee :  in m i y platform f , id-on atta f i : per hour and \ s visually to acqui air rget, and squec and then immed bore trom out rm tter make up h ; 1id-cooled in-line engines had d Fw 190s with their air-coc r neti withheld their fir ys Wartin iT Cold, \ t in. Thee , lis shatick wh