A i tenndicition. ad Sirs $ te 50 it achine gu ut’ urd armen would be ttl, h uld. He was | most bor pil ive n there w su sw cml, ied ach, ani ou gly sive armor about their particular role in war. Their f 1 tinge - xe Sooe 12) dimen vee ht b wl 1 ts, not on people tar didn't live or breath c uced ar lls bia aes pore they’ cig ur t omni 1's at The Gene Co which ad et nfo sandr nance f ¢ on song wes 0 or tf t y the pase nary tating in the the m t co trout Werk War 1 fac the apne goverment was no tou urther 1 ir in Unie Stes ms, but pilots and copilots on the carpet and demand val is xt tt ply ue ind  54 f erio! ounded, or prison aE ey waned fo ge one percer on every missior ally le bie, 0 nee 9p fl na ¥ i} 1 50 1ance of 1 yal War jun quests who Dah Marc? able f (the ear of Bad’ Ca fl acount of fic, aircrews of the n nstit iat del a non agit pe i use Saipa Pini and Guar the \ Arita nt the Ls Ne) r J fae iff t set \ le, th my B-29s we 1or nf I I 1 te reat rt tt I 1 t ! t uk \l ; by hea cf visio. t unl far ks w re h g cain bat t nt , the pl , iol Th | il That  Strategic Bombing in World War Il  ¢ eight captured span i okyo Re bre \ uld be t war pr ut y d if f pror ut tted, d l d al oO over ther i set uni rds for treatn war pri 1 gj rules of war was universally nored by the Japanese military starting in the 1930s in its  ind throughout World War II. In fact, the Japanese government was not a  \ j of the lis- iminate a mbit f cit c ne U.S. ai w suffered emot reakdow ider acted a ey ha nd refused to fly. Som vere 1¢ policy of ind ninate bombing on mora ut ot ers said their fea evented them fror g their j apologist hi t I t ly sta It must nphasized that they were few in 1 fo tor I I 1s, but few can be documented.” B-29 1 du m 1 ped their t over n th H ° cer re ULS.t ibe ye tior  of World War II than a half  l cD I t of I Car f 4 int of 2 ont ropped Fat Mar Nagasaki, perhaps spoke for most \ A wi ut their | n tl ¢ every n n tl f solile  S enc) plat mander]  1 of the bo! w with