mb to heavy bombing. Like so many other between-the-wars projections,  these would prove to be far off the mark. Tens of thousands of RAF Bomber  : Command aircrew and hundreds of thousands of German civilians would pay  lillie) the ultimate price for such chauvinistic nonsense  sini a  s British military historian B, H. Lid- t the Future of War,  | Hart focused on Germany's acceptance of the armistice while her  ryosel Another popular inter-war seer wa  In a postwar book with a baffling ttle,  act. The reason he cited for this  was still powerful and her borders  1ation’s will to continue to fight had collapsed. Because a highly indus-  was only as strong as its weakest link, he f  hie trialized stulated, the fune-  svhhit tion of a war-fighting strategy was to locate and then exploit the Achilles  ‘it September 21, 1937: Formation of Boeing B-17 Flying Fortresses over Manhattan  vat!" Note Empire State Building and Chrysler Building.  42 Strategic Bombing in World War IL  they consider a vindictive and unjust court-martial. They focus on the patri- otic “Army” Mitchell of 1917-192 han the bit  , the respected forecaster of the Pacific war “Civilian” Mitchell of 1926-1936, who was  , lecturing casually that just  with Japan, rather  s bombs”  tew  more a dem 1 a seer  on key cities would be all that would be necessary to win the next big war  Ge i, commander of Great Britain's Royal Fly-  ing Cor  1 Hugh M. Trenehs  s until the formation of the Royal Air Force in 1918, was the first  ce, He had  Air Staff in the newly created independent se  chie regarded the Flying Corps as an integral arm of the Army and was opposed nd forces. Like most  to the use of aircraft except in their role as supporter of |  rs on both sides, Trenchard felt that the war could be won  military commanc  only in ground battles on the Western Front. Trenchard maintained his oppo  out the war. Even when his government  sition t ategic bombing throug  ed the formation of ange bomber force to at