able t SN Si ade aia lefend itself agair © aggressive and sh Luftwaffe. Ger ptionally good” bombir ane pile lose-up observers, referred to the B nd thei ter 4 if fi 1¢ Set flying coffir R ing the Fort ita 0 task th ties, even the wrong b-ca re vability, RAF air nman oO ted to hear ind typically missed their intende f Spaatz's impertinence. 7 four-engine Stirlings, Wellingtons, and Lar r ist | ered he loa bombs to the same targ nd furthermore I'here were ample reasons for this lack of precisior Hitting at t ng bor bays to carry big mb maller than a football field from five miles up wit plain “iron bomb Yet y g Am ins, all of whom 1 rly volunt lf ‘ i it has remained o ar er—a dauntit vallenge. Amer SAAF, br lew into comba l ral gruel t ight, was ne l ered targets, whatever their Th gerous missions wer ircrew in the big bor f tistics w oh adar bomb its that came later, to overcome the problem of hitting target +5, wh Luftwatt t the heig f trengt a U.S. fiyer in t rd n England inadequately trained, a ¢ rest of tl cor salty.) N 00,000 airmen in th ind 15th Air F wurriedly i omt lircre And as the Luftwaf r plan 1 1 Europe w casualt killed in actior clared missing in action, 1 radar-directed antiaircraft batteries took an increasing toll on Ame 1 war ¢ ve 1, The pur rch ighter-plar mbers, the planes w flown higher to reduce losses, further rading pilot 10 flew t tt naller bomt p a B id B But most of tl r ! t f > is equal defend B nd B-24 y Air Force totals rey t 20) t 1 1 Lautt of the rela t lost thet es in World W hr ty 0 November at did the f ( AAI ialti 7 “4 rom bordit f th it U r Germany r trat 1 mb T 1 1 1 or ) percent a e Bomber Command's n net is) 1m. Eaker had nc th hort-rang vs, German duction w r Tuy 1 1 tected by fighter escorts. Tl sttacks that had gs of cit nters killed ar t l ! n to th ‘ nd of U.S. fighter-plane rang her hand ilian t did verse fect le. B  V 1 be somewhat better on average than for ately 200,000 | x cele acialice 1 ders of the 20th Air I flyin