n bombers killed prob y 100 tin that number in the firestorm of Dresden in 1945. Dresden  manufactured practically no war goods according to a later-well-known Amer  1  almost-uni-  omer of war who survived the firestorm. Remarkably,  versal revulsion to that Renaissance « wanton destruction was never T d by reaction to the even r ing incendiary-bomb raid by »kyo in March 1945. According to Jap ¢ official  its were killed in that attack than in the nuclear  Four years earlier, Japanese naval aircraft had killed  about 2,400 people, nearly all military personnel, when they bombed U.S. navy warships and naval facilities at Pearl Harbor; the Japanese planes, however, t Honolulu  lysis of U.S. airpower during World War II must also cover the  “b  conflict that runs long and de  did not bomb adjacer Any ar  role played by interservice rivalry—the confli  tleship admi  ymber generals” p and con  ry-policy rmy Air  d sinking of a captured (  ed into the 21st century. This joust for mil  tinues unab domir Corps General Mitchell staged the  man battleship. The contest was ongoing thr  awce—and federal funding —began in earnest in 1921, when /  nombing a  gh the 1930s as the flyers strov  to move out of the shadow of the Navy, and its powerful supporters in  Congress, and the Navy's entrenched and influential ste  and shipbuildir  contractors, Not only was military doctrine at stake, but the individual car  ambitions of  ‘ompetitors themselves were on the line. However, the a  important issue of all, from the flyers’ standpc was independence, for only an entirely separate air force would enable untrammeled use of airpower  been con-  It was a tall order for the flyers, as Americans historically ha  President  the Navy and a  ditioned to believe that the defense of the nation resided in se  Franklin Delano Roosevelt, a former Assistant Secretary «  Flight line at Edwards Air Force Base, California, 1955. Far left: Author, PFC, U.S.  Army Ordnance Corps and project engineer, Ab