ential prewar soothsaye  gh Tr » bombers could pen  stic notions of the trio o' r-gen-  G n “Bil  enchard, and  erals—the Frenchmar lio Douhet, th lishman Hu the American Willia * Mitchell—that long  te enemy airspace, strike accurately, and return with minimal losses were  -ran  ns envisioned were  lied almost immediately. The “surgical” air campai  fed in the war that finally came by unimagined realities: heavy air-  crew casualties and minimal results. A war of attrition developed, pitting  ainst Ger  Acity  was  chnological prowess and Japanese ar the Axis pow  ers could not win. At a fundamental level, the airwar from 1939 to 1945 turned  not much different from combat on the ground, if not in total num- bers, certainly in intensity. It could be compared to the daily butchery in the  trenches in France between 1914 to 1918  ,00k’s focus is not on propaganda, although the reader will find nstances of blatant lies and purposeful coverups by high-ranking Rather, its intent is to probe the government myth-building deceit  bly into A  s inward-looking and hypocritical view of  comfc  gall others, We draw our sword  itself  imanitarian am  voked. A  Nor is it my intent to dig deeply into comparative moralities, but from  a corollary, America does not aim bombs at civilians.  time to time, | must do so. When an English woman in her seventies, which g the London B/ n of the German city of Dresden in the waning weeks by Royal Air Force Bomber Command and the U.S. e defined a , almost ion, “What  jor's state  1ager duri z, responded to the a  rocity,  esponded instant  out Coventry?” Coventry was a major air  enter, producir tfires for the RAF, Reliable post  war estimates are that about 700 civilians were killed by German bombers over € n 1940, while the British and American bombers killed prob y 100 tin that number in the firestorm of Dresden in 1945. Dresden  manufactured practically no war goods according to a later-well-known Amer  1  almost-uni-  omer of war who su