and weaponry ind in consequence, could carried defensive armament t 3,000 pounds, made do with a six nbs; thus it was now jesign.” Galbraith but could: truck of bombs-to th me t t. To al Orville Ande 1, who had worked intimately he For Was a ¢ in fuel consumption, m id of th irvey and had been a chief com  to make this point with massive ind irplar  the B-17 was a suc  Earlier, Bomber Command chief Arthur Harris had told Air Force gen  eral Ira Eaker in Washington that the B-17’s hanc rated gun or “uncon  lled wot ur th hman put it—couldn’r track fast enough out the war. Tl o catch up wi ist-maneuvering German fighter planes and that power tur caliber machine guns, re ni rv. I rmore, the bor too small to carry th Y for its cre  e¢ clear, sunny climes of the American far west, vulnerable protect the crew  where aircrews fr their Norden bombsight, with oud vindshield y fly and “forgiving.” T plane Europe. He challenged Eaker with a rhetorical question: “How many day develope ibility to rh he ( un will you be able ¢ ¢ the ground in Europe from 20,000 feet?” He did not continue tf p home on two of its fc gin wait for an answer continued It becan y rel 1 trustw perhaps its m idearing Phe British w th their B-17s and surviving aircraft qualit wh ives depended on those simp! wert to base they flew unsuccessful mission ute 1 America’s World War II warplar ved to t were, hi er, tal Command, along with the far bet ter suited B-2 e-water reconna e and anti-sul marine patrol into the war, RAF Bomber Command, 3-24 Liberator r Winston Churchill, pus! lace its Fort with the Brits’ own Avro The ond four-engine nber i ce 8th Air I 1 te ' the United States. But national pride, among other tt ne of the 15th Air Force initia din Africa a hen in Ital 10V ziant Boeing Company had influen Wy isolidated B-24 =s ' vy the | B to help totype first flew in December 1939, jt nonths after the contract wa Americans, as might b r B-17s with far more ned for production of prototypes. Cor d nore gra