f War  and the Navy, Henry L. Stimson and Frank Knox, plans that would guide  nt Roosevelt requested  the nation in the likely event of war with the Axis powers, Germany in par- ticular. At that time, and for more than a year previously, FDR had been n the Atlantic witt  h Germany’s U-boats,’ of the isolationists in and out of the Congress  engaged  y that America would soon be a belligerent  plan, the commander of the Army ed the U.S. Army Air Forces, USAAF, by Stimson in encral Henry Harley “Hap” Arnold, selected four young four were Lt. Colonels Kenneth N. Walker and s Haywood S. Hansell, Jr. and Laurence S. Kuter s together at the Army Air Corps Tac  id Majc em well from their da  tical School at Maxwell Field in Mor  gomery, Alabama. All were single-minded  relief t strategic bombing would be the path to victory in the war  rey could se mir 1 collaterally to an independent and powerful air force  th twar. The irplane n deep down and they understood—or  rought the xd—the realities of daytime strategic bombing. Walker, vho was cor Air Corps’ top guru on high-altitude precision bomt  ing, had developed the bombing tables for the B-17. Kute:  a report listing reasons w  his superficial conclusions, “The bi:  er can work alone  Two former Wall Streeters, new! sand Malcolm Moss, were ad  1 Hugh  Presumably these spe  power and of such pros  ting, train  strategy  just ten days to cc  hy big bombers  y bomber can defend itself...; The big  ts had a g te data from Americar many. Arnold empowered the six m pment needs based on analyses of the stre  ctive enemies as Germany, as well as interrelated factors a:  goals for the nation’s own industrial production. The team was given j¢ the final plan which was called AWPD-1 (Air War fectiv  4 49  arlier written 17 and the  were better than small ones. Two of — missions to  planners 1}  ” would prove to be well wide of the mark euanoeen  commissioned Air Corps captains aircraft and led to the te  rental economics  of fundar  i