ve for a scud of clouds, Kelly ordered the mer  to bail out and the rear cr 1  , with the bombardier and radio  oper  next from the frontal escape  the plane went completely out of control and Kelly and tbin. 1 thought, “Well, this is it.” All the time  machine-gunners to do their stuff and beat  were pinned against the Kelly had b  m off. Kelly  n hollering t  body was found near an  Kelly m«  unvarnished  s no battleship beneath Kelly’s plane  April 18, 1942: The first of 16 North American B-25 Mitchells, Lt. Col. James Doolit tle at the controls, off the U.S. aircraft carrier Hornet en route to bomb Tokyo and environs. (Courtesy National Archives)  Official Japanese records clearly that there were in Phil  at that time one light cruiser, six destroyers, and four tran port no battleship. Moreover, no bombs had hit near their light cruiser on Decerr ber 10  of the USAAF’s avowedly terror bombing raids over Japan masquerading as precision bombing. On April 18, » B-25 Mitchell bomt  orth Pacific: destination Tokyo anc  Next came retribution—and the fi  fiew off the aircraft carrier  1942, a squadron of  nearby Japanese cities, and  on into China. There were powerful political  Harbor a  ste to th ack and the ur  the best Air Force stra  vailable resource In January, Arnold had chosen Lt. Colonel James Doolittle to command the joint Army-Navy miss as the “Doolittle Raid,” Doolittle had written extravagantly to Arnold in an rp  and fire  n, Special Project No.1, famously memorialized  undated le to the t  Th  ily cause co:  ror «  idustrial «  OY  facilit  inst Japan in other theaters due tot defending their now due to the psychological effect on the American  he purpose me country. An action of this kind is most  desir  allies, and our »bjectives will be military and industrial targets ir the Tokyo-Yoko  Doolittle’s checkered Unlike most USAAF comm officer. He had joined the U.S. Army in 1917, transfe  on and served there until 1930 to join Shell Oil and h  a, Nagoya,