World War II 7 z 5 snstreeding greater than that of any German bomber that flew against England in W ‘ dad nner os tri ot wit t War I he time « ee ‘ The first 1 yas a daylight raid on London at th ee ‘ see : May 19 21 planes making land the Eng c tcansf ih strate 4 gh airshiy : t intil ONS WE yntinue intermit for nine m Non i . lid 1 unt ult c day th ibly ut t Ut A Saw Lor because of ver, hit tead k of y r 1 ppelins were ineffecti , erformance o an Folkstone and killing 95 civilians, the highest casual ' railroad d ‘ tl gns made them less vulnerable to aircraft and antiaircraft attack, 1 0 that date. struck 1 t ppel tremely costly to manu ire killing 162 which wou fa asingly subject to destruction and damage in ng the war. the last dayligh t t tche ! tified sheds by enemy bombers. Durir when the Germans switched up of Alliec cra my action, 14 to weather, and 12 to fire or explosior west of London t B I i t y Great War experiences and acknowledged the lack of tar le result u Ip to IW cting it It nig f ) of zepy sing missions over England: “But the morale nit balloons. These defense webs proved to be mod c and pursuit, 36¢ eff hing It mportant mind the Er 1 tha ( they would again be in World Wa l omt Had tl 1emy . longer saf attack—attack from the air heans of damaging n de my 0 force tack ned to break | At th d of 1917, the U.S. sent a technical committee to I i i itudes whi icra ‘ i i It t hip dev en England and France ny : V-1500 bombc imended to the Secretaries of W G he ¢ v fical airpla i hi 13 iediately, tw 1g e rap t of air en during that period, T ‘ an Britair { States. Following the tice four y I ant air i igured ander at St. Mihic re t oO bought ove 2 i es, Their tor ig he same a bing F t nA i hip base Chis led r the Ge i | tor bs. F N | | R I io he U.S.S. S to nin ph Giant hada pyro-compa eh uald | k N J secame the U.S et that aide ation heated f ) ical of U.S, mil W Orange foresaw a likely war in th arain ites fe and up t nachine gu nse. A { Japan int ming