follow was not nearly.so sanguine. He cab is  or & variety of reasons or who had developed serious re his view that such landings in neutral countries were “intentional evasion of  war and their part in it. Certainly some flyers must a further combat service.” Spaatz didn't see it Arnold's way. He angrily wired { moral scruples about the indiscriminate bombing of cities and the t report indicated that nearly all the aircraft had ienced m: ulations in which they were active participants. They could decide battle damage such as ruined engir d shot-up control 1a  to “fly into internment.” As far as the top brass was concerned, knowledge of been 1, some still in h He defended 1 unpatriotic actions could spread like a contagious disease and affeet the the i y remir id i norale of all AAF personnel and hamper the effectiveness of the entire Amer ning the 8th Air Force h wn 5 bombing effort. In July 1944 a report written by an American tie und 15,346 return I dar il in Sweden brought the issue to a head. At that time there | ded in Switzerland or Sw Air Force crews interr jen and 101 in Switzerland 4 secret sur f his o ong ai ‘ vong with their im B-17s and B , and rumors i records of the mer in Sweden lating “literally on ag scale, wherever U.S. armed force and Switzerlar the re those ya final tisfied \ out the comfortat t of harm’s way—with full flight pay the Air Force ader and he t I lems. When i as if th were POW 1 men wed by Air F to Spaatz s pre One example of th rumors” were these harsh comments by an out as 8th Air Force f, disele ith m Ht erned oken 1 Air } rews after their rele nd insisted th I hat ther lot a Si case” of what | 1 iwar ted lar g I imabl Geiy nt_under: my. left: wing, and we: crossed th many 8th and 15th Air Force y new better would later be ast y t a1 The mountains below us were magnificent ; L-when they jearned of Ka voerbolic d t Ww toweri rags that invited us beyond them to the west 4} “ ¢ | y held orSwiteed ae aa h epee \borting was a far more