sy National Archives)  118 ¢ Bombing in World War II  ensive weapon and it was  a production scheme a  st of a single B-17, The prob-  id 400 miles, insufficient to sup  figured that hundr  still limited range, between 200 4  lem was  nsive schemes envisioned at the time, and the  port U.S. war nners of  project was permanently shelved  If project Aphrodite proved a failure in actual service, there was another  scheme that arguably was hare-brained from the beg  American bombing ning: Project X-Ray, X-Ray would use live bats fi devices strapped to their tiny bodies. The bats would be released over  ed with miniature napalm  incer  itude and the bats. would  ties in cannisters  at would open at low al  ald  then fly into the dark attics of homes and buildings where the napalm w«  be ignited. Self-immolation taken to extraordinary new levels!  indreds  ected obviously had to be available in the |  Che bat species se f thousands. The only bat that fit this specification was the Mexican free  tailed, widely distributed in the U.S. Southwest. It was estimated that more  than 50 million free-tails summered every year in Texas. A chief problem was  hed only about 10 grams. What payload could such a sub  that this bat w  miniature “bomber” carry? The payload had to include the napalm and a con- it, an igniter, a time-delay fuze, a safety device to prevent to the bat. Fit-  tainer to t  tition, and a harness to attach the whole shebang  ature  4 manual job that would  ting the miniscu s to squirming t  »f accommodating e were other unresolved  personnel. Th  equired hundre  ns: how do ats in the quantities required?—and how  que you capture the t  do you care for them while they await “transportation” to far-off Japan? Early  ed that a free-tail in prime condition and able to fly and “main-  ur { maneuvers” could carry an incendiary bomblet weighing 15 to 18 gram  The X-Ray test crew went to Di y Proving Grot where simulated  { German structures had already been erected to t