nder in chief wh«  y was a steadfast partisan of Gener  pt dictatorship and was ur der ina in its war with Japan. He w of the term. FDR, after al  millions in the Chir dea  , figuratively  re, he had beer  1c of whom w  tions agents roamed d lobbying t 4 the Chine  popular Communist it  lieved naively that air bases in C  the declinin  om would be pumped into the Chinese econom id into mendacious henchmen—in t onstruction of the in sma. bases, estimated at the time at nearly $4.5 billion t be A new Air Force Bomber Command was created, the XXI, and a code by the name was assig Operation Matterhorn, with an unrealistic goal nese steel industry on Kyushu. The plan was a r ion c t Id t r story. The B-29s w sa t of suy r the eastern Indian seaport of Calcutta, to be cot t itish, usir inc n China to ref r Ror bs. 1 ( as selected as the site for the new bases; it wa t Ww from Calcutta, over the 21,000 foc of th ; 1 ious Hump. Chengtu was faren 1 rom Jay pe 1es¢ ases a past to be immune from ai bout 400 mil nK ng, the t t the end of the Burma Road, but within B Yr t yushu, the southernmost of the main Japanese island ; I c 1 four tr eS if femanded some 400,000 : Chi rushing vith hammers, moving dirt in baskets hung from 1 h ing. ste y hand, one by one. The magnitude of tk S t ration v itimidating, reflected in range plans—never  ipply the forward Chinese t Estimat ere that it took about tet  ft fuel to ferry one gallon from Calcutta  zling B-29s, and they cach used abour 8,000 gallor 1 a 3,000-mile 1  o Chengtu for the gas-gu  Kharagpur, India, headquarters for the 20t!  i the first mission over Japan was on June  iant Imperial Iron and Steel Works at Yawat  loing By January 1945, when the B-29.  and flown to their new bases in th Mar Chengtu  Historians Cray  did little to haste  ate acknowled: hat “the direct results obtained  surrender or to justify the lavish exper  during the Matterh« I was not a distingu 1 one, but at least th Nationalist government withdraw from the