4,500 pounds, twice as th wuts Messerschmitt Bf 109 and 50 percent more than the Focke-Wulf 190. Some uta” USAAF Spitfire veterans, when they first saw the plane, mocked it as a “seven With ton milk bottle and t evasive action in a P-47 would mean running around inside its roomy cockpit.”*? With a pair of 108-gallon drop tanks, the D model lie’! had an operational radius of 475 miles, including up to 20 minutes at com juktt bat power settings. Ir was armed with eight .50-caliber machine gut it The commander of the 56th Fighter Group had these ¢ ul comn | concerning the plane’s performance celerated poorly and climbed not m Boeing B-29 Superfortress, Flew 3,100-mile missions from bases in the Mariana hwite!! better, But once high cruising speed was attained the P-47 could stand up to Islands to Japan and back. Famous as deliverers of the two atomic bombs, (Courtesy vt! the opposition above 20,000 fect, the P. iperior to the German  National Archives) hters. In the dive, my God, the P-47 could overtake anything. Therefore 1  6—The  long, two-foot diameter, 9,000 pound blunt-nosed Little Boy in olive dra dha  1 the world—a threatenc  pon that chang  cuous-looking we  an in  | gi  civilization ever since. Postwar, the B-29 soldiered on in the AAF and then the USAF as the  lear bomber. The plane was fitted with more powerful (and more  nation’s nuc reliable) Pratt & Whitney R-4360 engines and designated as the B-50, Dur- ing the Korean War its bomb bay was reconfigured to carry conventional  bombs and the planes dropped about the same tonnage over Kore ne during World War II, At the ne time, the giant Convair B-36  2 SIX piston-engine, four turbojet-  had de Pe hybrid, tl craft that never saw combat.*! Right on its heels was the first successful Amer  into service,  keeper cam  was the mainstay of the new Strategic Air Command, but an air  gine swept-wing Boeing B-47 that became the Air  1  ican jet bomber, the six-er  Force's principal long-range reconnaissance aircraft