valic  vinistic mutterings. His biggest gripe was that the bomb load was  » the crew and technical maintenance required,  © B-17 carried a small bomb load for such a big airplane. Statistically, Both the B-17 and the RAF’s Avro Lancaster had about  the same maximum takeoff weight of about 60,000 pounds, leaving some  tor fuel, bombs, defensive guns and ammunition, and armor  typically carried 3,500 pounds of bombs to Berlin, with guns and  March 20, 19-44; B-17 Fly  Frankfurt, Germany, leaves contrails of condensing,  actress from the 452 Bomb Group at 22,000 feet over  scuring the ground over targets in Europe was commonplace. (Courtesy National  Archives)  War Il  86 Strategic Bombing in W  the day before. There were even questions as to whether the Rex had radioed  her exact position as the planes came near. Nevertheless, the mission was  end America’s coasts, and the  tout Army, in its ev  opportunity to show it could navigate accurately over water and far from lar  ed as proof that big bombers could de  itage of the  lasting competition with the Navy, took a  reference points  The first B-17s to see combat were flown by crews with RAF roun  on the wings and fuselage. In the summer of 1940, when England stood alone  gh on the shop  against the Axis j of almost every type were  , aircra  ng list of military equipment sought from the United States. The U.S. Army  Air Corps had its  zer to publicize the capabilities of  | combat. England’s military needs thus coin- nda program, While Ar  nnel flew to E  cided with the Air Corps’ propz ica was still “neu 4 small group  B-17s to train RAF  These early-  land in two  i technical per  their British air  1 B-17s, howeve  iders. The planes had no tail gun to defend  impressed neit  nst  eir comma  attacks from the rear a  d only one puny, manually slewed .30 caliber  ineers as late as 1939 were reluctant to add a  in in the no Bocing  ired  tail gun turret because of the extensive fuselage and tail redesigns re  The B-17