60 bombers went down, and another 5 It wa Royal Bulgarian fighter-plar mor 1 10 plane onstr ‘ Arnold ot ated preposterously: “The opposition isn’t nost lete Czecho: ko Na 1 1939 id 5) near! t was, and we are wearing them down.” The New York Ti Soviets had bombed the r nd Ned reported on October 16; “The American loss represented 600 American fliers 2 9th Air Force B-24s from bases i lion m killed or missing and perhaps $20,000,000 worth of precision bombing and yn a night attack in June 1943. That 4 planes fighting equipment.” The 8th Air Force never again ventured in force over Ger- no damage to the oil facilities but r 1 O protection of American fighter planes Allied fields in the Middle East. The next U.S it thoug! ted at his press conference on October 25 that he was not would be f n daylight, a would be car icy eavy lo weinfurt, remarking to newsmen off int out th finerie 1 e massive | off-th we cannot afford to lose 60 bombers every day.” On the Plans for the raid, code-named Tidal Wave, called for a centrated litical luded that “we did put out of action an important Ger itt ss the refiner witl ¢ to 200 B-24 1 be istered Presur | ut on his happy face, calling the mission “a spe for the mission, flying at altit } i t i : est of tacul f nd poineir nportance of carings to the vould sur th rer vig pl roared in n ditleren ot German w Inar we invaded German-held Et ¢ defen allow irate placement of t ibs, of ily e dug to a depth of 500 m ked and crippled f her most vital enterprise fleet targets to flak, and p I 1 fend: ighte 1 vay ar Schweinfurt II the raid was later identified, whil kitt rbout top-les terceptions. Radio siler VOL 1 r r pl vad little lasting ir Only a smal ie t rot to tip off th ny he Norden ht E recialized manufacturing machines were permanently put out of commi altitudes, were repla Wi I v ime ot nd o 1 detailed inven howed that industries relying on the te Mark Twain talled the B raid Ts ! b 1 1 six- to 12-month supplies on hand. The Germans al r