old. mander in chief of the United States Air Forces during World War HL. (Cour tesy National Archives)  ently knew © my  of the Gern econ  4  The Planners  World War IT  In July 1941 Ps om his Secretaries of War  and the Navy, Henry L. Stimson and Frank Knox, plans that would guide  nt Roosevelt requested fr  the nation in the likely event of war with the Axis powers, Germany in par-  ticular. At that time, and for m  re than a year previously, FDR had been  nus naval war in the Atlantic with Germany's U-boats,’  of the isolationists in and out of the Congress  ity that America would soon be a belligerent  t of the overall plan, the commander of the Army ed the U.S. Army Air Forces, USAAP, by Stimson in Major Gencral Henry Harley “Hap” Armold, selected four young 1¢ plan. The four were Lt. Colonels Kenneth N. Walker and , and Majors H  em well from their days t  officers to write wood S, Hansell, Jr. and Laurence S. Kater gether at the Army Air Corps " 1 Field in Montgomery, Alabama. All were single-minded  c be : would be the path to victory in the war  1 collaterally to. an independent and powerful air force  d they understood—or bombing. Walker,  vho was considered the Air € rps’ top guru on high-altitude precision bomb  thought they understood—the realities of daytime strat  ing, had developed the bombing tables for the B-17. Kuter had earlier writter  a report listing reasons why big bombers were better than small ones. Two of  his superficial conclusions, “The big bomber can defend itself...; The big he mark  Fwo former Wall Streeters, newly commissioned Air Corps captains Richard Hughes and Malcolm Mc Pr these specialist  could extrapo'  bomber can work alone...” would prove to be well wide of  were added to the team to develop the  of fundamental economics  ed to  vad a gra  istry t  te data from Americar  could be appl  any. Arnold owered the six men to er estimates of man  raw togeth  needs based on analyses of the  power and equipmen strengths and weakne