tl 1 tb / i atter and pressured him to water it down. On April 1, he rew it, on World War I {cams tit reference to Dresden and deleting such inflammatory word Hbrica wanton destruction Europe's prin 1 Renaissar —Thevererleitiddeteinnmnlmna nce ite chitecture and commor ferry tee pi nei tes Tease a Seanine tome shatahe maonient hae-Pomk west imstipncot thesoscalled or 945, the Red Army k i vt ava ste pera i ea bombing’ of German cities should be ewed from the point of view to the east driving resolutely toward Berlin, their blooded jigitilie. Whencmiparayrape. ey of our own interests. If w me int of an entirely ruined land, the pillaging promiscuously. Ahead of the Soviets was a small ari diedaninndan Landy |dewall wnaoliobuin a will be a great shortage of accomme on for oF es and our Al Ww nan civilians ver they could find it an jyinbuonadideswgtteopin,aiwen ees must to it that our attack 1ot do more n to our in the lo ' th. D: ar 4 from air Wa apie ne run than they do to the enemy's immediate war effort  @ since | othe Jot joe stn ha cal. ih Amer wre y ised on the alle that time of tl rad ne I ie Heit Urpo: f the ra t stward. The Ne to contest tl « a city thatt thnk pig i ) i ran such headlines and Y BLastep To ynsi 1 strateg get nto ai he Nc Ane Russians”; “S00 U.S. ‘Heavi Direct Path of An internal RAF memorandum, issued t vachroomss _{otionniwov halen Hk ine iin | aerial he Russian advance « the Dresden raid, est ed tl son d'etre for the mi tate Tn llileonchpdly., mei laf 4 r ttacks that wou mate and flatten a second German cil {alaltilutio/yluihioneidaDoho ea I upan ni i vide ae wer ptionally higl Wh ny Mel wine nt t [Dresd | t enth largest city in German is alse Hl helene beara opp blotted out.” However In tk f 7 iltup area the enemy has got, In the midst of winter ravalcrsindl aii ont pposite, that the “impe ' vard and troops to be rested, roofs are at a premiu von niet liminict OLR : : b vt bi wm war ana oth Communist and non-Commun ipport this latter viev t