rmany  n his me  hnolog  1944, “On that date the t ximately as many we  ferable  put of 5,850 metric tons together with our reserve of  574,000 metric tons of ai is through [no] more than  In the beginnir £1944, a nev command was established for the conduct of strategic ai rations Europe: H.Q. U.S. Strate Nir Fe AT ommanded by General Carl E. Spaatz. Arnold also ippoint nmanders to the individual Air Fore Lt. General James H. Do ok over the 8th in England from General Eaker, while th newly formed 15th in It ame under the command of Major General Nathan F. Twining. In his New Year's message to his commanders, Arnol unambig y laid out th rat n ¢ coming y  y I of the I in the air, on the ground, and ir ¢ factorie  oO )B 3-245 were ready for such missions. For the f tit tt Id ort ll the wa and from th the lor P-51B fighters. T y ling requireme k of g i t ither and O, or ur ild be lau y t t lestr of every factory that manufactured fight ircraft tor th Luftwaffe. Weather forecasters predicted good weather in late February ar  Big Weck was set into motion, When Big Week was officially declared over,  it used reconnaissance photographs sl 1 nth hi vildly optir ic judgn f ) put it 1,500 a mon nd Luftwaff 1 rin March than thev h 1 if rary. A lf of fight ductio y high  delive anes bu  more than 300 + )  L  Ve  500 airmen kill  1 to  elpe S. intellige in th iat but the steady . Luftw I neluded « juadron, Grupp on of the enemy is co: FAIS veapon is in sight of collapse heir opponents ir and pil 1a tal if I t r re ty clair on personnel, it got 1 witl pressing Ine number mely skilled 1 nd While the bor g¢ of Germ USAAF di this largest pr +y stat th id 44 I of Sta 1 directive tha mit i t stat itions a t Germany ty tar t vere uu ated cities where h tt rom th t Lh tzo 1a major n or the marshalling y “ ed to such ar iy justification on militar ound rg umbe ians w h AAI ike ite you wouldn't t out to the exigenc  nd G  1 lt Jar irpe vill ura  iffe daytime fighter-plane pilot lo:  year b