unsuccessful mission  re far bet  ‘nna marine patrol as i RAF Bomber Command, powerfully supported by Prime Minister Winston Churchill, pushed h  ind to build the y e | But national pride, among othe factors, preclud ich a move nt Boeing Company had influe Hie 1 the Congr t the RAT Most Americans, as mig pected, treated ¢herr B-17s with far more nd affection. Throughout the war, and in postwar reminiscences, th I vonderful media abe ts toughness and its ability to bring ts crew ¢ sa n wi riously damaged. Tt Force's public ¢ phs of bombers wi hredd nd tails, gaping holes in fuse ind crumpled turret ill safely back on their home-base hardstand: with their intact crews smiling into the cameras. Of course, what the PR peo t w were t mashed and fire-charred hulks of the many hun reds of B ttering the German countryside that never made it back to gland O; authoritati American dissenter was John Kenneth Galbraith, a or to the postwar U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS), who te that th ine “was much respected by all concerned,” but that it “could t, in fact, defend itself, that rt aircraft would be required, It was still  rout the war. TI  iber machine gun  vindshield inue f can  bI { r  ni engin 1 th h Air I  kboni tially b: 1 Afri was the Cot I E rst 939, I f  1 Com | e¢ mo!  car.” A princ ture was its narrow Davis \  u ur-flow d ¢ to provide low dr i an ot mise high-speed f  ar for imy g cap nitting ranwas fer tal | |  t i ¢ ic y 1 ro irret :  The t ing configura’ had a had ter titel es. When ' 1 h Air For ve 1 the fusela tt ving I  A flip over lot recalled  n f their vere typically  ore inviting ily happy to  ter the B-24  les A. Lind  More impor-  ) Strategic Bombing in World War I 6—The Airplane 9  fuselage, weighed down by the heavy engines, would then sink quickly, tak know what shit hittin’ the fan means till you've seen a Liberator flip over ing with it crewmen who were unable to get out in time. Few B-24 aircrew on its side in the middle of a forty-plane format