7 B that A LW wag The B 1 Arr Air Co t r, tk embarked ned 1 bett I or it ) | i g a RAF B i r 1 10,000 ¥ r 1 : ae 1 ¢ 1 ate d I il-or ¢ fledgling Ar lit hat wou ack ir way Tir 1 1 1 ‘ 1¢ f f fig ith Am The B a han ne sil t t t urport it f I I t marketing effort in May 193 ccessful “intercey nger lit 10 miles o ast by th E ? M B k r mber that i t c ane nge and n i bili ft ga ft t rt ws. Lt. Cu I May, w ve oriety i d vel 1, was wigator r \s the B t pro r Ont rf water missior | na | ( 1 H 4,000 1 t-up, t the Rex had furn 1 the f  8 Strategic Bombing in World War II  her the Rex had radioed  the day before. There w  even questions as to wh  her exact position as the planes came near. Nevertheless, the mission was  id America’s coasts, and the  yombers could defe  touted as proof that b Army, it 1  opportunity to show it could navigate accurately over water and far from land  itage of the  sting competition with the Navy, took adv  reference points {  wn by crews with RAF rounc 1940,  The first B-17s to see combat wer  tood alone  when England  on the wings and fuselage. In the summer  were high on t F 1 States. The U.S. Army  against the Axi list of militar Air Corps had its own agenda—and was eager to publicize the capabilities o  pir lipment sought from the Unit  | combat. England’s military needs thus coin- ganda program, While Ar  nel flew to England in two  its vaur cided y tral  B-l  th the Air Corps’ prc a small group of pile to tram RAF cre  erica was still “neu  and technical pers¢  r their British air  eir commanders. The planes had no tail gun to defend against fighter attacks from the rear and only one puny, manually slewed .30 caliber  1939 were reluctant to add a  gun in the nose. Boeing engineers as late tail gun turret ec The B-17E  turret in the  ise of the extensive fuselage and tail redesigns required  lly incorporated such a turret and later models had a “chin” nose of the plane with twin .50s plus built-in mounts for single 50s either side of the “ch