reports during their post-n ssi0 imple philosophy. “Maybe one day we'll be able to bomb scientifically ever at all What can we vith this 1 InA 941, after 16 mi night mn Ons ON time. But until we reach that stage, let’s mainly send over fleets of bomber i On tl of this qu cupied France an pany, the RAP wa ily brought up short to flatten Schicklegruber’s houses and demoralise his worker arned, “I think it w ? ng or ( d's inability to hit its targets, DM Harris was supported by the equally amoral Lord Cherwell, the British tl nor ro tha 1 Butt, a of th ( ariat, had beer Cabine hief scientific er and aman who had Churchill's ear. A mont! I l 1 i ng i fect bomb ions in ufter Harris took over command, Cherwell came up with a simple scheme t I f ig Losses. He studied in detail 60 gtaphs of 100 raids on 28 cities over vin t var. His experts had studied the Luftwatffe’s air attacks on Britain tand it ! 110 wy nigh aerial phot His obj cities and ¢ 1 that every ton of bombs dr ped {m ( verage | t F rk din th {d he roseate aircrew accounts that ki about 150 I homele It was estimated that the averag mbat lif lef an off taking a pag been bn RAP’s commanders since the first rad in Apr an RAF aire ind its plane was 14 During the ombat 1 1 ive got to k ( vomen an 140), art at near ne who read it, A plane couk at or mbs. The mathematic r or on only one of five bombers that supposedly f re straight cr C fehc about 6,006 ng tor them when t t war be 4 t st within five mites of the target, ( jermans, Th ¥0. ne 22 million Germans Ii t A tie hi vt 1 four managed to meet the average, overt in Germany’s 58 la ¢ with populations over 100,000 i id Germar ( ant Ruhr, only one in ten came within five mite were within range of the new heavy bombers then coming off the assemb! 1 m cr to d Bomber Com fiers initially refused to accept Butt ines. If 10,000 of the new bombers were put in ibat by the middle of B pter 1759, th Me . y specually Hown 1943, so the analyses went, one-third of Germany »pulat