ak  lement in the propaganda camy  thrown ov  instrument, to help create an aura of mystic omnipoter  early months of World War II can remember the Movi enlisted-man guard walking next to ar oficer as he left B-17 or B- 24, The officer was identified as  the bombardier a  showing an  id he carried  1 bulky dark cloth bag. Inside  the bag, the narrator said, was  America’s top-secret bomb  in instru  ent like none other in the  world. The two were headed  for the special bombsigh 4 When the  bombsight was not in the air  on the air t  plane, it was in a safe, The  Norden was so critical to the  nation’s security, it was under stood, that its secrets must  never be allowed to fall into the  hands of an enemy. Fixed ir of the supposedly  Norden bombsight. Vaunted optical instrument invincible Flying Fortress, it that demanded that the bombardier “see” his was destined to win the war for target, proved to be unable to deliver bombs the United States, Americans wccurately over typically cloud-covered Europe.  World War I radar bom  were even less precise. (Courtesy National  were lectured again and again. The bombardiers  Archives) elves dur  whts that came later  their twelve weeks  of training were treated to the  th f the need for unwavering security. Incred , the trainees were not  ven allowed to take notes during classes; everything they were told about the Norden had to be memorized. Additionally, commanders required that bom bardiers in their training outfits swear to and then sign, indicating that they  t ad and understood, what was known as “the bombardier’s oath  f . nbers flew combat mis- Was : parently benefitted little pte fi Kop 1am at aggressiy  would exact terribl  ied difficulties of 1  eTVICE bel t ULS. tactic  echanism ,., and one round through the telescope U.S. bomber re bet- ¢ alt Norden bombsight was uld be flowr  ¢ target area, or so the  uld certainly disal  usilade hide the secrets of it issions  pecial incendiary mixture. Aimed at the bomb s Ge