in New Mexico, (Courtesy  int nose  ned about 9,000 pounds  nplosion di  ign te  losives would be tri  ered to dris  tablish crit  achieving instantaneous  100 pounds i Major General Leslie Grove,  that  ft  Atomic  Man resemblec  1 gia  four-vane  box fin  / hoe interim com-  the bomb  bomt  ng in World War II  120 Strategic Bomb  In 1905 physicist Albert Einstein had published his special theory of rel- ativity which postulated ationship between mass and energy: a tiny amount of matter was equivalent to an enormous amount of energy. This  ed just that, an abstract theory of little practical  hers—until 1938. In that year emists Otto Hal  , perhaps, to a few theoretical researc  as announced that in the Berlin laboratories of ¢  assmann the uranium atom had been split into two roughly equal  parts by bombardment with neutrons. By early 1939, word of the epoch-mak-  ing accomplishment had spread to nuclear researchers around the world, giv ng fresh impetus to experimenters probing nuclear reactions that could lead to weapons of almost inconceivable power. The $2 billion U.S. Manhattan  Project to build a nuclear bomb came to fruition in July 1945 in Project Trin  ity in Alamagordo, New xico, when the prototype Fat Man plutonium  ted, Less than one month later, Little Boy, a ura-  s successfully  bomb v  nium bomb, was dropped on Hiroshi  tons equivalent of TNT, fi  lowed three er by Fat Man over Nagasaki,  with an estimated yield of 22 kilotons fission bombs.”  Little Boy's design was essentially rifle that fired a uranium z yullet” with tt uranium 235 target rings fitted to its muzzle, form- in ium of critical mass required for the explosion. The assembly,  Little Boy, the gun-assembly bomb using uranium 235 was dropped on Hiroshima,  and  August 6, 1945, by Enola Gay. It was 28 inches in diameter, 120 inches lon weighed about 9,000  nds. (Courtesy National Archives)  FatM st 9, 1945,  about 10,000 pounds, Its prototype had been tested in New Mexico. (Courtesy  Nag