into Germany and back again, Luftwaffe fig were responsible fe  168 Strategic Bombing in World War II  on the German capital during the war, 37 Me 262s were sent aloft to defend  against them  Though the bombers were escorted by no less than 14 fighter groups of the  ¢ screen >  recently so superior P-51 Mustang, the jets pierced their de trouble. Outcl hi of the Me st d airplanes. The jets  19 certain vi  ed by the easy, elegant fl  ad suddenly become ponderous and outm  loss of two of their  claim plus two probables, for th own aircraft. The American figures were 24 bombers and five of their fighters  Messerschmitt Me 262 Schwalbe (Swallow). The first turbojet-powered fig!  er plane to see combat in World War I and by far the war's most spectacular performer. Plane shown, at Rheinman Airport near Frankfurt in early 1945, had been flown over U.S, lines and surrendered to U.S. forces by its Luftwaffe pilot. (Courtesy National Archives)  Contrary to popular myth that Adolf Hitler's insistence that the jet be  1 as a bomber was the cause for the plane's delayed introduction as  ne shortages, not by air-  or, in fact delays were imposed by er  quired exotic high-nickel and ~molybdenum alloy steels to resist  10—The Defenses 169  the extreme operating ten peratures of highly stressed ¢ yressor and tur  bine bl:  scarce. Indeed, German e  tes and combustion-chamber cor  ponents, and these materials were  rineers were never able to come up with satisfac-  tory substitute materials and had to settle for conventional alloy s  An even more revolutionary Luftwaffe inter  *ptor was the Messer  Me 163 Komet, a tiny rocket-engine-powered plane of astonishing mance. Like the Me 262, the Me 163 was accorded low priority Luftwaffe when it first flew in 1940. By January 1944, as 8th Air Fe 1 into production. A S¢  e¢ Me 163 was rusk:  raid w if intensity, t  irst models off the asserr line ar  ly tiny numbers, the 163 was  ved with th  was equ w combat in May 1944. Available ir  see