blic-relations campaign to build a bo: fo his command and at the same time hoodwink the Ameri p Arnold cautioned Spaatz and the 8th’s public informat oid using th n “blind ferring to H2X missions because it ave “t the milit hic ar on.” Sue iphemisi cas inique overca 1 t bing wi vigatic devices ove » 20,006 feet" we >| t 1. Ag 1 commiai 4 docume he positive results of the bomt Pictures and more pict t ily wi th ee 1 par in the Ur Nin I 1 vants t see ire C Ar per 1 secu rity-classified:A bor Most h Air f pi h clot f yst It wa  38 Strategic Bombing in World War I  to the job i id been designed to do. The instrum s inability to function 7 ud-cover had crept into their consciousneses sl for these men H2X } erent limitations. TI 1a of coastlir had been weaned on the Norden’s infallibility for nearly a decade. RAF und lakes wer indicated accurat te bus re . Bomber Command, far less interested in precison bombing than the USAAF, ne t reflection was easy for the 0 ibardier) had begun using a radar bombsight in its Pathfinder aircraft, code-named ish vas near a City or over open counry, id ntifying Rachich: oy anped ics ewer pathe nA no hit” par r nother story. The radar image did not neces , and the AAF turned tish, whose radar-based navigation aid: 2 the image reproduced | depend Ti r scanner  anything the Americans  omb-aiming instruments were  tin late 1941. The f herefore, demand  and «  ¢ screen was filled with an intense blaze  AN/APQ-13 and, in a later enhancement, a  g € V ible tor tl or or ost advanced radar bombsight ae ; NS ERR Et : to Han g Ww y See RTE ER cRNA his command and at the same time ublic, “Hap bombit t Japan in March 1945, u ; oe oe : ' usin 1e ter t 1 bombing” w because it i have welcomed an effective tactic to destroy selec : : abing r se i 1 en t a vercast DO. ) € in Ic bomt th ugh overc In the is y in rwent testing and proto A mbing 5 pias. i “b v c devices « { fi 20,001 luction, the 8th Air Force installed British H2S radars in selected meee g ee