tors contributed to the war's end, compared to about 13,000 B  great number built—over 18,000  more than any other America  warplane of any type one fundamental and serious glitch in the ing. Above 20,000 feet the  design,  ctly to the Davis w demanded  flying that was the keystone of U.S. air tactics over Germany. “You don’t  is magnified during the tight-formatior  Consolidated B-24D Liberator which shared heavy-bomber missions over Europe with the more well-known Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress. More B-24s were manufac  tured than any other U.S. warplane during World War UL. (Courtesy National \rchives)  know what shit hittin’ the fan means till you've seen a Liberator flip over  side in the mic of a forty-plane formation,” one pilot  As a result, the inherently less stable B encrally flew in looser for  to minimize collisions, in turn reducing the eff of their  ensive firepower, In mixed-aircraft missions, B-24s were typically  flown 3,000 to 5,000 feet below formations of B-17s, exposing the B  to greater danger from an  aircraft fre and mak  enemy fighter aire B-17 aircrews, in fact, were  rally happy to  fly such mixed m go after the B-24  Charles A. Lind  into the war, flew the latest U.S. fighter and bomber aircraft and  advised high-level military and civilian authorities on what he had learned of the in-flight performance of the planes he had tested.’ His was a we Preside  t a commission t  a c<esman for the anti-FPDR and isolationist America First Committee. In April 1942 he test-flew a B-24 for the first  ed with the airplane  a result of his role as chi  time, He wrote later that he |  1 controls to be th  tantly  also proved to be not nearly as robust as the B-17 and Arn  was on rec  as stating that combat squadrons in Europe greatly prefe  the B-17. “When we send the 17s out on a mission, most of them return. But  when we send the 24s out, a good many of them don't,"" Undoubtedly t production short-cuts compromised structural integrity, but the planc nar