r uil lar That 1 the N sy B mente icturally, the S I def brit 1 Ar r 7 t mad maid a Septemb: g th l S id he I le 1 itior for the N I k nd buil powerf I ip had mad I inet en t ligt I 1 3 1 hing ¢ 1 Coolidge wh the nation ies. B lit 0 f i t gz } iget and znd had many polit en he 7 I I ated. Mit alta [ ed Strate Ie t bete 1 1 t Lit y 4 t War nation —( ige him f § martial charg 1 promptly f ilty. H 1 i r fi I I Mitchell h ' 1 1 by ranking Ar r§S icer 1 i H t i r who were ¢ ful not to } rd ! I 1 I E Pi I his behalf at his court-m 1 we \ r " tat € natior f 1 His defer am included a Captain I re | c 1 i mar nth I pal commanders of the Army Air Fx | He lib 1 Sir I 1of W War Il, M It f apol n t ights in tha raphic up! it 1  0) Strategic Bombing in World War II  1aval forces but from hostile air forces. By extension, the  come from ener  rticularly imperil American po: ions in the far-flung  uir threat would Pacific Mitchell's wa  period on how to secure the U.S. coastlines agains  the loudest and most abrasive voice in the perennial debate  attack from  durir  ¢ two oceans that bordered it. The Navy regarded this mission as its exclu  sive role and had fiercely fought any interlop  elentingly. In Mite  rs in the past  I's radical view, airplanes could blunt  acking foreign navies approach U.S. shores and thus the bomber rep  resented the correct defense for the future. The sides were drawn up for a  ken Mitchell  fierce anc  interservice squ . with the outsp:  squarely on cen  In 1923, Mitchell combined a honeymoon with his se  stage  ‘ond wife with a  China, mili  sions in that region, Hawati, Guam, and the Philippines, and in Japa India, Jav  tary comma  id Singapore. Me later wrote that he found the Japanes  nders extremely intere ywer and s d that their  uir forces, Army and Navy, were underrated. By contr Mitchell viewed  1 Navy commanders as ferent to air power and seem  1ecir own at it was  t Japan would go to war with the United States over economic  rim  With uncann