t tnctive a con 1 tl ‘ hopefull y mai ned of Luftwaffe paract cere cream-colored). In the eyes of those fic , heir nfla ; told G eS American airmen were the killers of young children, There are ! tch esst trot ie periorit Germa ot y met by civil The B with yw itol } ' ng pe mili ive at th Pp y. Er y exits w lesigned ) - iA tase asa i ll lor detense, bi ri I € re Oo c lected 1 i nig they would stand little { io : th Air | f e Ir ie gun =H ae y and perhaps su 11943. The R Air Force ha « " t tain! t c the likelihood of a violent end at the { angry German . tht lio | t t EE ARP Se OG I ivilians, One su le comes from i es of a surviving m ps. M \ lid t itt 9 ber of t Nir Force's 457th Bombardment Group, From February 1944 rat ‘ | fA that a setae lec Uhl LO ‘ f One crewmen his remembrances tc mpiler I B-24 I G Br hi tel t 4 ee ; h h h t f aw this ape ront of the ch tee i ea oe fs =ih nuts when they head al That lar ! 1 i | f the church and cir nd me. M: had 4 ort far $$ t that t W " cattered around Germany, Gen 7 ae ca f - i vay to the 1 d ally treated by | He physicians. In Se ae T 1s O1 U ih rds almost > x ate I I i ( isand most American POWs suffered fi ; : 1 na t ” incay = ; : x = i!  ic Bombing in World War IT  we ly common during the summer anc autumn of 1944  ged or fu  fown at th  A hard man, he  ituatior  ful German civilians waiting on t  floating down ur  ented exam fc calls ica f the likelihood of ut the | fan German ich ¢ c ni trospectives of a surviving mem t Air Force's 457th Bombardment Group. From February 1944 i ¢ and did not Ww AO nain afloat or ceesstully to the end of April | ; , ions, losing 91 B-17s i itched. Only about one-third ref 10 were for 1 thei mbat. One crewm ta the veorniiian oh B-1 B-24s in the water ween Europe and ; : ip's h y d. Por th vy iT 1 ditch tl be traumatic. A 8 Lir F medical study of 32( who ha 1 1 th I ht in front of the church, so I steered the chu e “psychiatr talt about tenf ¢ rat the air for 1 came ri ni peni nember, it w