r. The $2 billion U.S. Manhattan Project to build a nuclear bomb came to fruition in July 1945 in Project Trin  ity in Alamagordo, New Mexico, when the prototype Fat Man plutonium  ing fresh impetus to exper  bomb was successfully tested. Less than one month later, Little Boy, a ura-  a with a yield estimated at 12.5 kilo- at Man over Nagasaki,  ssion t  nium bomb, was dropped on Hirosh  it of TNT, followed three days later by F; vield of 22 kilo Little Boy's des  tons equivale  ymbs.7?  with an estimate  rifle that fired a uraniu i}  a  235 “bullet” with th ed to its muz  uranium , form-  ing the medium of critical mass required for the explosion. The assembly,  Little Boy, the gun-assembly bomb using uranium 235 was dropped on Hiroshima, August 6, 1945, by Enola Gay. It was 28 inches in diameter, 120 inches lon hed about 9,000 pounds. (Courtesy National Archives)  we  121  Fat Man, the implosion bomb using plutonium 239, was dropped on Nagasaki, August  9, 1945, by Bock's Car. It was 60 inches in diameter, 128 inches lo nd weighed  about 10,000 pounds, Its prototype had been tested in New Mexico, (Courtesy National Archives)  swith  enclosed in a ten  ig, two-foot-d!  ind a conventional box fir d about 9,0(  pomb  Fat Man was a plutonit  g an imp achined ysives would be tri  into th  ical mass. A jacket of precisely  ner “core,” achievin  the outer plutonium ele: i  criticality much like Little Boy’s gun. Fat Man resembled a giant f  nearly five feet in diameter at its midsection, with a hefty four-vane box fin welded at the back. It weighed close to 10,000 pounds. ry of War Henry L. Stimson* and Major General Leslie Grove,  manager of the Manhattan Project, had appointed an ad hoc interim com-  Secre'  mittee to advise the president on issues relating to the atomic bomb. This  committee had agreed—by no means unanimously—that the bomb be  wer  bing— umber  inting  Aim  ric Bombing in World War II  against an appropriate Japanese “civilian/military” target—as soon