turn  yut to be not much different from combat on the ground, if not in total num-  bers, certainly in in ity. It could be compared to the daily butchery in the trenches in France between 1914 to 1918.  This be many instar officials that fits comfortably into America’s inward-looking and hypocritical view of  h the reader will find  anda, althoug  s focus is not on prop  es of bl  tant s and purposeful coverups by high-ranking  ier, its intent is to probe the government myth-building deceit  itself'as a nation uniquely humanitarian among all others. We draw our sword  Il ourselves over and over—and only when thoroughly pro  civilians,  s not aim bombs  a do te  to time, | must do so. When an English woman in her seventies, which  voked. As a corollary, Ameri  Nor is it my intent to d  ly into comparative moralities, but from  er during the London Byitz, responded to the author's state  ruction of the German city of Dresden in the waning weeks  of the war in Europe by Royal Air Force Bomber Command and the U.S  8th Air F  e could be define hion, “What about Coventry?” Coventry was a major air z center, producing Spitfires for the RAF, Reliable post t about 700 civilians were killed by German bombers  an  trocity, she responded instantly, almost  over C 1940, while the British and American bombers killed prob: y 100 tin that nur in 1945. Dresden manufact according to a later-well-known Amer  firestorm. Remarkably, the almost-uni-  city’s wanton destruction was never  re devastating incendiary-bomb raid by  or » in March 1945. According to Japanese official rts, more civilian residents were killed in that attack than in the nuclear 4 f Hiroshima, Four years carlier, Japanese naval aircraft had killed  Pr  about 2,400 people, nearly all military personnel, wi  warships and naval facilities at Pearl Harbor; the ] did not bomb adjacent Honolulu Any analysis of U.S. airpower during World War I must als  cover the  role played by interservice rivalry—the conflict between th