d States ZA - would cor cout of We »nse to public clamor f waé testing its own new bomber, Spa adh ed to become the dominant mil | 1“ us Hand Page V wut the same s; Giant \ i) fo ei Dh i nd into the and had th 1 » strike vany with new dem« boml ht gs, ilo fost to one tor h. The target n, about 650 miles from es uh ee t of | The Great W RAF bombers would fly suct nei 8, al te ca T alts dh wily i Oh Wl Mh When the Unit 6, 1917 Mlb a America rat { Relig Cap Bh ie Mil atm at Me he Army Se on Tre babe et en lots, th ‘ sien Vi lb " ver th 7 nt disputes that had originated with a federa i 4 wee he rt decision in January 1917 that the Wright I atent on wif \ ut rping asa »f controlling an airplane in fl 1 broadly to any sce hat affected an aircraft's roll. Neverth ks of the U.S i i ntry i var, All itary delegatior m Europe were arriving it r iA, hi ; industry. } : than French Premier fn FQ A re R tel red a i erick heeded taat wa aaa TU ony nc ¢ 500 5 A de ociated power” shoul he ; | { a e US.) \ Ribot's bogey: the two military serv ISA wal dp 1, ast t vy, about 16,000 aircraft i the nation had an aircraft indi fou uray Wd rl ft i I 1 ‘ t if th S. Air Se . ‘ 1h ballet \ pang Gorrell;'¢ 1a plan calling for the bor I Hell a i  Top: November 14, 1918: Polo Field, Potomac Park MD. The Woodrow Wilson party inspecting the first U.S.-manufactured Handlcy-Page 0/400 heavy bomber, Langley, foreground. The President is filth from the right; next to him, the always fashionably attired First Lady, Edith; on his other side, Secretary of War Newton Baker. Bottom. Overall view of the ponderous Handley-Page 0/400 twin engine heavy bomber. The biplane had a wing span of 100 feet and was 63 feet long. It could carry 2,000 pounds of bombs at a stately speed of 97 miles per hour. (Courtesy National Archives)  restricting bombardment to fortified places or to places from which the  civilian population had an opportunity to be removed.” Furthermore, he said  that such indiscriminate bombing would