tened overnicht “ be practically lar commanding general, Henry Harley “Hap” Arnold. Arnold ni inlimited opportunities t I wo principal center- mile masked his ind driving ambition to buil Air I Fess wine bombers, the B-17 Flying Fortresses, B-24 Liberators, and B-29 1911, he had been taught to fly by Orville Wright int ays in Dayton, Ohio, S rfortresses, and the Norden bombsight that supp ly dropped bomb rece tor’s License No. 2 the same year. In th vid-1936 nto pickle barrels. These magnificent flying machines and Arnol for hind establishment 1 instrumented bor ten w flections of the nation's tec y and prod i I r r v ra for the Army Air Corps at M Dry Lak crewed | refully sereene inteer nation’s best Hei led in th t th his airpla fort t rtainly, br ni 1 idustrial facilit of th emy would be targeted and the Nor ot Army Air For he Army Air € V val len would put bo: cisely irget become r nt military sc € r ilt of | sxcused efforts or They would fly h, fast, and in tight defensive formations so that their many Arnold kept plenty of heat on h I nates to produce deci uns cou ight to bear or r planes. There was no ne ing results. Wh General Ira Eaker did not ice the re Arr rese or escort fighters to nbers. As for the rden, it nded, he rey { him with Maj. Gen t Do e in the Euro ked just fine in t nvironment in ¥ 1 it had been tested: the cloud pean Theater. He later shunted aside Brig. Gen Haywood Hansell in t less sh in western deser here the bomt rs ¢ Pacific i or of Brig. General Curtis E. LeMay wh readily nd delir t valt ci outlined in the sar with terror bombir While he t if Pacific t ny fighters boring in, the inlons win ind carpets of dead uked precision bombing to vere in I ck ut Dt ing the heayy plane cities. I ic, Arn f ibor 1 lorrent te was slow to seey to the psyche f the commar rif ty, our sense lecer Privately uff ud t f unescort } and B-24s and their 10-man crews i ( kil of civilians is t 1 ind d i Ger ut evidence that th oumbers were not 1 t civili \ e { th