killed ar t l ! n to th ‘ nd of U.S. fighter-plane rang her hand ilian t did verse fect le. B  V 1 be somewhat better on average than for ately 200,000 | x cele acialice 1 ders of the 20th Air I flying B-29s out CERES to hit tar in Japan, quickly ca I I aan > Mies Of recon aiesaiit iret raids, continuing for a week August taken the next day showed “exceptionally good t Man had destroyed Hiroshima and Nagasak PENNS readily ammable cities, large and sm rh ‘Bis rahe rex rev ment, armor, and bomb load” of th ptimist the Eur n theat : 1s Wromg ce nt, The B vith “th Loan anes when it first flew in 1936¢ n. Throughout the yin B-1 ns, the Fortre unable t pan it 9e— achic re t skilled Gern Luftwaffe. Ger ior y, how bserve eferred to the B d their sister fas garding the Fort ita ‘ task | rot t e wrong countr LF air nman oO ted to hear 1 typically nm 1 their intended target four-eng Wellingtor nd Lar tr f bomt ¢ targ: nd furthermore Phere ample reasons for this lack of pre big bomb: i it ha ” 0 years later mi ’ ally ral gruel t 5 t wo fan their chances of survival. And the most ight, was nearly le ver cloud-c red targets, whatever their Th eTOUS MISSIONS W ircrew in the t r ti gh adat I ts that can ter, to overcome the problem of hitting target 11943, wh the Luf ff t the he t of trength, a U.S. fiyer in he ove ch | prec n. Fartherme Americar 1 B-1 B 1 chance in four o ) b rd I MIT salty.’ Nearl 1,000 airn n tl ) th Air I wurriedly i omt 1 Europe w ual killed ior re 1iSST n acti 1 lar-direct ntiair pri of war ¢ vi ted, The pur rel ighter-plar ilar t tt | ler bomt ¢ a But most of tl r tl t f 1 Lut t lost thet ( World W hr ty o it did the 1 ‘ AA ialti 7 m bord ur? Over Germany, the strategic bomb i i 1,1 . \ e Bomber Comn 1 net is) m What I rt ( on Kherevani productic ; ruy 1 1 by fighter escorts. Tl ert that had gs of cit nters killed ar t 1 I n tot t nd of U.S. fighter-plane range, on the other hand ilian t | erse fect le. B German homel t wou € rned imm tely th nen nsportat or