o their stuff and beat net in the North Pacific: destination Tokyo and nearby Japanese cities, and m off. Ke sual didn't swear even though he knew on ir China re powerful politic al pres to mount  bi jot I iposte to th Harbor attack and the unorthodox  cia f the pl I was thrown out of the plane I vailable resources  by nbers of the crew landed safely. Kelly's at  budiews one Salas In January, Arnold had chosen Lt. Colonel James Doolittle to command the joint Army-Navy mission, Special Project No.1, famously memorialized  Kelly m« » real man but the yarn of his exploits was as the “Doc Raid.” Doolittle had written extravagantly to Arnold in an bomb ar industrial cent | not only cause cor  fusion and imped ction, but will undoubtedly facilit ation inst Japan in theaters due to their probable withdrawal of troops f purpose of d ng their home country, An action of this mo  desirable now due to the psychological effect on the Americar ic, our  allies, and our enemies »bjectives will be military and industrial targets ir  Tokyo- Yokohama, Nagoya, and Osaka-Kobe area Doolittle’s checkered background matched his rernarkable comr Unlike most USAAF commanders, he was not a West Pointer or a career  officer. He had joined the U.S. Army in 19  transferred to the Aviation Sec tion and served there until 1930 to join Shell Oil and help develop 100-octar aviation fuel. Earlier he had earned a doctorate in aeronautical engineer from the prestigious Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Before the out break of the war, Doolittle had built a reputation as a daring airy racer  setting speed records and gaining internation: | fame  of the first plane, D  The plan called for an afternoon take  some 400 miles from the Japanese mainland—so he wo  local sunset, “so you t fire bea crews. The B-25 inte irrier O tions, w t 1 unessentials to reduce takeoff weight. The pilots would take va  typically stiff mv cean breeze blowing acr  April 18, 1942: The first of 16 North American B-25 Mitchell