ly, incendiary-bomb raids were  fight crumy m generally confuse the city's defen ini 1 d the effect of the incendiaries which followed. It wa he ir 1 c tof the fir r it onfigured rs, either aimable or bomb | Aimable clusters held the bomblets together insid casing which opened at a predetermined altitude, concentrating th list ic | ets at newhat in ing their accuracy I neendiar filled with various mixtures of hig flammable t drew the most attentior 1 U.S, war planne The RAF I { idled the first man-made firestorm in Hamburg in July 1943 1 1 1 1 neendiar 250- and 500. nd and the  The B 10  8th Air Force had been closely tuned into the results. Indeed, the first ten  f incendiaries by th Air Force in 1943 involved these same  figurations. Within a year, a U.S. designed four-pound magne  M-17, packaged in 500-p  rermite bomblet, und clusters, came  n ignition, it burned for six to eight minutes at a temperat  2,300 degrees Fahrenheit. But it was a radically new and innovative  liary b  t under accelerated development, the M-69, that wor  lanning for the testing of new-generatior 5S. incendiary bor  February 1943 and by May the tests were under way at Dugway Proving  inder comparative test included the M-47  pound bomb filled w a jellylike mixture of rubber, lye, and coconut «  t of sophisticated design. Napal material that had been developed by DuPont ¢ 1  tute for commonly used  gr gh te " h ran for four months, left little t t nagination. B ind B-24s flying in combat formations rel l t om no | bombing altitudes over carefully rey ted itial two » nemy villa t t by th Army Cher | e. The Japanese village consisted of 12 tw tory row | the German towr | n ted-de i hou Cost I hentic as the build uld t. 1 furnished as tl lly were ir voods, same dimension the imple, the Japanese reside rad smo cre » divide t ns; included ¢ lined uy | Records were kept eac hit: wh it ent re buildi yath it followed through structure, \ the incendiary action took (  10¢ Strategic Bombing in Worl