t bombing over Germany. A student of bia; ; sd hasel vand ie body | knew at the time when ys and tt 5] noufl t  \ r >’ All the soldiers and ai tion was back t Schweinfurt, only  n who were mans to quit tomorrow, A as heavi ur while a} ’  6 68 Strategic Bombing in World War I Zui . panded antiaircraft defer source of natural petroleum in Axis Europe, supplying about one-third of accom Ke obo Of d in August, As in the previous raid, the bombers refineries inside Germany. Churchill dramatically referred to the city as “the ai POE Area AOE ths center oF che tite if the: laesaries themeetver could taproot of German might,” an exaggeration, but Ploesti was certainl vit ery chet hampers thie start cf Geuakaney KAPIBS Eras strategic target. The Germans treated it as such and inst ai abl of B-I7s- at , only 291 crossed the English Chant than 230 able. Mizil, 20 miles cast of Ploe na that t managed to reach Schweinfurt. The air battles en route were ferocious. Over pes nter Group 4) « ' f the Rhineland, when the short-range P-47s had to turn back, the main Luftwaffe listea were painted b Agnters, aso tt an, Stukas above the bombers dropped fragmentation bombs, but it 1G There were al »manian defe force  Gern rt FY { Fw 190s that were most effective, “some using rockets, cattered at bases 1 tea nd flying a melange of German ar head-c the in-engine fighters and te stic fighters. TI planes represented Ploesti’s inner fighter r a) t Sy 1¢ rear, St ft avoid the tail gur ilso German fighter-plane bases on Crete and Greece rToUup Pp 1 away with heavy Then the German: in 8¢ rn Italy that for an outer ring of defenses, The largest force in mal ht back to the coast, as weather prevented the arrival of this outer ring lay directly the route that would be taken by the B-24 ng +. Over Europe 60 bombers went down, and another 5 It wa Royal Bulgarian fighter-plar mor 1 10 plane onstr ‘ Arnold ot ated preposterously: “The opposition isn’t nost lete Czecho: ko Na 1 1939 id 5) near! t was, and