Ox ior bombing itu : , In 19 t tart of t . c ier G Germany (which took place in May) but R Monti, thehighest mountain in Japan at 12,300 foet some 60 mils fr F : ; H United St endesiey 110,000 fe i 4 to be ¢ ed the | 5 downtown Tokyo—and the bombardies'always-viibe intial point for the o < t of t 4 1 t 1 I 1 c | ill with i } i 1 t irly one { mile. I I I 1 rtainl ded, by dinar ; rer titudes, 20,006 1 oid fl Japa y {at the sa man miles per hour . nding $2 bi I t lop ble to compensate or these unpre : H 1e 1 er all? I of ted fi ed withthe inexper * Fal } i ; th C ling te k ‘ t t 2 I ning 1 ya fey ines dropping their bom 7 | o 5 t Fj pa 1 1, vated r 1 dt 0 ik ot Tokvo and dumped them in i I , wl Tokvo Bay, The mission was a fal : ae t : : round radar gets f 1 ips and t stream, a band of ait originating in ‘ acal Air I : “a snoving at 0 to 0,00 feet and ea r 1 n ii) i W the Nort t F . " . igt : ' 2 1 i flicient! ther f i | Wi exitg bombing tabs were wes because r th rget arc ANC U been conducted ats inst the wind” bo i A k A P 1 ba Atio Cini packs to that ere equal nt aA ; : se favt id :"G 9 t ft up to fv more fom the plan ; ‘ ‘ ; n, wit ) on failu 1 i Ni Ae for the plan i} i th high 1 ‘ Tet q AVS tra ‘d  and contribute to error rer many times during t mb's fall t 1e target wt n hgh urcraft and ound wind speeds and directions beneath the bomb bay way ying at high altitude reduced the accu f round also tly affect tT tiectory lier ption more difficult—but at t 1 in over enemy terri way of obtaining this vital information. He must c Y racy. Penetration by single bombers somewhat increased uum. A bomb l y depends on the air de ter attack most prot ity, a function of its temperati humidity of the air, atmospheric pressure ided bi I usec tl and speed of the falling bomb. Fir are the ballistics characteristics rea of the bomb pattern pecific to the b tself: size, weight fin type, even the surface rough S od preci g—striking an individual factory building, a 1 fr i 1, aC a bridg