ght exploit the tinderl t nj f rcame. Mitchell had lectured famboyantly and often on tl 1 resi rat U.S, bombe 1 re day waste to tl t T f suy cart bases in the A ians and Kurile Island s gust 1935 the NV York 7 VM r 1 hed an t t Chengtu wa All Japan Fears an Air Attach ith a su She Reali Tt uw m Calc sul Work Havoc In Her Crowded ¢ With Their Many Flimsy ous Hump. Ch In th me rT promi hot | B-17 i ¢ air bases along th ast to [ flight. The caption called the big bomber “the deadliest fighting n ¢ K 1s at the « he world—the ‘Flyir a 15-ton fou d bombe Uh ) rar ry Kyu t cle harked back to the gr of 1923 that 1 lur trolled It t t of the four new n Chengtu demanded some 400,000 killi 1,000 and f tl t Ch iit vit amr ioving di baskets hung from which one could not even tell where the street 1 4 | iti refi Lin ra plans—never carry 100 planes, of which 50 will probably t 1 t ted nvert t B-24 fuel tar nd transport 10 percent of these should sucec n reaching Tokyo, the ud  Falling just insid les were th par nds ir lh Marianas—Saiy 1 1 100 mi ast of the Philiy pa in Tt | ol erve h c rthe B-29s. t hey ‘ ture th ner of 1944. would Top Air f rg rea ey r or nade hief w " had a p wenda, J would t t India and Lh CI Roo l ut | idency was a steadfast partisan of Ger ‘a i Chiang Kai-Shek t and inept dictatorshif as und un y anxious te r na China in its war with Japan. He wa \ in “old ¢ r I lefinition t erm. FDR, after al Delano and his 1 al yarents had made their millions in the China f It relied on the | orden be rhit rare d ‘ de in tk ) 1 rthermor ¢ had been seduced, figurativel itn! there w no cloud cover. The newest radar bombing system for bor ng t ‘ Soong cl whom Chiang’s Christ intmut through t AN/ANPO-13 I with it net ving-lik t g influentia or 1 l ur t agend ma Hem rat pour i the pro! 1 Chia t is | China and the Chine 1 N Ha L ed for the adverse weathe I t g 1 y popular Commu ret if ( i es, the lage t n of ind fac Zedung. I It be ively that air ba Chir h B-2 i ¢ daunting lc Bi h