d War II  , 37 Me 262s were sent aloft to defend  corted by no  ed by the easy,  elegant flight of the Me  become ponderous and outmoded airplanes. T  of two of the  plus two probables, for the loss were 24 bombers and five of their fi  tosce combat in World War I and by far the war's most spectacular performer. Plane shown, at Rheinman Airport near Frankfurt in « lines and surrendered to U.S. forces by its Luftwaffe pilot. (Courtesy National  262 Schwalbe (Swallow). The first turbojet-powered fighter plane  ly 1945, had been flown over U.S,  pular myth that Adolf Hitler's insistence that the jet be  plane's delayed introductior  alloy steels to resi  otic high-nicke  10—The Defenses 169  d tur  the extreme operating temperatures of highly stressed compressor  bine blades and combustion-chamber components, and these materials were  scarce. Indeed, German engineers were never able to come up with satisfac-  tory substitute materials and had to settle for conventional alloy steels that  required engine replacement typically after only 12 hours’ operation  An even more revolutionary Luftwaffe interceptor was the Messerschmitt  Me 163 Komet, a tiny rocket-engine-powered plane of astonishing perfor- 2, the Me 163 was accorded low priority by the w in 1940. By January 1944, as 8th Air Force day  A Si  mance. Like the Me 2  Luftwaffe when it first light raids  was equipped with the  w in intensity, the Me 163 was rushed into production  first models off the assembly line and the n  first saw combat in May 1944. Available in only tiny numbers,  rarely seen by US. aircrews. It had a top speed of over 600 miles per  of over 5,000 feet per minute. Its one seri  and a phenomenal rate of climb  ous limitation was its brief flight endurance: only about seven minutes. T  meant that it could generally make only ingle pass through a bomber for  k  mation before it had to disengage and return to its base  German early-warning and tracking radar as well as radio-intercept capa  bility