ors, The ip to the Marianas for the  ultimately destructive if unattend  inattended, with no destruction re:  winner, creating far more Cl A. fir s and delivered by  manufactured by the mill  B-29 raids in 1 In externa was deceptively innocent looking, di  tail fins to make it f cloth, like a kite's  ent tumbling. As the sturdy  r re no stabiliz  yyed to 7  h the thin roof of a house, a time-delay fuse was  tail, that popped out ¥  unit punched its way  activated which, after 3 to 5 seconds, detonated an ejection-ignition charg e embedded  white-phospho  t would be at rest, on its side or its  By this time, tl  ing charge ignit i small quantity «  tantly set fire t napalm and at the same time blew  1 fierce of gasoline gel out of the tail of the casing. The burn ing gel ed as far out as 100 feet, Whatever the glob hit, it ick ial was combustible, it immediately started an intense,  hard-to-extinguish fir  n clusters of 38 and fit  tering the bomblets. A primacord charge ran through the container’s flange  that was time-fuzed t plode ar n the cluster at a predetermined alti persion. A simpler, lighter construction was merely to strap th  nition, allowing the individual bombs to freely disperse. Such configura  1crodynamically stable as the “containerized” bomblets, but we inge-area weapons and were notoriously inaccurate rcraft speed and winds close to the g  le B-29 on a firebomb raid over Japan typically  vould carry 40 clusters, or about 1,500 individual M-69  } 943, Air Fo ommanders in Eure re reluctantly  i o the real 1 hat they h wear on during the 130s, the cherished concept of prec mn bombing, was proving to be unat ible. One obvious answer was to control the bomb during its fall—make ut” bomb out of imple gravity or “iron” bomb. The first USAAI  guided bomb that car  unit fitted to a standard ,000 pound GP bon  to fruition during the 1  nly). This device enabled the bombardier to steer the b iterally dur ts fal rget. An extended tail-fin configuration carrie