to  vad a gra  istry t  te data from Americar  could be appl  any. Arnold owered the six men to er estimates of man  raw togeth  needs based on analyses of the  power and equipmen strengths and weaknesses  of such prospective enemies as many, as well as interrelated factors as  these data would  strategy, targeting, training, support, and basing. In turn  establi * team w  vals for the nation’s own industrial production. T s given just ten days to compile the final plan which was called AWPD-1 (Air War Plans Division-1), “Munitions R Defeat of Our Px  The document defined three USAAF tasks in order of importance: * 1)  lirements of the Army Air Forces for the  ntial Enemies  to wage a sustained air offensive against Germany; 2) to conduct strategically  defensive air « ations in the Ori  ent; 3) to provide air actions essen  tial to the defense o continer United States and the Western Hemisphere.” There were four goals  outlined for uir offensive against reduce Axis naval  trict Axis air  Germany  operations; > re  operations; 3) to undermine Germar  »mbat effectiveness by deprivation  of essen supplies, production, and  communication facilities; 4) to sup  port a final land invasion of Ger many. AWPD-1 called for 2,165,000 men and 63,500 aircraft  While a remarkable document  considering the constraints of time  ind the handful of people invo  many of its analyses would prov  be seriou flawed, The planners  vy to no intelligence from for ny  ently knew little about the struc mander in chief of the United States Army of the ¢ an economy. AWPD Air Forces dusing World War I. (Cour  postulated a German economy that _ tesy National Archives)  were  and a  eign agents, for ¢ . : Gen. Henry Harley (“Hap”) Amold, com  re  4  The Planners  In July 1941 Pres om his Secretaries of War  and the Navy, Henry L. Stimson and Frank Knox, plans that would guide  nt Roosevelt requested  the nation in the likely event of war with the Axis powers, Germany in par- ticular. At that time,