rs of al t ‘ n plants wi F ) mile radius « ree of Japan’ t i nd Osaka. Fou npat actured two-third:  manufacturer  produc  Osaka  ty ne facility pla 1  90 percent of I made in two plants, the Nak  Most engi  Tc  and th  er  and the two  Mitsubishi plant in Nagoya. The  ill  n squ  red in 1945, the Japanese wou  ingest plar ajima Mu Mit I  feet, one of the world’s lar  1 pay dearl  id War Il  Strategic Bombing in W  ensive radar. Dur  laying radar, special « ‘ vas carried in r ed B-29s, operat by spec avens. Thi equipment intercepted and analyzed Japanese radar signals and, in turn, broad t jamming signals. Initially, only a fe in each m m had Raven ind their soph nic equipment aboard, but by war id, y ill B-29s o1 1 a crew member Compou fense problems was the severe shortage of ran pi t ¢ intensive air battles with supe ior ULS. carrier force evious months, Their replacements were hur iedly trained newcomers, some of whom were formed into special “ramming eam is Seikutai (Heavenly Air-Superiority Unit}. The 10th Fly Divisior ble for defending Tokyo-Yokohama region, was the ir r-defense group to incorporate these “not-quite-kamikaze ers.” The rogram was quickly expanded to cover Japan's other large industrial centers ich as Osaka, Kobe, and Nagoya. The aircraft for these ramming missions wer ripp f armor, radios, and « armament to lighten them for nhanc formance. The pilots flying the taitc 1y-crashing) m ior urvived the attacks. The Japanese also turned to special suicide ire nown ) counte fiying B-29s on night missions. These were t c red planes with a xplosive charge by a “mother ne and released illumir lhe pilot then aimed his plane nearest B-29 and fh t had a smal | supply 90d for only one 7 nations, not unlike the Luftwaffe’s rock owered Me 163 G in wa ct nanagers had had far more foresight than their | ies, | inning for the likelihood of at ; Germany's air  1 production faciite tho: illy dispersed through wut the Reich, Structures were purposefully widely space