on the uircrews alike COPADAE ID S7ne ahd t the | re fighting in Rt Even at the start of 1943, On Marck acked Berlin, in the heavi  long mm machine gur rock d n y ab hters were available to « he growing num! f | 1 single pass. Special squadrons, Sturm re equi ind B-24s. By mid 1943, however US. bombing offensi il fic ackle U.S. bombe c es had armor-plated cockpit yeginning to be recognized as a seriot the number of Luftwafh ee Pilot d to close to just out of the fighter aircraft rose to about 600 and more were on their wa iat vachine gur ombers’ aft turret and open however, do not t ale i wing peril 1 tlect. The t version, the Fw 190K, intro- t The Luftwatte adapted its tacties to reflect its i ” mitt power 1 in-line liquid-cooled engine ing nfidence and skill, The individual fighter g perfor- $52 miles per hour a ervice ceiling of 41,000 i coordinated, sla y by the  and multi-squadron strength  f 110s, Me 210s and M  Most were armed with two 30 mm and four 2¢  Luttwatte f  defensi H was weakest f ammunition for sustained bursts. Some also car omber by killing ely wo 63 er (8 nch) diamet rockets, ly mortar tactics, at closing speeds of 500 mile r, gave th aes © under the wi were sever nd cious few moments to respond. Figh Approa 2 : These shells co fired from a distance of more ' nbers. These tactics were more dangerous lobbed into the tight box formations of B-17s and overtaking a bomber exposed the fighter to defen baie e of the bombers’ .50 caliber machine guns. The ault th n 1,000 yards behi formations, resulti ed bombers abot econds to close to at if c vickings for the lurk 9s and Fw 190: to initiate his burst of fire. But ring Throughout th ar, 8 Air Force aircrews feared these early air- sabled in a first pa ubsequent attacks w ost invariably in-activ to-air m most of uld mount r lethal for the bombe in mentation bombs, tir xplode ame The a flying tim the German day fighters, without reserve of G tropped f the forn 1s, Inter tanks, was betw and 90 mir lependi