as te vith us all ¢ target, apparently reporting t before it passed from t { feet be t g I if position to fresh squadrons waiting for us dow road. At the sight f yellow flat ffected vas tipped off, or at least had gu d our destination and was waiting fort tai t t u 1 nt 1 hort, sir t already appeared that the fighters were passing up precedin t I doubt if a ma Gr t f  thets psi 4 ut at I I t I i i uadr Me 109 in fror Ive to two o'clock in pairs and in fours, ( learn {tk i | it as a main conds later, a dark object came hurtling ‘sean rough the formation, barely missing several props. It was a man, claspin Ground-pases antiawreratt fs . chute open. A B-17 turned gradually out of the formation t ight Phere tleast cou iea ker nyt 1 t Vv of par ute nd wrted r ts of B-1 and ‘ oe ay | k  } ids a t their particular altitude, but were in reality inte  fly throug!  c of about 60 feet  itegrating bombers tha  omber mations, so  sult of ad  ct hit from f  Jown the airplane  y for Luftwaffe  ng inte g Ori  ices that mea itrol tha weathe Iso a ¢ in 1 nd “successtu I I  anding at the end of the m Even if the weat  t takeof forecast to be satisfactory throughout the mission, hours later in ild d. One B-1 ed 3ln ons in 194 11944, remembers tt what he feared most of all was the fog over I tl in I Anglia on his way back from missions ver Germany. He recalls hugging the ground after he crossed the English Channel, straining to through the fog. Often as not, he landed at a base t I v W t eant wheel up mud from taxi i row r tracks adding yards to already marginal tak re The mud, which soon fr the tires, could slow a plane dowr f I s per hour n caus difficulty for the pilot to stay in forma tor 1 to ACK) ield was not the le procedure it implied ar n ributed to the frequ f colli 1 lin the twe more planes involved ler il fi f Vir t der. A gathered h ibin ' T t 10f t C 1 t | ind not at th e ter g h heir posi vith t ig d isl eto ull.” A le ph t I 1 ut t ind { met it Thre i v ver dre lon  14¢€