ence Force/Air Force's 350 aircraft against the Arab airfields, gaining aerial superiority before supporting troops on the ground. Israel's small but well-educated and skilled population favoured the use of air power, and the vast distances of the Middle East lent emphasis to this, over and above the basic tactics essential to any modern war. The Arabs had, between them, almost 1,000 aircraft, with more than 400 in the Egyptian Air Force alone. Instead of making the obvious dawn attack, the IDF/AF struck at 09.00 Cairo time, allowing the Egyptian radar and anti-aircraft units to be stood down from their dawn state of readiness, with duty change-overs in hand, while fighter pilots would also have relaxed. Nor did the Israelis attack radar stations, but instead flew out into the Mediterranean so that they could then turn a strike at airfields from behind the radar chain. Seventeen Egyptian airfields were struck on the first day of the campaign, the so-called 'Six Day War', with eight of these hit during the first strike. The Jordanian and Syrian Air Forces were also struck on that day, with Israeli aircraft being turned round between sorties in as little as seven minutes. For the loss of ten Israeli aircraft on the first day, 300 Egyptian aircraft were destroyed, with another 118 Arab aircraft destroyed on the first and subsequent days. Lacking bombers as such, the Israeli aircraft relied heavily on cannon and rocket fire, with a relatively small number of bombs, although these did include specialized anti-runway bombs or mines, launched with the aid of parachute and rockets and often with delayed-action explosive charges. Just one attack destroyed the Jordanian Air Force's then total of fewer than thirty aircraft, while the Syrians lost sixty aircraft on the first day. During the following days, the IDF/AF operated against Arab tanks and supply lines, but its efforts were not essential to victory on the  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 172 DECLINE AND FALL ground; the Israeli A