APON 92 93 BLITZKRIEG Battles in themselves mattered little; the cost to the relatives of the air- crew and the loss of experienced men to the RAF was certainly not worth it. That afternoon thirty-two Battles attacked the advancing Germans, and thirteen were lost. After nightfall, thirty-two Armstrong-Whitworth Whitleys attacked the railways and roads around München-Gladbach, on the German-Dutch border, operating from the UK. Again this was in deference to French wishes, and again there was no noticeable impact on the German advance. The losses of the first couple of days did not lessen as the short campaign continued. Only one out of six Bristol Blenheims of 600 squad- ron survived after these aircraft were pounced on by Messerschmitt Me.110s during a raid on the German-held airfield at Waulhaven in the Netherlands. Many more Blenheims were caught on the ground or shot down during daring single-aircraft reconnaissance missions. Having lost the Vroenhaven and Veldwezelt bridges over the Albert Canal, near Maastricht, to the Germans, who had seized them in the same airborne assault which took Eben Emael, the AASF decided that the bridges should be destroyed. It was logical, but the bridges were already well defended by 12 May, the day of the mission, and the only aircraft available were the totally inadequate Fairey Battles. The task fell to No. 12 squadron, and the commanding officer called for six volunteer crews for the aircraft assigned to the mission; the normal crews of the aircraft all volunteered. All six aircraft were shot down, with their crews. Only Veldwezelt Bridge was hit, by an aircraft flown by Flying Officer P. E. Garland, who, with his observer, Sergeant T. Gray, received a posthu- mous Victoria Cross, the highest British decoration for gallantry and the first won by a member of the RAF. (Nothing was awarded to the aircraft's wireless operator, Leading Aircraftsman L. R. Reynolds, who shared the same risks and who also died.) The bridges over the Ri