, when the main Japanese push through China began, for by then the rest of the world was awakened to the implications of Japanese ambitions. Even while they were pursuing their ambitions in China, the Japanese were creating an aircraft industry and a design capability which they had some difficulty in fostering. Western designs were still sought, and designers and engineers from the West were offered appointments in the Japanese aircraft industry. One of the Royal Naval Air Service's most distinguished airmen of World War I, Flight Lieutenant F. J. Rutland, later became a member of the post-war British Naval Mission to Japan, which taught the Japanese much about carrier operations. After the entry of Japan into World War II with the attack on the United States Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor, Rutland, by then a commander in the Royal Navy, committed suicide. His efforts in Japan should not be criticized, for within a period of little more than twenty years Japan went from being a staunch ally of the West to becoming its most dangerous foe. After several years of further development and expansion in the two Japanese air arms, war broke out on 7 July 1937 and quickly spread through the northern provinces of China. Peking fell on 28 July, and Tientsin the following day. The Chinese defensive situation had changed for the better by this time, but even so the Chinese could muster just a  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 77 READY FOR BATTLE 76 hundred fighter aircraft against a combined JNAF and JAAF force at least five times as strong. The JAAF used light bombers and fighter escorts, which easily overcame Chinese resistance during the early stages of the war, but the situation soon changed after a landing by Japanese forces at Shanghai on 11 August 1937, which saw the fighters and bombers operating from the Kaga suffering heavy losses from Chinese aircraft flown by foreign pilots. Unfortunately, with their newly purchased fighters, the Chinese were still forced to fight a defensive wa