rld War II was one of the most impressive features of the war. By the end of September 1940 the RAF had effectively neutralized the Knicklebein system, although it was suspected that the Germans had a successor. Again, the first indi- cation came in a chance remark from a prisoner of war, who knew insufficient about the device, except that it was called 'X-Gerat', in- deed, the PoW thought that X-Gerat and Knicklebein were one and the same. The X-Gerat system was based on the transmission of a wide beam from a station code-named Weser at Cherbourg, which was laid over the target. The Weser consisted of two beams some fifty miles apart, through which passed a narrower beam which actually crossed the target. Three other beams, code-named Oder, Elbe and Rhein, crossed the Weser beam at intervals and were transmitted from a station at Calais. Rhein alerted the pilot of the bomber to the approaching target, and he would then fly along the exact centre of the approach beam following a meter which indicated any divergence to right or left, with an audible Lorenz- type signal which transmitted morse dashes if the aircraft veered to the left, and dots if it veered to the right. Thirty kilometres from the target, the Oder beam intercepted the aircraft, alerting the bomb-aimer to start a clock, while fifteen kilometres further on, on intercepting the Elbe beam, a control lever on the clock would be depressed and bombs aimed, so that a minute after passing Elbe at a set speed the clock completed an electronic circuit and the bombs were dropped. In theory there was no need for the bomb-aimer to see the ground in order to drop bombs within twenty metres of the target. To counter X-Gerat, a twenty-four hour listening watch kept a look- out for the beams, using them as an advance warning of a raid and attempting to identify the likely target. By November 1940 electronic counter-measures were ready to be used against X-Gerat, jamming the radar beams. One of the first applications of