encour- aged and impressed by the British initiative in creating the RAF. Mitchell almost immediately upset the United States Navy by his insistence on an autonomous air force and by pressing for the use of surrendered German warships for bombing-trials, to assess the effect of bombing on these vessels. The United States Navy took the attitude of insisting that bombers did not pose a threat to warships, yet at the same time opposing any attempt to put the matter to the test. One would have thought that they would have been anxious to know the outcome of such trials, for the bearing it would have on future naval aviation and on warship design. Mitchell persisted, but it was not until the beginning of June 1921 that trials commenced, continuing through June and July. On 2 June Mitchell watched from an observation aircraft while three fighter- bombers of the United States Naval Air Service sank the captured German submarine U-117 off the Virginia coast. During the next two months, further trials followed, using both US Army and US Navy aircraft, including Airco DH4Bs, Handley Page 0/400s and Martin MB-2s, the last mentioned being a development of the World War I MB bomber. A 600-lb bomb sank the cruiser Frankfurt, and eventually, using 1,000-lb and 2,000-lb bombs, the battleship Ostfriesland was also sunk. The United States Navy still refused to accept the vulnerability of warships, arguing, with some justification, that such trials, against defenceless vessels at anchor, were untypical of combat experience. In September 1923 there was a repeat performance, using decommissioned American warships, with the uss Virginia and New Jersey being sunk by bombs dropped by a Martin MB-2 flying at 10,000 feet. Amidst this apparent success, Mitchell suffered one setback. A favour- ite project of his had been the development of a large strategic bomber, the XNBL-1 or 'experimental bomber, long-range', which was an un- gainly triplane with a wingspan of 120 feet and using six Libert