fect symmetry, unlike a conventional explosive fireball, seemed to say to Cheshire, 'Against me, you cannot fight.' Japan accepted the American surrender terms on 20 August, but the formal date for surrender was set for 2 September. Decline and Fall The end of World War II saw the bomber both at the peak of its success and on the verge of its downfall. The main victim of this change in circumstances was not the light or medium bomber, both of which had a role to play in many minor wars and on counter-insurgency operations, the late twentieth-century equivalent of the 'police' operations of the inter-war years. It was the heavy bomber whose future was most in question. The aircraft which delivered the nuclear weapons which, in the par- lance of the age, 'took out' Hiroshima and Nagasaki, were not all- powerful, for that power was already challenged by the ballistic missile, of which the V-2 had been the first. The end of the war had cut short German plans for an inter-continental ballistic missile, able to strike at the industrial heartland of the United States. No less significant for the future of the heavy bomber, it had also cut short plans for anti-aircraft guided missiles, shelved earlier in the war when it was realized by the Germans that such weapons would not be perfected and into production soon enough to justify the diversion of resources their successful de- velopment would have required. To say that German work on missiles was cut short by the end of the war is not quite accurate. Work in Germany for the benefit of the Luftwaffe was certainly cut short, but the German scientists responsible for such weapons continued their work under the patronage of new masters. The United States obtained the leader of the team, Dr Wernher von Braun, along with many lesser men, and the Soviet Union also managed to obtain many team members, augmenting what has since appeared to be an already significant Russian expertise in the develop- ment of rockets. Examples of Germa