6 on the Bell GAM-63 Rascal missile, which entered service with the USAF B-47s in 1957. Sometimes known as the 'stand-off' bomb, the Hawker Siddeley Dynamics Blue Steel entered service with the Royal Air Force's Vulcan and Victor bombers, while the smaller American Maxson AGM-12 Bullpup was used by many NATO air forces and navies, including the USAF, USN, RAF and Royal Navy, and could take a nuclear or conventional warhead. The Soviet Union produced similar weapons, the Kitchen, thirty-six feet long, primarily intended for anti-shipping duties and the Kipper, shorter but with a range of around a hundred miles, far below that of the Western missiles mentioned. A successor to the Kitchen was the Kennel, and this was followed by the Kelt. An Anglo-French missile intended primarily for tactical use and first available during the early 1970s was the Martel. The cost and complexity of such weapons were justifiable for as long as the manned bomber remained the major element in deterrence. The manned bomber offered an alternative to the vulnerable ground-based intercontinental ballistic missile, such as the American Titan and Minute- man, and the Soviet Scarp and Savage. The vulnerability of such weapons in their fixed silos led to the cancellation of the British Blue Streak, and the RAF was to replace its Blue Steel missiles with an American missile. the Skybolt. The United States Air Force was forced by Congress to drop this programme, since the nuclear-tipped Skybolt appeared to offer poorer value than submarine-launched missiles, of which the first was the Polaris. The demise of Blue Streak during the late 1950s, and the absence of Skybolt to replace Blue Steel during the 1960s, meant that the British were for once to follow the American pattern, with responsibility for the British nuclear deterrent passing from the Royal Air Force to the Royal Navy, just as in the United States the main responsibility passed from the USAF to the USN. Unlike the British, the Americans c