pped thirteen bombs in a raid against one of the forts defending the Belgian town of Liège; none of the bombs struck the fort, but nine civilians were killed. If this was a portent of the difficulties of mounting an effective bombing campaign, more were to come, with the Zeppelin, badly damaged by ground fire, crashing on its return to the base at Cologne. Before the first month of war was over, a single Rumpler Taube monoplane dropped two small bombs on Paris. Before long the scouting (reconnaissance) aeroplanes of both sides were dropping small bombs or grenades on what can only be described as targets of oppor- tunity, while ground troops would fire back with rifles and machine- guns. Generally bombs were held by the pilot or the observer and simply dropped over the side as and when the 'bomb-aimer' felt that his bomb would hit the target, but it was not long before the first British aircraft were fitted with bomb racks, described by a former editor of Aeroplane, C. G. Grey, as a 'thing exactly like a pipe-rack fixed on the outside of the fuselage, handy for the pilot or passenger. They hung nose down- wards and the stem of the bombs projected up through the holes in the pipe-rack arrangement. There a pin was struck through each stem and laid across the hole. To the head of the pin a piece of string was tied, and when the bomber wanted to drop the bomb he pulled the string which pulled out the pin which let the stem of the bomb drop out of the pipe-rack, and the bomb fell'. Not surprisingly, the person who would in later years be described as the 'bomb-aimer' was simply regarded as the 'bomber' at this time; rudimentary bombsights had been tested before the war, but for many years it was literally a hit-or-miss affair. Retaliation was to be the order of the day. Zeppelins were to become fair game for fighter aircraft - or for the 'fighting scouts' as they were at first known. It was to be some time before one of these giant craft could be destroyed in the air, si