men, and the Soviet Union also managed to obtain many team members, augmenting what has since appeared to be an already significant Russian expertise in the develop- ment of rockets. Examples of German aircraft, many at prototype stage, and of Japanese aircraft, and other weapons too, were seized by the Allied Powers and distributed to their own research establishments, each anxious to make the most of German technology. Paradoxically, the Germans had been slow to incorporate technological innovation during the war years, with few new aircraft types entering service. The Japanese had been even more burdened with the equipment and the technology in place at the outbreak of the war. By contrast, the three main Allies had constantly up-dated their equipment, putting new aircraft into  156 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 157 DECLINE AND FALL production as quickly as possible, while other successful designs, such as the Supermarine Spitfire fighter and the Short Sunderland flying-boat in Britain, and the American Consolidated Catalina flying-boats, were improved with a rapid succession of new marks. Superior industrial organization alone does not account for this capability. The truth was that the Germans and the Japanese failed to recognize the possibility of a long war. The Allies did recognize it, even before they knew when war would occur, and so many developments, the main heavy bombers being notable examples, were already far advanced before war broke out. Both the United States and the United Kingdom were able to mobilize industry quickly and effectively; in this the Axis failed. The end of hostilities meant a dramatic cut in aircraft production and a steady, though not quite so dramatic reduction in the strength of the armed forces. The post-World War I reductions were not repeated, partly because of the need to maintain sizeable forces in occupation of Japan and Germany, and for the former colonial powers the need to re-establish their authority. The advent of new technolo