junctions and marshalling yards were designed to isolate northern France and make it difficult for reinforce- ments to be moved quickly to the front which would be established not too far inland of the invasion beaches. Just before the invasion and then after it, the strategic bomber offensive was complemented by daylight interdiction raids by the Allied 2nd Tactical Air Force, which, in addition to ground attack, strafing and anti-tank duties, also engaged in light bombing. With their attacks on enemy airfields, '2nd TAF' made it against Allied targets. increasingly difficult for the Luftwaffe to mount any sizeable operations RAF Bomber Command had other duties as D-Day, 6 June 1944, came closer. The aircraft of No. 38 Group had been long associated with the operations of the British Army's two airborne divisions, dropping paratroops and towing gliders, as well as dropping supplies to the French and other resistance movements. On the eve of the invasion, two of the best squadrons, No. 218 with Stirlings and No. 617 with Lancasters, mounted 'Operation Fortitude' dropping window to convince the Germans that an invasion was likely to take place at Calais, rather than in Normandy. The Gee system was also in use that night, helping to guide the fleet to the five main invasion beaches. Yet even such techniques as 'window' were not immune to counter- measures for long, with each development fostering another technique by the other side. During a daylight raid by the 8th USAAF, one of the fighter escorts shot down a Junkers Ju.88 night fighter, scrambled to supplement the day fighter units, and the camera mounted on the fighter recorded a complex radar installation on the nose of the Luftwaffe aircraft. Intelligence sources initially failed to discover the true role of the new radar, either by technical analysis or by other means. It was not until a night fighter landed by mistake, lost and out of fuel, at RAR Woodbridge in Suffolk, that the new radar was fully understood.