e two airships to a landfall some eighty miles south of their intended landfall, the mouth of the River Humber and the ports of Hull and Grimsby. Instead, L-3 and L-4 found themselves over Norfolk. L-3 flew at 5,000 feet through snow showers to bomb Great Yarmouth, arriving over the port at 20.30 and dropping several 110-lb bombs, which hit civilian houses, killing two and injuring several more. The other airship, L-4, followed the railway line to Heacham, dropping a single 110-lb bomb over this small coastal village, but this fell onto open ground and exploded harmlessly. 35 The airship then flew over Sandringham to bomb King's Lynn, arriving there at 23.00, but the raid on this port also caught the civilian population rather than the military or the commercial docks, with a row of cottages demolished, the loss of three civilian lives and injury to twelve others. Ironically, in view of the Kaiser's concern for the welfare of the British royal family, King George V had been in residence at Sandringham at the time L-4 passed overhead. One outcome of this first raid was the introduction of a black-out. The black-out reduced the effectiveness of the Zeppelin raids, but throughout the spring and summer of 1915 there were many raids by Zeppelins, with bombs falling on Lowestoft, Bury St Edmunds, Ipswich, Malden and, after the beginning of June, London. The worst raid of the war, however, came on the night of 6-7 June, when sixty-four people were killed when Zeppelins bombed Kingston-upon-Hull, the major port on the Humber. Churchill intensified his efforts to ensure that the RNAS was equipped with the aircraft and manpower to maintain and strengthen the air defence of the United Kingdom. He also realized that anti-aircraft fire, even with the assistance of searchlights, was less effective against the Zeppelins than fighter attack, even though the airships were large and slow-moving targets. Possibly World War II standard anti-aircraft guns and gunners would have found th