the balloon of the day was anything but navigable; it would be almost twenty years later before such ap- peared. Balloons had in fact been used operationally as bombers - in 1849 by Austrian forces besieging Venice. As and when the weather permitted, hot-air balloons were launched by the Austrians over the Italian city to drop small bombs, a total weight of no more than thirty-three pounds to each balloon, which could remain aloft for only thirty minutes. Several battalions of balloons were formed for this purpose, but damage must have been very slight, even if the beleaguered Venetians found the  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 20 PROPHECY OF DESTRUCTION attacks unnerving. Before each raid, trial balloons had to be launched to verify that the wind direction and strength were favourable. The British, like the French many years earlier, persisted in the belief that the prime use of the balloon was for reconnaissance, and given the limitations of the balloon, there was much sense in this. The British Army had formed a balloon detachment in 1878, as part of the Royal Engineers, who experimented with balloons at Woolwich Arsenal. Bal- loons accompanied British troops on an expedition to Bechuanaland in 1884, and to the Sudan the following year. Yet these were relatively small-scale operations, and the first significant military use of balloons by the British was in the South African War of 1889, when balloons were used for observation and artillery-control duties. Before long, the Royal Engineers moved their balloons to Farnborough, starting the long association between that Hampshire town and aeronautics. When the Italians sent balloons with their army units to Eritrea in 1887 and 1888, these too were also used for reconnaissance duties only. The balloon did not have a monopoly of observation duties, with man-lifting kites also being used for this work, although relatively few armies took the kite quite as seriously as the British Army, with the able assistance of the American Sa