Amphibian. During the review, one of his fellow officers, Lieutenant Gray, gave a demonstration of bombing, dropping a 300-lb bomb at 500 feet, before diving towards a submarine which he had spotted at peri- scope depth. Strangely, after the success of the flying at the Review, and its acclaim by senior naval officers, the intervention of the aeroplane in Army manœuvres that same year prompted a General Grierson to complain that 'aeroplanes completely spoilt the war'. Not everyone was impressed by the antics of the aviators, military, naval or civil. The British medical paper The Lancet published an article about the blood-pressure of aviators, recommending that they keep to a low and steady altitude. Nor was bombing perceived as a safe occupation. A A correspondence in Flight magazine about aerial attack was concluded by a correspondent who warned that in a future war the crew of an enemy aircraft might be inclined to drop bombs on a town or village from which they were shot at. Not quite the right way round! Bombing trials had preceded the naval aviators and their experiments. Early in 1911 a Wright biplane was tested as a potential bomber by the United States Army near San Francisco. Later that same year, an Army officer had produced the first bombsight, and attempts were made to bomb the outline of a battleship marked out on Lake Keuka, again by a US Army pilot and aircraft rather than, as one might have expected, the United States Navy. To a Royal Navy officer, Lieutenant Arthur Longmore, belongs the distinction of dropping the first standard naval torpedo from an aircraft, but this came a little later, on 28 July 1914, 27 when he flew a Short Folder biplane, which carried the torpedo on a rack between the floats, taking place at Calshot, at the mouth of Southampton Water. The leisurely pace of development in the United States and the United Kingdom was matched by developments in other less likely countries, but wartime conditions rather than the uneasy peace o