through reprisals; the bomber showed that it could still be effective. The other weakness of the operation was that the bomber, more than seventy years after the concept became a practical proposition, was not precise enough. In the past bombers were used for reprisals, but more often the aim was to neutralize enemy activity. The raids on Libyan airfields and naval bases had some of this, but widely dispersed and fanatical terrorists tend to be encouraged, not deterred, by bomber raids against their homeland. Still less could they be countered, a role which falls to the police and other security agencies, all too often close to the target, so close that a momentary slip by one individual could give the terrorists a bloody success. One has to question whether or not the bomber has reached the end of the road. The Soviet Union and the United States both retain faith in the bomber, and to a lesser extent so too does France. Compared with the high cost of submarine-launched strategic missiles, and with the risk of these being neutralized by the American Strategic Defence Initiative, the 'Star Wars' programme, and its Soviet equivalents, one begins to wonder whether the bomber has in fact reached the end and whether it really might be regarded as a cost-effective option.  1 Prophecy of Destruction Even today, the popular misconception persists that the early aeroplane was never regarded as being a weapon of war. The myth persists to the extent that, even when pressed into service during World War I, that war to end all wars, the aeroplane at first played a strictly non-combatant role, and that it was not until World War I was well advanced that someone corrupted this early innocence. The truth is somewhat different, even though the early military aeroplanes often were unarmed and operated on communications and reconnaissance duties before the fighter and bomber were properly developed. During the years between the invention of the aeroplane and the outbreak of war, the m