nued until June 1940, by which time the belligerents were becoming pre-occupied with the prospect of conflict elsewhere, in Europe for the Soviet Union and in the Pacific for the Japanese. Closer to Europe, another conflict had raged throughout the late 1930s, with the Italian invasion of Abyssinia (Ethiopia) on 3 October 1935. There  79 READY FOR BATTLE 78 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON were few hard Ethiopian targets worthy of bombing, but the Italian Regia Aeronautica used poison gas against Ethiopian tribesmen, as well as flying reconnaissance and supply missions. The RA used Caproni Ca.101, 111, and 133 bomber transports, as well as Savoia Marchetti S.M.81 bomber transports. The S.M.81 was also to play a role in the Spanish Civil War, when fighting broke out between Republican and Nationalist units on 18 July 1936, fighting with the Aviación Legionaria's Italian night bomber and heavy bomber groups, while S.M.79s operated with the fast bomber group and the medium bomber group operated Fiat B.R.20s. The Italian bombers made a total of 5,318 individual bomber sorties during the Civil War. The two major non-Spanish combatants in the Civil War were those provided by Germany and the Soviet Union. (The Luftwaffe contingent was the Legión Condor.) For the Germans and Russians alike, the conflict provided an opportunity to test aircraft and tactics ready for the major war which lay ahead. German involvement in the war came about gradually, although no request for help by the Nationalist leader, General Franco, was refused. During August 1936 German assistance was first requested in order to move 10,000 Moroccan troops of the Spanish Foreign Legion from Morocco to Spain, using twenty Luftwaffe Junkers Ju.52/3m transports for the flight across the Straits of Gibraltar. The Legión Condor officially came into existence in November 1936, and in addition to the initial force of three fighter squadrons, using thirty-six Heinkel He.51 fighters, there were bomber-transport squadrons in K