litz was to mark the start of full-scale bomber offensives by both sides. However, there was more to come, and not for nothing has the RAF maintained that the battle continued to 31 October. The real point must be that the Battle of Britain and the Blitz overlapped. Heavy night bombing of British cities spread throughout the winter of 1940-1, with attacks on airfields con- tinuing until the end of October. In addition to these raids, there were a number of 'hit-and-run' raids by small formations of bombers, as on 12 and 13 September, with the Admiralty, the War Office and the BBC's external broadcasting services at Bush House all hit. 'Battle of Britain Day', 15 September, started with a few Luftwaffe bombers on reconnaissance missions over London, with these aircraft being ignored by the RAF, which simply moved its squadrons to a state of readiness. Still early in the morning, seventy Dornier Do.17s of KG2 and KG3, escorted by a large number of Messerschmitt Bf.109s and Me.110s, formated over Calais and Boulogne before setting off for Eng- land, under the surveillance of the Chain Home network. By 11.00 the Luftwaffe aircraft were approaching the coast of England. No fewer than eleven squadrons of Spitfires and Hurricanes of 11 Group, RAF, and a five squadron 'Big Wing' from No. 12 Group at Duxford, under the command of Group Captain Douglas Bader, were waiting for the Luft- waffe. The Do.17s flew over Dungeness in stepped formation, ranging from 15,000 feet to 26,000 feet, at 11.30, to be attacked by Spitfires from No. 72 and 92 squadrons, with other aircraft ready to harass the attackers as they flew over the Medway towns and the southern suburbs of London. The Duxford 'Big Wing' attacked the Dornier Do.17s over London, making their first pass in tight formation. As the Luftwaffe aircraft started on their return journey, other RAF fighters continued to harass them. Later that same day 150 Dornier Do.17s and Heinkel He.111s of KG2, KG3 and KG76, with the fighter a