tily summoning local witnesses and leaving a coastguard to press the shutter on a pre-set camera, the brothers prepared for the flight. At 10.35 a.m., with Orville piloting, the frail machine ran along the launching rail, took off into a 25-mph wind and flew an undulating course for 12 seconds, or 120 feet, at about 30 mph. This was the first powered, controlled flight in history by a manned heavier-than-air flying-machine, and three more flights followed that day, with the brothers taking turns as pilot. The second flight covered 175 feet, the third 200 feet and the fourth, lasting 59 seconds, 852 feet, although, bearing in mind the wind strength, the last flight was equivalent to half a mile through the air. During 1904 and 1905, the Wrights developed their basic design further, building the Flyer II and Flyer III aeroplanes, respectively the first to fly a circle and the first practical aeroplane. In spite of their undoubted success, with the Flyer III making the first flight of more than thirty minutes' duration during 1905, widespread recognition was denied the Wrights. The United States Board of Ordnance, part of the War Department, rejected repeated offers by the brothers to sell to the US Government one of their aircraft, simply refusing to believe in their achievements and taking the line that the Board was not interested in any aeroplane which had still to be built! The most successful of the Wrights' early contacts with officialdom was with a British Army officer, Colonel J. E. Capper, who was Superin- tendent of the British Army's balloon factory at Farnborough. On learn- ing that the Wrights had offered to sell an aircraft to his Government, Capper, in the United States for the St Louis Exposition, took the opportunity of meeting the brothers, and also Chanute and Langley. In January 1905 he was sufficiently impressed to be able to write to the War Office in London: 'I wish to invite very special attention to the wonderful advance made in aviation by th