d and operated on communications and reconnaissance duties before the fighter and bomber were properly developed. During the years between the invention of the aeroplane and the outbreak of war, the major armies and navies had thoroughly investigated the possibilities of the early aeroplane for warfare; bombs had been dropped, machine-guns fired and torpedoes launched from a variety of aeroplanes. This was in addition to photography from the air and experiments with wireless transmission to and from aircraft. On the ground, the feasibility of aerial warfare was the subject of debate and supposition. It was as if the world had simply been awaiting the means of waging aerial warfare, that the aeroplane and the airship arrived in time - and this was not far from the truth. In saying that, by building the aeroplane, they had produced 'an invention which would make further wars practically impossible', the Wright brothers may have believed that the reconnaissance capabilities of the aeroplane made warfare impractical, or perhaps they truly thought they had discovered the ultimate deterrent. Either way, the Wrights were not slow to court the military on both sides of the Atlantic. The idea of attack from the air pre-dates the Wright brothers and their aeroplane; it even pre-dates the balloons of the Montgolfier brothers and of Charles almost exactly 120 years before the first aeroplane flights. It is no exaggeration to say that the concept pre-dated Christianity. Mythology claims that the Persian King Kawus flew in a chariot drawn by eagles, setting this improbable event at around 1500 BC. However, we are not concerned with facts at this stage, simply with the idea of war from the air. The Hindu epic poem the Mahabharata described how the enemies of Krishna-Dwaipayana-Vyasa used a winged chariot to bomb the city of Dwarakha, which was occupied by Krishna's followers.  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 18 PROPHECY OF DESTRUCTION In 1670 a Jesuit priest, Father Francesco de Lana de Terz