he eventual German advance through France, it is perhaps fortunate that the RAF did not send more squadrons, 89 which would most likely have suffered severe losses. Yet the British were also capable of making their own wrong decisions, with leaflet-dropping raids extended to include Poland in March 1940, before these were stopped altogether in April: there is no evidence that these raids did any good, and they certainly did not justify the losses in aircraft and men. Before undertaking the oft-postponed invasion of France and the Low Countries, Hitler struck north into Scandinavia, invading Denmark and Norway on 9 April 1940. The move was intended to ensure German control of the entrance to the Baltic and make a British blockade more difficult, as well as denying bases in these two countries to British bombers. RAF reconnaissance noted the invasion fleet leaving Schillig Roads five days earlier, although the invasions were notable for their use of airborne forces to seize vital objectives. The Danes surrendered early in the face of overwhelming air power and the strong ground forces sweeping across her frontier with Germany. The Norwegians fought on, aided by terrain which favoured the defence. In neither case did the Germans have an opportunity, nor indeed the need, to mount a cam- paign of heavy air raids, although Junkers Ju.87 Stuka dive-bombers with Dornier Do.17 and Heinkel He.111 medium bombers were active in support of ground forces. The two battle-cruisers Scharnhorst and Gneisenau, which were to sink the British aircraft-carrier HMS Glorious, were attacked by the RAF on 7 April, first by Blenheims and then by Wellingtons, but without success. Bad weather restricted operations by the RAF until 11 April, when twelve Handley Page Hampdens of Nos. 44 and 50 squadrons attacked German naval units at Kristiansand, but with the loss of six aircraft for little effective damage. The Fleet Air Arm was in a better position than the RAF to aid Norwegian resistance, sin