he target and dropping 461 tons of high explosives, as well as many more incendiaries. The bombers operated in three waves. The first consisted of Stirlings and Halifaxes, dropping a mixed load of high explosives and flares, which clearly marked the target and caused disruption. The older and smaller bombers followed, with incendiaries and high explosives, before the third and final wave of Halifaxes and Wellingtons, dropping 4,000-lb 'cookie' blast-bombs to complete the damage. This was satu- ration bombing, with the RAF's fastest delivery of munitions to date, at the rate of 121 aircraft per hour. Just five out of 3,000 French workers on the night shift were killed but the US Strategic Bombing Survey post-war discovered that an eighth of the factory had been destroyed, along with much of the equipment and many hundreds of vehicles in various stages of assembly. It took three months for production to recover from the raid. The Ministry of Economic Warfare now urged that attacks be made on the industrial heartland of Germany, in the Ruhr, which so far had been difficult for bomber crews because of the heavy industrial haze over the target area, compounding the difficulties of night navigation and bad weather. The targets were Cologne, Dortmund, Duisburg, Düsseldorf, Essen, Gelsenkirchen, Hamm and Krefeld. Although the Pathfinder Force was yet to be formed, special crews were selected from the bomber squadrons and assigned to lead each raid, acting as Pathfinders and making the best use of the Gee system. The element of surprise was retained as far as possible through having the main force arrive over the target area fifteen minutes after the target had been marked. Essen stood out for particular attention among these Ruhr targets, since it was the location of the giant Krupp armaments works. On the night of 8-9 March 211 bombers took off in fine weather to raid the Krupp works, following a small Pathfinder formation which operated on good Gee fixes to drop flares an