d in any event, aircraft performance was already showing sufficient improvement for fighters to be a real match for the airship. Action by the RNAS was not confined to the Western and Home Fronts. In July 1915 Charles Rumney Samson, by this time a Commander in the RNAS, was sent to the Dardanelles with six Nieuport Scouts of No. 3 Wing RNAS. British and French naval forces had been bombarding Turkish positions since the previous November, but Samson's role was primarily that of a fighter- and reconnaissance-force commander. There were other RNAS units involved in the Dardanelles campaign, however, and it was one of these which was to have the distinction of making the first successful aerial attack against shipping. On 17 August 1915 Wing Commander C. H. K. Edmunds RNAS flew a Short 184 seaplane from the seaplane-carrier Ben-My-Chree and dropped a fourteen-inc och torpedo to sink a 5,000-ton Turkish military transport in the Sea of Marmara, Turkey's inland sea between the Dardanelles and the Bosporus. The Turkish vessel had earlier been crippled by Allied submarine attack, but this still remains the first successful anti-shipping strike from the air. Certainly the role of the bomber and strike aircraft was not to be 37 confined to land-based targets. In 1917 a German naval seaplane sank a British merchant vessel in the North Sea in a torpedo attack. Before this, on 15 September 1916, two Austrian seaplanes had sunk the French submarine Foucalt, in the first successful attack at sea using conventional bombs. Before the war ended in 1918, two German warships on loan to the Turkish Navy, but still with German crews, were subjected to intensive British aerial attack. The two ships had been renamed on joining the Turkish Navy, the battle cruiser Goeben becoming the Sultan Jawus Selim and the other ship, the cruiser Breslau, becoming the Midilli. The aerial attack intensified after the Goeben/Sultan Jawus Selim, ran aground, pre- senting what should have been an easy targ