by the Germans. The RNAS established a new forward base at Dunkirk in northern France, while the victorious Germans established a chain of seaplane bases which stretched from Ostend to the Frisian Islands, Heligoland and Sylt in the Baltic. If the Allies were to be denied the shore bases they needed, airborne attack could still be mounted from the sea. At dawn on 25 December 1914 the RNAS prepared a Christmas present for its German opposite number. Seven Short seaplanes took off from the seaplane tenders HMS Engadine, Empress and Riviera, intending to bomb the Zeppelin sheds at Cuxhaven. Originally nine aircraft had been readied for the raid, but in the cold of a December morning in the North Sea, two aircraft failed to start. Taking off forty miles offshore from the Frisian Islands to fly to Cuxhaven, the aircraft soon encountered thick mist after crossing the coast and, unable to find their target, diverted to bomb the German High Seas Fleet in its home port at Wilhelmshaven. Relatively little damage was done, but the attack led the Kaiser to permit the bombing of targets on the mainland of the United Kingdom. The Commander of the German Naval Airship Division, Korvettenkapitän Peter Strasser, had long wanted to take the war to the enemy in this way but had been barred from doing so by his superiors and, most of all, by Kaiser Wilhelm. Civilian targets were still banned, with operations limited to naval and military targets, plus commercial ports, but with the proviso that raids on London were to be limited to the Thames east of Tower Bridge, for fear that raids further upstream might pose a threat to the British royal family. The new freedom to bomb British targets was welcome news to Strasser and his colleagues. The high-sounding ideals of not attacking civilian targets were not to be adhered to for long, but in fairness they were also impractical. Navigation and bomb-aiming techniques were still primitive, and the safety of civilians miles away from military ob