d eventually also of Romania, the United States and Greece. Almost from the start, on 3 August 1914, World War I was to be the first truly modern war, with civilians affected directly by enemy attack, even if far behind the lines and the movement of conflicting forces. It was also a war of contrasts. Horse-drawn artillery and infantry charges were not uncommon, but the new weapons were to play an important role, and the aeroplane was to be prominent amongst these, as were the submarine and the tank. Yet, despite the experiments which had been taking place with bombs, tanks and airborne machine-guns during the few remaining years of peace, and the operational use of the aeroplane in the Balkans and North Africa, many airmen were to find that their early World War I aircraft were to be unarmed reconnaissance machines.  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 30 31 THE BLOODY PARALYSER! This was as true of the British Royal Flying Corps as of the German Military Air Service, when either was engaged on operations over the Western Front. Pilots and observers from opposing sides would even exchange friendly salutes as they flew in opposite directions to take a look at enemy formations. Such gentlemanly conduct was to be short-lived. Aircraft were soon to be armed, and even when properly fitted machine- guns and other weapons were not available, rifles and pistols were to suffice. The opposing British and German Navies, denied all but one set-piece battle, the indecisive action at Jutland, devoted their energies to obtaining mastery of the air and, in particular, of strategic air power. At the outset of World War I, the Royal Flying Corps had 179 aircraft, of which about a third were deployed to France, while the RNAS had thirty-nine landplanes and fifty-two seaplanes. The Germans had a total of 246 aircraft. Most of the aircraft operated by the still embryonic air arms of both sides were unsuitable for combat, and many were barely suitable for training, not least because, during the last co