lled by the Bristol Blenheim, while thirty-four Fokker CXs were also ordered for the reconnaissance and dive-bombing roles. Although production of these and other types, including fighters, had started, a total of about a hundred Finnish aircraft were available to face almost a thousand Soviet aircraft on the outbreak of the 'Winter War' on 30 November 1939. By the following February, the Soviet aircraft strength on the Finnish Front had doubled. Fierce fighting persisted, due largely to the Finns wisely deploying their aircraft as widely as possible so that the Soviets were denied the chance of a major pre-emptive strike, but by 13 March 1940 the Finns found themselves forced to accept Soviet dictated surrender terms. The geography of the area, their other commit ments elsewhere and the climate, all contributed to the lack of inter- vention by the European democracies. Only Sweden could have helped. but she chose not to do so. The Luftwaffe had not been idle as Hitler had advanced across central Europe during the late 1930s, but its combat experience was limited to Spain. More than 400 aircraft provided a show of strength as Austria was occupied in March 1938, and again the following March more than 500 aircraft were present in a similar display of air power for the occupation of Czechoslovakia. At the time of the Munich Agreement in 8, the ome 2,900 aircraft, of which almost 1,200 were bombers. Austrian resistance might have been point- less, due to the small size and small population of the country, and to the fact that many Austrians favoured the Anschluss with Germany. The Czechs, on the other hand, did have more than a thousand aircraft, of which about half were first-line types, but the loss of the borders, with the natural defensive zones in the mountains, and about a third of Czech territory as a result of the Munich Agreement the previous August, made it difficult for the Czech Army Air Force and the Czech Army to find a natural defensive line against over