nalysed to make sure that it is indeed a threat and not a malfunc- tion, a meteorite or a satellite falling out of orbit. War does not happen by mistake, unless one counts the political miscalculation which leads to wars which the aggressor expects to win, and does not. No one starts a war unless they expect to win it, and on that basis lies the whole concept of deterrence. Scrambling bombers on alert at the end of the runway, as was done by the RAF's 'V'-bomber force, would be too risky today. In the conventional run-up to a nuclear conflict, many airfields could expect to be damaged. If a true bomber had been required by the Royal Air Force and the Armée de l'Air, a solution would have lain in a development of the Concorde supersonic airliner. Certainly that aircraft has a far better performance than the B-1B of the USAF and would be easily capable of carrying a worthwhile number of cruise missiles or air-to-surface missiles. The real danger lies in the high first cost of the latest submarine-launched missile systems, such as Trident, which may force a reduced fleet into service with perhaps just three submarines, which would undermine the whole viability of the deterrent. The economies already introduced to the programme, such as the decision that all missiles should be returned to the United States for servicing, have undermined the inde- pendence of the system. The heavy balance-of-payments cost, with at least forty-five per cent of all expenditure being in the United States, undermines the economy and denies British industry the benefit of defence expenditure and of technological advance. Worst of all, the system lacks flexibility in the event that the Soviet Union achieves a defensive capability based on either anti-missile missiles, of which they have some already, or its own version of the American Strategic Defence Initiative, the 'Star Wars' programme. The risk of being out-manœuvred by the USSR has meant that the United States cannot forget about 'Star W