or officially came into existence in November 1936, and in addition to the initial force of three fighter squadrons, using thirty-six Heinkel He.51 fighters, there were bomber-transport squadrons in Kampfgruppe K/88 with Ju.52/3ms. These aircraft soon showed their inferiority compared with the Polikarpov I-15 and I-16 fighters of the Soviet contingent fighting with the Republicans. Just as the He.51s were soon replaced by Messerschmitt Bf.109s, so the Ju.52/3ms were replaced by Heinkel He.111B-1s and Dornier Do.17Es, although these aircraft did not arrive until early 1938. Before these new medium bombers arrived, the Legión Condor was strengthened by the arrival of the Junkers Ju.87 Stuka dive-bomber, the first of which saw action at Tervel in December 1937. The dive-bomber proved the ideal aircraft for ground attack duties, providing close support for ground troops, although these aircraft and the other Legión Condor bombers, were also used for major raids, notably against the regional centres of Barcelona, Bilbao and Valencia, as well as the capital, Madrid, and Guernica, the major Basque stronghold. Soviet involvement extended to sending several hundred bombers, of which the most numerous were the SB-2 and the LR-5, which had joined the Republican forces as early as October 1936. Spanish involvement in the air was relatively limited by comparison with that of the allies of the opposing factions. At the outbreak of war, the Republicans had some 200 aircraft, the Nationalists just sixty, including elderly Nieuport fighters and four Airco DH9 bombers! By the time the Legión Condor returned to Germany in March 1939, following the Nationalist victory, the Luftwaffe had refined its aircraft, putting many of the lessons of the war into later marks, and had a substantial core of battle hardened and experienced aircrew of all kinds. The experience was sufficiently close to the outbreak of World War II to be effective and still reasonably fresh. At the same time, the relat