n in-flight refuelling of fighter aircraft, and for this many B-50s were converted to KB-50 tankers, with General Electric J47 engines augmenting their four 3,800-hp Wright radial engines. The tanker aircraft also boosted the range of heavy bombers. There were other reasons for maintaining the strength of the post-war air forces. The collapse of Nazi Germany and of Japan did not occur before it was recognized that the Soviet Union was fighting the war not simply to rid herself of a German invader but to enlarge the territory under her control. The sole reason for the Soviet Union's declaring war on Japan, a few days before that country surrendered, was to gain territory. Of the countries liberated by Soviet troops, only Austria was to see democracy restored. Anglo-American protests were in vain, and only in Greece did the Allies react quickly enough to prevent communist- backed revolutionaries taking over and giving the Soviet Union complete control of the Balkans. Unintentionally, the heavy bomber played a part in awakening the West to the threat. In 1944, during the American air offensive against Japan, three USAAF Boeing B-29 Superfortresses ran short of fuel and made an emergency landing at a Soviet military airfield near Vladivostok. The aircraft were immediately impounded by the Soviet Union and were later copied, appearing as the Tupolev Tu-4 heavy bomber, which was later given the NATO reporting name of 'Bull'. Soviet technology of the day was insufficient to provide these aircraft with a range of more than 1,500 miles. Occurring in wartime, the affair was hushed up. The Soviet Union could, of course, claim that, since their country was neutral as regards Japan, they acted properly in impounding the aircraft. Yet this attitude cannot really be sustained, bearing in mind not only the Soviet alliance with the West in the war against Germany but its subsequent declaration of war on Japan. The Soviet Union had a long history of disputes with Japan, yet delayed m