e built under licence by Boeing, as well as some 0/400s and Martin MB-1s, later joined by the more powerful MB-2. The war had seen such changes in combat, on the ground as well as in the air, that it was not surprising that there was a period of readjust- ment before the major air forces and air arms really knew what was expected of them. Bonar Law's victory in the 1922 general election resulted in the appointment of a committee under Lord Salisbury to consider the future of the RAF. Fortunately the Salisbury Committee recommended the continued existence of the RAF and even went further proposing that the RAF's UK strength should be built up to a total of fifty-two squadrons. Bonar Law, who did not believe in an autonomous air service, resigned in 1923. Generally, British prime ministers took a favourable view of the RAF, and a later prime minister, Stanley Baldwin. expressed his conviction that the 'bomber would always get through'. The fifty-two-squadron RAF called for fifteen fighter squadrons, with a total of 200 aircraft, and thirty-seven bomber squadrons, with 400 aircraft. The intention was to ensure parity with the strongest air force in Europe, the Aviation Militaire - the Armée de l'Air as it was to become Indeed, the policy was born not just on the principle of opposing the strongest European power but of actually envisaging France as the most likely future opponent! The attitude persisted to the extent that the first listening-posts, of which the major one was on the Romney Marshes in Kent, were positioned to detect bomber aircraft flying fr g from the direction of France. Realism did suggest, however, that the French were in no mood to start a war, least of all with their former wartin rtime ally, and this - led to a belief that there would be no major war in Europe for at least ten years. That may have seemed reasonable at the time but the ten-year period was forever being pushed forward, and during the early 1930s few envisaged a war with Germany. The