less effective against the Zeppelins than fighter attack, even though the airships were large and slow-moving targets. Possibly World War II standard anti-aircraft guns and gunners would have found the airship easy prey, but in World War I anti-aircraft protection was by definition based on machine-gun fire and adapted light field artillery. The following morning the RNAS mounted the successful raid against the Zeppelin bases at Evere and Berchem St-Agathe, near Bruges, with aircraft of No. 1 squadron operating from Dunkirk. 7 June was to be an eventful day for the RNAS and for their opponents. Three German Army airships had taken off from their base early in the day to bomb London, but all three craft, LZ-37, LZ-38 and LZ-39, were forced by engine trouble to return to their base near Bruges. LZ-37 was sighted over Ostend by Flight Sub-Lieutenant Reginald Warneford RNAS, flying a Morane-Saulnier Type L monoplane, which carried six 20-lb bombs. Approaching the Zeppelin at some 2,000 feet above the airship, Warneford was spotted by the machine-gunners aboard LZ-37 as he dived to attack, and he pulled away to maintain his height advan- tage, for fear that the airship might try to outclimb him. Instead of climbing, the airship's commander decided to run for his base, a fatal mistake as the craft started to descend. Warneford dived through machine-gun fire and dropped his six bombs over the airship. One struck the envelope and exploded, with the airship quickly becoming one large fireball. As the burning airship broke up, the crew, lacking parachutes, were either burnt to death or fell. The one survivor was the helmsman, who fell through the roof of a convent, one of the very few buildings in the area, onto a bed, which was, presumably, unoccupied. This was the  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 36 THE BLOODY PARALYSER! first successful shooting-down of an airship by a fighter aircraft, and Warneford became the first member of the RNAS to receive the Victoria Cross, Britain's highest