d with machine-guns, while bombs consisted of shells fitted with guiding fins. At first, air defence of the United Kingdom was to be the priority for the Royal Naval Air Service, and unlike the Royal Flying Corps, the RNAS was to use the products of private enterprise rather than the output of what had now become the Royal Aircraft Factory at Farnborough. The RNAS was to have the benefit of aircraft from manufacturers such as Shorts, ideal for reconnaissance, light bombing and torpedo-dropping, and from Sopwith, whose Tabloid biplane had won the 1914 Schneider Trophy contest and who were to provide many of the best fighter air- craft of World War I. It was Churchill who had foreseen the role of the Zeppelin as a bomber, and its challenge to the United Kingdom. As early as 1913 he had proposed that these large airships should be attacked from above, ideally by the fighter using small bombs. Yet others still expected that Zeppelins would pass over towns and cities without harming the occupants, even suggesting that it would not be permissible to drop explosives onto unfortified towns. David Henderson, Director-General of Military Aeronautics at the War Office, declared that: 'No enemy would risk the odium such action would involve.' Such admirable attitudes were not to be maintained for long. Aircraft suitable for bombing duties were also on their way. In Russia, Igor Sikorsky had flown the first four-engined aircraft on 13 May 1913, when his Bolshoi, or Grand, had made its maiden flight. The following year the larger Ilya Mourametz, or Giant, flew for the first time on 14 January. Intended as an airliner and even described by one French commentator as a 'giant airbus', this was to be the standard Russian heavy bomber of World War I, with almost eighty aircraft built. The glazed flight deck for the captain and co-pilot, and other features, put this aeroplane almost twenty years ahead of its time, but meanwhile it did much to influence thinking about large aircraft out