urse of Soviet defence policy between the two world wars. A strategic air defence force had been planned, under the title of the 'Army of Special Designation', and General V. B. Khripin was named as its commander, but once Khripin was himself caught by the purges, little more was heard of his force. The idea of the heavy bomber was understood best - to the extent that it was ever understood at all - in the United Kingdom and the United States. In the United States, Mitchell's theories had not been forgotten, least of all at what turned out to be the inappropriately named Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field, Alabama. The outcome of research and discussion conducted by USAAC officers at the school encouraged Boeing to press ahead with development of the Boeing 299, the first four-engined bomber produced by this manufacturer, which had already  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 68 READY FOR BATTLE gained a reputation in airliner and fighter development by this date. The Boeing 299 was an advanced design for its day, with four 750-hp Pratt & Whitney Hornet radial engines, and all-metal construction. The proto- type first flew during 1935 and, in spite of being lost in an accident in October, impressed the USAAC, and others, sufficiently to ensure further development of the design to produce the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress, although the production machine used four 1,250-hp Wright radial engines, an increase of more than sixty per cent in the engine rating compared with that of the prototype. The RAF proved a secure home for theories over heavy bombing. One reason for the British belief in the need for the heavy bomber lay in what would now be regarded as its deterrent value, since the British believed that the Germans were developing a heavy bomber, which was in fact correct for much of the 1930s, and that the best solution was the ability to retaliate in kind. There was logic to this; it was no good facing a German capability to destroy British industry unless a similar capa