nti, which counted amongst their successes the Royal Navy's aircraft-carrier HMS Eagle and several destroyers, including HMS Jaguar and Legion, as well as large numbers of merchant vessels. From 7 January 1941 onwards, Luftwaffe Ju.88s, Ju.87s and Heinkel He.111s also attacked convoys, including one escorted by the carriers HMS Illustri- ous and Ark Royal. On these raids, many of the aircraft carried torpedoes, and torpedo-bombing attacks became a particular feature of the S.M.79 anti-shipping operations. Malta gained little respite. In April 1942 almost 200 bombers raided the small island each day, dropping a total of 6,730 tons of bombs. The intensity of the raids on such a small island did not lead to firestorms - there was little enough combustible material, but it did mean that at times the fighter defences fell apart completely, with aircraft unable to take off, on one occasion for a period of twelve days. Earlier in the attack, the RAF was forced to fall back on just three obsolete Gloster Gladiator biplanes, left behind by the Royal Navy, the famous Faith, Hope and Charity, for fighter defence. Had the airborne assault on Crete been less costly, Malta would have been the next target, but at no time did a seaborne assault seem possible, and indeed there were few enough good landing sites on the island. Had Malta been invaded before Crete, the cost to the Luftwaffe might have been as least as great, but the strategic benefits would have been considerable. Recognizing the bravery of the Maltese under heavy aerial attack, King George VI awarded the island the George Cross. In some ways, Malta would have posed a more serious obstacle to invading forces than did Crete. Road communications around the island were better and more comprehensive, the island itself was smaller (but with two nearby islands, Gozo and Comino, which would also have had to be suppressed lest the defenders withdrew to these) and, perhaps most telling of all, the many small fields with their '