e first won by a member of the RAF. (Nothing was awarded to the aircraft's wireless operator, Leading Aircraftsman L. R. Reynolds, who shared the same risks and who also died.) The bridges over the River Maas at Maastricht were attacked by twenty-four Bristol Blenheims, of which ten were lost, without damage to the bridges. Later that same day, 12 May, twenty-eight Blenheims made successful raids on road junctions but a quarter of the aircraft were lost. The Fairey Battle had proved completely inadequate for the job it was designed to do. On 10 May forty per cent of all Battles deployed on missions were lost, a hundred per cent on 11 May and sixty-two per cent on 12 May, by which time the aircraft and crews held back from the earlier missions had been exhausted. The force of 135 Bristol Blenheims available to the AASF on 10 May had fallen to seventy-two by 13 May, and many of these were not serviceable. By this time it had become clear to the RAF and to the War Cabinet that the strain of supporting the French and of accepting their insistence on ground-support operations could not be sustained. The bombing of Rotterdam shocked the War Cabinet not only into accepting the Air Staff's pleas to be allowed to bomb German industry but into lifting the restrictions previously imposed on operations east of the Rhine. On the night of 15-16 May almost one hundred medium bombers, mainly Whitleys and Wellingtons, set off to bomb oil-refineries and railway targets in the Ruhr, but on debriefing it was found that only twenty-four of the aircraft had managed to find the target, and even fewer could claim to have aimed their bombs successfully. In the bomber crews' defence, it has to be said that the difficulties of navigating an aircraft at night were compounded by the heavy industrial haze over the Ruhr area. At the outbreak of war, bomber navigators were expected to plot a course using a compass and a sextant, techniques well suited to shipping, steaming at speeds seldom in exce