s superficial and incomplete. Time and again, the experience pointed to the soundness of integrating bombers, and essentially dive-bombers, with highly mobile mechanized armoured units, so that a fast-moving, integrated force on the lines of that envisaged by Liddell Hart could evolve. It took determination to support the heavy bomber. For the most part, bomber development during this period was a mixture of the innovative and of simply up-dating earlier ideas, often well past the full development potential for the original design. The Vimy bomber led to a development, the Virginia, retaining the same configuration as the earlier aircraft, with twin engines, usually Napier 59 Lions rather than the by-then dated Rolls-Royce Eagles, and a biplane mainplane. Even the first true post-war bomber design for the Royal Air Force, the Handley Page Hyderabad, owed much to the wartime 0/400, and no fewer than forty-five of these aircraft were built between 1923 and 1929, although the first aircraft did not join an operational squadron until April 1926, with No. 99 squadron at Bircham Newton. Several years later, during the early 1930s, a newer bomber type for the RAF was achieved by the simple expedient of building the Hyderabad with a metal rather than a wooden framework, the resulting aircraft being known as the Hinaidi. This aircraft, with its twin engines and crew of four, with open cockpit and gun positions, could manage a theoretical maximum speed of 122 mph, but operational speeds tended to be lower, a 75-mph cruising speed, while the warload totalled 1,448 lbs and the range was 850 miles. The aircraft took almost an hour to reach its 13,120-feet maximum altitude. Given such a mundane performance, it was not surprising that the RAF was easily seduced by the possibilities of the fast, light bomber. The initial attraction was the result of a designer following his own inclinations in a way which would not be possible today, and this was followed by an Air Force officer ac