many other vessels and shore installa- tions. No fewer than eleven of the twenty torpedoes carried by the Swordfish struck an Italian warship, and just two aircraft were lost. The Littorio was later refloated, but the Italians did not make further use of the base while hostilities continued, moving their warships to safer havens, further away from Malta and the supply lines through the Mediterranean. HMS Illustrious was later badly damaged in an attack by Luftwaffe aircraft on 10-11 January 1941, while escorting a convoy of fast merchant- men through the Mediterranean as part of Force H, the Royal Navy's main convoy escort force in the theatre. Six bombs struck the ship, which had to limp into Malta for repairs. One of Illustrious' sister ships, HMS Formidable, used her aircraft to good effect during the naval battle off Cape Matapan, Crete, at the end of March, and in the rout which followed British success in the battle Fairey Albacores from HMS Formidable damaged the battleship Vittorio Veneto and crippled the cruiser Pola, which was subsequently sunk by destroyers. In May aircraft from another carrier of the same class, HMS Victorious, launched an attack against the battleship Bismarck, although on this occasion the Fairey Swordfish did little damage. More successful was the attack by Swordfish from HMS Ark Royal, operating with Force H out of Gibraltar on the night of 26-27 May 1941, with two torpedo hits on the Bismarck damaging the battleship's steering gear, leaving her exposed to a cruiser torpedo attack on 27 May. Naval aviators had their share of tragedy as well. In July 1941 aircraft from HMS Furious and Victorious attacked German bases in northern Norway at Petsamo and Kirkenes, with fifteen aircraft being lost to anti-aircraft fire for no apparent success. Later, on 12 February 1942, three German capital ships, Scharnhorst, Gneisenau and Prinz Eugen, steamed through the English Channel in broad daylight, not being spotted until after they had sped thro