servation duties, with man-lifting kites also being used for this work, although relatively few armies took the kite quite as seriously as the British Army, with the able assistance of the American Samuel Franklin Cody. The limited lift of the balloon and its lack of propulsion had led to many experiments which, directly or indirectly, pointed to the development of the dirigible or airship. At first, this was hindered, as was the early aeroplane, by the lack of a suitable lightweight power plant, experiments with steam and battery electric propulsion proving fruitless. In the event. the aeroplane and the airship arrived at about the same time, within a few years of one another. Undoubtedly the most famous of the airship pioneers, and the man who paved the way for this type of craft to show its peak potential, was the German Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin. The first of von Zeppelin's airships, the LZ-1, ascended from a floating hangar near Friedrichshafen on Lake Constance, on 2 July 1900, carrying a crew of five for a twenty- minute flight. The long black shape of the LZ-1 pointed the way forward for many in military aviation, but in spite of its comparative inadequacy the aeroplane was not to be long in matching and then overtaking the airship as a weapon of war. Although the LZ-1, powered by two Daimler petrol engines, was making flights of as long as one hour by the end of 1900, there were to be many failures before the airship became a satisfac- tory vehicle, and sometimes these failures showed inexperience in hand- ling or an inadequate understanding of construction techniques, and perhaps most often they were a reflection of poor mechanical ical reliability. In fact, the airship was more tolerant of mechanical failings than the aeroplane, and that must have accounted for much of its early appeal. 21 Von Zeppelin was not the only pioneer of the airship, nor was he the only successful pioneer. Indeed, at first more attention was paid to his French rivals, the Leba