t this stage and could just as easily be used as a small airliner or fast executive transport. The striking twin-engined monoplane, with its low wing, appealed to Lord Rothermere, proprietor of the Daily Mail, a newspaper which had sponsored many aeronautical milestones, including the first flights across the English Channel and the North Atlantic. Rothermere ordered one of the aircraft, but further refinement of the design led to its being delivered in April 1935 as the Type 142, with a maximum speed of 307 mph. Certification trials at the RAF station at Martlesham Heath in Suffolk so impressed the RAF that Rothermere presented the aircraft to the nation. having already named it 'Britain First'. Excited by the RAF's interest, Bristol re-designed the 142 as a bomber. moving the low wings to the mid position, marking the change from the airliner or business aircraft position to that of a bomber, which needs a mid-wing to allow an uninterrupted bomb bay. The Air Ministry hastily drafted a specification to match the aircraft, and development started on the service version, by this time named the Blenheim. An initial order was placed for 150 aircraft, with deliveries starting in November 1936, but eventually ten times that number were built, and the aircraft also resulted in the Beaufighter night fighter development. The prototype Blenheim first flew in June 1936 and possessed the then amazing ability to carry a 1,000-lb bombload over 1,000 miles flying at up to 15,000 feet and at 285 mph. The slight reduction in maximum speed from the 142 prototype could be excused, given the more workaday nature of the aeroplane, which also included a power-operated dorsal turret in case it should be 'jumped' by enemy fighters. There were many who believed that, had the Blenheim been presented to the RAF in the usual approved manner, it would not have gone beyond the design stage. In 1932 the Air Ministry had produced a specification for a medium bomber, B9/32, requiring that the succ