archetti S.M.79 Sparviero tri-motor medium bomber, of which there were almost 600, while the later S.M.82 also equipped many more units. The other major tri-motor bomber of the RA at this time was the CRDA Cant.z.1007. Both the Savoia-Marchetti aircraft were also available as transports. A number of Fiat B.R.20 medium bombers, a twin-engined aircraft, were also in service, and a number of these aircraft were assigned to the Corpo Aereo Italiano, a force detached to fight alongside the Luftwaffe units in France on raids against England, in October 1940. The force had a difficult existence over British targets, with the fighter escorts proving no match for the RAF's more up-to-date fighters, and on one daylight raid on 11 November against Harwich three out of the ten B.R.20 Cicogna bombers were shot down in spite of their having forty C.R.42 fighters as escorts. The CAI returned to Italy in January 1941. The main force of the Italian air campaign was against targets in Malta, North Africa, the Balkans and the Middle East. On one occasion four S.M.82s made a round trip of 151/2 hours to attack oil-refineries in Bahrain, operating from Italian East Africa. Malta was an early target and, being ill prepared for the Italian attack, an easy one. Even while the air assault on Malta was building up, ready for a planned Italo-German invasion which would have severed British supply lines through the Mediterranean and secured those of the Axis Powers between Italy and North Africa, the Italians were preparing a major assault on Greece. More than 130 S.M.79 and S.M.82 bombers and twenty Junkers Ju.87B dive-bombers were assembled by the Regia Aeronautica for the attack on Greece on 28 October 1940, although the attack, in the air and on the ground, was repelled by fierce resistance by Greek forces. A successful invasion of Greece had to wait until April 1941, when the Luftwaffe assigned 400 fighters, bombers and dive-bombers for the invasion of that country, in addition to another