uld track RAF bombers by picking up the signals from the H2S radar. Among Bomber Command's other duties during the latter part of 1943 were several mine-laying operations - 'gardening' to the bomber crews, using magnetic or acoustic mines which made sweeping difficult. A 1944  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 138 139 THE BOMBER OFFENSIVE mine-laying mission by Mosquito bombers closed the Kiel Canal for some time. The steady devastation of Germany could not spare Berlin. The Ger- man capital had been raided on several occasions, but as late as November 1943 it had been spared the overwhelming assault from the air which had been visited on other German cities, of lesser importance politically but of greater immediate significance to the winning of the war and the battle against German industry. This changed on the night of 18-19 November, when 444 heavy four-engined bombers took off for the first major night raid on Berlin. Perhaps more significant than this heavy raid was the fact that, that same night, another 325 RAF bombers raided Mannheim: it was the first time during World War II that major raids had been mounted against two German cities on the same night. Casualties on the first Berlin raid were relatively light, with nine aircraft lost, due in part to bad weather which grounded the Luftwaffe's night- fighter squadrons. This was the start of what came to be known as the Battle of Berlin. Poor weather was to be a feature of many of the raids on Berlin, with the heaviest raid taking place on 15-16 February 1944 in 'ten-tenths cloud, when out of 891 bombers setting out from England, 806 reached the target and dropped 2,642 tons of bombs. The Pathfinder squadrons had to use sky-marking, with red and green starflares over the target and dropping additional flares at intervals. In spite of the difficulties and without seeing the target, the entire raid took no more than forty minutes. The greater rate of delivery of bombs by the RAF at this period of the war was a major element