, appreciating the need for post-war reconstruction. Power lay not with Speer, but with the fanatical and dedicated core of ministers and service chiefs surrounding the Führer. The sustained effort of a Hamburg-type operation was beyond the resources of the two Allied air forces. Not only that: the Germans were developing their night-fighter tactics. In addition to the Nachtjagdgesch- wäder (night fighter groups), each of 120 aircraft, guided by the 'Kamm- huber Line' stations onto their targets and closing in with their Lichten- stein radar to 200 metres or so, at which point visible identification could be made on all but the darkest nights, single-engined day fighters were also being deployed. This was the idea of a Major Hajo Herrmann, who had estimated that on average up to a hundred RAF bombers were illuminated by searchlights for up to two minutes and that this was sufficient for day fighters to attack these aircraft. Initially he used an 137 experimental force of thirty aircraft in a tactic known as Wilde Sau (Wild Sow) which, while less effective than night-fighter operations, was still useful, especially when 'window' hindered the effectiveness of night fighters. Later the technique was developed into Zahme Sau (Tame Sow), with groups of fighters waiting for bombers to be silhouetted by search- lights reflecting off low cloud. This technique was being used by late August 1943. Raids on more distant targets were difficult to mount, although Turin, Milan and Genoa, all relatively lightly defended compared with German targets, were all raided in late 1943, as were Mannheim and Nuremburg, with almost 3,500 tons of bombs dropped over the latter. Meanwhile, Hamburg was recovering, with mains services available some three weeks after the raid. Industrial output was back to eighty per cent by September, although U-boat construction was still at a third of the pre-raid level. To have sustained the effect on German war produc- tion, Hamburg would have had to be subj