e work of von Ohain in Germany on the jet engine at the same time. To some extent, the unadventurous approach could be excused. It was not until 1937 that the British Government placed a high priority on re-equipping and expanding the RAF, and priority had to be given to tried and tested equipment with little time and even less finance for innovation. In Germany, the result tended to be the same, but for different reasons. The limited outlook of Goering and his deputies contributed to a conservative approach to aircraft selection, while there was an acute shortage of strategic materials which in turn favoured the tried and tested types rather than the novel. Then, too, the policies adopted against the Jewish population denied Germany the opportunity of being first with nuclear weapons. In a sense, the straitjacket of dictatorship and oppression denied Germany the opportunity to exploit many advantages, while the Führer system itself meant not only that officers in different services operated with disregard for the problems of their colleagues elsewhere but that this also applied within the individual services, with branches planning regardless of the consequences for others. The main victims of the system were the bombers. Although Hitler had announced the existence of the Luftwaffe in March 1935, it was not until the following year, on 1 August 1936, that the General Staff was created under General Wever. This officer, the former Chief of the Miscellaneous Branch of the Reichs Air Ministry, had been persuaded of the importance of the heavy long-range bomber as early as 1933, after representations by Wimmer, Chief of the Technical Office. Even at the earliest stages, the project was known within the Air Ministry and the Luftwaffe as the 'Uralbomber', emphasizing the need for the aircraft to be able to carry a sizeable warload not only to Moscow and Leningrad but beyond, to the Ural mountains, the limit to Europe The Luftwaffe's heaviest bomber was the Heinkel He.177