AF order was for just twenty aircraft and of little real significance. The rising cost of the F-111 and the early technical problems of this sophisticated variable-geometry Mach 2.0 bomber eventually led to Britain cancelling in favour of an Anglo-French aircraft, also with variable-geometry, known as the Anglo-French Variable Geometry Air- craft (AFVG), and described by the then Secretary of Defence, Denis Healey, as being 'the core of our defence procurement programme'. The AFVG was eventually cancelled. Some little time later, an Anglo- German-Italian design was selected and developed, initially as the Pana- via 200 Panther but eventually put into production as the Panavia Tornado. Meanwhile a modified version of the Hawker Siddeley Bucca- neer was put into production to provide the mainstay of the RAF's bomber force, with the aircraft built for the RAF eventually being joined by ex-Fleet Air Arm aircraft after the Royal Navy lost its last two large aircraft-carriers, HMS Eagle and Ark Royal, during the middle and late 1970s. The Buccaneer was not without controversy. Many denigrated its performance, although the aircraft generally performed well, in spite of fatigue problems in later life as the extra stresses of flying at low altitude overland began to tell on an airframe designed for over-water naval operations. The South African Air Force ordered a squadron of Buccaneer MAR Z U IMBI  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 184 185 THE BOMBER TODAY S.1s, relatively under-powered compared with the later S.2 and equipped with take-off booster rockets for operations from high southern African airfields. A request for a second squadron was rejected as the then British Government objected to the racial policies adopted by the South African Government. The same government refused to react to USAF interest in the aircraft on the grounds that it would be used in the Vietnam War. Ironically the Buccaneer would have been useless on counter-insurgency duties, yet the SAAF was allowed to bu