came from the United States. The work of Douglas and Boeing in airliners, and of Boeing in developing the heavy bomber with the 299 prototype, was also complemented by that of Martin with its B-10, developed from the experimental Martin XB-10, winner of the Collier Trophy in 1932. The B-10, an all-metal, mid-wing monoplane with power-operated nose and dorsal turrets, set the pattern for the coming generation of medium and heavy bombers. The B-10 entered service with the United States Army Air Corps in 1935, and its two 750-hp Wright Cyclone radial engines gave this medium bomber the then high speed of 215 mph. Douglas used the aerodynamic surfaces of the DC-2 airliner in the B-18 medium bomber. While tension was still at a low level in Europe and while attention was being paid to aircraft development more from technical interest than in response to a specific threat, Japanese troops were already fighting Chinese forces in Manchuria and elsewhere from 1931 onwards. The outbreak of hostilities in the East had followed several years of deteriorat- ing relations, culminating in a Chinese boycott of Japanese goods. The war which followed was one which pitted Japanese technical and indus- trial might against the vast manpower resources of the Chinese, with relatively little air power available to 'Chinese ground forces. At first Japanese army and naval bombers acted purely in a support role as Japanese troops pushed their Chinese opponents back from Mukden, Kirin and Harbin in late 1931 and early 1932. The limitations on Japanese air power at this time came not from any hesitation to use massive force against the Chinese but simply from the absence of any true heavy bomber aircraft, even though the main aircraft available, the Kawasaki Type 88 light bomber and reconnaissance machine, was generally re- garded as being outstanding for its day. It did not matter very much anyway since, faced with Chinese air defences comprised of inadequate anti-aircraft gunnery and obsolete