engined bomber biplane  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 54 55 LIVING WITH AIR POWER which had first flown in 1917 but which did not reach RAF squadrons until after the war had ended, in July 1919. The Vimy had gained immortality as the aircraft used by Captain John Alcock and Lieutenant Arthur Whitten-Brown for the first non-stop flight across the North Atlantic, flying from Newfoundland to Ireland. The aircraft used belonged to the manufacturer rather than the RAF. Alongside the Vimy, the RAF operated two squadrons of Vernon troop-carriers _ 'Vernon' was the name given by the RAF to the commercial version of the Vimy, which used a redesigned fuselage to carry up to ten pas- sengers and which the airlines had simply called the 'Vimy Commer- cial'. In RAF service, these aircraft were generally regarded as being 'bomber transports' and were supposed to be able to master this dual role. The Vimy in its bomber configuration could carry up to 2,500 lbs of bombs, at 96 mph and with an operational ceiling of 10,000 feet. One of the earliest applications of the bomber in the policing role was not in Iraq but in East Africa, in the Somaliland Protectorate during 1920, when British forces faced Dervish terrorists led by Sayid Muhammed. Thirteen Airco DH9A bombers were dispatched aboard one of the Royal Navy's seaplane carriers, HMS Ark Royal, to Somaliland, where twelve of the aircraft acted in the bombing role and one was kept in reserve as an air ambulance. Within a few years, in the Middle East the RAF was soon operating two squadrons, Nos. 45 and 70, with Vernons, and another two with DH9As, Nos. 8 and 30, as well as No.1 squadron with Sopwith Snipes, all based at Hinaidi, near Baghdad. Nos. 84 and 85, with DH9A bombers, were based at Shaibah, near Basrah on the Gulf, and also in the north of the country. Another squadron operated Bristol Fighters, 'Brisfits', at Kirkuk on the border with Kurdistan. There were other units in India, but the internal security problem was at its most a