ere highly successful. Yet, as more than one commentator has pointed out in the past, for the most part the Luftwaffe fought Russian aircraft, not the Russian aircraft industry. Time and again the Luftwaffe was denied the opportunity to operate as a strategic air arm, with constant demands by ground commanders for support against numerically superior Russian forces. Ground com- manders constantly resisted Luftwaffe plans to strike at Russian industry yet throughout World War II the Russians, for all of their industrial shortcomings, managed to produce 150,000 tanks, against the German total of 25,000. In earlier campaigns the short range of Luftwaffe aircraft had been overcome by the ability to move into captured airfields, so in effect keeping up with the Army and always having some margin in hand to reach beyond the front line and provide some effective raids on troop concentrations, communications and factories. By contrast with the air- fields in the west, Russian airfields were primitive in the extreme. especially given the vast distances of the Soviet Union and the severe operating conditions. The runways were abnormally short, reducing warloads and range. There were no barracks to move personnel into and, indeed, runways and aprons were seldom, if ever, of concrete, so that in autumn and spring these became quagmires. To their dismay Luftwaffe commanders discovered airfield after airfield, each worse than the emergency airfields which in other theatres they would have improvised as satellites in case the main airfields were rendered inoper- able. Russian equipment and tactics depended heavily on force of numbers. Seldom would Russian fighters engage Luftwaffe aircraft in single combat, and the lack of adequate fighter control, let alone radar or a comprehensive fighter control system, meant that the normal Soviet tactic was to deploy swarms of fighters, although even these would concentrate mainly on crippled aircraft unless numbers were so over- whelming tha