tleship Admiral von Scheer. In poor visibility, many of the aircraft did not find the target. Those that did were forced to make their bombing runs so low that the eleven-second fuses on their 500-lb bombs failed to detonate, with the bombs bouncing off the armoured plating of the larger warships. The only real damage of the entire raid followed the crash of a Blenheim onto the cruiser Emden, and even this failed to put the ship out of action. An alarming aspect of the raid was the loss of seven aircraft, two Wellingtons and five Blenheims. (It was not until the end of the war, in April 1945, that the von Scheer was sunk in a heavy air raid.) Before the end of September, a force of eleven Handley Page  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 88 BLITZKRIEG Hampdens attacking two German destroyers was bounced by a forma- tion of Messerschmitt Bf.109Es, with the loss of five of the bombers. However, not all the early raids were unsuccessful, and by the end of March 1940 the RAF had managed to sink U-31 in Schillig Roads, and, a little later, a German minesweeper. Overall, during the first six months of war the RAF dropped sixty-one tons of bombs for the loss of forty-one aircraft. Ten Luftwaffe fighters were shot down by RAF bombers during these early operations over Germany. At a very early stage it became clear that Bomber Command, with its twenty-three squadrons of Blenheims, Hampdens, Whitleys and Wellingtons, could not sustain the heavy losses of the first air raids. The original concept of bombing German naval targets by day and dropping leaflets by night overlooked the elementary truths about the difficulties and dangers of daylight raids against heavily defended targets or of night navigation over long distances and often in poor winter weather. The aircraft lacked the speed, altitude and bombloads essential to suc- cess. In many ways, it was fortunate that the severe winter of 1939-40 and perhaps the lack of urgency of the phoney war, meant that there were far fewer bombing raid