e ability to produce nuclear weapons, with the latter obtaining the information through espionage. The first British atomic bomb was tested on 11 October 1956 at Maralinga in Australia, by which time the atomic bomb was already surpassed by the hydrogen bomb, a still more power- ful device. A little more than six months later, on 15 May 1957, the British tested their first hydrogen bomb at Christmas Island in the Pacific. The French eventually followed, as did the Chinese and the Indians, although the last-mentioned may not have progressed beyond the atomic bomb. China is the only Asian country with a strategic delivery system - the 'Long March' missile. Other countries believed to be capable of producing nuclear weapons include Argentina, Israel, Pakistan and possibly South Africa. To counter the spread of nuclear weapons, a treaty on the proliferation of nuclear weapons was devised, but generally this has been signed only by countries contemplating the production of such devices after they have achieved the capability - certainly not before. The difference between atomic (or nuclear) weapons and hydrogen (thermonuclear) weapons is considerable. The latter are more powerful and more compact, reducing the problems of delivery and allowing the development of missiles with a substantial number of warheads. An atomic bomb relies on the splitting of a number of very heavy atoms, as opposed to fusion in the hydrogen bomb. For this reason, the rapid splitting has led to the atomic bomb's being known as a nuclear-fission device. The fissile material is a rare form of either uranium -235 or plutonium -239. Since even a small atomic bomb produces an effect equal to several thousands of tons of TNT, it is usual to measure the destructive force in kilotons. The hydrogen bomb, sometimes referred to as a nuclear-fusion device, entails bringing together two very light atoms, usually the deuterium and tritium versions of hydrogen, with a fission trigger device being used to create