e of battle hardened and experienced aircrew of all kinds. The experience was sufficiently close to the outbreak of World War II to be effective and still reasonably fresh. At the same time, the relatively easy successes of the Spanish Civil War also confirmed many of the weaknesses in the German strategy for aerial warfare. The supremacy of the dive-bomber and the effectiveness of the medium bomber were enhanced, yet the longer ranges of a major European war and the need to attack huge areas packed with heavy industry and well defended by trained anti-aircraft gunners, and by fighters under a skilled central control aided by radar, had not come during the fighting in Spain. Spanish cities had been easy targets. Russian fighters had been out- classed in the end, as had their bombers. Hurricanes would have been a more effective foe, and the Spitfire even more so, although this aeroplane was not available before the war in Spain ended and would not have been sent to Spain by the neutral British even if it had been ready for service earlier. One should not condemn the Germans alone for their involve- ment in Spain; the tragedy and the crime arose from the fact that Spain was taken over by two opposing ideologies, supporting factions neither of which had any desire for the more moderate attitudes which prevailed elsewhere in Western Europe and in North America. The Russians were also guilty. The Junkers Ju.87 Stuka was one of the most emotive aeroplanes ever, inasmuch as it was widely feared by many of those facing it at the outbreak of World War II but was soon to meet its match as it faced trained British and other Allied troops. The aircraft first flew during the summer of 1935, although the concept of the dive-bomber was by that time already dated, having been espoused by the Americans some ten years earlier. The absence of a suitable German powerplant at the time meant that the prototype flew with a Rolls-Royce Kestrel engine, as did the prototype Messerschmitt Bf.