able, option. This is that economic sanctions can be an effective and humane substitute for military action. Sanctions either work or they do not, just as the bomber either succeeds or fails. If they do not work, what is the point? If they do work, then the nation affected by the sanctions will not be able to afford the food to feed its people properly nor the medicines and medical equipment with which to treat them. The very young, the very old and the chroni-  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 14 PREFACE cally infirm will be the most seriously affected. Is this more humane than the more obvious bomber campaign? Then there is the question about the cost-effectiveness of the bomber. The bomber was born out of necessity, from the understandable, even logical desire to attack enemy airfields and war industry. The shortcomings of the available technology led to the concept of area bombing, in which civilians were part of the target. The question which arises is simply whether all civilians are innocent. The man who puts the weapons of war into the hands of the soldier is an accomplice before the fact, and so too is he, or she, who incites others to join up while in a secure and sheltered job at home. War fever is an ugly thing, but few countries have been immune to it. The factory worker not only puts weapons into the hands of the military man; he is usually better paid for his task and is not separated from family and friends. In this context whether weapons are offensive or defensive does not depend on whether one is talking about bombers or fighters but on which side one stands. It may be misguided, and certainly bombing seldom broke civilian morale, but there was logic in the assumption that a dose of frontline punishment might make civilians think twice about warfare. In this book I have tried to show the strengths and the failings of the bomber offensives, coming as close to the present as one can. Several points seem to me to stand out. Firstly, the bomber was born out of ne