ensive machine-gun and sometimes accurate rifle fire as well, before moving into a position above the airship from which the envelope could be raked with machine-gun fire and the explosive hydrogen gas inside set alight. The British and French saw the bomber aeroplane as faster, more manœuvrable and better able to cope with adverse wind conditions; handling at bases was also easier, and finally aeroplanes were cheaper to build, maintain and crew than airships. Simply, an air force could have more of these than they could of airships.  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 34 35 THE BLOODY PARALYSER! The early months of 1915 saw air raids intensify and become an increasingly important element in the war. Throughout World War I air raids were never to prove to be crucial to the conflict but in an indirect sense they did divert vast resources of men and equipment away from the front and into an anti-aircraft or airship defence. They also created a new aspect to war: the primary task of air power in each case being to neutralize the air power of the opposing side. Air defence and air raids against airship and aircraft bases and factories became a major preoccupation. It had already, within a few months of war breaking out. been recognized that it was not sufficient to shoot down an opponent's aircraft or airships: the factories which produced them, and the bases which they used, had to be destroyed as well, as shown by the raids on Cologne, Düsseldorf and Friedrichshafen during the autumn of 1914 The rudiments of strategic air power were already in existence by January 1915. The Royal Naval Air Service mounted further raids on Cuxhaven, this time from its forward base at Dunkirk, early in 1915, although no great weight of bombs could be brought to bear on the target. The number of aircraft deployed on these missions, and their warload, was so limited that the success which was obtained was surprising and might best be seen as a result of still inadequate anti-aircraft defences and the l