ffective counter-measure to use against the British night fighter network. Ironically, the Germans already possessed this ability with 'Duppel', which they also delayed issuing to their own bomber formations for the same reasons. The other feature of Window was that it did not affect the H2S radar on British bombers when this finally came into service. Of course, the RAF had also created a strong night fighter force, initially using Bristol Beaufighters and then replacing them with the de Havilland Mosquito. The Germans used the Messerschmitt Bf.110 and the Junkers Ju.88, although during 1943 the pressure on German night- fighter defences was to lead to massive improvisation - of which more later. The electronic war did not lack momentum. By February 1942 more than half Bomber Command's 380 serviceable aircraft had been equipped with Gee, with the first transmitting-stations on the east coast of England, so that the first Gee operations were directed mainly to western and north-western regions of Germany. Of no less importance to the overall direction of the bomber offensive against Germany, a new AOC (Air Officer Commanding) had been assigned as Commander-in-Chief: Air Marshal Sir Arthur 'Bomber' Harris succeeded Air Chief Marshal Sir Richard Peirse in January 1942, allowing Peirse to go to the Far East in time for the worst of the defeats at the hands of the Japanese, although he was to do valuable work in setting up an offensive and aerial re-supply operation whilst commanding the remaining RAF units, mainly in India and Ceylon. Harris found himself with forty-three squadrons, with five operating light bombers, such as the Blenheim, and only fourteen operating the new heavies. The heavies were no immediate asset, with the Stirling having severe bomb-carrying limitations and being difficult to maintain, the Manchester being a disaster and finally withdrawn by June, and the Halifax proving underpowered and all too capable of entering an uncontrollable spin. The pro