and anti-aircraft fire being far less of a threat than those of the Luftwaffe. It seems fair to surmise that the Italians did not expect such a daring raid over such a distance. On 23 October eighty-eight Lancasters were sent on a daylight raid over Milan, with three aircraft lost for the destruction of the railway marshalling yards and workshops. In general, operations against Germany eased during the winter of 1942-3, with Italy becoming the prime target to reduce the pressure on the Allied forces in North Africa. While this was sound thinking, it also took the pressure off the Germans and enabled them to recon- struct their battered cities and factories, allowing morale to recover as well. Just as Germany was really incapable of fighting war on several fronts, so too were the Allies, not least because of the competing demands of the Far East, especially on the Americans, although the British  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 134 THE BOMBER OFFENSIVE still maintained a major operational capability in India and Ceylon. The United States Army's 8th Air Force had arrived in the United Kingdom during the summer of 1942, and on 17 August, under the personal command of its commanding officer, General Eaker, the 8th flew its first operational mission, in daylight against the railway marshal- ling yards at Rouen. From the start the Americans believed that they could tackle the so-called 'panacea targets' which the RAF had found so difficult at the outset of the war and, like the RAF in the early days, believed in daylight raids. The USAAF were soon to find that their aircraft were under-armed for the operations envisaged, and eventually North American F-51 Mustang fighters with long-range tanks, and Lockheed P-2 Lightning long-range fighters were to accompany the B-17s and B-24s on their long flights over the Reich. As the RAF had already discovered, the Norden bombsight was of limited use in European skies. That said, the USAAF insistence on daylight bombing avoided some of the dela