ke Taranto, and the shore installations were not sufficiently damaged. Three days later the British battleship HMS Prince of Wales and the battle-cruiser HMS Repulse, under Rear-Admiral Phillips, were both at- tacked by Japanese aircraft flying from Saigon in Indo-China. They fought off the first wave but both ships were sunk by the second wave. In part, this defeat was due to the decision to leave their aircraft-carrier behind in Singapore while the two capital ships steamed along the  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 114 6 Malayan coast. At the same time, the elderly aircraft aboard the carrier might not have been an effective counter to the Japanese dive-bombers and torpedo-bombers. A series of miscalculations had meant that the United States and the Soviet Union were now also in the war, fighting the Axis Powers. The war was now truly global. The Bomber Offensive At the start of 1942, the fortunes of the Allies were at their lowest ebb. True, the British, with their Empire, were no longer fighting Germany and Italy alone, but the United States had been brought into World War II by a Japanese assault in the Pacific region which was in its scale and ferocity far worse and more devastating than anything experienced hitherto. The raid on Pearl Harbor had crippled the American battle fleet in the Pacific, as well as dealing a major blow to the air and naval bases on Oahu. The British lost Hong Kong on Christmas Day 1941, and then Singapore fell on 15 February 1942, both of these losses being preceded by heavy Japanese artillery and aerial attack. Even Australia appeared to be threatened by Japanese advances across New Guinea. Meanwhile the United States forces in the region were also in retreat, most notably in the Philippines, for long a major bastion of American power in the area. There was little comfort to be gained from the knowledge that the German advance in the Soviet Union had been stalled, as much by the severity of the climate and by over-extended supply lines as by S