w Tupolev 'Blackjack' and the Rockwell International B-1B will be the last bombers. More capable missile systems, for both offence and defence, and the prospect of still better performances from strike aircraft, with lighter structures and new aerodynamic and engine technology, makes the purchase of small numbers of bombers at high cost seem ridiculous compared with the availability of large numbers of smaller aircraft, which can undertake other roles as well. Ironically, it was just this type of decision which so crippled the Luftwaffe's ability to conduct strategic warfare, but times have changed and the aircraft and technology available have made even greater changes. Nothing would be worse than to maintain costly heavy bombers simply because they were so effective during World War II; the difficulty of mounting first an effective defence and then a counter- attack in wars during this century has lain in the mistaken belief on each occasion that the previous war's strategies and tactics still held good. The bomber may be fading away from the world's air forces, it may have been costly, but it had its day and was an invaluable instrument of warfare at that time. It might not have been cost-effective but all-out war seldom is and should never be viewed as an accounting exercise anyway. At worst, the bomber was the only means available to the British and the Americans of striking back at their enemies. At best, it produced ruins which make an effective defence increasingly difficult and made final collapse so much more complete. The truth probably lies somewhere between these two points. Whether or not the bomber can undermine civilian morale may be doubtful - it certainly has not done so in the Gulf War, but then again, the Iraqi and Iran town-dwellers have been spared the incessant heavy bombing endured in Europe and the Far East during World War II. Perhaps if the Allies had not forced unconditional surren- der on the Germans, if the Soviet advance had been check