hips had taken off from their base early in the day to bomb London, but all three craft, LZ-37, LZ-38 and LZ-39, were forced by engine trouble to return to their base near Bruges. LZ-37 was sighted over Ostend by Flight Sub-Lieutenant Reginald Warneford RNAS, flying a Morane-Saulnier Type L monoplane, which carried six 20-lb bombs. Approaching the Zeppelin at some 2,000 feet above the airship, Warneford was spotted by the machine-gunners aboard LZ-37 as he dived to attack, and he pulled away to maintain his height advan- tage, for fear that the airship might try to outclimb him. Instead of climbing, the airship's commander decided to run for his base, a fatal mistake as the craft started to descend. Warneford dived through machine-gun fire and dropped his six bombs over the airship. One struck the envelope and exploded, with the airship quickly becoming one large fireball. As the burning airship broke up, the crew, lacking parachutes, were either burnt to death or fell. The one survivor was the helmsman, who fell through the roof of a convent, one of the very few buildings in the area, onto a bed, which was, presumably, unoccupied. This was the  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 34 THE BLOODY PARALYSER! The early months of 1915 saw air raids intensify and become an increasingly important element in the war. Throughout World War I air raids were never to prove to be crucial to the conflict but in an indirect sense they did divert vast resources of men and equipment away from the front and into an anti-aircraft or airship defence. They also created a new aspect to war: the primary task of air power in each case being to neutralize the air power of the opposing side. Air defence and air raids against airship and aircraft bases and factories became a major preoccupation. It had already, within a few months of war breaking out. been recognized that it was not sufficient to shoot down an opponent's aircraft or airships: the factories which produced them, and the bases which they used,