oil installations dropping their bombs on the East End of London by acci- dent, although other Luftwaffe personnel subsequently accused the RAF of bending the Knicklebein beams and causing the error. In the event, an error of navigation, especially during a night raid, would have been easy enough. There was certainly no error about the RAF's reprisal raid the following night, with fourteen Armstrong-Whitworth Whitleys of 51 squadron RAF, twelve Handley Page Hampdens from 61 and 144 squadrons, and seventeen Vickers Wellingtons from 99 and 149 squad- rons raiding Berlin and putting the lie to Goering's ridiculous boast that, 'Not a single bomb would fall on Germany.' Further raids followed. On 4 September Hitler threatened to raze British towns and cities, accusing the British of dropping bombs on residential areas and describing the crews of the RAF bombers as 'pirates of the night'. On 7 September Goering was told that the Luftwaffe could raid London. Whatever view is taken of the value of bomber warfare, one point is clear: that success can be achieved, if at all, only by persistence. The Luftwaffe hoped that its raids on London would pull the RAF's surviving fighters into a final all-out and decisive battle. Instead, by raiding Lon- don, the Luftwaffe effectively moved the pressure away from the RAF and Fighter Command's hard-pressed airfields. It also eased the pressure on the Spitfire and Hurricane squadrons, handing responsibility for air defence to the Bristol Beaufighter night fighter squadrons, which had been enjoying growing success and acquiring greater proficiency as the year progressed. Better still, from the fighter viewpoint, the Luftwaffe was attacking on the aeronautical equivalent of a narrow front, and relays of fighters could harass bombers from the time they arrived over the coast, all the way to the target and over it, and continue their attack as the bombers fought their way home. The only respite from fighter attack was during the period the b