d been better. It really did seem that the 'bomber would always get through'. Controversy still reigned over whether the bomber should be used as a means of retaliation, with some, such as the editor of The Aeroplane, C. G. Grey, arguing in favour of this approach, while others, such as Churchill's scientific adviser, Lindemann, objecting to a policy of reprisals, placing emphasis on a scientific solution to the problems presented by enemy air attack. Such a solution was not long in coming, and during the late 1930s British scientists were to develop radar and a chain of radar stations capable not only of detecting the approach of enemy aircraft, a hundred miles or more out to sea, but also of indicating their altitude and direction of approach, and even of providing an approximation of their numbers. This was the so-called 'Chain Home' line of radar stations. In a sense, radar had been discovered by mistake. During 1934 there had been speculation over the feasibility of radio death-rays, which could destroy attacking aircraft in mid-air. Robert Watson-Watt, head of the National Physical Laboratory's Radio Research Station, assigned a young scientist on his staff, Arnold Wilkins, to investigate the possibility of identifying and developing such a device. Wilkins calculated that de- struction of enemy aircraft using radio devices would be impossible, but it might be possible to use radio to detect aircraft approaching. The Air Ministry Defence Committee authorized research into radio detection. Using one of the first cathode ray oscilloscopes, it was possible to demonstrate the feasibility of radio detection in the vicinity of the BBC's transmitter at Daventry, using a Royal Air Force Handley Page Heyford bomber, which flew past the transmitter along an agreed course during trials in February 1935. Thus was born radio direction-finding - RDF to the British and 'radar' to the Americans. Approval was given after further experiments and refinement of the original system