ack to eighty per cent by September, although U-boat construction was still at a third of the pre-raid level. To have sustained the effect on German war produc- tion, Hamburg would have had to be subjected to devastating raids over several days every six or eight weeks, and to have tackled five or six other cities as well, in rotation, would have stretched man- power and technical resources to breaking point within a very short time. In any event, a more pressing target was available: the research centre and factory at Peenemunde, at which Germany was building the V-2 missiles, the second of Hitler's so-called revenge weapons. Although the concept of the 'master bomber' had first been tried on a raid over Turin, Peenemunde marked the operational début of the concept on a major German target. The raid against Peenemunde on the night of 17-18 August 1943 required almost 600 bombers, with the master bomber, Group Captain J. H. Searby, dropping his flares at 02.00, just a few minutes before the arrival of the main force. A few minutes later, the site was a mass of flames which could be seen by night fighters operating 110 miles to the south. Accurate marking and the use of the master- bomber concept meant that, almost from first to last, the bombs landed on target, and the raid did not 'creep back'. The cost of this destruction was heavy, a loss rate of seven per cent (forty aircraft) but more than 700 Germans were killed, many of them scientists and technicians. Another new concept used for the first time at Peenemunde was the fitting of radar to the escorting Beaufighters, enabling them to home-in on the signals of the German night fighters' Lichtenstein radar. Not to be outdone, before long the German night fighters had radar, using the same aerials as Würzburg, which could track RAF bombers by picking up the signals from the H2S radar. Among Bomber Command's other duties during the latter part of 1943 were several mine-laying operations - 'gardening' to the bomber c