g  24 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 25 PROPHECY OF DESTRUCTION for more than an hour's duration. Unfortunately, disaster was not far away: on 17 September Orville was flying with a young US Army signals officer, Lieutenant Selfridge, as a passenger, when one of the two propellers on the aircraft shattered, Orville losing control and the aircraft crashing to the ground 'with a sickening thud'. An eye-witness reported: 'I happened to be among the first to come on the scene of the disaster and I found the aeroplane crumpled up and the passengers lying motionless amongst the splintered framework. Lieutenant Selfridge in particular was bleeding profusely from the head, and when removed both he and Mr Wright were still unconscious.' Orville recovered, but Selfridge was dead within a few hours. Generally, however, the trials in the United States went well. Two witnesses of the flights at Fort Myer were the head of the British Army's Balloon Section, Colonel J. L. B. Templer, and his American counterpart, Major George Squier. Both spoke highly of the aircraft, Templer saying: 'Mr Wright could fly to New York, a distance of 250 miles, now, if he wanted to. It is the most wonderful flying-machine in the world. Success was assured from the start. I have always believed in the Wrights and in what they would do.' According to Squier, the US War Department's doubts were clearly gone, for: 'It is the best sport I know of. It is a magnificent sensation flying without a gas bag. I will have a regular aeronautical station at Fort Myer from now on.' The British were moving on from balloons by this time, although experiments were in hand with ground-to-air wireless transmission from balloons. The first British Army airship, the Nulli Secundus, arrived in 1907, but this was wrecked in a gale, being subsequently rebuilt as the Nulli Secundus II, using the same engine, which was also borrowed for the British Army Aeroplane No. 1, built at Farnborough by Cody with assistance from Capper. The French