he frontier with Czechoslovakia and, in February 1945, not far from the advancing Soviet armies. The fear of the Russians had packed the city with refugees, not least because it was a focal point for road, rail and river communications through which essential war supplies and refugees alike had to pass. While propaganda about the Russians was issued to stiffen German resistance during the closing months of the war, it often had to be softened rather than exaggerated, such were the atrocities visited upon Germans, civilians and uniformed alike by the avenging Soviets. The RAF mounted a major raid against Dresden on the night of 13-14 February, attacking in two waves, the first of 244 Lancasters and the second of 530 heavy bombers, mainly Lancasters and Halifaxes, but with some Liberators, dropping a total of 2,500 tons of high explosives and tens of thousands of small but lethal incendiaries. The second wave caught many who had survived the first raid and believed that bombing was over for the night, in the open, while the incendiaries created a fearful firestorm. 14th February saw the 15th USAAF mount a heavy follow-up raid, with a further raid the following day. Estimates over the true casualty figures vary enormously, ranging as high as 135,000 people killed; although the Chief of Police has since been recorded as giving a figure of 25,000 killed and 35,000 missing, presumed dead, no reliable estimates can be given due to the number of displaced persons in the area. The lower estimate certainly matches that of Ham- burg on 27-28 July 1943, but the Baltic city was unlikely to have had its population swollen by refugees. The argument over the bombing of Dresden is unlikely ever to be settled ever. Was it unnecessary, an attempt to show the Soviets just what the RAF could achieve, or an essential attempt to finally cripple the German war effort and bring the fighting to an earlier end? Even those involved at the time cannot agree. After February 1945 the bomber offen