erational. There have been some indications that Chinese-built Shenyang F-6, or MiG-19, fighter-bombers have been obtained by Iran, possibly from Pakistan, but it is not clear whether these aircraft have been used. Certainly they would appear to be vulnerable to what would then definitely be superior Iraqi air power.  10 A TOMORROW? A Tomorrow? Looking ahead in most areas of aerospace can be difficult. The long production and service life of aircraft in recent years can force forecasts to look twenty or more years ahead, if any real change is to be seen. In many areas of activity, ten years is a long time. No one could have foretold during the early 1940s that more than forty years later Boeing B-29 Superfortresses would still be in service as Tupolev Tu-4 'Bulls' in the People's Republic of China. This is exceptional and in many ways an exaggeration. As far as the bomber is concerned, there is no equivalent of the Douglas DC-3 or C-47, for which the lifespan in production and service is still more impressive, while the numbers of aircraft and of operators are even more so. Combat aircraft types age more quickly and are retired sooner than their commercial counterparts but can still enjoy a long service life, especially the most numerous and successful types, such as the Douglas A-1 Skyraider and the Hawker Hunter. The future for the bomber is distinctly limited. Missiles not only offer a better chance of hitting the target; they are also far superior in terms of use of manpower. For almost twenty years, the British independent nuclear deterrent has been carried by just four submarines, although there should originally have been five; each submarine has two crews, a port and a starboard, to increase their availability on station. This is a far lower manpower requirement than that needed by 180 'V' bombers when the Royal Air Force had responsibility for the nuclear deterrent The smaller crew of the bomber is not the whole picture, since it took almost one hundred men