ell as five air-transport groups with just 150 aircraft, and a number of liaison and long-range reconnais- sance operations. Another 700 aircraft were manned by the Luftwaffe but under Army control, mainly on reconnaissance and liaison duties. This deployment meant that the 3rd Air Fleet in the West was left with just 660 aircraft, of which twelve were bomber groups, with another five bomber and three dive-bomber groups in the Mediterranean with the X Air Corps in Sicily and the Air Commander, Africa, and just two bomber groups with the 5th Air Fleet in Norway. Perhaps the most significant indication of the extent of this stretching of Luftwaffe strength lay in the allocation of 190 aircraft, in six fighter groups, for the defence of Ger- many, with three-quarters of these being twin-engined fighters. The Luftwaffe had, before 'Barbarossa', concentrated on short cam- paigns which enabled the logistics and training weaknesses to be ig- nored, and even in the Battle of Britain and the Blitz of British cities the duration had been short enough, and the number of occasions on which a maximum effort was required sufficiently few, for the service to hold its own. Most important, the Luftwaffe had been accustomed to easy success and was ill prepared for a long struggle, having never been put completely on the defensive. 'Operation Barbarossa' commenced early on 22 June 1941, with high  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 110 111 BLITZKRIEG hopes. The campaign started well. By 30 June the Luftwaffe had been completely successful against the Red Air Force, with the Russians losing almost 5,000 aircraft, the crippling of Soviet air power leaving Russian cities almost defenceless because of poor anti-aircraft forces, both in quality and in quantity, which ensured that the early Luftwaffe raids were highly successful. Yet, as more than one commentator has pointed out in the past, for the most part the Luftwaffe fought Russian aircraft, not the Russian aircraft industry. Time and again the Luf