pposite numbers at the British Admiralty. Attitudes did differ, and that they did so should not be surprising. The French. with fighting taking place on their soil, took a harder line towards bombing the Germans than did the British, in spite of their experience of air raids. Some Frenchmen did take a softer line, for fear that a war of attrition bombing could rebound upon France, but it was the French who were most anxious to see German industry crippled by aerial bombardment, with priority given to the chemical industry on which munitions output was so heavily dependent. It was to take a year of planning and preparation before the 3rd Wing of the RNAS and the French Army's 4th Groupe de Bombardement were able to mount a bombing campaign, using a new base at Luxeuil, within reach of the Saar industrial zone in Germany. Perhaps it was also necessary for the British to suffer further German bombing before the idea was acceptable. The British were to use Sopwith 11/2-Strutters and Breguets, the French also Breguets and Capronis, the latter built under licence from the Italian manufacturer by one of the great pioneers of French aviation, Robert Esnault-Peltérie. The first raid by the combined force came on 12 October 1916, when twenty RNAS aircraft and thirty- four from the French Aviation Militaire attacked the Mauser gun factory at Oberndorf in broad daylight, operating over a round distance of almost 250 miles and at a cost of nine aircraft. Eight days later it was the turn of the Thyssen steelworks at Hagendingen. While the raids continued to the end of the year, it soon became apparent that the cost of mounting such operations would be heavy losses and the need for a strong fighter escort. After a break for the worst of the winter weather, No. 3 Wing was 39 re-equipped in March 1917, with the first British heavy bombers, the Handley Page 0/100, a biplane with twin Rolls-Royce Eagle engines of 250 hp each, capable of carrying up to sixteen 112-1b bombs. This was us