, and at 16.00 the centre of Rotterdam was bombed so heavily and completely that it was gutted (20,000 build- ings destroyed) and almost a thousand of its citizens lost their lives. The Germans initially blamed the RAF for the raid but later claimed that it had been an accident. At 17.00 General Winkelman surrendered the Dutch Army, although Dutch troops continued to fight alongside the French in Zeeland until French surrender. The Germans did not have the victory in the Low Countries and in France without heavy cost. The RAF Hawker Hurricane fighters of the Advanced Air Striking Force which did become airborne gave a good account of themselves, making as many as six sorties daily and operating without the help of radar or an effective fighter control system. The ten squadrons of Fairey Battles and Bristol Blenheims of the AASF, which left Bomber Command in the UK with just sixteen squadrons, mainly of Wellingtons, Whitleys and Hampdens, were also hard at work, attacking Luftwaffe supply lines and on aerial reconnaissance. There was conflict between British and French tactics, the RAF favouring a strategic bomb- ing campaign to cripple German heavy industry, some sixty per cent of which was located in the Ruhr, while the French felt that this would take too long and instead pressed for tactical operations in support of the increasingly hard-pressed ground forces. When the RAF's AASF did deploy its Battles against German forces advancing through Luxem- bourg, attacking from 250 feet during the second morning of Fall Gelbe, three out of the eight aircraft deployed were lost to anti-aircraft fire and Luftwaffe fighters. The benefit of this raid, against a target chosen by the French, was of no significance to the outcome. The loss of three obsolete Fairey  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 92 93 BLITZKRIEG Battles in themselves mattered little; the cost to the relatives of the air- crew and the loss of experienced men to the RAF was certainly not worth it. That afternoon thirty-two