rth of the country. Another squadron operated Bristol Fighters, 'Brisfits', at Kirkuk on the border with Kurdistan. There were other units in India, but the internal security problem was at its most acute in Iraq, one of the countries which the League of Nations had mandated to Britain on the collapse of the Ottoman Empire before the victorious Allies during the war. Other territories under British control at this time for the same reason included Palestine and Transjordan. The concept of the 'bomber transport' owed much in its interpretation to the commanding officer of No. 45 squadron, Squadron Leader A. T. Harris, who would later, as 'Bomber' Harris, be Air Officer Commanding Bomber Command during World War II. The name was well deserved long before war broke out, for Harris adapted his Vernons with a hole in the floor for bomb-dropping and another in the nose for the bomb-aimer; acting as his own bomb-aimer, he could drop a bomb ten yards from its target from 5,000 feet. The bomber-transports operated as transport aircraft in most instances but were called upon to help quell rebellions on several occasions. Rebellions were seldom well organized and were usually mounted not so much by genuine revolutionaries as by bandits or would-be local warlords. Using bombs against tribesmen was not as one-sided as it might seem, since bombs were relatively inefficient when used against 'soft' targets, such as rebels on either foot or horseback, able to scatter quickly, since the technology of the day did not extend to specialized anti-personnel bombs. On the other hand, the bombers themselves were slow, usually built of wood and canvas, and their aircrew were easy prey for a highly skilled and determined sniper. While the Royal Air Force and the Aviation Militaire were thus able to gain some practical experience in the exercise of air power, if only in a limited way, the Germans were not going to allow the terms of the Treaty of Versailles to interfere with their longer-term