16 November and, although successful, this was the last raid before the ECM started to operate successfully. Many have since believed that Coventry could have been completely destroyed had the Luftwaffe kept up its attacks for four consecutive nights. As it was, it took four days for the citizens to bring the battered city back to life. Before the end of the month, the Luftwaffe had also blitzed Southampton, Liverpool, Bristol and Plymouth, with Manchester and Sheffield following in December. The raids on London were kept up during this period, and on 29 December a firestorm was created in London by the incendiaries dropped by the pathfinders of KG.100, a unit formed in recognition that the complex X-Gerat equipment could be operated successfully only by a select handful of aircrew, while no doubt the provision of equipment for all Luftwaffe aircraft would have imposed a burden on German industrial capacity. The Blitz on English towns and cities continued for most of the first half of 1941, with the Luftwaffe paying particular attention to the ports, to London and to the industrial heartland of the Midlands. Fortunately for those on the receiving end of this unwelcome attention, the winter weather lessened the intensity of the raids while, better still, the RAF was improving its night fighter operations, with aircrew no longer dependent on visual sightings but able to use early 1.5-metre airborne interception (AI) radar. Jamming of the X-Gerat beams continued, while masking beacons (meacons) distorted the high-frequency navigation aids used by the Germans and made navigation difficult. No opportunity to minimize the effects of the German attack was overlooked, and bombers struggling to find their way to their target would come across carefully prepared 'starfish' sites, with incendiary fires burning in open fields misleading the bomb-aimers into believing that they had arrived over the target. The morale of the Luftwaffe bomber crews started to suffer. Perhaps one o