eavy bomber being built at London Transport's major bus overhaul works at Aldenham. Antonov's assistant, Petlyakov, designed the Pe-2 medium bomber, and a formation of these is seen on a raid against the German forces surrounding Leningrad in 1943. The Russian TB-7 heavy bomber was also known as the Petlyakov Pe-8. This example brought Russian dignitaries to Dundee for a wartime conference. The "flying frying pan' was the nickname given by the RAF to its Handley Page Hampden medium bombers, in service at the outset of World War II. The RAF's heaviest bomber on the outbreak of war was the Vickers Wellington, on most versions of which the geodetic fuselage structure could be seen through the fuselage window. AA K  READY FOR BATTLE 65 PM- FOD bomber and the transport as for the faster fighter and fighter-bomber aircraft. The effect on aircraft speeds was sufficiently unsettling for some air forces, including the Royal Air Force and the Luftwaffe, to believe that bombers could be built which no fighter could hope to catch, for- getting that fighter speeds would advance as well and that, unencum- bered by the weight of bombs and the fuselage girth which made a substantial bombload possible, fighters would still remain faster than bombers. The 1930s were also notable for what was not achieved, perhaps even more than for their successes. Many air forces had to have progress forced upon them, and especially the RAF, which was kept chronically short of finance until the last few years before war broke out. The RAF would have ignored the Bristol Blenheim had it not been for the unorthodox promotion of this medium bomber. Even more serious was the way in which the work on the jet engine of Frank Whittle was ignored until after the outbreak of World War II. The Luftwaffe ignored the work of von Ohain in Germany on the jet engine at the same time. To some extent, the unadventurous approach could be excused. It was not until 1937 that the British Government placed a high priority