aided Tokyo, with a firestorm rapidly starting and being whipped by a gale along the wooden buildings of the residential and commercial areas. destroying forty per cent of the city and killing some 80,000 people while another 100,000 were injured. About fifteen square miles were devastated. Before this, in January and February, Nagoya and Kobe had also been attacked. Not all the B-29 raids were against cities, and naturally enough many of the early raids had been against the kamikaze base on the island of Kyushu. Other raids, against fuel supplies, already severely curtailed after Japan had been cut off from fuel supplies in the Dutch East Indies. so affected the JNAF and JAAF ability to mount adequate fighter defences that many B-29s were stripped of their defensive guns to enable still heavier warloads to be lifted. The raid on Tokyo was followed by a similar raid on Nagoya the following night, and the night after that, 13-14 March, Osaka burned, then Kobe and Nagoya again, before the USAAF ran out of incendiaries! In all, sixty major raids between June and August 1945 destroyed sixty square miles of Japanese cities, with raids concentrating on the sixty-five towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants. In total, the USAAF dropped 154,000 tons of bombs on Japanese towns and cities. The heavy rate of bombing Japanese cities, and the serious reverses as first one island or group of islands fell, appeared to have little impact on the military leadership which effectively controlled the government. Japan was in many ways a weaker target than Germany. Japanese expansion and the bombing of Pearl Harbor had been a make-or-break effort to secure supplies of raw materials and, most important of all, oil, especially that to be found in the Dutch East Indies at Palembang. An island nation, Japan had been vulnerable to the Americans' increasingly effective use of the submarine and had failed to utilize this weapon efficiently in return. Japanese industrial might had nev