A square mile of the city had been razed to the ground, with the police reporting that 18,432 buildings had been destroyed, 328 of these being industrial premises, and another 39,000 damaged. Civilian casualties were surprisingly light, with 500 killed and 5,000 injured, while 60,000 were rendered homeless. No fewer than 12,000 fires were started, many of them burning for several days. Mains  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 132 THE BOMBER OFFENSIVE services were rendered useless, and it took ten days for thousands of soldiers, prisoners of war and conscript labour to clear the streets of rubble. The Luftwaffe, which had boasted that it could prevent bombs from falling on German soil, was eventually to run soup kitchens for the victims of the bombing, while other improvisations included mobile post offices, at which thankful survivors would queue to write letters or cards to friends and relatives. Two nights later, on 1-2 June, 956 bombers, including 347 from OTUs, took off to raid Essen. Unfortunately, low cloud obscured this more difficult target, and the drop was widely scattered, much of it falling on the nearby towns of Oberhausen and Mulheim, but Essen and, more important, the city's Krupp factories, escaped. On this occasion, thirty- one aircraft failed to return, but a loss rate of 3.2 per cent was acceptable over the most heavily defended zone of Germany. The raids, which had a profound effect in boosting British morale and the opposite effect on the Germans, soon led to disappointment as the British public quickly assumed that they should be repeated nightly! Apart from the overall loss rate, which could have wiped out Bomber Command and its training units within a month, long before then the raids would have dropped below the level at which defences were overwhelmed. Nor could the disruption to the training programme, a case of consuming tomorrow's seed, be long endured. Already, the RAF had reduced bomber aircrew by having just one pilot for each bomber, although na