ngines for a maximum speed of 220 mph with a 1,750-lb bombload, which it could carry for 990 miles. Altogether the most elegant of this trio of German medium bombers, the Heinkel He.111 was designed to meet a specification for a ten-seat transport for DLH and for a bomber for the RLM. The prototype was rolled out in February 1935, surprising those who saw it for the first time by the smoothness of its design. The early civil versions used twin 600-hp BMW engines, although the first bombers used Daimler Benz engines of 1,000 hp in the He.111B-2, giving 217 mph with a 1,650-lb bombload over 1,000 miles. A 3,000-lb bombload could be carried for just 360 miles - acceptable for tactical bombing in support of ground forces but insufficient for the strategic role. The passenger transport origins of the aircraft meant that the fuselage comprised two main compartments, a forward compartment for four passengers and an after compartment for six, which was the location of the bomb bay in the military aircraft. This difficult configuration meant that, unusually, this aircraft carried its bombload vertically rather than horizontally. Early versions showed their airliner profile more clearly than did later aircraft, in which the crew sat in the overall glazed nose. Almost as soon as the Spanish Civil War ended, the Soviet Union invaded Finland, laying claim to Finnish territory. The tension in Europe during the late 1930s had not gone unnoticed by the Finnish Govern- ment, which had embarked on a programme to strengthen the Finnish Air Force and to establish a national aircraft industry to keep the air force supplied with new aircraft and spares. The chosen course was to order foreign types for construction under licence, with the bomber require-  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 82 ment being filled by the Bristol Blenheim, while thirty-four Fokker CXs were also ordered for the reconnaissance and dive-bombing roles. Although production of these and other types, including fighters, had starte