e and bombloads essential to suc- cess. In many ways, it was fortunate that the severe winter of 1939-40 and perhaps the lack of urgency of the phoney war, meant that there were far fewer bombing raids than there might otherwise have been. The German Freya radar was capable of detecting the RAF's bombers. although the information available to the German fighters was less precise than that which the Chain Home radars would make available to Fighter Command the following summer while the Germans lacked the RAF's efficient and well co-ordinated fighter control. In spite of efforts by both sides, it is clear that the main centre of attraction at this early stage lay in the east, with the Germans consolidat- ing their hold on Poland before undertaking major moves elsewhere. The winter was not the time to be moving men and equipment around northern Europe, let alone launching an offensive. The phoney war was in effect a holding operation by both sides, each wary of what the other might do and preferring to leave the first move to their oppo- nent. For the British and French, there was no question that what strength they had could be sufficient only for defence, and even that was doubtful, but a full-scale attack against Germany was plainly out of the question. Appreciating that an attack on France was likely, sooner or later, the British despatched the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) to France on the outbreak of war. Accompanying the BEF was the Advanced Air Striking Force (AASF), with fighters and ten squadrons of Fairey Battle light bombers and Bristol Blenheims, the latter intended ed primarily for reconnaissance while the Battles were to provide close support for the ground forces. This small force was all that could be spared from strategic bombing. Given the pace of the eventual German advance through France, it is perhaps fortunate that the RAF did not send more squadrons, 89 which would most likely have suffered severe losses. Yet the British were also capable o