he production of U-boats, it was decided to raid the MAN engine works at Augsburg, in southern Germany, well beyond the range of Gee. The need for accuracy entailed a daylight operation, using twelve Lancasters with specially picked crews from Nos. 44 and 97 squadrons. The plan called for a diversionary route, flying well into France before turning east for Munich, and then flying to Augsburg, with most of the flight at 500 feet or below, to avoid radar detection. No sooner had the bombers crossed the French coast than they were jumped by thirty German fighters, with relays of fighters forcing them to rooftop height for a running battle which lasted some sixty minutes and cost four Lancasters. The survivors approached the target zone so low that flak was hitting the roofs of houses, but all these eight aircraft dropped their bombs, seventeen hitting the target and three missing. Only five of the aircraft survived the raid. The leader, Squadron Leader J. P. Nettleton, a South African, was among the survivors and was awarded the Victoria Cross, while almost all the other crews also received medals. But the high precision of the raid was insufficient to compensate for the lack of numbers, and the factory was soon back in production. To Harris, the raid was another example of the failure of daylight bombing. The pressing need to concentrate destruction through placing as great a weight as possible on bombs on a given target, and to overwhelm the defence by doing it as quickly as possible, led inevitably to the 'thousand-bomber-raids'. To make such an effort possible, in spite of the rapid growth in Bomber Command's operational strength, required the more advanced aircrew and many instructors from the operational training units, as well as returning to service many aircraft types which had been retired from bombing duties. The use of aircrew from the OCUs was a weakness, since at this relatively advanced stage of the war it was already recognized that the more experience