on being followed by the S.Mk.2, first flown in May 1963. Powered by twin Rolls-Royce Spey turbojets of 11,255-lb thrust, the S.Mk.2 was trans-sonic in flight, and the twin-seat aircraft could carry a variety of bombs, rockets or missiles, including the Bullpup air-to-surface missile. Originally intended as a carrier-borne aircraft, Buccaneers joined both the South African Air Force and, in the case of the Mk.2 version, the Royal Air Force, replacing the latter's Canberra jet bombers. The unusual feature of the Buccaneer lay in its ability to fly exceptionally fast and low, under the enemy's defending radar 'net'. Speed remained a major requirement for the bomber, and one of the most spectacular jet bombers of its day was the General Dynamics B-58 Hustler. Originating as a Convair (the successor to Consolidated. manufacturers of the Liberator) design in 1952, the B-58 Hustler was the world's first strategic supersonic bomber, with a first flight in late 1958. Four reheated 15,600-lb-thrust General Electric J79-GE-5B turbojets gave the aircraft a maximum speed of Mach 2.1, or 1,385 mph, with a range of 2,000 miles and capacity for nuclear weapons, including stand-off bombs or missiles. An early distinction was the setting of a New York- Paris speed record. The Soviet Union first produced a jet bomber, of sorts, in 1946, converting a Tupolev Tu-2 to jet propulsion with the designation Tu-12. The first production jet bomber was the Ilyushin Il-28 'Beagle', the name being the NATO terminology for identifying Soviet aircraft, so that new types can be reported before their official designation is known, with 'B' meaning bomber, 'F' fighter, 'C' transport and 'H' helicopter, and successive types and sub-types being given names beginning with these letters. First appearing in 1950, the II-28 used twin 5,950-lb-thrust Klimov VK-1 turbojets developed from Rolls-Royce Nene turbojets sold to the USSR during the late 1940s. The aircraft lacked the performance of the best Western