ger and 'softer' targets, the suburbs and industrial housing areas. Even so, there were raids during this period on the ballbearing works at Schweinfurt and on centres of submarine construction, and in December 1941 daylight raids on the German fleet at Brest in northern France. The main directive which decided the nature of the bomber campaign in 1942 was that of 14 February, which clearly restated the intention of breaking the morale of the civilian population, while admitting the need to divert aircraft to attacks to those industries directly supporting the war effort. The start of the bomber offensive was delayed by exceptionally bad weather during the first couple of months, and it was not until the night of 3-4 March that a major raid could be mounted. This also marked a change in strategy. For fear of killing French civilians, the War Cabinet had refused permission for raids on French industry, even though there was no doubt that it had been subjugated into the German war effort. The poor accuracy of bomb delivery was another factor in this decision. However, improving standards of navigation and bomb-aiming, and the proximity of the target to the River Seine, finally persuaded the Government to authorize a raid on the Renault factory, just outside Paris. The Seine was, as one description put it, 'a clear and unjammable beam', so there was no need to use Gee. The pattern of bombing was that which would be followed in many later raids, with waves of bombers assigned different tasks, with aircraft in close formation and with the  128 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON waves following closely on one another, making an effective response by the enemy difficult. This was the most effective raid of the war at the time, with 223 out of the 235 aircraft assigned to the raid reaching the target and dropping 461 tons of high explosives, as well as many more incendiaries. The bombers operated in three waves. The first consisted of Stirlings and Halifaxes, dropping a mixed load of hig