field at Espiritu Sanctu, enabled USAAF, USN, USMC and Royal New Zealand Air Force aircraft to range over the islands, com- plementing the combined USN and Royal Navy forces at sea. After the invasion of the Solomons, a newly completed Japanese airfield became available to the Allies. While the United States enjoyed many successes in the Pacific, the Japanese also had some original ideas of their own. On 4 March 1943 a small force of Kawanishi H8K2 Type 2 'Emily' flying-boats refuelled from a submarine at French Frigate Shoals before flying on to raid Hawaii. The most famous of the Japanese innovations of World War II, however. and the most sinister, was the use of the suicide bomber - 'kamikaze' meaning 'divine wind'. The original kamikaze had been a pre-war record-breaking aircraft, but in October 1944 the name was applied to the suicide aircraft, reflecting the Shinto philosophy's tenet that death in combat was a sure way to heaven. The initial kamikaze aircraft were Mitsubishi Zero fighters loaded with explosives, but later glider-bombs were designed, notably the Yokosuka M4Y8 Ohka 'Baka', which could be carried to the target by a Mitsubishi G4M3 bomber before being released. These were much cheaper than conventional aircraft, and as the pressure on Japanese forces built up and trained aircrew became scarce, the kamikaze pilots were given just enough training to make their one mission. The first kamikaze attack came on 21 October 1944, when kamikaze Zeros sank the uss St Lo and damaged five other warships. Before the 151 end of the month, another three American aircraft-carriers had been damaged, and the new tactic was in full use for the Battle of Leyte Gulf on 24 October, the last major battle fought by the Japanese Navy. While the tide was now flowing strongly against the Japanese, the new kamikaze weapon was not to be treated lightly, with attacks reaching a peak in November 1944, with direct hits on the uss Intrepid, Franklin, Lexington, Essex, Hancock, Cab