ordered by the Imperial German Navy, and from abroad. A portent of another, more serious aspect to military aerostation was already being experienced by the French, with public opinion alarmed at the number of German balloons and dirigibles which strayed over, and often force-landed on, the French side of the frontier between the two nations. Even at this time, some six years before the outbreak of World War I, espionage was suspected, and the Germans were con- sidered to be studying French defences. The following year, 1909, saw the Imperial German Army's Zeppelin No. 1 make a flight on 19 March carrying seven Army officers, three NCOs and fifteen soldiers in addition to the crew, remaining airborne for four hours and covering 150 miles at altitudes of up to 650 feet, heightening French fears and even in Britain causing speculation over what might happen if such an airship were to hover above the vaults of the Bank of England with a bomb! Such concern reached panic proportions when, in October 1912, the airship L-1, under the command of Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin himself, made a record 1,000-mile flight. It left the base at Friedrichshafen at 08.35 on Sunday 13 October and arrived at Johannisthal, near Berlin, at 15.43 on Monday 14 October. The near round-trip raised a considerable outcry in Britain as the result of a claim that the L-1 had been heard over Sheerness during the night of its epic voyage. In fact, nobody had actually seen the L-1, they only thought they had heard it, but that did not stop questions being asked in Parliament which could not be answered adequately by His Majesty's Ministers. Fears were not dispelled by von Zeppelin's announcement that at no time during the voyage had he approached the shores of Britain. Despite the set-backs of the Mayfly, the interest being shown by the major armies in aviation was being matched by many navies, and especially by the Royal Navy and the United States Navy. The distinction of making the first flight fro