apanese allocated their remaining fuel, equipment and manpower reserves for a final kamikaze onslaught of 5,000 aircraft, many of them unsuitable second- line training or communications types, which were to be flown by pilots with the bare minimum of training necessary for their one solo flight. Against this desperate situation, something devastating and final was needed, and it existed, in the form of the atomic bomb. This had been developed during the war years under the name of 'the Manhattan Project'; tests had shown it to be of tremendous power, so much so that some at least of the scientists working on the project feared to use it. The new American President, Truman, was briefed about the bomb and accepted the advice of his military advisers that it should be used. When the Japanese rejected the demand for unconditional surrender from the United States and the United Kingdom at the Potsdam Conference, Truman and the American Secretary for War, Stimson, decided to use the atomic bomb. The point of controversy at this stage lay in the extent to which the Soviet dictator, Joseph Stalin, was involved. The Soviet Union had signed a treaty of neutrality with Japan but was demanding a right in the post-war occupation of that country and territorial concessions and was preparing to declare war on Japan. Stalin was involved with elements of the Japanese leadership which had put out unofficial peace-feelers, hoping that the USSR would act as a mediator. The Japanese government  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 154 8 included war and anti-war factions at that time, and it is open to question whether the latter would have prevailed even if Stalin had acted honourably. A special unit had been formed specifically to handle nuclear weapons, in the form of the 509th Composite Group, USAAF, in September 1944, at a time when it was just possible that nuclear weapons might be used against Germany. As German defeat became inevitable and Japanese resistance continued, the 509th was moved to T