ute and Langley. In January 1905 he was sufficiently impressed to be able to write to the War Office in London: 'I wish to invite very special attention to the wonderful advance made in aviation by the brothers Wright. I have every confidence in their uprightness, and in the correctness of their statements. It is a fact that they have flown and operated personally a flying machine for a distance of over three miles, at a speed of 35 mph." Unfortunately, negotiations between the Wrights and the British War Office were also unsuccessful. The War Office, wisely, would not buy without first seeing a demonstration, but the Wrights, at this time still anxious for their patents, would not show their aircraft to other experts without first receiving an order. In fact, they did not receive patents until 1906, by which time they had tired of trying to attract attention. They did not resume flying until 1908, following pressure behind the scenes and published accounts of their work which had created a more receptive climate. The Wrights conducted demonstrations in the United States and in Europe during 1908. A number of demonstration flights early in the year in the United States by both brothers were followed by a successful visit to Europe by Wilbur, who started flying at Hunaudières, near Le Mans, before moving on to the military training ground at Camp d'Auvours, where about a hundred flights were completed. Meanwhile Orville, in the United States, demonstrated the aeroplane to the military, with a Wright A biplane being delivered to the Aeronautical Division of the United States Army's Signal Corps during the year. It was with the Wright A that Orville made the first of a series of ten flights at Fort Myer starting on 3 September, with no fewer than four of these flights being  24 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 25 PROPHECY OF DESTRUCTION for more than an hour's duration. Unfortunately, disaster was not far away: on 17 September Orville was flying with a young US Army signals office