which is carried externally and which is in excess of the normal load of a World War II heavy bomber. It is unlikely that the Italian or German aircraft would carry nuclear weapons, but the continued controversy over the high cost of the Trident nuclear missile programme, which is due to replace the Polaris in Royal Navy service during the 1990s, may well mean an enhanced role for the RAF aircraft in the future. Certainly the Tornado aircraft for Saudi Arabia would be limited to conventional weapons, although these would be of the latest kind. Other operators of bomber aircraft in the truest, traditional sense, are few and far between. The Royal Australian Air Force maintains a single squadron with twenty-four General Dynamics F-111s in the strike role, providing a longer-range punch than the McDonnell Douglas F-18 Hor- net fighter-bombers which have replaced Dassault Mirage IIIs as the mainstay of the RAAF. The F-111s are classified as strike aircraft but replaced English Electric Canberra jet bombers. About a third of the F-111 force is devoted to reconnaissance and electronic counter-measures duties. Venezuela, Argentina and Peru all operate small numbers of English Electric Canberras, and there are a few of these aircraft with the Pakistan Air Force as well, while the Eastern Bloc counterpart of the Canberra, the Ilyushin I1-28 'Beagle' is in service with many Soviet client states, often as a second-line aircraft. The one major air force which still depends heavily on the 11-28 is the Air Force of the People's Liberation Army, the air force of the People's Republic of China. The AFPLA operates more than 600 11-28s, which were built under licence in China as the Harbin B-5, while there are also more than a hundred Harbin B-6s, or licence-built Tupolev Tu-16s, and about eighty Tupolev Tu-4 'Bulls', based on the Boeing B-29 Superfortress. The rift in relations between the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China during the 1960s effectively froze Chinese aer