le another seven failed to make their way back to base. The single bomb which hit the target failed to explode. The start of the Luftwaffe campaign in the west found the French Armée de l'Air singularly ill prepared. The output of the French aircraft industry had been seriously affected by confusion which had followed nationalization, and economies during the 1930s had seen the service fall from its peak strength during the 1920s, when it had been the world's largest and most powerful air arm. Elderly Potez 54 bombers were being replaced by Potez 693s, while other new aircraft were also being introduced, including the LeO 451 and Amiot 352, and the American Martin 167 and Douglas DB-7, but the whole process was far too slow to offer any real hope of being able to match up to the Luftwaffe. By contrast, the Luftwaffe had some 3,000 combat aircraft ready for the invasion of France, Fall Gelbe (Case Yellow), including 1,300 medium bombers and 400 dive-bombers. The drive west marked a combination of Douhet's and Liddell Hart's theories. The initial strike was intended to wipe out French and British airpower, while Stuka dive-bombers provided support for the rapidly advancing ground forces, coming close behind the armoured spearhead of the Panzer divisions. The invasion of France and the Low Countries started with a dawn attack on 10 May 1940, and within three days the German armies had crossed the River Meuse, rolling back the Allied forces and denying them any real opportunity of building a defensive position. German glider-landed troops took the Belgian fort of Eben Emael, while para- troops, backed by air-landed troops, seized vital objectives in the Netherlands. Instead of attacking across the French Maginot line, the Germans simply raced round it through Belgium. As on the ground, so it was in the air. The initial attack saw seventy British and French airfields in France bombed, although the RAF fared better in this attack than did the Armée de l'Air, simply becaus