ame into being on 2 July 1926. To what extent Mitchell helped towards the enhancement of military aviation's standing in the US Army, and to what extent his actions had the opposite effect by forcing politicians into a situation in which they could not admit that he was right, and implement the Lampert Committee's recommen- dations, is something which cannot be fairly assessed. Mitchell had like-minded contemporaries outside the United States apart from Trenchard in the United Kingdom, who as 'the father of the Royal Air Force', obviously believed in the concept of strategic air power within an autonomous air arm. The Italian General Giulio Douhet was also court-martialled for his criticism of Italian Government policy on military aviation. His book Command of the Air insisted that bomb- ing alone could win a future war. Douhet's ideas were not without an audience, impressing the future German Luftwaffe High Com- mand, just as the leaders of the future Germany Army also absorbed the writings of the Frenchman Charles de Gaulle. Douhet was more fortunate than Mitchell: after Mussolini came to power in 1923, he was recalled to head the new, autonomous Italian Air Force, the Regia Aero- nautica. While the Americans and their former allies still retained their air arms after the end of World War I, the Treaty of Versailles, which took effect on 10 January 1920, disbanded the German Military Air Service and the German Naval Air Service. Both the Germany Army and Navy were much reduced in size, but these services did, nevertheless, survive, subjected to certain restrictions and inspection by the Allied Control Commission. The Chief of the German Army Staff, General von Seeckt, was defiant, with his order disbanding the Military Air Service actually 51 declaring the hope of eventually seeing the flying corps come back to life again at a future date. Within the Defence Ministry, the Reichswehr Ministerium, several officers were allocated tasks which enabled them to keep in t