idea, which it was thought could warn the enemy of an impending raid and jeopardize the safety of the hundreds of bombers which would follow the Pathfinders. However, such massive raids did alert the enemy anyway, with scant surprise being left thanks to radar, and because of the sheer numbers of aircraft involved, which meant that at best only the first few aircraft enjoyed any element of surprise at all. Eventually four Pathfinder units were created out of Bomber Command, with others following later, while the first were Nos. 7, 35, 83 and 156 squadrons, with Stirlings, Halifaxes, Lancasters and Wellingtons respectively. Later the Lancaster and the Mosquito were to be the favoured aircraft types. These squadrons were selected originally because of their better-than-average navigational and bomb-aiming per- formance, while later the Pathfinders enabled specialized units to operate with the best crews, combining old techniques with new and helping to compensate for some of the jamming of Gee, and the margin for error still remaining even with such aids. As Pathfinding techniques evolved, a three-stage process was de- veloped. First, two 'finder' aircraft, aided by Gee if jamming was not too effective, would fly in parallel two miles apart, laying long lines of flares with the target in the centre. Second, 'illuminator' aircraft, guided by the flares of the first aircraft, would lay groups of red flares ringing the target zone. Finally, 'marker' aircraft would start fires with incendiaries to pinpoint the target onto which the main force would follow with its high-explosive bombs and, if necessary, incendiaries; often both types of munitions were dropped. Just as the British had, during the 'Blitz', 125 produced starfish fires to divert the attention of German bombers away from the true target zone, so the Germans also attempted to lay false flares. But they had considerable difficulty in matching the colours of the RAF's flares and were especially poor in getting th