of the German armed forces on the Western Front, and the growing inability of German industry to provide the support necessary for the war effort, could not be resolved by the use of any wonder weapon alone. Yet another difference between World War I and World War II was the readier acceptance of defeat by the Germans: the concept of the 'revenge weapon' was also unknown. On the other hand, and as ample evidence of the contradictions of war, both sides mounted deliberate 'tit-for-tat' opera- tions. On 18 December 1917 Gotha bombers raided London, again causing many civilian casualties, so on 24 December aircraft of the RFC raided Mannheim in daylight as a reprisal. Both sides were heavily engaged in a campaign to divert as much of their opponent's resources as possible from any one front. Attacks on the United Kingdom forced scarce aircraft and troops to be brought home from the Western Front, where a major push, or intense aerial attack, could force the reverse movement. The Allies played the same game. It was not clear whether it was better to attack the enemy's airfields for a possibly short-lived aerial supremacy over the battlefield or to take a longer view, attacking his aircraft factories or the chemical factories and munitions works. While this debate was going on, there remained the rival attraction of raids against lines of communication, and attacks on tactically dangerous congregations of troops and artillery. Life was simpler for naval commanders, on the Allied side enforcing a blockade of German ports and escorting convoys against submarines and surface raiders in the absence of further major fleet actions. Simpler too for the military commander, if far less comfortable, engaged in a direct confrontation with the enemy. In just twelve or thirteen years, less if one considers that the first official demonstrations to the military did not take place until 1908, the aeroplane had come to be viewed as important by almost all surface commanders; the questio