tant communications targets such as the Remagen Bridge over the Rhine in March 1945. Shortages were such by the end of the war that just over 200 of these aircraft were completed. By the closing stages of the war, desperation marked frantic attempts by the Germans to stop the Allied advance. Hitler's solution to the problem lay in the so-called revenge weapons (Vergeltungswaffen) of which the two most worthy of mention were the V-1 and V-2 rockets. The V-1, or FZG-76 as it was originally known, was effectively an unmanned aeroplane powered by a pulsating flow-duct motor and carrying a 1,870-lb high-explosive warhead. The simplicity of the V-1 extended to the use of mild steel and wood in its construction; and with a pre-set course, there was no guidance mechanism to be jammed. Accuracy was sufficient for the missile to land within eight miles of its target at the maximum range of 130 miles, determined by the fuel supply being exhausted. Flying at 3,500 feet, it fell between the optimum altitudes for light and heavy anti-aircraft fire, although it was slow enough for the RAF's new Hawker Tempest and Typhoon fighter to shoot down, and later versions were 'booby-trapped' to stop RAF pilots nudging the missile off-course by touching wingtips. After mass pro- duction started in March 1944, some 35,000 were produced, with more than 9,000 aimed at England, although more than 4,600 of these were shot down, and another 6,500 fired against the formerly German-occupied port of Antwerp after it was retaken by the Allies. The V-1 could be heard by those beneath its flightpath, who knew that all was well as long as they could here its motor's distinctive pulsating beat, which gave it the nickname of 'the buzz bomb': trouble started when the motor stopped. The V-2, officially known as the A-4, was a more sophisticated weapon altogether and marked the beginning of the manned bomber's decline as the principal weapon of offensive warfare. Development-work on the  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON