ighter control system, meant that the normal Soviet tactic was to deploy swarms of fighters, although even these would concentrate mainly on crippled aircraft unless numbers were so over- whelming that they could risk an encounter with an attacking Luftwaffe formation. Few Russian anti-aircraft installations possessed fire-direction equipment, and of those that did, even fewer had equipment which worked. Light and medium Russian anti-aircraft artillery was not too far behind that of Britain or Germany, but their heavy anti-aircraft artillery was poor, being ineffectual above 20,000 feet, while the standard German heavy AA, Flugabwehrkanone (Flak) could reach 45,000 feet and was still lethal at 36,000 feet, with a rapid rate of fire. For the invasion of Russia, the Luftwaffe forces on the Eastern Front had been organized into three air fleets, Luftflotte I, under Generaloberst Keller, in the north, Luftflotte II under Generalfeldmarschall von Kessel- ring, supporting Army Group Centre, and Luftflotte IV with Army Group South. Support was also provided by Luftflotte V units in the north of Norway. Luftflotte I provided cover for the Army moving through the Baltic States, while the operational area of Luftflotte IV extended down to Romania. The Luftwaffe, denied the opportunity of attacking Russian industry by a Führer directive, no.21, concentrated on ground support, for which its Ju.88, He.111 and Do.17 bombers were ill equipped. The Russians, on the other hand, used their bombers rarely, operating a few early morning and late afternoon raids on Luftwaffe airfields but achieving little of consequence. As the German advance showed signs of stalling in the combined onslaught of winter and Russian resistance around Moscow late in 1941, the Red Air Force failed to make the most of the German difficulties. The German Army was ill equipped for the Russian winter, with its troops having only their light summer uniforms in many cases. Milch, Goering's deputy, had had the for