involved in other raids as well, since throughout the war no fewer than eighty-eight German naval and military airships were involved in fifty-one raids on British towns and cities, dropping 200 tons of bombs, killing 557 people and injur- ing another 1,358, as well as causing damage to property and equip- ment estimated at £1.5 million ($7.5 million at the exchange rates then prevailing). The tide was beginning to turn against the airship by late 1916, and between the beginning of September and the end of November five Zeppelins were shot down by aircraft, and another two succumbed to anti-aircraft fire, with four of the losses being from the latest L-30 class, each of which carried seventeen crewmen. On 5 August 1918 Peter 41 Strasser himself was to die on operations aboard L-70. The airship began to lose popularity with the German commanders as the war progressed, so that there were only seven airship raids on England in 1917, and just four the following year. The fall in the standing of the airship owed as much to the arrival of a German heavy bomber as it did to the declining effectiveness of the airship against defensive measures. By 1917, the German Military Aviation Service had become the largest military air arm in the world, but even so, when the Service moved to the offensive with its new bombers, it seemed to take the Allies by surprise. The first sign of what was to come was in itself deceptively weak. A small LVG C.III (LVG - Luft-Verkehrs Gesellschaft) light bomber biplane flew across London on 28 November 1916, dropping several small bombs and causing little damage. The real offensive by German bombers was not to come until May 1917. There were three main types of heavy bomber available to the Military Aviation Service early in 1917: the AEG G.IV, the Friedrichshafen G.III and the Gotha G.IV, of which the last-mentioned was the most signif- icant. All three types were twin-engined biplanes, the Gotha (so-called because it was built by the Gothaer Wag