port of ground forces. The Soviet Union (and, before the Bolshevik Revolution, Tsarist Rus- sia) viewed developments in China as being of considerable importance to Russian interests in the East. Japanese advances in China had resulted in growing tension along the border between Manchuria, Mongolia and the Siberian Soviet Socialist Republic, which eventually resulted in fighting between Soviet and Japanese forces on 11 July 1937. Polikarpov I-15bis fighters supported Tupolev SB-2 medium bombers, which were used in support of ground troops, as well as on raids as far south into Japanese-held territory as Hsingking. The fighting was bitter but short-lived, with a cease-fire taking effect on 10 August. Neither side scored a conclusive victory, and both made exaggerated claims regarding their successes over their opponents: the Japanese claimed to have destroyed more than 700 Soviet aircraft, while the Russians claimed the destruction of almost 250 Japanese aircraft. The Russians enjoyed a numerical superiority in the air and on the ground but appeared unable to exploit these advantages, possibly because technically the Japanese had the edge, while the JNAF, which had proved the better trained and organized of the two Japanese air arms, operated with the benefit of more recent combat experience. The lack of a conclusive victory meant that the dispute was not resolved, and tension remained after the cease-fire. In May 1939 hostilities again broke out after Japanese ground forces invaded Mongolia. Japanese light bombers, mainly Kawasaki Ki.3 Type 93 and Ki.32 Type 98 aircraft, with Mitsubishi Ki.21 Type 97 heavy bombers, raided Mongolian airfields, but early successes could not be followed up in the face of improved fighter defences by Polikarpov I-16 fighters. Fighting continued until June 1940, by which time the belligerents were becoming pre-occupied with the prospect of conflict elsewhere, in Europe for the Soviet Union and in the Pacific for the Japanese. Closer to E