he West. A variable-geometry aircraft, Black- jack is believed to use four reheated turbofans for a maximum speed of Mach 2.1 and to have a combat radius of some 4,500 miles. Blackjack will replace the Myasishchev Mya-4 'Bison' jet bombers first, and then the turboprop Tupolev Tu-95 'Bear' bombers, with seventy-five and 120 of these aircraft types in service respectively. Also in service with the LRA and from the Tupolev design bureau is the Tu-26 'Backfire B' bomber, of which there are more than a hundred. Estimates of this aircraft's maximum speed vary between Mach 1.5 and 2.0, while the range pro- vided by the twin Kuznetsov NK-144 reheated turbofans is in excess of 5,000 miles. In addition to bomber operations with conventional bombs and missiles, it is widely believed that the Tu-26 would be deployed in a war with air-to-air missiles and heavy cannon to destroy transport aircraft bringing reinforcements across the North Atlantic to Europe. Unlike conventional fighter aircraft, the Tu-26 has the range to operate in this way and, unlike other bombers, the speed necessary for success. In addition to these two formidable advance aircraft, the LRA still relies on more than 150 Tupolev Tu-22 'Blinder' supersonic jet bombers and more than 400 of the elderly Tu-16 'Badger' jet bombers. The United States Air Force's Strategic Air Command also relies on elderly aircraft for its backbone, with more than 250 Boeing B-52G/H Stratofortress heavy bombers which have been updated to act as launch aircraft for up to 1,500 AGM-86B air-launched cruise missiles (ALCMs). The B-52s are deployed in fourteen wings, while another two wings operate fifty-five General Dynamics FB-111A supersonic bombers, with Mach. 2.2 capability and a range of more than 3,000 miles. The SAC and LRA also operate airborne-early-warning, airborne command and control and electronic counter-measure aircraft, as well as many aircraft in the reconnaissance and electronic intelligence roles, some of which are mo