s in the occupied countries. British Intelligence had already deciphered the German 'Enigma' codes, and one of the benefits of this lay in the ability to recognize feint raids by the Ger- mans. In effect, the Germans were denied the possibility of a surprise attack. The Chain Home radar stations were priority targets for the Luftwaffe during the Battle of Britain, with five of the stations severely damaged by bombing and that at Ventnor, on the Isle of Wight, off the south coast, dive-bombed so severely that it was temporarily out of action. The system included substantial overlap, however, and at no time was the chain broken. Airfields were also among the main targets, and many of these were badly damaged, with that at Manston, in north Kent, closest to German territory, evacuated for part of the battle. The level of air raids intensified as August progressed, with most of the raids conducted during daylight in what was, by British standards, a fine summer. During the night of 24-25 August 170 Luftwaffe bombers attacked targets on the south, the west and central England, but many of the attacking aircraft were thrown off course when the radar beams highlighting their targets were diverted by British counter-measures. For the first time, bombs fell on the City of London, and the following night, on the express orders of the Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, the RAF bombed Berlin. On 31 August there were 1,450 sorties over England by Luftwaffe aircraft. By 7 September the Luftwaffe believed that RAF Fighter Command was finished, with von Kesselring believing the esti- mates produced by his staff which indicated that more than 1,100 RAF aircraft had been destroyed. Typical of the way in which losses by the RAF were exaggerated by the Luftwaffe were the figures for 13 August, when the Luftwaffe flew 1,485 sorties, losing forty-six aircraft, and claimed that eighty-eight RAF aircraft had been destroyed, when the true loss was thirteen RAF aircraft, with three pilots ki