em to anti-aircraft and fighter defences, the remainder in landing and other accidents, must have seemed light. The idea of using the London underground stations as shelters, and by definition those of the deep-level tube lines rather than the so-called 'surface lines' of the Circle, District and Metropolitan, dates from this time; it was not a World War II innovation. Light though the casualties may have been by the standards of World War II, the Germans also showed a marked reluctance to scale up the offensive. Indeed, both sides showed a remarkable degree of restraint at times. The carnage of the Western Front conceals the fact that the concept of 'all-out war' was yet to evolve. The Germans banned the use of really effective incendiary bombs, the so-called Elektron bomb, which was light, weighing just two pounds, and difficult for fire-fighters to put out, consisting mainly of magnesium. This, even as late as 1918, when it became available in quantity, could have had a serious affect had it been deployed. As it was, the RFC and the RNAS were hard pushed to provide adequate support for ground forces in France and maintain fighter defence for the major English cities. In June 1917 two RFC squadrons were redeployed from the Western Front, during the Battle 43 of Passchendaele, to England, but had to be sent back there on 5 and 6 July to help relieve a desperate situation and were actually in France during an especially serious air raid. The conflicting pressures on fighter unit commanders, and the constant strains for the pilots themselves, must have contributed enormously to the poor life-expectancy of young pilots on the Western Front. To be realistic, one good reason for the Germans not using the 'Elek- tron' bomb lay in the recognition that the desperate situation of the German armed forces on the Western Front, and the growing inability of German industry to provide the support necessary for the war effort, could not be resolved by the use of any wonder weapon