5 million officers and men on the outbreak of war, in addition to the paratroops and anti-aircraft artillery, both of which were Army responsibilities in the British armed forces. In 1939 the RAF had just 118,000, plus another 68,000 in the Royal Auxiliary Air Force. Before this, other changes had occurred in the structure of British service aviation. In 1936 the Royal Air Force lost its 'area' organization, which was by this time already dated and instead was organized into commands, with the main operational commands initially being Fighter, Bomber and Coastal, with the latter being responsible for maritime reconnaissance. Transport Command was not formed until after the start of World War II, but meanwhile a number of squadrons from Bomber Command operated occasionally in the transport role - sometimes more  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 74 75 READY FOR BATTLE than 'occasionally' in the case of No. 38 Group. No less important, in 1937 the Royal Navy regained control of its own aviation element with the transfer of the Fleet Air Arm from the Air Ministry to the Admiralty. Thus started a belated modernization of the Fleet Air Arm, whose development had been neglected as the RAF, with many other demands on its restricted budget, had naturally enough concentrated on strategic air power. Progress towards the development of the modern bomber was often halting, as the saga of the Wellington and its original specification for a high-wing, fixed under-carriage monoplane demonstrates. In spite of the pre-occupation with speed and fast monoplanes which led to such successful fighter designs in due course from the British, German and Italian aircraft industries, the real pressure for change in the configuration of aeroplanes, and especially with regard to bombers and transport aircraft, came from the United States. The work of Douglas and Boeing in airliners, and of Boeing in developing the heavy bomber with the 299 prototype, was also complemented by that of Martin with its B-10, de