nge with a 14,000-lb bombload of 1,660 miles at 210 mph. In contrast to its rivals, the Lancaster was designed from the outset to drop a 4,000-lb bomb, but before the end of the war first the 12,000-lb 'Tall Boy' and then the 22,000-lb 'Grand Slam' bombs were to be carried with only relatively minor modifications to the aircraft. The Lancaster was available for operations with Bomber Command by March 1942. The RAF was not alone in favouring and introducing into service the big bomber. In the United States Boeing had marked a significant step forward on 16 July 1935, when the company rolled out its Model 299, an all-metal four-engined bomber with five defensive 0.50-inch machine- gun positions. When the Seattle Times published a picture of the aircraft under the caption '15-ton Flying Fortress', the tag stuck. It was not universally accepted, however, for when the then Air Commodore  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 120 121 THE BOMBER OFFENSIVE Arthur Harris inspected the aircraft in its production form as the B-17 in 1938, when he was a member of the British Purchasing Commission, he was to write that, 'Far from being a "fortress", this aircraft is practically indefensible against any modern fighter.' The five machine-guns, re- tained for the early production versions, were hand-trained, obsolete to the thinking of the RAF with its early adoption of power-operated turrets, with positions in the nose, dorsal, ventral and two side blister positions, the last-mentioned being completely open to the elements and depend- ing on their limited efficiency for the effectiveness of none-too-reliable heated suits for the gunners. There was no tail armament at all. In spite of their well-founded misgivings, the RAF received twenty B-17Cs which they designated Fortress Mk.Is, and ten of these aircraft were issued to the only RAF squadron to operate this mark, No. 90. The USAAF believed that the aircraft could fly at 30,800 feet, and that service suffered its first casualty of World War II wh