or WAAF and Luftwaffe control- lers to argue over who had the right to instruct the pilots of a hapless Luftwaffe night-fighter squadron! Of course, the Germans did not rely on radar alone. German inventive- ness led to the development of both rocket and jet-propelled interceptor aircraft to counter the growing menace of the Allied bombers. The jet fighter in particular was never allowed to realize its full potential. The rocket-powered aircraft Messerschmitt Me.163 Komet, was de- veloped from the DFS.194 rocket-test aircraft on which work had started in 1938 with a development team led by Dr Alex Lippisch. The Me.163 first flew in August 1943 but did not enter service against Allied bombers until the following year. A single 3,750-lb thrust Walter rocket engine gave the small delta-wing aircraft a maximum speed of 590 mph, the then incredible rate of climb of 30,000 feet in 21/2 minutes and an endurance of just eight minutes, although this could be extended either by towing the aircraft into the air or by intermittent use of the rocket engine. Take-off was from a trolley and landing on a skid, with many fatalities occurring on landing as aircraft suffered accidents which combined the remaining propellent elements in the fuel tanks. The pilot had a pressurized cockpit, and normally the aircraft was armed with twin 30-mm MK 208 cannon in the wing roots, although by the end of  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 142 THE BOMBER OFFENSIVE 1944 many used twenty-four air-to-air R4/M rockets, one of which was sufficient to destroy a B-17 Fortress. The main victim for this aircraft was the USAAF's daytime bomber formations; since the aircraft lacked the endurance necessary for night operations and could not lift a night- fighter radar installation, while it was also of little use against the RAF's fast low-level light-bomber raids. Less fortunate was the Messerschmitt Me.262 jet fighter, an aircraft which was denied its true role due to Hitler's own intervention. German jet-fighter devel