dy, or its own version of the American Strategic Defence Initiative, the 'Star Wars' programme. The risk of being out-manœuvred by the USSR has meant that the United States cannot forget about 'Star Wars', so the research and development work has to be done, even if the programme never results in production. The bomber could find itself with a new role if 'Star Wars' works, simply because the ICBM may be redundant, but the need for deterrence  A TOMORROW? 193 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 192 itself will not go away. Yet the availability of cruise missiles, with the prospect of even better performance from a second generation, and the extensive range and warload capability of strike aircraft, suggests that only the United States, the Soviet Union and perhaps China will have the need to maintain bomber aircraft as such. Air-launched cruise missiles have a range superior to those launched by submarines and even those launched from the surface, and so offer the prospect of reaching a target up to 1,000 miles away from the launching point. Most vital economic and military targets in the Soviet Union are within this range from Western Europe or from the eastern Mediterranean. This is part of the logic behind the work of new bombers, most notably the USAF's 'stealth' programme, which may become the bomber of the future. Indeed, the greater the success of the 'Star Wars' programme, the more likely the 'stealth' aircraft will become. If it does appear, it is likely to be costly, and affordable only by the superpowers, with only about 130 or so aircraft for USAF service, yet costing $50 billion or more in total! Then too, there is the advantage that a bomber can be recalled, which may make this form of deterrent more acceptable to a nervous public. In spite of this, it may be that the new Tupolev 'Blackjack' and the Rockwell International B-1B will be the last bombers. More capable missile systems, for both offence and defence, and the prospect of still better performances from strik