Stratotankers. Ironically, the PLO had moved to Tunis in 1982 to be outside the range of IDF/AF attack, although the Israelis had acquired elderly, but still effective, tanker aircraft well before this. In the raid on Tunis, the IDF/ AF used 1,000-lb bombs and 'smart' bombs, laser-guided air-to-ground missiles similar to those used so successfully by the USAF in Vietnam, killing or injuring more than 150 people. Border disputes as well as a long-running animosity resulted in many air battles between India and Pakistan during the 1960s, usually with ground-attack aircraft supporting their respective armies, especially in fighting over Kashmir and the Rann of Kutch in the mid-1960s. Pakistan had been divided into two parts on independence, with Indian territory in between. Apart from the obvious problems of division, the East Pakistanis felt that the nation's wealth was concentrated in the West and that they were, by contrast, treated almost as a colony. Disorder broke out in the East after the Awami League obtained all but twelve of the 310 seats in the regional assembly, and a majority of seats in the national assembly, forcing the postponement of the re-opening of the assembly in 1970. A year of disorder led to refugees flooding into India. Rising tension between India and Pakistan, and the risk of the Chinese taking advantage of the situation to attempt seizure of Indian territory, led to plans being laid for an offensive to begin in November 1971, after the monsoons and while the winter snow made a Chinese attack across the Himalayas unlikely. War broke out on the borders of East and West Pakistan on 3 December 1971. Most of the fighting on the ground was in the East, and a pre- emptive strike by Pakistan Air Force aircraft late on Friday 3 December, against Indian Air Force bases close to the border with West Pakistan, achieved little. Too few Indian Air Force bases were attacked, and in insufficient strength, with most of the PAF being held back from the confli