s which, while slow, were accurate and could deliver a sizeable bomb onto or close to a target. Yet these too had their day and then found themselves out- classed not only by fighters but by increasingly accurate anti-aircraft fire by better-trained gunners. The dive-bomber technique required the aircraft to be slow, especially in the dive, and it was at this stage that it was most vulnerable. To some extent, in spite of its affection for the heavy bomber, the RAF had failed to keep abreast of developments in aircraft performance, and at first the heaviest bombers were the medium bombers. But the British not only made up the ground lost in heavy-bomber development, they also produced medium bombers which were, in some respects at least, superior to those produced elsewhere. Some idea of the progress made can be judged by the fact that in 1935 the Handley Page Heyford could carry 1,600 lbs of bombs over 920 miles, while just three years later the Vickers Armstrongs Wellington could carry 4,500 lbs of bombs over 1,200 miles, as well as flying faster and higher, enjoying a better defensive armament and proving an exceptionally rugged and capable aeroplane. As aircraft procurement eased in the face of a growing threat, the RAF found itself in the position of being able to choose aircraft with a fair turn of speed, or those with a heavier warload. There was still considerable individuality in the approach favoured by different design teams, and it  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 70 READY FOR BATTLE was still even possible for manufacturers to invest their own money in private-venture projects. Faster than the Fairey Battle, but with twin engines, was the Bristol Blenheim, which first appeared as the Bristol Type 135 at the 1934 Paris Air Show. The aircraft was not obviously a bomber at this stage and could just as easily be used as a small airliner or fast executive transport. The striking twin-engined monoplane, with its low wing, appealed to Lord Rothermere, proprietor of the Da