ations, and the eventual undoing of the Axis powers, who in reality were already over extended. The renewal of the U-boat campaign reinforced the role of the bomber as the only means of striking back at the enemy. The only front on which British forces were confronting those of Germany and Italy, was in North Africa, and this campaign would not of itself ensure defeat or victory. The only other way of striking back at the enemy lay in the deployment of special forces, either by sea, as at Dieppe, or by air, but this was a costly operation to mount, with tremendous risk of failure and with limited potential success. Indeed, the deployment of special forces tended to be most effective if contained within limited objectives, as at Bruneval, when a paratroop assault enabled vital components from a German radar station to be seized for examination, along with a German 117 technical expert. Elsewhere, at Tragino and in Norway, paratroop raids resulted in heavy losses amongst both the paratroops and the bomber crews charged with their transport to the dropping and, in the case of the gliders, landing zones. The success of the bomber campaign has been, and remains, a subject of controversy. The most damning indictment of the campaign's success, or lack of it, has lain in the fact that German war production reached its peak in 1944. While this is true, the complete story centres not just around the effectiveness of the British and American air raids, nor even in the cumulative effect as damage built up and began to exceed the ability of the Germans to repair the damage and restore production. One significant element lies in the failure to put the German economy on a full war footing. The British enjoyed direction of the economy in the interests of winning the war, with overall control of output and essential priorities treated almost as if a battle was being fought, which in many ways it was. By contrast, it was not until May 1944 that the entire armaments programme was plac