s the conflict threatened the security of the canal, Britain and France demanded that Egyptian and Israeli forces withdraw to lines ten miles on either side of the Canal Zone. Israel complied, Egypt refused, as anticipated by Britain and France, presenting the two European nations with the opportunity to intervene. The operation to take the Suez Canal Zone was complicated by limi- tations on the performance of the aircraft used, with fighters and fighter- bombers unable to spend more than a few minutes over the Canal Zone before returning to their bases in Cyprus. This in itself was not crucial however, with Cyprus-based Valiant and Canberra jet bombers and aircraft fom the five Royal Navy and two French Navy aircraft-carriers supporting the operation able to obtain early aerial superiority. Two of the Royal Navy's aircraft-carriers, the light fleet-carriers HMS Ocean and Theseus, acted as helicopter-carriers for the Royal Marine Commandos aboard, showing the way to the later development of the commando- carrier concept. RAF, Fleet Air Arm and Aéronavalé aircraft attacked the Egyptian airfields in the Canal Zone on 1 November and within forty-eight hours had achieved effective control of the air. The operation, although long delayed, was highly successful at first, until the United States threatened to withdraw support for the British and French currencies, and this, with international pressure, brought a ceasefire on 6 November, with the entire British and French invasion force withdrawing by sea on 13 November. Casualties in the operation, in the air and on the ground. were light. The end of the Suez campaign did not bring peace to the Middle East with tension between Israel and her Arab neighbours being aggravated by other political differences, most of the Arab countries being supported by the Soviet Union while the United States supported Israel. In effect. the situation almost amounted to a state of war by proxy, with neither of the major alliances able to con