awa did not prevent the UN forces nearly being driven back into the sea. (This was a situation to be repeated in Vietnam.) Perhaps the worst, and most fruitless of the Korean air operations came in mid-August, with 850 tons of high explosives dropped on an area of the  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 166 DECLINE AND FALL front three miles by seven, for little effect on the North Korean war effort and few casualties. The initial day operations over North Korea showed that the B-29s were vulnerable to heavy anti-aircraft fire as well as to interceptions by MiG-15 jet fighters, and a switch was made to low-level night operations early in 1951, with radar-assisted bombing. The major opponent for the USAF bombers over Korea came from Chinese Communist Air Force aircraft, many of which operated from bases in China, which were forbidden targets as far as the USAF was concerned, with Chinese aircraft being regarded as legitimate targets only at bases in North Korea. (This was another similarity with Vietnam. the USAF and USN fighting with one hand tied behind their back. ) The B-29 was not the only World War II American aircraft operational over Korea: the Martin B-26 Marauder was also in service. Intensive day and night interdictor operations were attempted with varying degrees of success, but as evidence of the decline of the heavy and medium bomber and the ascendancy of the fighter-bomber, one of the more spectacular successes was the breaching of the dams at Toksan and Chasan in May 1953, using Republic F-84 Thunderjet fighter-bombers (sixty and ninety respectively) on these raids. During the few days remaining before the Armistice on 27 July 1953, Boeing B-29 Superfortresses mounted heavy raids on North Korean airfields, destroying the remaining enemy aircraft tice. and ensuring that a surprise raid could not be mounted after the Armis- In spite of the bomber's contribution, the victory in Korea owed more to the brilliance of the strategy on the ground, and in particular to the l