joy priority, and during the year the RAF started to use the 8,000-lb 'double cookie' blast-bomb, and Oboe reinforced the failing effectiveness of Gee. While there were to be no thousand-bomber raids, on many occasions the numbers of aircraft deployed on a single operation exceeded the 700 mark, and the effect of using trained crews and a higher proportion of 135 heavier aircraft doubtless meant that these raids were often more effective than those of the previous year. Of the new weapons contributing to the growing confidence with which Bomber Command was able to tackle its German targets, few were more unusual than the 'bouncing bombs', developed by Barnes Wallis for use against three dams in the Ruhr. Conventional bombs were useless against these targets, and the need was for precision launching of a bomb which would explode below water level against the wall of the dam. A special squadron, No. 617, was formed within Bomber Command and in May 1943, with its Avro Lancaster bombers, succeeded in breach- ing the Mohne and Eder Dams, although the squadron suffered heavy losses. For this operation, the first commanding officer of 617 squadron, Wing Commander Guy Gibson, was awarded the Victoria Cross. Later this unit was to be first with both the 12,000-lb 'Tall Boy' and 22,000-lb 'Grand-Slam' bombs, using them in 1944 and 1945 against heavily pro- tected German targets and railway junctions, in the former case under- mining the ferroconcrete structures of missile-launching sites and other similar targets. The strategy of area bombing with complete devastation of major German industrial and communications centres had been reinforced by the outcome of the Casablanca Conference in January, at which Churchill and Roosevelt had reaffirmed the earlier orders to Bomber Command and by implication extended them to cover the 8th USAAF. It was at Casablanca that the policy of unconditional surrender was agreed upon. In spite of the success of the attack on the Ruhr Dams, 1943 i