ons attacked German naval units at Kristiansand, but with the loss of six aircraft for little effective damage. The Fleet Air Arm was in a better position than the RAF to aid Norwegian resistance, since range limitations kept the RAF's fighter squadrons away and poor weather kept the bombers grounded in the UK for part of the time. On 10 April sixteen Blackburn Sea Skuas of Nos. 800 and 803 squadrons, Fleet Air Arm, each carrying a single 500-lb bomb, took off from their base in the Orkney Islands, north of Scotland, to attack the light cruiser Königsberg, moored alongside the Skoltegrund Mole after being hit by a six-inch shell. Flying the 300 miles to Bergen, the Skuas dived onto the light cruiser from 8,000 feet, securing complete surprise and delivering their warload with the accuracy for which the dive-bomber was famed. Three bombs scored direct hits, five more struck the mole, and two fell between the mole and the ship, so that within minutes the ship was ablaze from stem to stern, before eventually rolling over, after which her magazines detonated. The raid was also one of the most successful in terms of British losses, with only one of the Royal Navy's aircraft lost to enemy action. Encouraged by this success, a second raid was planned by the Fleet Air Arm against the  90 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 91 BLITZKRIEG Scharnhorst at Trondheim. Appreciating that the Germans would be on their guard against another dive-bombing raid, the RAF mounted a diversionary raid against the Luftwaffe airfield at Vaernes, but unfortu- nately this occurred too soon, alerting rather than pre-occupying the Luftwaffe, and after flying across some forty miles of enemy territory to Trondheim, the Sea Skuas of 821 and 823 squadrons found a hot welcome waiting. Eight aircraft were shot down, while another seven failed to make their way back to base. The single bomb which hit the target failed to explode. The start of the Luftwaffe campaign in the west found the French Armée de l'Air singular