bout a third of Czech territory as a result of the Munich Agreement the previous August, made it difficult for the Czech Army Air Force and the Czech Army to find a natural defensive line against overwhelming forces. For many, war already appeared inescapable, in Europe at least. While appeasement appeared to be the order of the day, the British and French were preparing for the inevitable outcome of Germany's territorial ambitions, with varying degrees of success. 5 Blitzkrieg At 4.26 a.m. on 1 September 1939 a flight of three Luftwaffe Junkers Ju.87 Stuka dive-bombers took off from their base at Elbing to bomb the approaches to the the railway bridge over the River Vistula at Dirshau. The German invasion of Poland had started. Just two days later, on the expiry of an Anglo-French ultimatum calling for German forces to with- draw from Poland, World War II started. The invasion of Poland was no spur-of-the-moment decision. Much earlier in 1939, Hitler had pledged to his colleagues to invade Poland as soon as the conditions were right. Ten days before the invasion, he had summoned his commanders to Obersalzburg and announced his intention of invading Poland on Saturday 26 August, although this date was not kept. The right conditions for the invasion of Poland were simple: a non-aggression pact with the Soviet Union, which amounted to an effective distribution of Polish territory between her two aggressive and totalitarian neighbours. In anticipation of the attack and recognizing the significance of the invasion in a tense international situation, the British Air Ministry had ordered the mobilization of all Royal Air Force Reserve and Royal Auxili- ary Air Force personnel during the latter half of August, while RAF Coastal Command had commenced intensive patrols over the North Sea, largely to monitor the movement of German warships, which could provide yet another indication of Hitler's intentions. The reasons for the delay in invading Poland are still not clear. Some