system and ability to appreciate just what type of aeroplane was most needed at any particular stage of the war played no small part in enabling the RAF to receive 476 fighters during August 1940, against 274 for the Luftwaffe. Throughout 1940 the British aircraft industry built 4,284 single-engined fighters, against 3,382 single and twin-engined fighters from the German aircraft industry, although it could be argued that the latter was more concerned with bomber production, building 2,741 bombers and 480 dive-bombers. The German need was for heavier and faster bombers and for twin- engined escort fighters, yet 2,268 Bf.109s were built against 1,114 Me. 110s. In preparing for the Battle of Britain, the British were able to make good use of another advantage - the steady build-up, some would even say rebuilding, of the Fleet Air Arm. By assigning Fleet Air Arm pilots to RAF squadrons for the peak of the Battle of Britain, a thou- sand RAF and RN pilots were available to Fighter Command by mid- August. Of course, the overwhelming advantage possessed by the British lay in the quality of the Chain Home network of fifty radar stations integrated with a comprehensive system of ground control. The system allowed RAF fighters to remain on the ground until needed and then it would scramble sufficient numbers of aircraft and direct them to the correct position, since the Chain Home network could locate the approach- ing enemy, assessing the strength of the raid and its direction. Against this, another weakness of the Luftwaffe lay in the high usage of radio communication, an essential with the fast-moving Blitzkrieg assault and one which stayed with the Luftwaffe throughout the battle be- cause the Germans had still to install a system of secure telephone lines between their bases in the occupied countries. British Intelligence had already deciphered the German 'Enigma' codes, and one of the benefits of this lay in the ability to recognize feint raids by the Ger- mans. In eff