ng of a raid and attempting to identify the likely target. By November 1940 electronic counter-measures were ready to be used against X-Gerat, jamming the radar beams. One of the first applications of radio counter-measures against X-Gerat came on 14 November 1940, when a Weser beam was detected pointing at the West Midlands, confirming RAF intelligence expectations of a major offensive, code-named Moonlight Sonata, against major industrial targets during the full moon. The exact target was not known. At 19.10 the first of five hundred German bombers started an all-night raid on Coventry, which lasted until 07.00 the following morning. That night 503 tons of high-explosive bombs, 1,500 high-explosive bombs, fifty 2,000-lb parachute landmines and 30,000 incendiary devices were  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 102 103 BLITZKRIEG dropped in the worst air raid anywhere in the British Isles at that period of the war. Some 500 people were killed and more than 1,200 seriously injured, with 60,000 buildings destroyed, including three-quarters of city centre housing, while a third of the city's factories were either completely destroyed or so seriously damaged as to be put out of action. In spite of moonlight so bright that it was almost possible to map-read by it, not one bomber was intercepted by a night fighter, while the jammers failed to counter X-Gerat because of a wrong modulating frequency in the early jammers, a fault not fully rectified until examination of an X-Gerat set, salvaged from a Heinkel He.111 which crash-landed in shallow water near Bridport. Unfortunately the He.111 had crashed eight days before the raid, and the problem was not rectified until afterwards. Instead of repeating the performance on following nights, the Luft- waffe moved to Birmingham on the night of 15-16 November and, although successful, this was the last raid before the ECM started to operate successfully. Many have since believed that Coventry could have been completely destroyed had the Luftwaf