Gee-H equipped Avro Lancasters of the Pathfinder Force, with special yellow bar tail markings. On 14 October 1,067 Lancasters and Halifaxes raided Duisburg in the Ruhr in broad daylight for the loss of just fifteen aircraft. While the targets were still ablaze, 1,005 RAF bombers raided Duisburg that night, this time for the loss of just six aircraft, while more than 4,500 tons of high explosive were dropped. The fact was that, by late 1944, Bomber Command could manage to send 2,000 bombers on operational missions each day and still have more than a hundred aircraft available for spoof raids. The oil industry remained a preferred target, with Lancasters, Halifaxes and Mosquitos attacking Kastrop on the night of 21-22 November 1944, while there were also raids against industry at Wilhelmshaven, Essen, Nuremburg and Düsseldorf, with only a third of the U-boats on the slipways at Wilhelmshaven ever reaching the Kriegsmarine. In November alone, the RAF mounted 15,000 bomber sorties and dropped almost 40,000 tons of bombs on German targets. The pressure was maintained into 1945, as German resistance showed no sign of weakening. The Nazi leadership hoped against hope that a rift in the Allied ranks would bring the Western powers to accept some form of realignment with Germany against the Soviet Union. As the defences collapsed, disintegration in the west had to be countered by severe measures against deserters, while orders were given for what amounted to a 'scorched earth' policy, which were ignored by Speer. The emphasis among lower-ranking members of the government and many senior officers of the armed forces lay in holding the Russian advance long enough to allow the Americans and British to reach Berlin first. As the Reich fell apart, this objective failed. The absence of any surrender, unlikely to be forthcoming for as long as the Allies insisted on unconditional surrender and a subsequent partitioning of Germany, meant that the bomber offensive had to be maintained.