iedrichshafen G.III and the Gotha G.IV, of which the last-mentioned was the most signif- icant. All three types were twin-engined biplanes, the Gotha (so-called because it was built by the Gothaer Wagonfabrik) using two 220-hp Mercedes engines for a maximum speed of 92 mph and a ceiling of 21,300 feet, and a maximum warload of 1,000 lbs. On 25 May 1917 twenty-one Gotha G.IVs dropped some five tons of bombs on Folkestone and the military base at Shorncliff Camp, killing almost a hundred people and injuring twice that number, with no aircraft lost to anti-aircraft fire or fighter defences, although one crashed into the English Channel and a second crashed on landing back at its base in Belgium. Almost a month later, on 13 June 1917, twenty-two Gotha G.IVs, based at St-Denis Westrem and Gontrode in Belgium, and part of Bomben- geschwader 3, attacked England, with seventeen of the aircraft making the first full-scale daylight bombing raid on London, at a cost of more than 150 people killed, more than 400 injured and damage of almost £200,000 to property. On this occasion not only did the Gotha heavy bombers escape loss, they actually managed to shoot down a British fighter sent to intercept them. A bomber larger than the Gotha and its counterparts was the Zeppelin R. VI, sometimes referred to as the Staaken R. VI and built at the Zeppelin Works at Staaken, although after the first examples later versions were often built by contractors, including both Aviatik and Schutte-Lanz. This four-engined bomber used four 245-hp Mercedes engines mounted in tandem pairs and was the largest aircraft used operationally during World War I, with a warload of more than 4,000 lbs, although in practical terms this equalled eighteen 220-lb bombs, or a single 2,205-lb bomb, the limitation being in the size of the bomb bay. Slower than the Gotha,  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 42 THE BLOODY PARALYSER! this large aircraft could fly at 80 mph and had a maximum ceiling of 12,500 feet. At first the Germa