ntemporary of these designs was the Martin 167 Maryland, origi- nally ordered before the fall of France for the Armée de l'Air and delivered instead to the RAF, which eventually received 300, with twin 1,200-hp Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp radials, which were deployed mainly in the Mediterranean and North African theatres. A development was the Martin A-30 Baltimore. Both aircraft carried a 2,000-lb bombload. The United States had been accelerating the build-up of its armed forces during the late 1930s, especially following the Munich Agreement of 1938. While the long-awaited independence of the strategic air service from the Army was still to come, a major improvement in the status of the service came on 1 June 1941, when the United States Army Air Corps became the United States Army Air Force, although still with just 2,500 aircraft on the outbreak of World War II in the Pacific on 7 December 1941. Initially the USAAF had four air forces, all based in the United States, the 1st and 2nd in the northern states, the 3rd and 4th in the southern. Rapid expansion after the outbreak of war resulted in new air 123 forces being formed, with the 8th being despatched to the British Isles for operations over Europe, starting operations from Britain during the summer of 1942. Yet the battle between the opposing air forces was to be as much between electronic aids as between differing aircraft, or concepts and tactics. Just as the Germans had managed to provide themselves with electronic aids during the Blitz, so that raids on Coventry and other major cities could be carried out effectively, so the British were not far behind in improving the hitherto poor performance of their operations. Obviously the essential pre-requisite to accurate bomb-aiming was accur- ate navigation, and the first significant step away from the sextant and chronometer, more suited to maritime use than to that of aerial navigation at night, was the system known as 'Gee', after 'G for Grid'. The navigator o