k ten large ships, including three destroyers. There were relatively few prisoners for the Germans from the Dunkirk operation, although they did find more than 50,000 British vehicles, many immobilized, scattered on the approach roads to the port. After Dunkirk, the final collapse of France followed, with 600 Luftwaffe bombers and 500 fighters making an attack on airfields in and around Paris on 8 June. While there has been a tendency in recent years to be dismissive about  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 94 95 BLITZKRIEG the success of the evacuation of Dunkirk, possibly as a reaction to the rapture which surrounded this operation in some accounts, there can be no doubt that the operation was performed with great heroism and against appalling odds. The BEF may have arrived back in the United Kingdom without its equipment and heavy weapons, but at least a substantial body of trained and battle-hardened troops, almost twice the number of men in the British Army today, had survived. The true contrast is not between defeat and victory but between the British at Dunkirk and the Germans at Stalingrad. The RAF was more fortu- nate than the Army: it had managed to maintain most of its strength and its experienced aircrew, ready for the struggle which lay ahead. If the best had to be made of an impossible situation, this was certainly an example. The British had their mixture of success and failure at this time. Navigation was still a major problem, and so too was accurate bomb- aiming, although this was of secondary importance until aircraft could actually arrive over the right target! An example of what could go wrong occurred in March 1940, when a force of fifty Armstrong-Whitworth Whitleys and twenty Handley Page Hampdens made a daylight raid on the seaplane base at Hornum on the island of Sylt: attacking in good weather, five aircraft failed to find the target. The aircraft which did make it dropped fifteen tons of bombs but caused only slight damage. Of course, such operations w