ences which had shot nineteen B-17s on the 26th. Even so, the small force attacking Hamburg destroyed the power station at Neuhoff. On the night of 27-28 July 722 RAF aircraft dropped 2,417 tons of bombs from 00.57 onwards, dropping 'window' to confuse the defences and losing just seventeen aircraft, a loss rate of 2.4 per cent. Within ten minutes of the raid starting, a firestorm developed, destroying the north-east section of the old town. The night of 29-30 July saw yet another raid, with a fourth raid on 2-3 August, in which only Lancasters could be used due to poor weather over the target. Overall, 'Operation Gomorrah' comprised 3,095 sorties by individual aircraft, dropping 8,621 tons of high explosive, including 4,000 blast bombs and almost countless incendiaries. Eighty-six aircraft were lost by the RAF and USAAF, a rate of 2.8 per cent overall, which compared favourably with the average at that time of 6.1 per cent. No fewer than 6,000 acres of the city had been reduced to smouldering rubble, without mains services or transport, with 61 per cent of homes destroyed and 50,000 casualties. In a week, the RAF and the USAAF had achieved the totals which it had taken the Luftwaffe three years of war to inflict upon the UK. Hitler's Armaments Minister, Albert Speer, subsequently declared that, had the momentum been maintained, with similar raids on another five or six major German cities, World War II could have ended in 1943. This declaration, while containing some element of truth, nevertheless has to be taken with some regard for its origin. As the war was drawing to its much prolonged end in 1945, Speer was one of the first ministers to accept the inevitability of defeat and to ignore orders to destroy industrial and communications centres in advance of the Allies, appreciating the need for post-war reconstruction. Power lay not with Speer, but with the fanatical and dedicated core of ministers and service chiefs surrounding the Führer. The sustained effort of