usand aircraft was far from being a rounding-up exercise; the reverse was true, with 1,050 aircraft deployed on this first raid. Although bad weather had delayed the raid from the night of 27-28 May and the main concern had been to have good weather over the departure airfields, for aircraft to assemble over the airfields and then to return safely, in fact the visibility over the target area also turned out to be good. Gee-equipped bombers from Nos. 1 and 3 Groups opened the raid by bombing the centre of Cologne, mainly dropping marker flares and incendiaries, so that the main wave, with No. 4 Group and No. 92 OTU dropping bombs and incendiaries to the north of the marker fires, and No. 5 Group and No. 91 OTU dropping their warload to the south, would have no difficulty in finding the target. In fact, the follow-up waves could see the marker flares well before they reached the target, and no fewer than 818 aircraft found the target in spite of the high number of pupils amongst the aircrew. The raid started seven minutes early, at 47 minutes past midnight, and was completed by 02.25, over- whelming the defences. High-explosive bombs alone accounted for 1,455 tons. Early in the raid, fires had gone out of control, and the rear-runners could see the fires for 150 miles or more on the homeward flight. Given the high proportion of students and older aircraft, the loss rate of forty aircraft, or 3.8 per cent, was not too high and compared well with many less successful raids. Oddly the number of students lost was less than the average for the raid, but even so, forty instructors and forty-nine pupils failed to return. Later on 31 May, four reconnaissance Mosquitos flew over Cologne to assess the damage, but the smoke from the fires hindered this first attempt at photography. A square mile of the city had been razed to the ground, with the police reporting that 18,432 buildings had been destroyed, 328 of these being industrial premises, and another 39,000 damaged. Civilian