the Luftwaffe aircraft started on their return journey, other RAF fighters continued to harass them. Later that same day 150 Dornier Do.17s and Heinkel He.111s of KG2, KG3 and KG76, with the fighter ace Adolf Galland leading an escort of fighters from JG26 and JG54, assembled over France ready for another  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 100 101 BLITZKRIEG raid on London, although it was not until 14.00 that the first air- craft were over Kent. As the aircraft approached London, almost 200 RAF fighters attacked, and many dog fights between Spitfires and Hur- ricanes and Bf.109s ensued. Over central London, the Duxford 'Big Wing', reinforced by aircraft from two other groups, making some 300 RAF fighters in all, attacked, making accurate bombing im- possible. Meanwhile, other Luftwaffe formations bombed Southamp- ton and Plymouth. Over the day as a whole, the RAF shot down more than sixty Luftwaffe aircraft for the loss of twenty-six fighters, half of whose pilots parachuted to safety. The conflict between returning pilots, with several sometimes claiming to have shot down the same plane in the heat of battle, and the impossibility of waiting to see if a particular attack resulted in a definite kill, led to the RAF at the time believing that 185 Luftwaffe aircraft had been shot down. That night further bombing raids were mounted by the Luftwaffe. By the time the Battle of Britain ended on 31 October, 481 RAF fighter pilots had been killed and another 422 injured, a third of the available pilots, while 1,140 RAF fighters had been lost in combat. Meanwhile the Blitz continued and increased in intensity. For an attacker, London was a tempting target, large, congested and easy to find. Indeed, even without the use of radar, targets on major rivers to the coast always tended to be easier to identify under all but the worst conditions. Radar picked up the difference between land and water, but so too did moonlight, no matter how weak. The pressure of the Blitz was such during late 19