rcraft were issued to the only RAF squadron to operate this mark, No. 90. The USAAF believed that the aircraft could fly at 30,800 feet, and that service suffered its first casualty of World War II when an adviser helping with the training of RAF aircrew was lost after the Fortress I in which he was flying lost control and broke up due to severe icing. The operational début of the RAF's Fortress Mk.Is was a disaster when, in July 1941, daylight raids on Wilhelmshaven, Brest and Emden drew attention again to problems of icing and many mechanical problems besides. The much-vaunted Norden bombsight, so successful on trials over the New Mexico Desert, was disappointing in the haze of northern Europe, in spite of qualified USAAF personnel flying against the rules of neutrality on these early flights, the best that could be achieved on a raid over Bremen was for a bomb to be dropped some three miles from its target. Not surprisingly, before long the Fortress Mk.I was withdrawn from Bomber Command, with the surviving nine aircraft being sent to the Middle East or transferred to Coastal Command. The main rival for the B-17 from the United States was the B-24 Liberator, produced by Consolidated Aircraft. This four-engined bomber saw service with the RAF as well as with USAAF bomber squadrons over Europe, although once again in RAF service the Liberator was frequently regarded as a maritime-reconnaissance type. However, there were other problems with the so-called American 'heavies', apart from their early lack of armament. Their size and range compared with those of their British counterparts were indeed impress- ive, although the range was seldom fully utilized in the European theatre. The additional armament necessary to give these aircraft some chance of survival over enemy-occupied territory soon resulted in a much reduced warload, as little as 4,000 lbs on the B-17, and 8,000 lbs on the B-24, compared with 14,000 lbs on their British rivals, which, in the case of the La