full-scale raids on targets in Britain. In a continuation of the Blitzkrieg philosophy, the initial air raids on Britain were also connected with plans for an invasion, rather than as an assault on the British war effort. In contrast to a normal land or sea battle, the Battle of Britain had no clearly defined starting date, nor was there a definite date for its end, though the RAF always regards the battle as taking place between 10 July and 31 October 1940. This is as good a dating of the event as any, for during July German air activity, which had been intermittent since the fall of France, started to intensify. The Germans had also set in motion plans for 'Operation Sealion', the invasion of Britain, with the 'D-Day' (Adlertag) set for 15 September. On 19 July Adolf Hitler addressed the Reichstag (the German Parliament) in Berlin with what amounted to a peace offer to the British. Copies of his speech were dropped as leaflets entitled 'A last appeal to reason', by Luftwaffe aircraft flying over Hampshire, Dorset and Somerset on 1 August. That same day Hitler ordered the Luftwaffe to destroy the Royal Air Force as an essential preliminary to the invasion of Britain. Goering was confident that the RAF could be wiped out within four weeks. The Luftwaffe itself considered the main attack as starting on 5 August. The Luftwaffe lacked many of the essentials for success in the Battle of Britain, although some of the failings were at a higher level still. Three air fleets (Luftflotten) were assigned to the Battle, but of these one, the 5th Air Fleet under Stumpff in Norway, could not provide any real assistance due to the limited range of German bombers and the still more limited range of the fighters, since the bombers, with their poor defensive armament, required three or four fighter escorts apiece. The 2nd Air Fleet under von Kesselring in the Low Countries and northern France lacked the co-ordination necessary for a major campaign, as did Spearle's units in north-we