d for much of its early appeal. 21 Von Zeppelin was not the only pioneer of the airship, nor was he the only successful pioneer. Indeed, at first more attention was paid to his French rivals, the Lebaudy brothers, Paul and Pierre, with their technical director, Julliot. (The Lebaudys were in the most unlikely business of sugar-refining, although one should not overlook the fact that the Montgolfiers had been paper merchants.) Julliot and the Lebaudy brothers were involved in research into the feasibility of airships from 1896 onwards, and built the first Lebaudy airship (usually known either as the Lebaudy I or more often as Jaune, because of its bright yellow colour), which was completed in 1902. Smaller than the LZ-1, at 183 feet long against 420 feet, and with a single Daimler engine in place of the LZ-1's two engines, the Lebaudy I was nevertheless a successful design. Its most notable journey was from Moissant to Paris on 12 November 1903, covering the thirty-eight miles in 101 minutes. Later rebuilt after an accident and renamed the Lebaudy II, the craft was the first of many from the Lebaudy concern between 1903 and 1909, most of which gave satisfactory service with the French and the British armies. Known initially as a 'steerable balloon', the airship was not long delayed in proving its worth to the mili- tary, with the Lebaudy II visiting many French military installations during October 1905, practising aerial photography and the discharge of projectiles. While these experiments were progressing in Europe, on the other side of the Atlantic attention was focused solely on the aeroplane. A series of experiments with tandem-wing monoplane models, largely inspired by the work of the Englishman D. S. Brown, led to success for the American inventor Samuel Pierpoint Langley, whose No. 6 model actually flew for three-quarters of a mile on 28 November 1896. Not realizing that Langley's experiments failed to allow for any control of the aeroplane and were ultimatel