ay from the true target zone, so the Germans also attempted to lay false flares. But they had considerable difficulty in matching the colours of the RAF's flares and were especially poor in getting the red right, so that such ruses seldom worked. The success of the Pathfinders was immediate, and before the end of 1942, these units had operated on twenty-six raids, failing to find the target on only six occasions in appalling weather. As the war progressed, the opposing sides began to compete in the proficiency of their night fighters. Just as the all-powerful Luftwaffe had the German paratroops on its strength, in contrast with the British and American practice of assigning such forces to the army, the Luftwaffe was also responsible for anti-aircraft artillery and gunners, again in sharp contrast to British practice. The officer in charge of German anti-aircraft defences, including fighter operations, was the Luftwaffe General Joseph Kammhuber. The responsibility of organizing the overall defence of the Fatherland belonged to Kammhuber: hence the RAF's naming of the German radar and night fighter control station system as the 'Kamm- huber Line', although to the Germans it was the 'Himmelbett' - 'four- poster bed'. In effect, the system consisted of adjacent boxes using the German Freya and Würzburg radar stations linked to sector control rooms, and by 1942 the system stretched from Schleswig-Holstein to Belgium in a chain through which all aircraft approaching Germany had to pass, unless lengthy detours were made. The RAF did sometimes attempt to fly round the Kammhuber Line, not simply to bypass it but also to force the Germans into diverting resources into an extension of the line. Each box or section of the Kammhuber Line consisted of both Freya and Würzburg radar stations. The Freya stations were a somewhat less effective counterpart of the British Chain Home system, providing early warning and certain basic details of the raid, but although scrambling the night