r to identify under all but the worst conditions. Radar picked up the difference between land and water, but so too did moonlight, no matter how weak. The pressure of the Blitz was such during late 1940 that by 1 January 1941 more than 13,000 Londoners had been killed and another 16,000 badly wounded; the pressure of fighting fires was such that firemen would sometimes go for days afterwards before they could pass water. But there were other targets as well. On 14 November the Luftwaffe made its first raid on Coventry, then a major centre for both the aircraft and motor industries, while most major British cities received heavy bombing in turn, with only the most distant being treated lightly, such as Belfast, which, in spite of its coastal situation, was a difficult target because of its distance from Luftwaffe bases and because of the surrounding hills. The one bright spot was that the Luftwaffe failed consistently to press home their advantage. Had the Luftwaffe had larger aircraft capable of carrying a heavier bombload, and had the aircraft had a good defensive armament, the impact on British towns and cities would have been far worse. As it was, the He.111 could carry two tons at 225 mph, and the Do.17, the so-called 'flying pencil', could manage just one ton, at 265 mph. Such aircraft denied the Luftwaffe the opportunity to launch a crippling blow even while the RAF still lacked anything approaching air superiority over its own territory. Nor did the Germans follow up their raids as effectively as they might have done: there was no attempt at round-the-clock bombing, of complete devastation of a target; instead they moved on to a new target too soon, allowing the defenders time to repair the damage and resume production. The pace of technical development during World War II was one of the most impressive features of the war. By the end of September 1940 the RAF had effectively neutralized the Knicklebein system, although it was suspected that the Germans had a