ontrol of output and essential priorities treated almost as if a battle was being fought, which in many ways it was. By contrast, it was not until May 1944 that the entire armaments programme was placed under the direct supervision of the Reichs Ministry of Armaments and War Economy. The reasons for this dilatory approach to production have never been explained adequately, although perhaps the best theory lies in the suggestion that an easy victory, or at least an accommodation with the British, was expected for so long that it was not considered necessary to move to a war footing. The easy victories of German arms must have contributed to this air of complacency. Before this, in 1942, Milch, Goering's deputy, became the Luftwaffe's chief of procurement and supply, and this com- petent officer immediately set about establishing production goals. Even so, he faced an initial decrease due to the confusion which he inherited, before production rose again. It was Milch who in 1943 was to raise Luftwaffe fighter production to a new high without affecting bomber production, and planned still higher production for 1944. The confusion afflicting production in 1942 also made the comparison with 1944 even less favourable to the assessments of the bomber campaign. The steady improvement in the Allied position during 1942 owed much to the introduction of new techniques, and to other improvements. The work of earlier years was now to bear fruit. For the RAF, 1942 was the first full year in which heavy bombers were available. Some years before the outbreak of war, the Air Ministry issued a requirement (known as Spec. B12/36) for a heavy bomber, although stretching the abilities of the designers of the day somewhat by insisting that the aircraft should be capable of fitting into the standard RAF hangar with its maximum door clearance of 100 feet. The best wingspan that could be hoped for was 99 feet 10 inches, which must have called for some skill on the part of groundcrews. The s