f bombers, some of his own but often owing much to Tupolev's inspiration. In spite of this growing interest in the heavy bomber, when an opportunity occurred to use bombing aircraft, during the Sino-Soviet border clashes of 1929, the Russians preferred to rely on copied DH9As, known as the R-1. These faced a mixture of aircraft, with just a few examples of each type, in the service of the Peking government, the main authority in China at that time, but by no means the only operator of aircraft since control over provincial governments was often non- existent. The Chinese used British, French and American aircrew to fly a mixture of Vimys, 0/400s and Breguet 14s, in what proved to be an  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 62 4 inconclusive campaign. Neither side had the resources for a major conflict, and the Chinese had considerable internal unrest and disunity, as well as a growing threat elsewhere. Ready for Battle In March 1935 the great charade ended. Two years after Hitler became Chancellor, he admitted the existence of the new Luftwaffe. There, for all who cared to see, was not a fledgling air force with a core of training squadrons and a sprinkling of ex-World War I pilots but one of the world's largest air forces, fully equipped and with a better balance of aircraft types, and more up-to-date aircraft, than any other. The British were particularly embarrassed by the new arrival. When the Foreign Secretary, Sir John Simon, visited Hitler during the same month in which the Luftwaffe's existence was admitted, to negotiate an air pact with Germany, he asked Hitler when the Luftwaffe expected to achieve parity with the Royal Air Force, to which Hitler replied: 'We already have parity.' This was not true, since the Luftwaffe had 1,888 aircraft on its formation, and the RAF had almost 3,000 aircraft of all types at this time, including training aircraft and those with auxiliary units. Still, German aircraft production was already running at 200 aircraft per month and reached 300