h was also attractive because of its use of non-strategic materials, and was nicknamed the 'wooden wonder' by the RAF.  Possibly no city suffered more from air raids during the European war than Hamburg; this is the result. Meanwhile, Hitler ordered revenge weapons into production; these are V-1s leaving their underground factory. The second revenge weapon, the V-2, although officially known as the A-4, was a ballistic missile, the death knell for the strategic bomber. First used on active service in the fighting in China before the outbreak of World War II, the Mitsubishi Ki.21 Type 97 bomber remained in service with the Japanese Naval Air Force throughout World War II. One of the most dreaded weapons of World War II was the Japanese kamikaze suicide plane, sometimes using standard fighter bomber aircraft, but in- creasingly using the specially-designed Ohka or 'Baka' flying-bomb laun- ched from a bomber.  'Fat Man', the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki three days later; this was a more powerful device than that used on Hiroshima. 'Little Boy', the U-235 atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima on 6 August, 1945. Nagasaki after the bomb. The city lies in several valleys, which helped to contain the casualty rate and the destruction. Post-war, bomber ranges were extended by the use of in-flight refuelling. Here a Boeing B-47 Stratojet bomber of the USAF's Strategic Air Command edges towards the refuelling drogue. One of the fastest jet bombers was the General Dynamics (Convair) B-58 Hustler, capable of Mach 2.0, something which is still rare for a pure bomber type even today, almost thirty years after the Hustler's first flight. The RAF's Hawker Siddeley Buccaneers.  H 129 THE BOMBER OFFENSIVE During the 1980s the RAF received the Anglo-German-Italian Panavia Tornado, which in the strike version is known as the IDS, or GR.1 to the RAF. This one has four 1,000-lb bombs under the fuselage, and long-range fuel tanks under the wings. The main elements in the Strategic Air Comman