machine, was generally re- garded as being outstanding for its day. It did not matter very much anyway since, faced with Chinese air defences comprised of inadequate anti-aircraft gunnery and obsolete aircraft in the various Chinese air arms, mainly that of the Peking Government but with some belonging to semi-autonomous regional air arms as well, the Japanese Army Air Force and Japanese Navy Air Force could do as they wished. A long-range heavy bomber squadron was established by the JAAF in 1933 at Hama- matsu, using Kawasaki Type 87 and Mitsubishi Type 92 aircraft, the latter a licence-built development of the German Junkers G.38 airliner, adapted for strategic bombing duties. Both these manufacturers con- tinued to be interested primarily in producing light and medium bombers. The strength of the Chinese defence to Japanese forces still proved far stronger than the invaders had expected, however, with superior numbers and guerrilla tactics countering Japanese technical superiority. The so-called 'Shanghai Disturbances' led to the landing of Japanese troops around Shanghai on 28 January 1932, followed by the arrival of the aircraft-carrier Kaga on 30 January, with twenty-four Nakajima A1N Type 3 fighters and thirty-six Mitsubishi B1M Type 13 attack aircraft. While the initial intention may have been for a show of force by the Japanese, the strong resistance of the Chinese 19th Route Army was soon forcing the Japanese troops to retreat. The reaction came in the Japanese destruction of the non-European residential areas of Shanghai by systematic bombing by the Kaga's B1Ms. Fighting in and around Shanghai persisted until the end of February 1933, but at no time did the JNAF and the JAAF have to fight for aerial superiority. They were not to have such an easy time in 1937, when the main Japanese push through China began, for by then the rest of the world was awakened to the implications of Japanese ambitions. Even while they were pursuing their ambitions in China, the