times referred to as a nuclear-fusion device, entails bringing together two very light atoms, usually the deuterium and tritium versions of hydrogen, with a fission trigger device being used to create the conditions of intense heat necess- ary for fusion. The destructive force of a hydrogen bomb is measured in megatons, each equal to millions of tons of TNT. While the new generation of weapons and advances in missile technology threatened the supremacy of the bomber, it was far from finished, even in the strategic role. The USAAF recognized the continued importance of the bomber in the post-war world by the creation of the Strategic Air Command in March 1946, while the USAAF finally won independence of the United States Army in September 1947, with the formation of the United States Air Force. One result of the split with the United States Army was the granting to the USAF of control over all land-launched missiles with a range of more than 200 miles. This was not to be the ending of inter-service rivalry, however, with governments on both sides of the Atlantic having to make decisions as to the particular service which would deploy nuclear deterrent weapons. It took some time before the British and Americans managed to match the German achievement of building a jet bomber, but the results were far more practical than the Arado Ar.234, let alone the misused Messerschmitt Me.262. The first of the new generation of aircraft was the Boeing B-47 Stratojet, which first flew at the end of 1947 and entered USAF service in 1950. Production of this aircraft by Douglas and Lockheed helped to boost production to a total of more than 2,000 aircraft, although the USAF remained the sole customer. A maximum range of 4,000 miles, a 600-mph maximum speed and the ability to lift a warload of up to 20,000 lbs required six General Electric J47-GE-25 turbojets, although these early jet engines were of just 6,000-lb thrust each. Minimal defensive armament was carried, this being confined