n Water. The leisurely pace of development in the United States and the United Kingdom was matched by developments in other less likely countries, but wartime conditions rather than the uneasy peace of western Europe were forcing these developments. An Italian expeditionary force fighting Turkish troops in North Africa had six Blériot monoplanes attached to the Italian Army. On 1 November 1911 Lieutenant Cavotti flew in one of the Blériots to drop four small bombs, in reality hand-grenades, onto Turkish positions. How many casualties, if any, were achieved in this action is not known, but there were complaints later about the Italians actually bombing a military hospital, and this fuelled further controversy over the morality of bombing. A Hague Convention of 1899 had in fact prohibited the dropping of bombs from balloons, but it could be argued that this did not include airships, still less aeroplanes. Not every country was a signatory to the convention, in any event, and of all the major conventions on warfare this was one which definitely did not survive the course of the following two decades. The Turks certainly seemed to be a favourite target for the early bombing raids, with Bulgarian pilots flying with the Bulgarian Army during the Balkan War of 1912, also attacking Turkish positions. In this case the bombs were heavier than those thrown overboard so casually by the Italians, weighing 10 kg each. Bomb-launching was also ingenious, with a rope carrying each bomb being strung from the tail of the aircraft to a loop around the boot of the pilot or the observer, who released the bomb by simply slipping his foot out of the loop! Changes in attitudes were also being reflected in a more considered approach to service aviation, especially in the United Kingdom. After earlier favouring airship development at the expense of the aeroplane (which had seen the Committee on Imperial Defence in 1909 decide to stop spending the paltry sum of £2,000 a year on aeroplane const