the head of the Luftwaffe, which was disrupted most successfully. If this humiliation of the Luftwaffe was not enough, that afternoon Mosquitos from No. 139 squadron were unwelcome guests at a large Nazi Party rally being addressed by the propaganda minister, Dr Joseph Goebbels, hitting Berlin twice in one day! From autumn 1942 until May 1943, when the USAAF's daylight bombing offensive was in full swing, Mosquitos took on the task of making precision daylight raids against carefully selected targets. The aircraft had the distinction of being the only light bomber of World War II to carry a 4,000-lb bombload, including a single 4,000-lb 'cookie'. As 1942 passed, many heavy raids were conducted that summer by the RAF over Cologne, Bremen, Düsseldorf and other major targets, although none were on the scale of the thousand-bomber raids of May and June. In mid-August the Pathfinder Force was established, using the best squadrons available and eventually standardizing on Mosquito and Lancaster bombers. Such were the standards of training and airman- ship amongst these units that loss rates seldom exceeded three per cent of the Pathfinder Force, even over heavily defended targets in which the main force suffered losses of up to thirteen per cent. To be fair, there was an element of warning, of alerting enemy defences, in the Pathfinder operations, as the Air Staff had feared, but accuracy and damage also soared. One of the most successful of the early Pathfinder missions came on the night of 22-23 October 1942, on the eve of the Allied landings in North Africa, 'Operation Torch', when Pathfinder units led a hundred Lancasters flying over the Alps to a successful raid on Genoa and the Ansaldo railway yards and docks. Losses were light on this raid, with Italian night fighters and anti-aircraft fire being far less of a threat than those of the Luftwaffe. It seems fair to surmise that the Italians did not expect such a daring raid over such a distance. On 23 October eighty-e