r the RAF, while not neglecting the equally pressing needs of the other two armed services. As early as 1937 the German aircraft industry was operating at peak capacity, and a shortage of important metals was already in evidence; this affected the aircraft industry more than the manufacturers of tanks, guns and warships. The German economy was overheating, and even as Germany prepared for war, funds for the armed forces were limited. Instead of creating shadow factories, the Germans preferred to rely on increasing the daily shift from eight to ten hours and introducing double-shift working - a better use of plant but one which left it vulnerable to disruption by air raids. The one advantage the Germans possessed was the gradual absorption of aircraft factories in Austria, Czechoslovakia and, eventually, France and the Netherlands, but it is doubtful if these ever pulled their full weight, using slave labour or, at best, conscripted labour. The British made up for labour shortages by mobilizing women, whose commitment to the war effort was unstinting. Poland before the outbreak of war had been amongst Europe's poorest nations. An army of 350,000 men accounted for almost half the annual budget yet was centred around cavalry and horse artillery. There were only 28,000 motor vehicles in the country, as against 3 million in the United Kingdom. The Polish Air Force had some 900 aircraft, but these included many elderly training and support types, with a much smaller front-line strength. The bomber force, or bomber brigade, comprised nine squadrons with a total of just over one hundred aircraft, mainly P-23s and twin-engined P-37s, the latter being a modern design from the PZL works, which had commenced deliveries of this aircraft in 1938; but on the outbreak of war less than half the bomber force consisted of this type. For the invasion of Poland, the Luftwaffe amassed almost 2,000 aircraft, of which nearly 900 were bombers, mainly Dornier Do.17s, Heinkel He.111s and Junk