g Germany of the need to make reparations to Russia as a consequence of German defeat in World War I. Effectively, the Treaty provided a smokescreen for military co-operation. The first training course at Lipetsk started during the summer of 1925, using fifty Fokker DXIII fighter biplanes, powered by British 450-hp Napier Lion engines. The aircraft had been ordered from Anthony Fokker in the Netherlands, ostensibly for Argentina, by a German financier, Hugo Stinners, but instead of sailing to Argentina, once the aircraft were aboard one of Stinners' own cargo ships, they departed for Leningrad.  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON LIVING WITH AIR POWER 56 Other aircraft were ordered from Ernst Heinkel, who built them in a factory at Warnemunde, near Rostok, producing the He.17 and He.21 for the Lipetsk training courses, instead of the light aircraft which he was officially in business to produce. Heinkel had been advised to pay attention to the needs of the future Luftwaffe by none other than the then Major Kurt Student, who was subsequently to become head of the Luftwaffe's paratroop units. Other aircraft built by German designers at this time included the Dornier Do.P, which later became the Do. 11 developed in Switzerland, and the Rohrbach Roland bomber. The Roland was in fact seen by members of the Allied Control Commission on one occasion but was overlooked! Nor were the Lipetsk courses the sole source of skilled airmen for the future German air force, with the German airline Deutsche Luft Hansa, predecessor of today's Lufthansa. pioneering many night-flying and navigational techniques as well as enjoying a decidedly adventurous aircraft-procurement policy, with the aim of furthering techniques of use in a future war. A Luft Hansa director Ernst Milch, later became Goering's deputy. Lipetsk was to train 450 key flying personnel during the eight years of its existence, and these would be the squadron commanders of World War II. The Russians were so impressed by the work at Lip