ler (but with two nearby islands, Gozo and Comino, which would also have had to be suppressed lest the defenders withdrew to these) and, perhaps most telling of all, the many small fields with their 'stone hedges' were an effective bar to glider-borne assault.  107 BLITZKRIEG 106 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON The battle in the Mediterranean was far from one-sided, and the failure to invade Malta was to cripple the Afrika Korps as the war progressed. An earlier Allied success, however, came with the attack on the Italian fleet at its main naval base at Taranto in southern Italy. The raid was completely to change the traditional view of naval aviation as being merely an extension of the guns of the battle fleet. From Taranto onwards, naval aviation became an instrument of strategic air power in its own right, and the aircraft-carrier replaced the battleship as the capital ship. Taranto was such an important target that the original intention had been to use aircraft from two carriers, the new HMS Illustrious and the older HMS Eagle. However, HMS Eagle had been damaged during an Italian aerial attack and was forced to remain in harbour at Alexandria for repairs. The British commander, Admiral A. B. Cunningham, considered the attack too important to delay while HMS Eagle was re- paired, so on 6 November he took the British Mediterranean Fleet to sea. At 21.00 on 11 November, HMS Illustrious flew off the first of two waves of elderly Fairey Swordfish torpedo-bomber biplanes in a total striking force of just twenty aircraft, to fly 170 miles to Taranto. These slow and frail aircraft braved heavy Italian anti-aircraft fire to sink the battleships Littorio and Caio Duilo, damaging the Conte di Cavour so badly that she could not be repaired before the end of the war, while also damaging many other vessels and shore installa- tions. No fewer than eleven of the twenty torpedoes carried by the Swordfish struck an Italian warship, and just two aircraft were lost. The Littorio was later r