en followed by the main rivals of Langley, the two Wright brothers, Wilbur and Orville. 'Research' was not too grand a word for their activities for, in contrast with many other pioneers, they conducted exhaustive investigations into the work of the earlier pioneers, notably the Englishman Sir Ge the Frenchman Alphonse Penaud, before embarking on a series of successful trials with biplane gliders, with the advice of another American pioneer of gliding, Octave Chanute, to guide them in their initial work. The Wrights firmly believed in 'control in roll', using wing warping and an inherently unstable design to provide the pilot with the control necessary to bank and turn. Searching for an engine so that their third glider could be developed into a powered flying-machine, they found that nothing light enough was available with the power required, and so designed and built their own 12-hp water-cooled engine with a total weight of just 200 lbs. All of this from a couple of bicycle manu- facturers! It was not until 14 December 1903 that the Wrights were ready to test their prototype, which they later named the Flyer I. A single rail was laid along the sands at the Kill Devil Hills, along which the machine was to trundle mounted on a launching trolley, with one of of the brothers flying and the other running alongside to steady the machine as take-off speed built up. The toss of a coin decided that Wilbur should be the first to fly, and the Flyer made a perfect take-off run, rising from the rail only to stall and crash into the sand. Fortunately little damage was done to the machine, or to Wilbur, who readily admitted to causing the accident by trying too steep a climb. The damage was quickly repaired, but flying was not possible until 17 December because of poor weather. Hastily summoning local witnesses and leaving a coastguard to press the shutter on a pre-set camera, the brothers prepared for the flight. At 10.35 a.m., with Orville piloting, the frail machine ran alon