nd of Sylt: attacking in good weather, five aircraft failed to find the target. The aircraft which did make it dropped fifteen tons of bombs but caused only slight damage. Of course, such operations were not one-sided; the previous October had seen the Luftwaffe raid the Home Fleet's northern base at Scapa Flow with a force of Junkers Ju.88 bombers which failed to cause real damage yet suffered heavy casualties. Luck also played an important part in the RAF's success, as during March 1940, when RAF night fighters shot down a Heinkel He.111 of KG.26. Interrogation of the crew yielded information on the German radio navigation system known as 'Knicklebein' to the Germans. Further investigations and work by the RAF's Air Intelligence Branch pointed to German work on a night navigation system for bombers, indicating that plans were being laid for a major night offensive against British cities. The initial German radar navigation system was found to be a long-range version of the Lorenz blind-landing system. Further informa- tion became available to the British when an aircraft on an electronic reconnaissance flight over Huntingdon on the night of 21-22 June 1940 discovered beams pointing to the Rolls-Royce factory at Derby. No raid resulted, but clearly the Germans were testing the equipment over the British Isles rather than selecting a target in their own extensive occupied territories. This laxity gave the British warning of what was to come. A lull followed the invasion of France and the defeat of the British and French armed forces. The Luftwaffe had to occupy its new bases and make good its losses in the assault on the west. These reasons were far more important than the prospect of a peace with Britain after the collapse of France in explaining the delay in mounting full-scale raids on targets in Britain. In a continuation of the Blitzkrieg philosophy, the initial air raids on Britain were also connected with plans for an invasion, rather than as an assault on th