Krupp armaments works. On the night of 8-9 March 211 bombers took off in fine weather to raid the Krupp works, following a small Pathfinder formation which operated on good Gee fixes to drop flares and incendiaries on the target. Although the main force arrived on time and within the fifteen-minute interval planned, the flares had either burnt out or been extinguished, leaving just a few small incendiary fires, with the result that the raid crept back from the target and was only a qualified success, with little significant damage to Krupps, although adjoining factories were badly hit. Even so, this was far better than most of the earlier raids combined. The following night was less successful, after a flak-damaged Stirling jettisoned its incendiaries, which were bombed by the main force, even though these were some twenty miles short of the target. On a third raid the Germans managed to create a successful starfish diversion, which the RAF bombed, and on the fourth the parachute flares used were so effective as they floated down One of the major Luftwaffe bombers: the Heinkel He.111, seen here in formation over the English Channel. 2 An Italian CRDA Cant. Z.1007 on a raid over Malta, one of the most heavily bombed targets in Allied territory.  1 The Manchester led to the Lancaster, seen here dropping a mixed load over Duisburg. The most famous American bomber was the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress, although the heavy defensive armament needed over Europe severely curtailed its warload. This B-17 is on a raid over the oil production centre of Ploesti, in Romania, a 'panacea' target. A Martin B-26 Marauder medium- bomber taking severe punishment while on a raid. The only light bomber of World War II to be able to carry a 4,000-lb bombload was the de Havilland Mosquito, which was also attractive because of its use of non-strategic materials, and was nicknamed the 'wooden wonder' by the RAF.  Possibly no city suffered more from air raids during the European war than Hambu