with the USAF forma- tion. One F-111B flew into the sea during the low-altitude run-in to Tripoli. The aircraft used anti-radar Shrike and Warm missiles to destroy Libyan radar, as well as laser-guided smart bombs, able to identify their target a hundred miles or so away. There were also conventional 500-1b bombs. A technical fault or an incorrect target-selection led to some bombs or missiles hitting civilian housing instead of a Libyan security barracks, with civilian casualties including about one hundred injured and a substantial number of dead. Other casualties were caused by SAM-5 missiles falling to earth after failing to make contact with a target. Generally, Libyan anti-aircraft fire was inaccurate, and the firing of anti-aircraft guns and missiles the following night following a false alarm suggests that training and co-ordination were poor. base. The bombers showed their traditional strengths and weaknesses dur- ing the operations against Libya, and against Libyan naval craft. The acid test of any such retaliatory measure must lie in its success in curbing terrorism, but the bomber is a poor weapon for this role. The problem with terrorism is that there are few military targets associated with terrorists which can be attacked with any real benefit, unlike a conven- tional open war, in which military bases and communications centres can be destroyed. Terrorism does not need a sophisticated industrial base or lines of communication but infiltrates itself into the communications systems of its host nation, in much the same way as a deadly disease might travel through the bloodstream of its host to attack vital organs. This means that prevention takes place close to the target, depending on efficient police work and timely intelligence. There is something to gain in preventing escalation of such a conflict and concentrating instead on effective counter-measures and avoiding leniency in punishment. In spite of the problems created by Libya for her Arab neighbo