rms as the tempo of war had risen and the conflict on the ground had become bogged down in a bloody stalemate. It had become hard to cling to the belief that air raids were barbaric when thousands of men were dying by the hour as troops were ordered out of their trenches and expected to attack over barbed wire and through minefields in the face of intense artillery fire and devastating machine-gun fire which scythed through the advancing troops. Concern over the morality of attacking civilians wilted in the realization that it was civilians who were putting the tools of war into the hands of an opponent. It was becoming difficult to decide just who were the civilians. Merchant seamen were civilians, yet U-boat commanders had no qualms about sinking supply ships in an attempt to starve the British Isles into defeat. Workers in naval dockyards were civilians, yet these were amongst the first legitimate targets as strategic air power evolved and attacks by aircraft moved away from the immediate vicinity of the battlefield. In a sense, there was a rough justice about this. In a bout of jingoism unknown in the democracies during World War II, civilians on both sides reacted to the prospect of war with as much enthusiasm and fervour as their leaders, and perhaps far more than the fighting men who had witnessed the carnage of a new kind of war at first hand. There was little doubt about it. After four years of war, and just fifteen years after the first tentative aeroplane flights, air power had become a significant element in warfare, and bombing was an inescapable feature of any major conflict.  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 48 LIVING WITH AIR POWER Doubts there may have been, and controversy there certainly was. Just how effective was the bomber? Did it justify a complete re-casting of the military structure so that, instead of being tied to the army and navy, air power could be deployed, with fighters and bombers waging a war of their own in an autonomous air force? If commande