quadrons of Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress bombers, as well as eight squadrons of North American B-25 Mitchells and twelve squadrons of Martin B-26 Marauders, while there were Lockheed P-2 Lightnings for long-range fighter escort of the bombers, and attack aircraft as well for battlefield support. Perhaps the most notable of the many raids in North Africa and Italy of the USAAF B-17s in this theatre was the bombing of Monte Cassino in May 1944, completing the destruction of St Benedict's Monastery, a German strongpoint blocking the main approaches to Rome from Naples. Within a week of the bombing, the third of the major battles for Monte Cassino resulted in the German defenders being overrun. One of the most famous of the lighter aircraft was the de Havilland Mosquito, originally developed by de Havilland as a private venture, based on the record-setting de Havilland Comet aeroplane of the early 1930s. The concept was one of a fast aircraft relying on speed rather than a defensive armament for safety. A single prototype was built, but the Air Ministry displayed scant interest in the aircraft, which escaped cancellation after the evacuation from Dunkirk only because most of the structure was comprised of wood and therefore placed little demand on scarce strategic materials. However, when the prototype made its first flight on 25 November 1940, the sceptics were completely overcome, to the extent that the fast bomber was almost immediately viewed as a fighter. The 'wooden wonder' was in fact to serve as a long-range fighter, as a night fighter, replacing the Beaufighters in this role, and as a  122 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON THE BOMBER OFFENSIVE reconnaissance aircraft as well as a bomber. Its twin Rolls-Royce Merlin engines could, in the initial production Mk.IV version, carry four 500-1b bombs at up to 380 mph or 40,000 feet, with a 300-mph cruising speed providing a maximum range with maximum load of 1,370 miles. No fewer than 7,787 of these fine aircraft were built. At the