structed Norstad: “Our position—bombing factories, docks, etc.—is sound—Later destroy the whole city.”2”  Arnold’s comments reflected the dominant tone in air force speculation about Japan’s fate. As technicians, the airmen placed operational considerations first and said little about the enemy, rarely employing the rhetoric of vengeance found elsewhere. Intent on speeding up operations, seldom called upon to explain how doing so would affect the final political outcome, they used a language and methodology in which the enemy, far from being the central preoccupation, was the void at the center of other concerns. Thus the air force could serve as a vehicle of vengeance while confining itself to the problems of technique.  As such, its leaders may seem to have been amoral technicians, instruments of a nation’s anger in which they had no particular investment. It is a characterization reinforced by the willingness of AAF leaders to target German morale and cities in the last stages of the war and by their apparent lack of remorse after the war as well. Regarding the bombing of Japan, General Ira Eaker later said, “It made a lot of sense to kill skilled workers by burning whole areas.” He “never felt there was any moral sentiment among leaders of the AAF” nor any lack of willingness to use the atomic bomb on Germany had it been ready, except for the lack of “fruitful” targets there by the war’s last months. As Ronald Schaffer has argued, most objections to area bombing of cities that arose among AAF leaders were tactical or political rather than moral ones. The relative ease and swift payoff of bombing Japan simply seemed to argue for a more systematic attack on its cities.78  Three considerations serve to soften the hard lines of this picture of air force leaders. First, airmen did not decide to bomb in a moral vacuum. As Eaker later commented, “Arnold feared the reaction of the U.S. public to urban area bombing of women and children. He pointed to the large percentag