apan. Arnold believed such a commander would have close contact with Washington which, in turn, would give him a more global perspective. One of Arnold's constant reminders to his commanders was that theirs was not the only theater of operations and that their concerns had to be prioritized in relation to the global war. The hope for a supreme com m ander was only a dream on Arnold's because neither MacArthur nor Nimitz would subm it to such a commander 9 4 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold's Journal Trip to the Pacific," (September 1942), Reel 42, file 13. 9 5 . Ibid. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 85 --- 78 unless they were the one in charge. The idea of a Supreme Commander was also hampered by the fact th at the distances in the Pacific worked against a centralized command. The compactness of the European theater compelled at least a measure of cooperation between the services and allies. In the Pacific, Americans did not have to trouble themselves, for the most part, with allies. Hence, they were free to give full reign to their inter-service wrangles. Furthermore, the Joint Chiefs were tolerant of disagreement among subordinates, and they did the only thing they could do, compromise. They gave MacArthur one force, the Navy another, and Arnold commanded the new 20th Air Force. In practice the dividing of resources meant that there was no overall strategy to defeat Japan in the Pacific. The Army pursued island hopping, the Navy attacked the Japanese Navy and Arnold prepared for the strategic bombing campaign against Japan. This set-up was not as fractious as it appeared. Although there was certainly duplication of effort and dubious operations, in the end as the ring closed around Japan the services were drawn into closer cooperation.9 6 By 1943, Arnold and his staff could get down to planning the destruction of Japan. There were still many frustrations to be d