n ethical and humanitarian grounds. From a political perspective, the doctrine of precision bombing allowed America to take the high ground, as when President Roosevelt in September 1939 urged the warring parties to desist form civilian attacks. The adoption of AWPD-1 would afford Arnold the opportunity to demonstrate the impact American bombers could have in winning a war. The byproduct of a successful strategic bombing campaign would ultimately be the creation of an independent Air Force. Arnold Papers , "Arnold to Kuter,"(February 3 1942), Reel 167 file 6. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 44 --- 3 7 Conclusion When American air leaders went into the First World War, they had little practical experience with the concept of strategic bombing. Through their association with men like Caproni and Trenchard, they gained an appreciation for the concept of strategic bombing. Mitchell and Gorrell came out of the conflict convinced that the U.S. needed to concentrate on building a strategic bombing force. In the 1920's, the community of air theorists in Europe and America was small; thus, the exchange of ideas between them across the Atlantic was greatly facilitated. The Bolling mission began this process during the war with exchanges between Caproni and Gorrell on the basics of a strategic bombing campaign. After the war, the British and Italian influences soon made an impression on the younger group of air officers at the Army W ar College in the 1 92 0’s. The British General Groves, who had published an article in the Atlantic Monthly,  was often quoted in speeches by American air theorists. The British military historian Liddell-Hart, whose ideas closely resembled the ideas of Groves, Caproni, and Mitchell, was quoted in 1925 by General Patrick at the Army W ar College in 1925. These ideas were passed on to the next generation of American air theorists in the 1