sed on inference, because there exists no definitive document which could conclusively prove my viewpoint. One could say the same for my argum ent that racism was a factor in the Pacific for the employment of area and terror with little or no restraint. Nevertheless, these are powerful inferences based on the evidence. The postwar era saw the continuation of both area and pinpoint concepts. In essence, Soviet and American nuclear concepts were based upon Douhet. Civilians on both sides were targeted in an attempt to establish a balance of terror. In the nuclear age, there would be no drawn-out wars of attrition. The pinpoint conception of war had come a long way by the 1990s. By 1990, American military technology had made it possible to fire missiles from remote locations and land them within feet of an intended target. Air leaders could speak with some confidence of a clean war where military or terrorist headquarters could be taken out next to hospitals. The American air leadership, as in Arnold's day, still attempted to dazzle the media and public with the capabilities of their machines. The promise that the job could be done from the air with less risk and cost to American lives became an even more persuasive theme in the 1990s than in the 1940's. These premisses made it even more embarrassing when the technology failed to produce the desired results by killing innocent bystanders in a poor and far-off land. In the 1990's, the AAF, as in the 1930's, sold its service as the most cost effective method of waging war. As in the 1930's and 1940’s, the promise that a war Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 119 --- 112 could be fought and won from the air continued to be held out to the public and to the rest of the military establishment. And again the limitations of this promise were just as apparent in the 1940's as in the 1990's, as most recently observed in t