is command. Spaatz always maintained that it was the policy of the AAF only to bomb military targets. After the war, Spaatz tried to drive this view home in a debriefing of Goering in May 1945. Spaatz asked Goering directly if "the Germans realize that the American Air Forces by intention did only precision bombing?"1 2 8  Spaatz and many of his contemporaries wanted to maintain the myth of strategic bombing as it was conceived of in the 1930’s. Spaatz had faith in his organization and its capabilities. To openly admit, especially to a former enemy, that the AAF had frequently engaged in area bombing against noncombatants would have broken this credo. As often occurs in these types of situations, when one puts too much faith in machines and organizations that control them, the consequences for humanity become blurred. Effects Almost immediately after the war, the AAF began the process of assessing the impact of the strategic bombing campaign. In the early stages of the investigation, 1 1 7 . Werrell. Blankets of Fire, 241. ,:s. Arnold Papers,  "Interrogation of Reich Marshall Goering," (May 10 1945), Reel 168, File 6. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 107 --- 100 the investigators relied on captured Nazi officials such as Albert Speer, Hitler's architect and armaments minister, Herman Goering, and other high officials. In August 1945, the assessment team delivered a report to General Arnold on the "Miscellaneous Aspects of Air Attack." Although this assessment was preliminary, it gives us an idea of how the AAF evaluated its efforts during the war and how it viewed the future. The first section of the AAF's report covered  the effect of air attacks on the German war economy. The report noted that the war economy had not been fully mobilized until the first half of 1944. By this time, however, the German military situation was so precarious that desperate meas