the overall strategic objectives were being endangered for short term political gains. As a result of political pressure, the heavy losses soon put Arnold on the defensive as he faced a sustained outcry from the newspapers. Arnold's response was just as political as the political pressure brought upon him. In a January 1944 report to the Secretary of War, Arnold refused to give in to his pressure. "Our attack on Schweinfurt was the most perfect example in history of accurate distribution of bombs over a target. It was an attack that will not have to be repeated for a very long time, if at all."6 2 However, the truth was that these raids represented the loss of American initiative over Germany. Arnold could not suffer many more of these "victories" and still maintain his consensus among political and military leaders for his bombing offensive. Arnold's declaration of victory was clearly a political attempt to buy more time. It is within this context that Arnold, Eaker, and Spaatz began to view less risky area bombing in a more favorable light while planning the 1944 campaign. Much of the spring and early summer of 1944 were taken up with support for operation OVERLORD. At this time, the future of strategic bombing was very much in question as there began a controversy over the control of heavy bombers. Eisenhower wanted control of the Eighth Air Force (now headed by Carl Spaatz) and Chief Marshal Arthur Harris's Bomber Command. The planners in Eisenhower headquarters, aided by civilian specialists, including British air expert Professor Zuckerman, had worked out a scheme to attack railroad networks in France, Western s:. John Winant Papers,  "A Report of Commanding General of the Army Air Forces to Sec of War." FDR Library Hyde Park New  York, Box 183. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 61 --- 5 4 Germany, and the Low Countries. Eisenhower's plan was to prevent