the ideas of Groves, Caproni, and Mitchell, was quoted in 1925 by General Patrick at the Army W ar College in 1925. These ideas were passed on to the next generation of American air theorists in the 1 93 0’s through the Maxwell Field Tactical School. With the resurrection of Gorrell's 1918 bombardment plan by Captain Kuter, a plan which contained the basic strategic conception set forth by Caproni, the Italian and British influence was carried over into World War Two. Arnold, Spaatz, Hansell, and Eckar either taught or lectured at the School. They fully endorsed the concept of strategic bombing and imbued it with American ideas. The events in China, Spain, and Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 45 --- 3 8 Ethiopia in the mid to iate 1930's reinforced their beliefs in their conception of strategic bombing. What they needed was political support. In 1918, Gorrell had neither the political nor the military com m itm ent to conduct a sustained strategic bombing campaign. By the end of 1941, American air leaders had put together all of the components necessary to prove the theories put forth by Douhet, Mitchell, and the Maxwell Field Tactical School. It had been a long and difficult struggle against the political and military structure to establish the principles contained in AWPD-1, and there were still many struggles ahead. In the end, it was the support of the White House which gave them  the tools to carry out a strategic bombing campaign. In Europe, Arnold and his staff had to concentrate enough bombers to constitute an effective strike force, while in the Pacific bases had to be found from which to attack Japan. Problems of supply, training, target selection, and personnel would keep Arnold busy for the rest of the war. Arnold would also have to maintain the momentum for AWPD-1 against the constant tem ptation to scatter his forces for an endless array of tas