n of the Air Service can no longer be justified . . .  As far as can at present be foreseen there is absolutely no limit to the scale of its future war use, and the day may not be far off when aerial operations with their devastation of enemy lands and destruction of industrial and population centers on a vast scale may become the principal operations of war, to which the older forms of military and naval operations may becomes secondary and subordinate.3 From the ideas expressed by Mitchell and Smuts, it is clear that the revolutionary and destructive potential of air power was conceived of early on. Further evidence can be found in a report by Col. Edger Gorell submitted to the American Chief of the '. H.H Arnold, Global Mission (New York: Harper & Brothers 1949) 50. -. H.H. Arnold, Global Mission., 86. 3 . "Second Report of the Prime Minister Committee on Air Organization and Home Defense against Air Raid, 17 August, 1917," in Eugene Emme, ed, The Im pact of Air Power (Princeton, N.J.,:Von Nostrand, 1959), 35. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 18 --- 11 Air Service in iate 1917. Gorell's report called for an im m ediate program of bombing to attack Germany's centers of manufacturing, its commerce, and lines of communication. Gorell, like Mitchell, believed that a round-the-clock bombing would bring Germany to her knees.4 Gorell and Mitchell were both influenced by French, British, and especially Italian airmen. Before American entry into the First World W ar, U.S. airmen gave little thought to modern aircraft and their use. It was only natural that U.S. airmen sought advice from foreign airmen in the organization and em ploym ent of their air forces. The Bolling Mission was considered one of the most significant fact-finding missions for the future of American air doctrine. In the middle of 1917, Colonel Bolling and Major Gorrell, one of the two signal cor