6  At this point Arnold and the administration were ready to use any means to bring the war to an end. The thought of having to fight another year against Japan was almost unthinkable. If gas could end the w ar quickly, Arnold was for it. Racism may not have been the only motive for advocating the use of gas on Japanese civilians. The desire to end the war as quickly as possible for domestic and international reasons was another important consideration. Arnold had proposed similar plans against the Germans; racism, however, made it more natural to subject the average Japanese to such tactics. There were some who attem pted to limit collateral dam age on the Germans and Japanese. Stimson is perhaps the most prominent U.S official who consistently l2 J . Arnold Papers,  "Journal," (June 5 1945) Reel 3 File 5. 1 2 5 . Ibid. t1 6 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Giles," (April 5th  194 5), Reel 170, File5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 106 --- 9 9 objected to the increasing resort to terror bombing. On several occasions Stimson intervened to prevent the destruction of Japan's royal palace and religious sights in Italy.1 2 7  These efforts, however, were inconsistent and never had the support of the full political and military establishment. Although Stimson was able to save some specific sites, his stature within the administration was not such th at he could effect a profound change in policy. Moreover, Stimson's efforts were more directed at preserving historical treasures, not at saving men, women, and children. Carl Spaatz was the most consistent opponent of area bombing among the top Air Force leadership. As we have seen, however, area bombing took place under his command. Spaatz always maintained that it was the policy of the AAF only to bomb military targets. After the war, Spaatz tried to drive this view home in a debriefing of Goering in May 1945. Spaatz