ld reacted to the destruction caused by the Japanese occupation of the Philippines as he had in Britain during the darkest days of 1942. Arnold became filled with a inner rage against the enemy. See, E.B Sledge, With the Old Breed (Oxford University Press, New Yorkl981). Arnold Papers,  "Kenney to Arnold," (January 1 1943), Reel 172, File 4. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 105 --- 9 8 Apparently the atrocities by the Japs have never been told in the U.S. Babies thrown up in the air and caught on bayonets-autopsies on living people-burning prisoners to death by sprinkling them with gasoline and throwing in a hand grenade to start a fire. If  any tried to escape they were killed by machine guns as they came through the door. More and more of the stories which can apparently be substantiated. There is no feeling of sparing any Japs here-m en, women or Children-gas, fire, anything to exterminate the entire race exemplifies the feeling. Stories of men and boys being killed while all girls and women from 10 years of age upward were raped by one Jap Division retreating from this section of Manila-they are not pretty stories, but they explain why the Japs can expect anything.1 2 4 Arnold's horror at what he had seen greatly reinforced his racist attitudes toward the Japanese. The images which he saw in the Philippines caused him to conjure up even more bizarre methods to defeat the Japanese people. On several occasions, Arnold advocated the use of gas, affirming that he could "see no reason why we should not use gas right now against Japan proper. Any kind of gas."1 2 5  Indeed, a proposal to use gas against Japan was sent in April 1945 to Truman for consideration.1 2 6  At this point Arnold and the administration were ready to use any means to bring the war to an end. The thought of having to fight another year against Japan was almost unthinkable. If gas could en