w evidence of the readings and class discussions; Be devoid of confusion or factual error; Show insight into the issues raised. W hat I mean by this is, that you must demonstrate that you understand the material. 2. (B) An "B" essay shall: Show good organization, have a beginning middle and end; Have good detail; Show some evidence of the readings and class discussions. There can be some confusion and factual problems but not so much as to distract; Show the beginning of some insight into the issues. 3. (C) An "C" essay should give me some organization related to the question but generally show problems in this regard: There is usually a lack of appropriate detail. There is confusion and factual problems but these still should not distract from the overall essay; Usually lacks insight; Need to show some effort. 4. (D) An "D/F" essay shows; Lack of effort ;Lack of organization; Lack of appropriate detail; Absolutely no insight into the issues or any evidence that you even bought the book. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 125 --- 1 1 8 Bibliography Acosta, Fredric. "Bloody Proving Ground." Popular Aviation,  1 January 1938, 10-13. Arnold, H.H. Global Mission. New York: TAB Books Inc, 1989. _________ . and Ira Eaker. Winged Warfare. New York: Harper & Brothers, 1941. Asada, Sadao. "The Shock of the Atomic Bomb and Japan's Decision to Surrender: A Reconsideration." Pacific Historical Revievj  67 (1998): 477-512. Boyle, A. Trenchard: Man of Vision. London: Collins, 1952. Baumbach, W erner. The Life and Death of the Luftwaffe. New York: Coward-McCann, 1949. Cairncross, Alec. Planning in Wartime. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1974. Chander, Alfred. The Papers of Dwight David Eisenhower. Baltimore: John Hopkins Press, 1970. Churchill, Winston. The Gathering Storm. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1948. Clodfelter, Mark. "Pinpointing Devastation: American Air Campaign Plann