while limiting such attacks in France.6 6  Although these operations appeared to achieve some success, a public relations crisis ensued over the civilian deaths caused by the new tactics. In a March 6th  1944 New York Times front page article, objections to area bombing were raised by the English pacifist Vera Brittan and signed by 28 prominent British and American clergymen. In the article, Brittan contended that "nothing less than absolute certainty that the bombing would shorten the war 6 5 . Arnold Papers,  "Spaatz to Arnold," (March 6, 1944), Reel 169, File 6. 6 6 . Arnold Papers,  "Spaatz to Gen Norstad,"(May 15th , 1944), Reel 167, file 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 64 --- 5 7 entitles even the most ardent use of these dreadful expedients."6 7  Brittan also made the argument that such tactics had the opposite effect on morale and laid the foundation for World W ar Three. The fact that Brittan's views were reported on the front page and were endorsed by 28 clergymen greatly disturbed Arnold. Years later, he complained about the Brittan article stating that these people simply did not understand what war was about.6 8  This was not the type of press Arnold was after. As we have seen, the public perception of his organization mattered greatly in Arnold's struggle for complete autonomy. He did not want the public to dwell on the moral implications of strategic bombing. The type of reporting Arnold wanted was found by headlines such as "AIR WAR AT PEAK," with a story line filled with statistics about the number of Nazi fighters knocked down, tons of bombs dropped, targets destroyed, and German vulnerability to air attacks.6 9  These headlines conveyed to the public an organization on the move making decisive contributions to the war effort. Arnold and his staff made sure the press had plenty of stats to support their strategic conception of the w ar.