Naval Engineers could create the type of environment necessary for modern air operations. Third, supply was from the sea, which, despite the problems with the Navy, was more efficient than flying supplies over the hump. In February 1944, how to proceed was a point of contention. George Kenney, the Air Force Commander in the South West Pacific, was concerned that the course of action that had recently been agreed upon seemed no longer current. There had been a unanimity of opinion at Pearl Harbor as expressed in the stenographic record of all the conversations by representatives of the three theater commanders on January 28th  and 29th. At this conference, it was agreed that the Marianas and Caroline island groups were not of sufficient value to warrant the large-scale operations necessary to capture them. Rather, it was agreed that the axis of attack was the New Guinea-Philippines China line. "This is the only axis on which we would use the full power of the fleet, carrier-based air, land based and amphibious forces."1 0 0  The new direction in 1944 toward the Marianas did not seem to Kenney to accomplish the goals originally set out at Pearl Harbor. ".Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Marshall," (May 17th , 1944), Reel 172, file 6. 1 0 0  Arnold Papers,  "Kenney to Arnold," (February 19th ), 1944, Reel 172, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 88 --- 81 Arnold's reply to Kenney provides a good view of his thoughts on how to obtain bases for the destruction of Japan. Arnold disagreed that the Marianas was not a suitable target for attack. "We feel that with the bases in the Marianas, the Northern Kuril, and Formosa, it would be possible for us to launch a softening up bombardment against Japan." From the Marianas-Palau line, Formosa could be attacked. In short, Arnold argued that the Marian as had to be taken to bring the war to Japan. Although long-range bombin