now became the focal point for supply. If these cities could be crippled, throwing their populations into the streets and countryside, the German will to resist could not help but collapse. The Allies believed, once again, that they had found the moment when terror could bring about a decisive result. The Allied powers had reached a point where they were willing and able to unleash all that they 7 8  Arnold Papers,  "Spaatz to Arnold," (October 1944), Reel 173, File 8. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 71 --- 6 4 had. For years, Arnold and the others had fought to build this supremely powerful force and gain the consensus for its use. Now they were going to use it. On February 13th and 14th, two waves of British planes dropped hundreds of thousands of high explosive and incendiary bombs, while the Americans added 47 5 tons of general purpose bombs and 294 tons of incendiaries to the mix. These combined raids left between 35,000 and 135,000 dead in Dresden. Even though Spaatz had taken care to give specific military objectives in the city, he could not have expected his fliers to deliver their bomb loads with precision due to the weather and smoke caused by the earlier British raids. A few days after the raids in a press briefing, an RAF officer, Air Commodore C.M. Grierson, stated that one object of the raids was to disrupt the German war effort by forcing the Nazi government to use supplies to care for bombed out civilians and by destroying those places where civilians had been evacuated. An Associated Press reporter dispatched a story based on these statements. Soon Americans were reading headlines that stated, "Allied air bosses have made the long awaited decision to adopt deliberate terror bombing."7 9  These reports put American air leaders on the defensive. After years of feeding the public the gospel of precision bombing, Grierson had politically tied t