e goals, specific targets were named. In the spring of 1943, operations were begun with attacks on submarine bases to relieve pressure on the Atlantic shipping lanes. It was envisioned at Casablanca that full-scale strategic operations would begin in early summer. In the m eantime, Arnold was kept busy providing the administration with facts on the S 5 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to FDR," (January 1942), Reel 171, file 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 56 --- 4 9 effectiveness of his operations. In one instance, Roosevelt questioned the effectiveness of high altitude bombing. Arnold's response to such questions was swift, often overwhelming the administration with statistics.5 6  As in the Vietnam era, when in doubt, overwhelm the upper levels with impressive statistics. Arnold could not, however, hold the administration and save face with the British without results. To this end, Arnold put constant pressure on his commanders for results to get as much as possible out of the small forces available to the allies in the spring of 1943. Arnold complained to General Stratem eyer about under use of available force. "During the Casablanca Conference I was put on the defensive by both the British and the President for not having our heavy bombers bombard Germany." Arnold had to show some good early results in order to maintain the consensus for massive raids starting in the summer of 1943. The pressure to scatter his forces was too great to allow planes to sit on the runways in England while awaiting reinforcements. Again to Stratemeyer: I realize full well that your total of 207 heavy bombers will not permit you to carry out missions which you would like but this number of airplanes cannot be held on the ground for weeks at a time without subjecting us to severe criticism.5 7 Arnold was fully aware of the complexity of putting large numbers of bombers in the air.