nce in June  1940. The German attem pt to adhere to an ethical code (at least against Britain) ended by the late summer of 1940. The German failure to eliminate the RAF and its infrastructure led to attacks on London in a vain attem pt to draw out their reserves. From September 1940, through mid May 1941, the Germans killed 40,000 civilians. The British came to the same process in a different manner. In the summer of 1940, their prospects for winning the war were remote. The British were desperately looking for a way to have some impact on the German war machine. By the end of 1939, they realized that day raids were not only costly but ineffective. Their nighttime raids proved even more inaccurate and by early 1942 the British were looking for a new strategic concept. In a short essay by C.P. Snow, Science and Governm ent, Snow examined the British decision to begin bombing civilians. Snow traced the issue to a disagreement between Churchill's science advisors, Sir Henry Tizard and F.A Lindermann. Lindermann had presented a plan calling fo ra new direction in strategic bombing. Basically, his plan called for a switch to direct attacks on civilians and their housing. The plan claimed that given a total concentration of effort on the production and use of bombing aircraft it would be possible in the larger towns of Germany to destroy 4 9 . Schaffer, Winas of War, 22. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 52 --- 4 5 50%  of their housing.5 0  It was not long before Tizard began a critical analysis of the plan and figured that Lindermann's estimate of houses destroyed were far too high. At this point the whole affair became political as Tizard was convinced that Lindermann's estimates were far too high and that a strategic campaign based on such an analysis would be a wasted effort. Tizard's problem was two fold: In the first place, he did not have a personal relatio