rmission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 61 --- 5 4 Germany, and the Low Countries. Eisenhower's plan was to prevent German reserves from reaching the front. However, to redirect the mission of the heavy bomber command, would, of necessity disregard, if not destroy, Arnold's long-term goal of POINTBLANK the strategic assault on Germany's industrial complex, particularly that which was supplying aircraft and fuel. The architects of POINTBLANK, Harris and Spaatz, protested against the change in emphasis. They insisted that continued attacks on aircraft and oil would support the objectives of both OVERLORD and POINTBLANK. If the heavy bombers were to change from these objectives, they argued, it would allow the Germans to recover their production. Spaatz, true to the early air theorists, believed that given 30 clear operational days, he could finish the war on his own. Spaatz and Harris won the day by gaining the support of Churchill, Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal, Chief of the Im perial Staff Alan Brock, and Arnold. During this period, the P-51 long range escort came into service, greatly reducing losses. With these new escorts, Spaatz undertook a series of raids guided by radar against Berlin.6 3  The intent of these raids was to draw the GAF out and destroy it before the allies landed in France. Arnold, as always, wanted his bombers back in the air. The GAF could not be drawn out if they only flew on clear days, which, in any case, are few during the winter months. Radar provided a tool to continue bombing during cloudy days. Arnold had already given his approval for such bombing back in November on those days when the clouds prevented target identification. Radar- “ . Eldridge, Chris, "Electronic Eyes for the Allies: Anglo-American Cooperation On Radar Development During World War II,History and TechnologyU  (January 200 0 ), 1-2 0. Reproduced with permission of the copyright