e will to resist. In Europe, the AAF was never able to achieve such a result. In Japan, only the atomic bomb brought the war to an abrupt end, and only then because of a political l3 5 . Arnold Papers,  "Miscellaneous Aspects of Air Attack," (August 1945), Reel 190 File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 111 --- 1 0 4 decision at the highest levels. AAF leaders were still interested, however, in assessing the impact of bombing on German morale. Because no reliable statistics could be gathered in Germany, the report relied on the opinions of prominent German civilian and military leaders. These evaluations were not totally reliable because, according to the reports, they "were made by persons obviously proud of the way in which their people had stood up under the air attack."1 3 5  Albert Speer, the AAF report noted, drew a distinction between the morale and the conduct of the civilian population. Although morale after an attack was poor, the conduct of civilians was good as evidenced by the will to rebuild the factories.1 3 7  Speer supported his contention by showing that production continued to increase even as the intensity of attacks increased. This fact, according to Speer, was a highly credible reflection of the good conduct of the average German. Another distinction was made between cities that were suddenly attacked, such as Cologne, Hamburg, and Dresden, and cities in which attacks were gradually intensified. In the latter, civilians were able to build up a resistance until they had acquired a "completely fatalistic attitude." The gradual increase of intensity allowed for defensive measures to be taken to the point that such raids became a routine event. In the former, the shock attacks, Speer admitted, the effects were more dramatic and crippling, though only tem porary.1 3 8  In Italy and Eastern Europe where commitment to the war was not as stro