e RAF when he wrote, "it appears from God knows where, dropping their bombs on God knows what, and going off -°. A. Boyle, Trenchard, Man of Vision (London, 1952), 12. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 32 --- 25 again to God knows where."2 1  However, it was the speed and unpredictability of these attacks which proved so effective. The RAF could control a vast area with few resources and minimal loss of life. Hence, Britain saved millions of pounds by substitution of aircraft for columns of troops. This approach, of course, went a long way in making an impression upon cost-conscious British ministers in the hard economic times of the 1920's and 1930's. American government officials were just as cost-conscious, and, as we will see, American air leaders began to define their mission to terms of cost-cutting. The substitution policy of the American Air Service can most clearly be seen in its struggle with the Navy. In the early 1930's, the Army Air Force took great pains to show the advantages of the airplane over traditional coastal defense. In several reports to Congress, air leaders pointed out the advantages in cost and range over traditional forms of coastal defense such as shore batteries, cruisers, and battle ships. The Air Service argued that it could save the taxpayer millions while providing a more effective frontier defense.2 2 This argument for cost effectiveness came in the context of providing a mission for the Army Air Corps. On the one hand, as we have seen, air leaders viewed their force  as an offensive weapon. The difficulty lay in the fact that in the 1920's and early 1930's there was no obvious enemy to be found. America was not preparing for an aggressive war nor was she, like Britain, threatened by air attack from the Continent. The only attack that theorists could envision during this period was one borne by a fleet of carrier-based plane