ssion of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 103 --- 96 prevented him from doing the same when it came to black squadrons. It was only after much political pressure that the all black, Tuskegee airmen came into being. Therefore, racial attitudes must be taken into account when considering the incendiary bombing raids on Japan. The racially charged atmosphere of the war and American society had effects upon behavior. Ultimately, racism dehumanizes a group of people which, in turn, adds to a justification for oppressing a particular group. Today, although racism is present, the consensus in American society is not to judge individuals or groups of people based upon race. During the Second World War, however, it was a common practice. With racist attitudes already ingrained in the American culture, it was hardly a stretch to view the Japanese within a racist context. The internment of Japanese Americans was influenced more by racist attitudes than by security needs. Arnold used his influence on several occasions to prevent release of American Japanese for labor purposes.1 2 1  Once the Japanese were dehumanized, it was far easier to justify massive incendiary raids against their cities. Whereas steps were taken to justify similar raids against Germany, it was given almost no thought at all with respect to the Japanese. The racially charged atmosphere in the Pacific was all-encompassing. The racism in the lower ranks can be seen by review of World War Two soldiers' stories. One is struck by the absolute hatred the average soldier had for the enemy, a hatred that went beyond w hat was present in Europe. The island fighting was often to the death ,zl. Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to John McCloy assistant to Sec of War," (June 16th 1943), Reel 175, File 5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 104 -