thinking was shown in a lecture by General Mason Patrick delivered at the U.S. Army W ar College in November 1925. Patrick accepted Hart's underlying assumption that direct action against the enemy's will rather than the slaughter of an enemy army was the correct means of fighting a future war. The airplane could "jump over" enemy armies and strike directly at the "seat of the opposition will and policy."6 The development of this line of thought was furthered by the belief that there was no defense against an attack of bombers. The British Brigadier-General P.R.C. Groves argued that "in a future war the only effective defense against aircraft attack will be the aerial counteroffensive, and the only safeguard against aerial aggression will be the threat of reprisals in kind."7  These kinds of statements by air theorists both in Europe and America were alarming, for they portrayed industrial societies that could be held hostage by machines raining down terror on defenseless women and children. Because technical expertise was becoming fused with popular 5 . Werrell, Blankets of Fire, p. 8. 6 Greer, Thomas, The Development of Air Doctrine in the Army Air Arm 1917-1945 Washington D.C. USAF Historical Division, Research Studies Institute Air University, 1955), 19. 7 . Groves,"For France to Answer," The Atlantic Monthly,  29, (Feb 1924), 147. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 20 --- 13 imagination in the 1920's and 1930's, it was only a m atter of tim e before such ideas caught the attention of the politicians of the day. Governments were increasingly forced to come to terms with w hat experts believed to be a new reality of modern war, namely, that their civilian populations were exposed and there was no defense. For example, Stanley Baldwin, the British Prime Minister, made what was to become one of the most famous statements on air power before the House of Commo