isadvantage was that he had to rely on the other services to do that. Kenney formed his impressions from the front and was far away from the political maneuvering in Washington. Arnold was not only pushing the B-29 because he believed it could have a decisive impact on the war, but because it would have such an influence on the future of his service. From February to September 1944, it was becoming clear that effective Japanese resistance on the sea and in the air was weakening. Although Japan had more airplanes than a year earlier, Kenney pointed out th at "he has lost his element, flight squadron and group leaders and his hastily trained replacements haven't the skill or ability to compete with us."1 0 2  In the past, U. S. attacks on Japanese air fields were met by 35 to 40 fighters; now only 15 or 20 came up to intercept. When they did intercept, Japanese pilots were far less effective than a year ago. Japan was clearly losing the war, its main army in China was increasingly isolated, and land forces on the islands could only hold out in isolated, beleaguered spots all over the map until they were killed or starved out. In the meantime, U.S. forces were closing in on Japan and getting stronger by the day. Japanese forces could still mount an effective defense, but they no longer had the initiative. Kenney and Arnold were beginning to think that the war might be over sooner than first thought. Kenney went so far as to suggest that air units from Europe not be brought over because it would be too much trouble to adapt them to the Pacific.1 0 3 Arnold's and his staff's reaction to these reports from Kenney "caused a great deal of serious consideration, some heated discussion and strong reaction." Generally, IK. Arnold Papers,  "Kenney to Arnold," (Septem ber 17th  1944), Reel 176, File 5. ,w. Arnold Papers,  "Kenney to Arnold," (Novem ber 15 1944), Reel 176, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permissio