ork. FDR was responsible for clearing objections to the building of the long range bomber from the Army and Navy leadership. FDR's attitude toward terror bombing is important since he certainly was in a position to halt such attacks. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 14 --- 7 PEDAGOGICAL The pedagogical aspect of this study is directed toward the military school environm ent but it could also be applied to any undergraduate course in military or general history. This investigator shows how the introduction of the long-range bomber made it possible to attack population centers well behind the fighting fronts, thereby blurring the distinction between combatants and noncombatants. As stated, my focus will be on the attitudes of American air leaders toward the use of terror bombing. Students will be asked to examine the moral implications of the bombing of noncombatants. Should the bombing of civilians be treated in a purely amoral sense in which war is war no matter if a child or soldier is killed? Should a military planner be held to a humanitarian standard of responsibility for the deaths of innocent civilians? Another question raised by this study is how can we apply the lessons of the bomber to new technical developments. For instance, what of the development of the cruise missile? Does the pinpoint accuracy of this weapon now allow for "clean" wars where few, if any, civilians are killed in battle? These are just some of the thought-provoking questions I hope to raise in a general discussion at the end of the course. The primary method of instruction will be lecture and group discussion. Background material will be presented with lectures and moral issues will be discussed in small groups. The material will all be presented in a course entitled American Air Policy in World W ar Two. Over a course of a semester, lectures will be given dealing with the origin