, the desire to punish the German and Japanese population for their support for their respective governments increased. These attitudes were buttressed by feelings of hatred and racism, spurred on by the U.S. government. One of the important issues raised by this researcher was the role played by the forces- social, institutional, political, and technical-which caused  Arnold and the top air leadership to move away from precision bombing to area or terror bombing. I argue that in the end, the institutional goals of Arnold and the AAF were more important than strategic doctrine. Arnold had expended much political and economic capital on the air war, to a point that it became unthinkable that the force  not be employed to its fullest extent. If it became necessary to bomb civilians to maintain the momentum of the air w ar, then so be it. Arnold was not going to allow some bad press to interfere with a whoie career devoted to the conception of air power. Thus, we see a distinction between the theory and the practical application of the theory. There were a sizeable num ber of factors ranging from the political to the technological which created the gulf between theory and application. For the historian, it is difficult to pin down which of these factors caused the American air leaders to engage in terror bombing. However, it stands to reason that throughout with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibitedwithout permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 118 --- I l l the war and especially toward the end of the war there was constant and increasing political pressure to perform . The technical limitations caused Arnold to rethink his strategy in light of the political pressures. My argument, as is the case of much historical analysis, is based on inference, because there exists no definitive document which could conclusively prove my viewpoint. One could say the same for my argum ent that racism was a factor in the Pacific for the emplo