nd apparently making several passes at the field during a period of 45 minutes with no mention m ade of our own fighters even attempting to prevent such strafing. Just what do our fighters do out there, or don't we have any fighters?" In another m atter Arnold was concerned about the number of B-29s ditched on the 1 0 5 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to LeMay," (September 22 1944), Reel 178, File 3. ,o s . Ibid. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 92 --- 85 return trip. "Have some of your people get busy on this phase of your operation at once and give me a full complete report of every mission since your arrival."1 0 7 Arnold was losing faith in Hansell's ability to get the job done. From Arnold's perspective he had given Hansell an enormous am ount of resources and time to deliver bombs over Japan. Arnold was not a patient man nor was he always fair. The fact that Arnold and Hansell went back a long way and that Hansell was part of the original planning team in 1941 did not stop Arnold from replacing him with Curtis LeMay on January 9th  1945. LeMay had risen up through the ranks in the European theater. When Eaker first brought LeMay up for promotion to general in early 1943, Arnold opposed the move on the grounds that there were "too many damned generals already." Clearly, LeMay and Arnold did not have a long-standing relationship. LeMay gained the reputation, however, for getting jobs done. LeMay was brought over to the Pacific under Hansell, and Arnold quickly noted that he was a man of action. This quality Arnold respected. Hansell was certainly a good commander, but it was his fate to be in command during the buildup stage where few results could be achieved. In many ways Arnold and LeMay were similar. LeMay drove his subordinates just as hard as Arnold, although not with the same ruthlessness. In Europe, LeMay had been a middle-level commander. Grand strate