hemselves to the probable loss of hundreds of thousands of men in the hope that they could inflict a larger loss on the enemy. In a like manner a nation must resign itself to endure the enemy's aerial offensive in order to inflict heavier ones on him." I0 . Giulio Douhet, The Command of the Air (New York:Arno Press, 1972), 72. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 23 --- 16 Because war was now a clash between whole populations, Douhet reasoned, all segments of society would have to bear the brunt equally. Once this concept was assumed, the difference between a soldier in the field and a child in a city disappeared: "All human lives are equally valuable, but because tradition holds that a soldier is fated to die in battle, his death does not upset them as much despite the fact that a soldier, a robust young man, should be considered to have the maximum individual value in the general economy of humanity."1 1 Because Douhet's views represented the most extreme position on the use of air power on civilians, it would be going too far to assume that his ideas were universally accepted by his contemporaries. It can also be argued that Douhet was more a prophet than a military strategist.1 2  As much of his work was speculative, it would take time to develop and test his theories. Oftentimes, too, Douhet's ideas were contradictory, confused, and motivated more by passion than by the scientific spirit. There was also a strong tinge of fascism in his ideas and personality. Douhet was captivated by the futuristic aspects of the air plane and its capacity to revolutionize warfare. If innocents died, so be it; civilians could not be allowed to stand in the way of great men and their machines. Ultimately, for the fascists, the great hero and his technical achievements were more important than the mass of humanity. The fascist component of Douhet's thought must not be underest