or Tokyo, a city of 7,000,000. This is an interesting contrast with Hamburg, a city of 2,000,000, when the RAF dropped 4,849 tons of incendiaries.8 8 The tone of the report suggests the relative ease with which Japanese cities could be reduced as compared to German targets. Nowhere were the huge numbers of civilian dead mentioned. Area bombing of Japanese cities was the easiest and quickest way to bring Japan to its knees. The complexity of establishing and supplying bases was discussed in depth, but Arnold promised that once these difficulties were overcome, Japan would suffer. This is not to say that the destruction of urban industrial areas was the only means to disrupt Japanese war production. In a February 1944 report, a detailed analysis of the weakness of the Japanese economy noted that Japan was an island with a processing capacity that was highly concentrated in Japan proper. This processing system had to be fed from the Philippines, Manchuria, and French Indo­ china through sea lanes. Japan's chief weakness lay in the fact that its transport and processing systems were wholly inadequate to absorb the vast resources it had acquired since Pearl Harbor. Thus, lack of shipping was the principal factor restricting Japanese industrial expansion. The report emphasized the destruction of shipping and certain vital industrial targets. The report further recognized that vital targets were located near heavily congested wood-constructed, workers’ dwellings but also suggested that all out attacks on urban areas would have limited value. s s . Ibid Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 81 --- 74 With respect to urban industrial areas, aluminum, chemicals, the basic commodities and miscellaneous manufacturing plants mentioned above, the available targets either constitute such a small percentage of total Japanese productive capacity, or her stock piles are so substan