ershing laid down the conservative reaction to men like Gorell, Mitchell, and Douhet. The old guard discounted the results of aerial bombardment in World W ar I and chose instead to concentrate on the ethical and humanitarian aspects of terror bombing. Because of these concerns and the belief by the conservatives in tactical air doctrine, the official position of the U.S. Corps in the 1920's was that there was no place for strategic bombing in modern war. Control over the formulation and dissemination of the combat doctrine was held by the General S ta ff, which was composed of ground officers. The most authoritative statements on air doctrine were contained in the 1923 revision of the U.S. Army Field Regulations which had its roots in traditional military doctrine: "the ultimate objective of all military operation in the destruction of the enemies armed forces by battle. Decisive defeat in battle breaks the enemy's will to resist and forces him to sue for peace." The manual goes on to assert its authority by assigning the Air Corps to a close support role. "No one arm wins battles, the special mission of the other arms are derived from their powers to contribute to the execution of the infantry mission."1 8  This view was held widely throughout the Army Maj. General H.E. Ely, commander of the Army War College in 1925, stated in a free discussion: 1 7 . Arnold, Global Mission. 119. IS . Field Service Regulations. United States Army, (Governmental Printing Press, Washington D.C. 1923), 11. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 30 --- 2 3 The Air Force should feel itself flattered by the high opinion we have of it; it isn't that we don't love them , we love them too much, we want them  right with us all the tim e, but we don't want them where some higher air man can say, 'come back, we need you somewhere else.' About the tim e the commander-in- chief of the arm y w