t. In the former, the shock attacks, Speer admitted, the effects were more dramatic and crippling, though only tem porary.1 3 8  In Italy and Eastern Europe where commitment to the war was not as strong, heavy attacks on civilians were more effective in disrupting moral. In the end, however, the report concluded that "there is no evidence that any sizable body of German workers ever lay down their u s. Ibid. IJ 7 . Ibid. ,3 S . Ibid. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 112 --- 10 5 tools because of allied bombing."1 3 9  In fact, it appears that morale improved in Germany and Japan as the population became more accustomed to air raids. It is safe to conclude th at bombing directed against civilians did not have a Douhetian outcome. Save for a few isolated instances, the civilian population did not break under the strain of bombing. This is not to say, however, that these raids did not significantly disrupt the German and Japanese war efforts. In both theaters, the allied bombing campaign made it increasingly difficult to operate the war economies effectively. In many cases although production levels continued to increase, the ability to deliver and operate equipm ent was severely limited. This outcome was especially true in the case of aircraft production and operation. In both Germany and Japan, production levels were never higher than in the latter stages of the war. Much of this production, however, was wasted due to lack of trained personnel and shortage of fuel. Moreover, attem pts to design and produce new equipment was severely limited by the above factors. ,3 9 . Ibid. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 113 --- 10 6 Some Concluding Thoughts When the war began, American leaders portrayed the conflict as one between good vs. evil. The new world orde