ion to adopt deliberate terror bombing."7 9  These reports put American air leaders on the defensive. After years of feeding the public the gospel of precision bombing, Grierson had politically tied the AAF to terror bombing. Damage control went into full mode as Arnold and Spaatz emphatically denied Grierson's implication, but it was clear to many both inside and out of the military establishments that terror bombing had become part of American bombing policy. 7 9 . Schaffer, Wings of Judgment. 99. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 72 --- 6 5 Conclusion The European campaign had been hard fought. Almost one in eight casualties in the European theater was in the 8th Air Force. Arnold, Spaatz, Eaker, and other top leaders had tried to follow the doctrine of precision bombing that had been developed in the 1930's and articulated in AWPD-1. During the campaign, Spaatz and others were constantly looking for that vital industry whose destruction would end the war. Arnold had used all of his skill, political influence, and administrative ability to build a credible bombing force and to apply the AAF's strategic doctrine. In the end, however, the number of sorties flown, tonnage dropped, and targets destroyed mattered more than adherence to a strategic doctrine. Arnold needed results to justify the enormous expense of his air force. He had to show both his superiors and peers alike that his force was effective, and that meant getting the planes over Germany w hatever the cost. If Arnold had to slip into the Douhetian mode of warfare, so be it. In his mind, and in the minds of the top m ilitary and political leadership, it was far better to sacrifice German civilians to save American lives. This tendency would become even more clear in the Pacific Theater. Here, there was genuine hatred on both sides, reinforced by racist attitudes. The top American leadership firmly