save American lives. This tendency would become even more clear in the Pacific Theater. Here, there was genuine hatred on both sides, reinforced by racist attitudes. The top American leadership firmly believed that the Japanese people were inferior; the Japanese believed that their will was stronger than that of the West. Here, even less thought would be given to sacrificing hundreds of thousands of civilians. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 73 --- 66 CHAPTER 3 Pacific Theater America's war against Japan began in China. When the Japanese military clique seized Manchuria in the early 1930's, they set in motion a series of events which ended with the atomic blasts over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. By 1937, Japan found itself in a war with China that it could not win and at the same time from which it could not extricate itself. The war drained Japan's resources, frustrated its leaders, and prevented decent relations with the major world powers as it sought material to carry on a major war. In the 1930’s America sought to maintain neutrality while, at the same time, standing up to Japan's intrusion into China. As war clouds gathered, U.S. military leaders began to think more seriously about a future war with Japan. Such a w'ar presented a whole array of logistical and tactical problems. At first glance these problems-supply, the vast distances, staging areas, and the development of the B-29 strategic bomber-seemed insurmountable. From the perspective of the AAF, the problem of supplying its technologically advanced forces was both logistical and political. Logistically, large amounts of advanced equipment had to be transported over vast distances in a short period of time and be made ready for action. Politically, the AAF had to rely on the Navy to do the bulk of this transportation. The Navy, of course, had its own ideas on how to conduct a war in the Pacific, prio