tion prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 31 --- 2 4 In essence, pursuit aircraft were ill-suited to achieving the Army air leadership's goal of establishing an important place for itself in the military hierarchy. It was the bomber to which the air leadership looked to secure a prominent role in the nation's defense and a fair share of scarce budgetary resources. This is the same struggle which Trenchard and the RAF had to fight in the 1920's and 1930's. Basically, Trenchard followed what he called a substitution policy. He did not use the arguments of Douhet or Groves to gain funding for his service. Instead, bending with the times, he argued pragmatically that it was cheaper to maintain the RAF than traditional military forces. In a report to the Select Committee on National Expenditure, he wrote: Economics to an increasing extent ought to result in the older arms giving way to the advent of the air force. We have in mind not only the substitution of aircraft for certain other arms of the older services, such as light cruises or cavalry, but a revolution in the carrying out of certain operations . . .  It can no longer be denied that by the intelligent application of air power it is possible to utilize machinery in substitution for and not as a mere addition to, man power.2 0 Trenchard's substitution argum ent did not make for friendly inter-service relations, but he was fighting for the survival and growth of his service. But the RAF survived as an independent force not because of his arguments, but because it established itself as an imperial police force in the inaccessible corners of the empire. A good case in point were the various air operations in Iraq in the 1920's and 1930's. Field Marshal Wilson referred sarcastically to the RAF when he wrote, "it appears from God knows where, dropping their bombs on God knows what, and going off -°. A. Boyle, Trenchard, Man of Vision (London, 1952), 12. Reproduced with permission of th