t permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 113 --- 10 6 Some Concluding Thoughts When the war began, American leaders portrayed the conflict as one between good vs. evil. The new world order Hitler and the Japanese empire were attempting to create was fundamentally evil. There can be no denying that there was much truth in this characterization. In such a conflict, then, the destruction that a society could rightfully expect to inflict upon an enemy would go beyond what one would consider normal. The totalitarian nature of Germany and Japan further suggested that their peoples were complicit in the crimes of their leaders. In this sense, one could not separate the Volk  from the regime which directed its energies. The nature of modern warfare also brought the average citizen directly into the path of conflict. Full mobilization, total war, and wars of attrition—all of these 20th century constructs demanded contributions of the average citizen that were just as important as those of the soldier in the field. W hat was lacking during World War I, for the most part, was the means to directly attack the civilian population. These technological limits, however, were quickly overcome in the interwar years with the development of the strategic bomber. Suddenly, governments were faced with the prospect of their civilian populations coming under direct fire. The man and woman in the street was being asked, in a very real sense, to take the same risk as the soldier in the field. How to deal with this fact led to much lively speculation among politicians, military men, and futuristic thinkers. The traditional military establishments in all the m ajor powers resisted the implications of the development of the strategic bomber that threatened their status as warriors in their respective societies and their position within the government. In the short space of 20 years, the airplane blurred the distinction between combatant and civilian. Given Reproduced with permissio