ion of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 110 --- 103 had increased, but there were not enough pilots or fuel to support the army in the field or protect German air space. The GAF's inability to m eet all of its demands was shown by its lack of strategic initiative after 1942. While the allies were assembling a massive armada for the invasion of France in the spring of 1944, which should have presented the GAF with thousands of attractive targets ail along the British coast, the GAF was unable to cause any significant disruption of the assembling fleet. Many of the GAF's problems can be attributed directly to the increasing intensity of the Allied strategic bombing campaign. In the final analysis, Arnold's and Spaatz's insistence that planes fly in all weather, thereby sacrificing accuracy and strategic principles, broke the back of the GAF. The effect upon German morale is a far more difficult question to resolve, as the AAF report noted: The effect of bombing on its victims, whether civilian or troops, is perhaps the most imponderable of all factors in the assessment of an air campaign. Hard facts are rarely available. Information which might be gained through sampling poll of persons affected by air attack would be so confused and distorted with psychological factors as to be without real meaning.1 3 5 In the summer of 1941 the American Air Force planning team  believed that, if they could destroy the German and Japanese war economies, collapse of national morale would soon follow. The timing of such an attack was critical. If it came at the right moment, when morale was already at a low ebb, such a blow could affect the civilian population in such a way as to cause a general collapse of the will to resist. In Europe, the AAF was never able to achieve such a result. In Japan, only the atomic bomb brought the war to an abrupt end, and only then because of a political l3 5 . Arnold Papers