struction and confusion caused by these air raids would pave the way. The island-hopping campaign had proved that Japan would fight to the last. If a Douhetian type campaign would save American lives, then Arnold wanted to try. American military and civilian leaders were becoming anxious in the spring of 1945 about the will of the American people to carry on in both the Pacific and Europe. Anything that could bring the war to an early end was worth trying. The fact that a greater slaughter would be perpetrated on a defenseless population was irrelevant to these calculations. There was little sympathy for the "NIP" among the American leadership or the people for that matter. If the choice were between 1,000,000 Japanese civilian or 1,000,00 0 American soldiers, then the civilians would have to go. If one were to ask an 18 year old marine after a battle on some God-forsaken island, he would have said that all Japanese people were inhuman anyway. LeMay and Arnold were eager to prove that their machines could win the war quickly. Aside from air power, there was no other way to bring the w ar to a quick conclusion. The results of the five raids on the Japanese mainland were devastating. The raids destroyed 31.9 square miles of the four largest Japanese cities. Some 1,595 bombers were launched in ten days unloading 9,373 tons of bombs to achieve this result. The figure represented 41%  of the total destruction of German cities during Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 97 --- 90 the entire war. All m ajor cities, with the exception of Kyoto, Yokosaka, and Kokwa, were bombed. In all 66 cities were attacked. The airmen destroyed 178 square miles of urban areas. The destruction of Nagoyo, Osaka and Tokyo exceeded the total destruction of German cities. According to the Japanese 241,000 were killed, 313,000 seriously injured whereas the U.S. strategic Bombing Survey (USS