ved such detailed information at such an early date. The B-29 was still two agonizing years away from deployment. This suggests that the shift away from the doctrine of precision attacks against Japan had begun even before the war started. In the process of analyzing Japan's industrial organization, incendiary attacks looked even more attractive. Whereas incendiary attacks against German cities were clearly directed at civilians, planners argued that, in the case of Japan, the distinction between civilian and industrial areas was almost nonexistent. Moreover, Germany was able to adjust to allied bombing by dispersing its industry by constructing factories in tunnels, forests, and old mines. Furthermore, Germany was able to rely on other suppliers for essential war materials and on production from France, Switzerland, and Sweden.8 5  Although allied bombers hit many vital targets, the 8 5 . U.S. News and World Report,  "Bomber Lanes to Japan," (October 31, 1941), 18-19. s s . Recently there has been controversy over Switzerland's role in W W II, not just over the Jewish question but as an overall supplier of war production. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 79 --- 72 impact of their attacks was muted by such factors. In the final analysis, the Germans had a recuperative capacity that the Japanese did not. The Japanese were ill prepared for the onslaught of the B-29. For Arnold and his staff, the weakness of Japanese preparations and the layout of their industry provided far too tempting an opportunity for the AAF not to display its awesome capabilities. In November 1944, Arnold outlined these opportunities in a report to FDR. Most of the Japanese population, the report detailed, was concentrated in large cities made out of wood th a t were vulnerable to incendiary bombs. "In many cities, constructions are built so closely together that roof coverage average 50