on programs. This development accounts for the fact that the bulk of the damage to German cities was done after the outcome of the war had already been decided. The force that Arnold had built took on a momentum of its own. Arnold and his commanders were determined to apply their concept of strategic bombing to the very end. They would not be caught short as Mitchell had been in 1918. The American public and service leaders would see what a sustained strategic bombing campaign could accomplish. Order of Battle Up until the late summer of 1940, the German and British forces attem pted to distinguish between combatants and civilians. A Luftwaffe  training manual dated 1936 announced that "attacks on cities for the purposes of terrorizing civilian populations are absolutely forbidden."4 7  During this period, both combatants often called off raids when military targets were too close to civilians. 4 8  As the w ar deepened, however, moral imperatives were swept aside as the combatants moved closer to total war. Douhet had predicted as much in his 1928 work, The Probable 4 7 . Ronald Schaffer, Wings of War (New York: Oxford University Press, 198 5), 22. 4 S . Denis Richards, The Hardest Victory (New York: W.W. Norton & . Company, 1994), 2. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 51 --- 4 4 Aspects of War of the Future, when he wrote that "all the restrictions, all the international agreements made during peace are fated to be swept away like dried leaves on the winds of war."4 9  Douhet was caught up in the possibilities of his futuristic fascist vision of humanity, but he, nevertheless, had a point, especially in the context of a developing total war after the fall of France in June  1940. The German attem pt to adhere to an ethical code (at least against Britain) ended by the late summer of 1940. The German failure to eliminate the RAF and its infrastructure led to a