nn's estimates were far too high and that a strategic campaign based on such an analysis would be a wasted effort. Tizard's problem was two fold: In the first place, he did not have a personal relationship with Churchill, and, second, he did not have an alternative plan. In the end Lindermann's strategic concept was accepted, and all opposition was simply swept aside. It seems that even at the highest levels of decision men gravitate toward a simple conception over the complexity of reality. Suffice it to say that the end result was that Bomber Command was ordered to bomb German Urban centers with the aim of disrupting the German economy by killing, wounding, dehousing, and terrorizing civilian workers. To justify such a change of policy, the British turned the page back to Douhet in the guise of a 1944 publication, Bombing Vindicated, by J.M. Spaight. Spaight went a long way toward adopting Douhet's definition of combatants when he wrote: "To speak of the bombing of civilians without qualification is really to confuse the issue. One must define one's terms. The old clear distinction between soldiers and civilians has been obscured."5 1  Although the British government was not ready to admit that it had changed its policy in early 1942, by 1944 the British had no qualms about openly stating that civilians were being targeted. 5 0 . Snow C.P., Science and Government (New York: New American Library, 1962), 47. 5 ‘. J.M. Spaight, Bombing Vindicated (Glasgow: Robert Maclehose and Co. LTD, 1944), 112. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 53 --- 4 6 The American Air Force entered the conflict determined to prove that their conception of strategic bombing was correct and that their superior equipment would prove to be the difference. AAF leaders believed that they could succeed where the RAF Bomber Command had failed: in daylight precision bombing. Although there were t