he opportunity to show the world what the B-29 could do. Thus, as in Europe, most of the devastation would come after the outcome of the conflict had been decided. Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Kenney," (December 15th  1944), Reel 176, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 91 --- 84 In his usual fashion, Arnold applied pressure to his commanders to get bombers over Japan. Although for the most part his commanders had operational control, Arnold did concern himself from  tim e to time with the minute details of their command. Arnold expected detailed reports, and when he did not like what he got, he was never afraid to let his subordinates know. After receiving reports on bomb loads on the B-29, Arnold commented, "From the beginning, our concept of the B-29 was of an airplane that would carry very heavy loads for very long range." Although the distances had been achieved, the bomb loads had not. The difficulty was one of training pilots to fly under the heavy conditions. "There has been a tendency to plan missions so that the weakest pilot will be assured of a safe gasoline reserve for return to base. With the B -29 this tendency must be eliminated completely. Pilots that are weak must either be replaced or trained to the point where they can obtain the maximum from their airplane."1 0 S  Arnold sent a similar message to Hansell in an even harsher tone.1 0 6  As Hansell, who was the commander of the XXI bomber group would soon learn, those who did not perform up to Arnold's expectations would be replaced. In another communication to Hansell, Arnold complained about the lack of reaction to enemy attacks. "I cannot understand Jap planes coming over in the daytime and apparently making several passes at the field during a period of 45 minutes with no mention m ade of our own fighters even attempting to prevent such strafing. Just what do our fighters do out ther