man resistance: At one point a twelve ship squadron of ME 109 fighters swept around in a wide U-turn and began to attack in pairs of fours. A shining object sailed past over our right wing. I recognized it as a main door. Seconds later, a dark object came hurling through the formation, barely missing several props. It was a man, clasping his knees to his head, revolving like a diver in a triple somersault. I didn't see his chute open. A B-17 turned gradually out of the formation to the right, maintaining altitude. In a split second, the B-17 completely disappeared in a brilliant exposition from which the only remains were four balls of fire, the fuel tanks, which were quickly consumed as they fell earthw ard.6 1 Many of the predictions had been overly optimistic. Furthermore, the belief that B-17's could take care of themselves on deep penetrations in Axis territories proved to be incorrect. Obviously, the 8th Air Force could not endure these losses and sustain deep penetration raids into Germany. Of the 146 B-17s that left for Regensburg, 24 never returned. German defenders shot down another 36 of 230 bombers at Schweinfurt. This double mission cost more than 550 crewmen, leaving the 8th Air Force crippled for weeks. Consequently, such raids were suspended until 6 0 . Schaffer, Wings of Judgment. 64. 6 1 . Schaffer, Wings of Judgment. 65. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 59 --- 52 February 1944, which, in turn, allowed Germany breathing space to recover and restore production. The attack on the German aircraft industry also began in the sum m er of 1943. These attacks disrupted aircraft production for a short time, but, as in the ball bearing raids, no decisive results were achieved. This series of air operations deeply impressed American commanders. For the first time, American air leaders had to face the limitations of the technology in which they had pla