ell had become fam iliar with the ideas of the commander of the Royal Flying Corps, General Hugh Trenchard. Mitchell was unwilling to give up the idea of a sustained bombing campaign against Germany. Pershing's failure to approve his scheme only caused Mitchell to redouble his efforts. After being appointed Chief of the Air Service, he had his intelligence service identify strategic targets in Germany. Mitchell also created a staff that would work out the details of a bombing campaign against Germany. Mitchell assigned the 26 year old Gorrell to determine the requirements for such a campaign. The plan Gorrell worked out was greatly influenced by Giulio Douhet's close friend and the architect of the Italian bomber force Gianni Capproni. Capproni argued th at for a bomber campaign to be effective it had to be systematic, thorough, and consistent. In the end, the plan incorporated Mitchell's ideas with concepts gleaned from Marshal Trenchard and Capproni. u. "Bolling Report, August 15 1917," quoted in The U.S. Air Service in World War 1.131. ts . Mark Coldfelter," Pinpointing Devastation: American Air Campaign Planning before Pearl Harbor, ''"The Journal of Military History,  58, (January 1994), 78. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 28 --- 21 The belief that the essence of an enemy nation's war making capacity consisted of key components linking togetner its industrial complex was at the heart of Gorrell's Plan. Gorrell argued that if the key sectors of the German economy could be destroyed the German war effort was doomed. On paper, the plan made sense but the logistics were formidable. Gorrell estimated that between 3000 and 6000 American bombers would be required to wreck German war making capacity. These bombers were never produced because the plan was a dead letter from its conception. For such a plan to succeed, there would have to be a concerted effort on