hris, "Electronic Eyes for the Allies: Anglo-American Cooperation On Radar Development During World War II,History and TechnologyU  (January 200 0 ), 1-2 0. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 62 --- 55 guided bombing would soon become a catch word for area bombing. On March 8th the Eighth Air force dispatched 682 heavy bombers and 897 fighters against the Ekner ball bearing plant near Berlin and against the city itself. Spaatz was determined to carry out these operations even when visual bombing did not exist "as long as the bombing of Berlin brings the German fighters force up where it can be destroyed."6 4 The March 8th attack on Berlin represented a subtle shift away from the American concept of precision attacks and in the direction of British ideas about area bombing. With this shift came increased collateral damage to civilians. The reasons for this shift are complex. In the first place, Arnold and Spaatz were desperate to get their forces into the air, especially in light of Eisenhower's attem p t to gain control of the heavy bombers. Radar provided the opportunity to continue bombing while maintaining the fiction that targets were being identified. Second, to destroy the GAF (thereby providing a valuable assistance to OVERLORD), it was necessary to go beyond the limits of the precision doctrine as conceived in the 1930s and in the summer of 1941. Finally, it was argued that the effects of bombs falling through the clouds would have a demoralizing effect on German population. On the eve of the Berlin raids, Spaatz believed that the resumption of deep penetration raids into Germany in February had created a new strategic and tactical situation. Important military assets had been destroyed and new tactical possibilities were open. It was now necessary, Spaatz argued, to push strategic bombing to its ultim ate conclusion. A concentrated effort against oil,