oduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 41 --- 3 4 Kenneth Walker, Hansell, and Maj. Laurence Kuter. In a newly constructed penthouse atop the old munitions building, over the course of nine 18-hour days during the hottest part of the Washington D.C. summer, George's staff planned the air war against Germany. As one can imagine, under such conditions nerves became frayed, which, in turn led to angry confrontations; however, George was able to smooth things over through a mixture of humor and determ ination. Roosevelt had directed the Army Air Force to determine its requirements for a w ar against the Axis. George knew that to calculate Army Air Force requirements he would first have to determine how bombers would be used. The only limitation that George was under was that "Germany would be the major adversary and nation to be defeated first."3 6  George also had to make the plan palatable to Chief of Staff George Marshall because Marshall was likely to reject any plan th a t made no reference to air support for the ground forces. Accordingly, George formulated the American Air mission as follows: "To wage a sustained air offensive against German military power, supplemented by air offensives against other regions under enemy control which contributed toward that power; to support a final offensive, if it becomes necessary to invade the continent."3 7 If the war could be won by air alone, the George plan provided the necessary resources that had eluded American air leaders ever since the conception of the Gorrell plan of 1918. Although George made a point of making the air force available for tactical operations, he and other proponents of air power were counting on the effects of a concentrated strategic air operation. The rewards of the success of 3 6 . Arnold Papers ,"Arnold to George" (July 3 1941) Reel 167, File 2. 1 1 . Clodfelter, Pin Pointing Devastation, 90. Re