hout permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 22 --- 15 the ability to terrorize civilians. Douhet thought that civilians were more likely to be demoralized under fire than trained troops. He characterized an attack on population centers as follows: The center of a city within a radius of about 250 meters will turn into an inferno in a few minutes as some 20 tons of high explosives, incendiary and gas bombs rain down. Explosives, fires and deadly gas would prevent access to the affected areas. By morning all the fires and gas would spread suspending all life in the city. No civil or military authority could keep order. In short, normal life would be impossible in this constant nightmare of death and destruction. A complete breakdown of the social structure cannot but take place in a country subjected to this kind of merciless pounding from the air. The time would come when, to put an end to horror and suffering, the people themselves, driven by the instinct of self-preservation, would rise up and demand an end to the war. This before their army and navy had time to mobilize at all.1 0 Douhet was aware of the moral implications of his theories. Although he viewed w ar unemotionally in the tradition of Clausewitz, he also believed that the bombing of civilians would ultimately save more lives than conventional ground warfare. Reasoning from the recent experience of the Great War, he argued that the sacrifice of large numbers of civilians would ultimately spare millions of soldiers being slaughtered in trenches over the span of 3-5 years. At the extreme, the bomber would make war too terrible to contemplate. Douhet expressed no regret at the disappearance of the moral distinction between soldiers and civilians. In the past, he argued, "army commanders resigned themselves to the probable loss of hundreds of thousands of men in the hope that they could inflict a larger loss on the enemy. In a like manner a nation must resign itself to endure the enemy's aerial