itary assets had been destroyed and new tactical possibilities were open. It was now necessary, Spaatz argued, to push strategic bombing to its ultim ate conclusion. A concentrated effort against oil, "which would represent the most far reaching use of strategic air power that has been attem pted in this war, M. Arnold Papers,  "Spaatz to Arnold," (March 6, 194 4), Reel 169, file 5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 63 --- promises, I believe, more than any other system, a fighting chance of ending German resistance in a shorter period than had hitherto been thought possible."5 5 Spaatz's optimism would soon turn to frustration. As he fought to keep his forces focused, it became apparent that their efforts were not forcing German's capitulation. Spaatz and Arnold were caught in a spiral of conflicting methods and priorities in their operations over Germany. There were the strategic precision attacks against vital targets such as oil and ball bearings in which they had invested so much political capital. At the same time, they could not help themselves from slowly slipping into area bombing tactics against open cities in an attem pt to keep the pressure on the GAF and show that Allied forces were taking decisive actions to win the war. As collateral damage increased, however, it would become increasingly difficult to reconcile these conflicting priorities. During April and May, the 8th Air Force delivered five more heavy attacks on the center of Berlin with the intention of bringing about German capitulation before the Normandy Landings. At the same time, Spaatz ordered the AAF to attack transportation targets in Western Germany without regard to civilian deaths, while limiting such attacks in France.6 6  Although these operations appeared to achieve some success, a public relations crisis ensued over the civilian deaths caused by the new tactics. In a March 6