r Japan, they became standard. The only danger was that some of the planes in the second and third waves were being scorched by the towering flames left by the leading flights. Japanese leaders had again underestimated American capabilities; they never envisioned American bombers flying such vast distances in large numbers. Aside from some modest anti-aircraft weapons, Japan was totally unprepared for the raids. LeMay did not have to worry about words of caution from Washington. The green light had been given to create massive physical and psychological damage to the Japanese. LeMay acted boldly. He did not w ant to send reports back explaining why his bombers were grounded. Arnold had already made it clear that he would not allow planes to sit on the ground, nor would LeMay. "This is another case of a few bombs on the target being better than no bombs at all. In any case we cannot keep the force on the ground waiting for good weather which doesn't exist over Japan at this time of the year."1 1 3  The March raids were intended to send a shock across Japan. As IU. Werrell, Blankets of Fire, 156. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 96 --- 89 stated above, there was really no reason to reduce Japanese cities to ashes within the context of the bottleneck theory. Japan was vulnerable to incendiary' attacks and the AAF had the capability to deliver the goods. From a military standpoint it was clear that Japan would have to be invaded within the year. It was inconceivable to Arnold that his forces would not prepare the way for invasion. Whether or not smashed cities would help in this campaign of invasion was not at all clear. It was believed, however, that the massive destruction and confusion caused by these air raids would pave the way. The island-hopping campaign had proved that Japan would fight to the last. If a Douhetian type campaign would save American lives,