ch, we want them  right with us all the tim e, but we don't want them where some higher air man can say, 'come back, we need you somewhere else.' About the tim e the commander-in- chief of the arm y wants the Air Service, it will be like the Cavalry often was in the Civil War, chasing wagon trains-the Air Service will be off bombing a factory somewhere when the commander- in-chief will w ant to bomb a certain objective.1 9 Although the Army leadership exercised its control over air doctrine in the twenties, the junior Air Corps officers held to their own beliefs. General Ely's views would have robbed the air arm of an independent standing as well as any offensive capability. It is for this reason that air leaders in the thirties would push for the long- range strategic bomber since its development presupposed a service with an autonomous mission. After 1926, the predominance of tactical air doctrine began to wane; however, it would take a while for Gorrell's strategic bombing concept to become dominant. In the meantime, a state of confusion fell over air policy as debate raged. In 1929, General James E. Fechet directed that a conference be called to determine the future of pursuit aircraft. During the conference, many questions were raised about single engine fighters and their ability to carry out tactical roles. Claire L. Chennault, an instructor at the tactical school at Maxwell Field, was the leading defender of tactical air power and, from 1931-1935, he developed tactical pursuit doctrine. He was, however, fighting against a rising tide that lifted the bomber to the position of chief weapon of the Army Air Corps. 1 9 . Thomas Greer, The Development of Air Doctrine in the Army Air War 1917- 1941 33. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 31 --- 2 4 In essence, pursuit aircraft were ill-suited to achieving the Army air leadership's goal of establishing an impor