z bombs and rockets. I think that the physiological effect on the morale of the German people would be much greater, not knowing where they were going to fall, and they would have to be constantly on the alert with fighters and aircraft to knock them down.7 3 As the war was winding down there was a marked escalation in the use of terror as a means of waging war. Arnold's original idea of precision bombing was as far as one could get from this newer approach. The original plan came to naught for a variety of reasons. "Willie Orphan," as it was called, was canceled because of many imponderables and because of inherent vulnerability; it did not justify the expenditure of time and critical materials which we have put into it.7 4  Aside from showing that Arnold was not averse to random killings, the project demonstrated the willingness to use machines to strike terror into the general population. Mechanical means of war had captivated all sides during the war. The technical means to accomplish a goal had eclipsed such conceptions as will, honor, and elan. It was the technocrats which were deciding the outcome. For the Americans, it was also a question of politics. FDR was moving America into a new era of world dominance. Inaugurating this era with millions of unnecessary casualties was not a good political choice. One could argue that the basis of much of American strategy 7 3 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Spaatz," (23 November, 1944), Reel 173, File 4. 74Ibid. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 68 --- 61 was the desire to limit casualty which was expressed in the delay of the Second Front, the decision to invade North Africa and Italy, and the strategic air campaign itself. Arnold's plan to use machines was yet another installment of the overall strategy. Ultimately, what this tactic m eant for the average German was that their lives were to be lost so American sold