odities and miscellaneous manufacturing plants mentioned above, the available targets either constitute such a small percentage of total Japanese productive capacity, or her stock piles are so substantial that they do not offer attractive targets for strategic bombing.8 9 Although Arnold's report in November emphasized the vulnerability of Japanese cities to incendiary bombing, this report suggested that there were other ways to destroy Japan's industrial production. Specifically, steel output could be more easily restricted through destruction of coke ovens with precision attacks rather than hitting the steel installations in the congested urban areas. Shipping was another vital section that could be attacked. At this point, Japan was already losing 70,000 tons of shipping a month greater than her construction capacity. Hence, Japan was already accumulating a deficit which it could not overcome. Therefore, any increase in her losses would constitute a direct blow to Japan's war production. In the final analysis, the report concluded that "shipping and coke ovens, together with those urban areas which can be attacked in connection with coke ovens, appear to constitute the most profitable available targets. Specifically, the report advocated attacks on such shipping targets as Bangkok, Hong Kong, Kelung, Saigon, and the coke ovens Anshah, Manchuria, Kyashua in Yawata, and Kensiho in Korea.9 0  This report was prepared before the U.S. had secured a number of air bases closer to Japan and, therefore, represented a limited spectrum of possibilities. Its main thrust, however, was still valid. It was not necessary to destroy the industrial core of Japan to drastically curtail its war production. The above list of targets suggests that the AAF and Navy could have paralyzed Japan by isolating its home industries and various 8 9 . Arnold Papers , "Fowler Hamilton, Chief Operations Analysis Section to Brigadier General Charles B Stone," (February, 1944), Reel 178, File 3. 90.