an by isolating its home industries and various 8 9 . Arnold Papers , "Fowler Hamilton, Chief Operations Analysis Section to Brigadier General Charles B Stone," (February, 1944), Reel 178, File 3. 90. Ibid. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 82 --- 75 m ilitary outposts. This type of thinking reached back to AWPD 1 in the summer of 1941. It was also backed up by one of Arnold's chief commanders in the Pacific, George Kenney. Without the support of his sea power and air power his land forces cannot do anything except hold out in isolated, beleaguered spots all over the map until bombs, bullets, disease and starvation kill them off.9 1 By September 1944, Kenney was becoming convinced that Japan was basically beaten except for mop-up operations around the Pacific. Although supporting Arnold fully, Kenney was not entirely convinced that it would be necessary to destroy Japanese cities totally, these disagreement raises the question of why, if Japan could have been defeated by attacking its shipping and a few coke ovens, the AAF and Arnold put such emphasis on the B-29 program and the massive destruction that eventually prevailed. The answer, in part, lies in an examination of the period from 1942 to 1945. Arnold wanted a big show for his service, a show th at only the B-29’s could provide. Although the B-29 would bomb shipping targets, lay mines, and bomb coke ovens, it was important for Arnold's legacy and for the future of the AAF that the truly spectacular raids would come over those highly congested wooden cities. Furthermore, the spectacular raids held out the promise of breaking the will of the Japanese faster than attacks in Vietnam or Hong Kong. The belief that the American people were becoming restless was the type of thinking that led officials to look for a fast end to the war. ,1. Arnold Papers,  "Kenney to Arnold," (September 194 4), Reel 176, file 5.