rtial fulfillment o f the requirements for the degree o f DOCTOR OF ARTS to the faculty o f the department o f HISTORY at St. John’s University N ew  York by Lucien Mott Date Submitted: !c j I l&l Dafrg^Lpproved f r j > (  I' C e .  ( O I (Mentor’s Signature) (StudenTSIgnature) Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 4 --- UMI Number: 3025068 _ _ ®UMI UMI Microform 3025068 Copyright 2001 by Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. This microform edition is protected against unauthorized copying under Title 17, United States Code. Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company 300 North Zeeb Road P.O. Box 1346 Ann Arbor, Ml 48106-1346 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 5 --- ABSTRACT THE STRATEGIC BOMBING CAMPAIGN DURING WORLD WAR TWO PINPOINT VS AREA BOMBING Lucien Mott This researcher covers the development and application of air doctrine from 1918 to 1945. Specific questions raised by this researcher are how Air Force leaders shifted from precision pinpoint bombing techniques to terror or area bombing techniques. Furthermore, this researcher will explore the relationship between technology and doctrine and how doctrine differed from practice. The moral aspects of strategic bombing will be explored in relation to American doctrine. Finally, how racist attitudes in the Pacific affected bombing policy will be addressed. The researcher shall examine doctrine and Air Force organization development from 1918 to 1941, the strategic bombing campaigns in Europe and Pacific, and the attitudes of the m ajor air leadership. This w riter shall employ traditional research methods by examining memorandum, letters, reports, and journals of the m ajor air leaders. The main source for these will be the collected works of H.H. Arnold. Secondary sou