comings, was a testament to American productive and engineering capabilities. The genesis of the B-29 came in October 1938 when the Air Corps Board recommended a bomber with a minimum radius of 1,500 miles. In June 1940, Boeing was awarded the contract for the XB-29 for just more than 3.5 million dollars. Boeing's experience in developing large aircraft gave the company the edge in the competition for the project. The new plane came with a number of innovations such Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Gen. Handy," (May 12, 1944), Reel 172, File 4. s 2 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to FDR," (October 18 1944), Reel 178, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 76 --- 6 9 as pressurized cabins, remote fire control, new engines, and radar for navigation. All of these innovations would cause major production and training problems. The W right R-3350 engines proved to be the most troublesome system throughout the B-29's development and operation. These engines turned out to be a three billion dollar disaster. Of the many technical problems encountered, the most serious was the failure of the reduction gears and exhaust valves and cooling system. The engine went through 2000 changes up to November 1943 and eventually attracted the attention of then Senator Truman's Investigating Committee for its poor production and quality. Added to this difficulty were problems of labor, supply, and a shortage of subcontractors. Arnold invested a great deal of time and energy as well as political capital in getting the B-29 developed and produced. In his typical manner, he pushed and berated his people to overcome all the hurdles associated with a new weapons system. The B-29 seems to be running true to form with every other new project There are more reasons why this or that cannot be done. This makes no sense at all to me. I was told that our engine production is picking up very rapidly. Th