ned bitterly in Global Mission about the lack of control over air operations during the war. He argued that the U.S. air arm could have accomplished a great deal more if it had been supported by the military establishment. Developm ent of Air Doctrine in the U .S .:  1917-1941 The chief institutional goal of the Air Corps from 1917 to 1941 was to establish itself as an integral part of the military structure. In practice, this meant fighting with the Army and IMavy for a share of shrinking military budgets. On an even more basic level, however, the Air Corps was fighting for recognition. Although the Army and Navy attempted to m arginalize the role of air power by making the air wing a mere appendage of their organizations, Arnold and his staff fought for a fully independent offensive capability. Thus, air leaders in the late 1920's and 1930's fought for a doctrine whose supporters advocated an offensive type of warfare aimed at the u. Giulio Douhet, "Command of the Air" in The Im pact of Air Power Eugene Emme (Princeton: D. Van Norstrand, 1959), 167. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.  Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 26 --- 19 enemy's will and power to resist in which the three arms cooperated. The role of air power was to attack the whole of the enemy national structure. However, to achieve a position of equality within, the military community, Arnold and his staff would have to secure the resources to stabilize their position within the m ilitary structure. The other services could not but help view this as a threat to their own allocations and position. The development of the U.S. Air Corps followed many of the same patterns that emerged in Germany and Great Britain. The U.S. Air Corps came out of the First World War convinced that air power would be decisive in the next war. In America, the air power debate was dominated by the issues of pursuit aircraft vs. the heavy long-range bomber.