ng, and after phases of the operation."4 1  One can clearly see this reasoning at work in contemporary operations from the Gulf W ar to the war in Kosovo. The purpose is not only to inform but impress the public with the capabilities of the Air Force. Arnold reasoned that once the public saw the dramatic results of AAF operations, support among the public and other services  would follow. The public relations game would be a constant concern of Arnold's throughout the war. For the 4 1 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Eaker,"(July 15 1943), Reel 173, file 4. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 48 --- 41 AAF, the stakes were high. Incompetence in the manipulation of public opinion would mean the subordination of the AFF to the other military services. The U.S. had the ability to manufacture more planes than Germany and Japan, but it also had the wherewithal to maintain them , provide for sufficient personnel and reserves, and sustain continued technological innovation. America and Britain were weakest during the initial stages of the conflict. Germany had a political, military, and economic head start that allowed it to begin building planes five years before the allies began to rearm. But this lead had provided Germany with only a temporary advantage. A 1943 appraisal of the Luftwaffe argued that Germany had lost its tactical advantage by late 1942. Once the allies were able to begin implementing their strategic plan, Germany was thrown on the defensive and, from this point on, was in a state of permanent decline.42 The German Air Force could not fully develop new equipment, train enough pilots, or maintain enough reserves. In contrast, the U.S. was able to continually develop aircraft such as the P-51 Mustang and the B-29 Bomber, whereas the Germans failed to bring such weapons as the M 262 Jet, V -l and V -2 rockets, and four-engine bombers to bear in sufficient n