ess expensive than a full scale invasion of the Continent. The bomber provided a platform for America to influence world events. In these circumstances, both Secretary of War Stimson and Marshall endorsed George's plan, which became known as AWPD-1, with surprisingly few reservations considering its revolutionary implications. 3 S . Coldfelder, Pin Pointing Devastation, 9. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 43 --- 3 6 Marshall's approval of AWPD-1 guaranteed that it would be the blueprint for the Army Air Force once war began.3 9 Any plans constructed in nine days could not be perfect. The planners assumed Germany was fully mobilized. The plan allocated too many aircraft for the home front and did not supply enough aircraft for the Pacific. The major flaw, however, was the American propensity to see war as an engineering project. They had far too much trust in the Norton Bombsight and precision bombing in general. Although the American planners had worked out the particulars of a strategic offensive in far greater detail than Mitchell or Douhet, they became caught up in the futuristic prospects of an air war and the capabilities of their machines. There were many reasons for the adoption of the technique of precision bombing. From a military standpoint, precision bombing called upon a traditional American respect for marksmanship that dated back to the frontier days. The officers at the Tactical School wanted to show their professionalism and technical skill by dropping bombs within a few feet of a target. Precision bombing also answered those conservative critics of the early days such as General Pershing and the Dickerman Board who criticized strategic bombing on ethical and humanitarian grounds. From a political perspective, the doctrine of precision bombing allowed America to take the high ground, as when President Roosevelt in September 1939 urged the war