o and cost the lives of about 110,000 people and destroyed 20 per cent of the buildings. AAF leaders speculated that with a few tons of well-placed incendiary bombs large areas of Japanese cities could be reduced. Claire Chennault became an early advocate for the fire bombing of Japanese cities, an ironic switch from his early opposition to strategic bombing. In early 1940, Chennault wrote Arnold about the potential use of incendiaries against Japan. At this time Arnold was still fixated on the doctrine of precision bombing and saw little value in such attacks. Roosevelt, however, was delighted by the proposal, in contrast to the stance he had taken in September 1939. Now FDR was searching for ways to put pressure on Japan and support the Chinese. Fire bombing seemed to be a credible weapon to do just that. Once the B-29 program became more advanced, Arnold would come to see fire bombing as a way for the AAF to make a spectacular contribution to the w ar.3 4 8 4 . Werrell, Blankets of Fire, 41. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 78 --- 71 The fire bombing of Japan also attracted the attention of the press. In an October 31, 1941 US News & World Report article entitled, "Bomber Lanes to Japan," details on how Japan could be attacked through the air were presented. At Osaku is concentrated most of the natural munitions industry. Hastily expanded during the last three years, the arms factories are built of wood. Acres upon acres  of these wooden buildings in and near the city present a highly vulnerable threat for incendiary bombs.8 5 The magazine also provided details about possible bases and distances to potential targets. It is interesting that the press had received such detailed information at such an early date. The B-29 was still two agonizing years away from deployment. This suggests that the shift away from the doctrine of precision attacks against Japan