pon. The June 16th raid was the beginning of the process which would culminate in two nuclear blasts over Japan. By March 1945, the AAF was ready to unleash the full force of the new weapon. Finally, Arnold was getting the number of planes he wanted. Three hundred B-29s took off from Guam on their way to Tokyo and "dropped more than 1,000 tons of bombs on a ten square mile area near the center of the enemy capital." General Norstad stated to the press that "if fleets of a thousand of the B-29s are required to finish off Tokyo we will produce them and more." General LeMay reported to say that "from reports from planes at this hour I can say with conservatism that this looks good from our point of view and grim from the point of view of the enemy. There is a conflagration in Tokyo tonight. How big and how devastating it will turn out to be must be judged".1 1 2  Arnold had been 1 U . New York Times,  (June 16th  1944), 1 'l2 . New York Times,  (March 10 1945), 1 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 95 --- 88 pressuring his commanders for months. Hansell had been relieved for failure and now LeMay was in a hurry. Over a period of ten days, XXI Bomber Command flew five missions that inflicted massive damage on Japanese cities th at killed tens of thousands. Gone was any pretense of precision bombing. LeMay ordered his bombers to be stripped of their arm am ent and fly at five thousand feet instead of the standard twenty to thirty thousand feet. Here the weather was better, less fuel was burned, there was less strain on the troublesome engines, and the effects on the vulnerable cities were greater. Such low altitudes would have been considered suicide in Europe, but, over Japan, they became standard. The only danger was that some of the planes in the second and third waves were being scorched by the towering flames left by the leading flights. Japanese leaders had ag