heir machines. Ultimately, for the fascists, the great hero and his technical achievements were more important than the mass of humanity. The fascist component of Douhet's thought must not be underestimated. In the 1920's and 1930's, there was no society which was wholly immune from aspects of fascist doctrine. There were fascist movements to some extent in Britain, France, and the United States during this period, and prominent leaders in all the u. Douhet, The Command of the Air 194-196. Claudio Segre, "Giulio Douhet: Strategist, Theorist, Prophet?" The Journal o f Strategic Studies  15 (1992) Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 24 --- 17 nations of Europe admired the achievements of fascism in Italy and Germany. After the cultural and political disaster of World War I, admiration of fascism was bound to occur. The belief in the great man and the fervent worship of the power of the machines was found in all western societies. The airplane and its potential destructive capacity drew the attention of revolutionary visionaries as well as the culture as a whole. Douhet's spirit was shared by many American commanders during the Second World War. These men were adventurous, impatient, often tactless, and supremely self-confident. Indeed, anyone who climbed into an airplane during the First World War and survived had to possess many of these qualities. To these men, the airplane was the instrument which would bring a decisive shift in the balance of power. In retrospect, Douhet, Mitchell, and others clearly overstated the case when they argued that the bomber alone could win a war. However, they were engaged in a struggle to establish the long-range bombers as the premier weapon of war. Douhet's preoccupation with terror bombing was a part of this process. As it turned out, no major power entered the war with a policy of terror bombing, but as time went on all sides