ations were exposed and there was no defense. For example, Stanley Baldwin, the British Prime Minister, made what was to become one of the most famous statements on air power before the House of Commons in November 1932. On the eve of a disarmament conference in Geneva, Baldwin said: I think it well also for the man in the street to realize there is no power on earth that can protect him from bombing, whatever people may tell him. The bomber will always get through, and it is very easy to understand if you understand area and space.8 Baldwin's remarks clearly indicated that air policy thinking had reached the highest political levels. Baldwin hoped to achieve disarmament and an overall peace plan but was also hinting at a mutual assured policy of destruction based on some of the ideas of contemporary air theorists. In essence, Baldwin accepted the revolutionary potential of strategic bombing, namely, that the bomber would have a decisive impact on the course of the war and that any governm ent that did not grasp this fact was doomed. While the message for air advocates was to build as large a bomber fleet as possible, Baldwin hoped to disarm or build a defensive force that would establish a balance of terror. Again, these and other ideas on the use of air power had a decidedly Italian Influence. Any discussion of terror bombing would be incomplete without a 8 . Stanley Baldwin, "The Bomber will always get through", remarcks in the House of Commons, November 10, 1932, quoted in Emme, Eugene, The Im pact of Air Power (D. Van Norstrand Company, London 1959), 51. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 21 --- 14 discussion of Giulio Douhet, who embodied the spirit of aviation after World W ar I. Douhet was one of the radical visionaries who argued th at the airplane could be a decisive weapon in future wars. Douhet confronted the issue of civilian deaths, changing in th