at their superior equipment would prove to be the difference. AAF leaders believed that they could succeed where the RAF Bomber Command had failed: in daylight precision bombing. Although there were those who believed th at air power alone could deliver the decisive blow and force capitulation of the enem y, this was not the controlling factor in the overall strategic plan. The deployment of American Air Forces was planned in the context of an eventual invasion of the Continent in which the task was to gain air superiority by the date of invasion and then exploit this superiority in weakening the enemy's will and capacity to resist. Although there was always a hope that a strategic bombing campaign could force capitulation, the main thrust was to work with the other services to facilitate the eventual invasion. From an organizational standpoint, the more prominent the AAF's role, the better. Arnold continually championed the AAF's role and the strategic bombing concept to President Roosevelt. In the middle of his struggle to establish his forces in England, Arnold attempted to keep FDR focused on the importance of his organization: Victory over Germany depended on the earliest employment of the greatest possible American bombing power against critical strategic objectives in order to (a) secure unquestioned control of the air (b) disrupt Germany's transportation system (c) destroy her critical industries (d) break morale of her civilians (e) strengthen the Russian position by forcing the diversion of German strength to the Western front (f) support an invasion of the continent (g) and destroy the GAF by forcing it to battle the AAF on its term s.5 2 5 :. Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to the President,"(July 1942), Reei 167 file 6. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 54 --- 4 7 These objectives were consistent with AWPD-1, and they represented a compromise with the ot