a massive work in which he details Spaatz's entire career. The book is a blow-by-biow account of Spaatz's actions as the commander of the 8th Airforce. Again, however, there is little insight into his views on terror bombing. There are a wide variety of articles related to the topic of strategic bombing. Many of these articles, such as Richard Davis's essay on Carl Spaatz and Jacob Vandermeulen's article on the aircraft industry in the West, have been used as background for this study. Also included are articles from the period that are contemporary to the issues discussed. Two articles that deal directly with terror bombing are John Huston's examinations of the impact of strategic bombing in the Pacific and Kenneth Hewitt's essay on the destruction of urban places. These articles do not, however, directly deal with the individual commanders. The main primary source materials used for this study are the Henry Harley Arnold Papers located in the Manuscript Division in the Library of Congress. These papers consist of correspondence, memoranda, journals, notebooks, drafts, articles, speeches, reports, orders and other papers relating chiefly to the development of military aeronautics in the U.S. and policies and events of World W ar II. This collection covers the breadth of Arnold's professional career; however, this thesis will concentrate on the war years. What makes the Arnold Papers so valuable is that they contain Arnold's correspondence with all of the principal figures of his day as well as his thoughts on all the major air issues of his day. There is additional Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 13 --- 6 material located in the FDR Library in Hyde Park, New York. FDR was responsible for clearing objections to the building of the long range bomber from the Army and Navy leadership. FDR's attitude toward terror bombing is important since he certainly was in