true to form with every other new project There are more reasons why this or that cannot be done. This makes no sense at all to me. I was told that our engine production is picking up very rapidly. The only thing I can think of is the lack of will to do . . . the engine people say it's the fault of the airplane people, the airplane people say it's the fault of the engine people. Personally, I don't believe its due to any of these things . . .  I believe we can do this job just as soon as we are convinced that it can be done . . . knock the idea out of your fellows head that it might be done home to the production people as well as the operating and training people. Get airplanes and engines together, get airplanes and engines together, get them out into service and start organizing units.8 3 8 3  Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Brigadier General K.B. Wolf," (October 27, 1943), Reel 178, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 77 --- 70 The task Arnold was taking on was monumental. The B-29 was a new design which had to be refined and produced, had to have crews trained, units organized, bases established, and, finally, its payload delivered over Japan. And all of this organization had to be accomplished in a very short span of time. After all of this effort, Arnold expected that his field commanders would use this weapon system to its fullest extent. He had staked his as well as the service's reputation on it. Speculation about the form that a future air w ar with Japan would take began in the early 1930's. The vulnerability of the Japanese cities was demonstrated by the 1923 earthquake and subsequent fire. The fires started by the quake raged for three days in Tokyo and cost the lives of about 110,000 people and destroyed 20 per cent of the buildings. AAF leaders speculated that with a few tons of well-placed incendiary bombs large areas of Japanese cities coul