wner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 54 --- 4 7 These objectives were consistent with AWPD-1, and they represented a compromise with the other services in that one of the overall objectives was to facilitate the invasion of Europe. This goal did not mean to Arnold that the AAF role was in any way marginalized. Arnold and his commanders saw their role as essential to the overall success of the war. If these objectives could be achieved, Arnold's life work would be complete. But it would not be until the middle of 1943 that full-scale strategic operations could begin. Much time during this period was devoted to training and testing an ever-expanding force under combat conditions. It was a time of frustration for Arnold and his commanders as well. This frustration spilled over in communications between him and his generals. In a communication to George Marshall, the Chief of Staff, entitled "Air Force voice crying in a strategic wilderness," he urged him to use "all of our influence with the Joint Chiefs and, the President to assure that: (a) the air portion of the Bolero Plan (AWPD-1 brought up to date) be followed with tenacity, vigor and determination."5 3  And in a message to Harry Hopkins, special advisor to FDR in September 1942, Arnold urged the following: Let us consider the air effort, everybody, apparently, went with the AWPD-1 plan 100 percent. That plan calls for the maximum possible air effort, British and American directed against German military and industrial objectives . . . with a view of destroying their productive capacity, causing vital deficiency in her air power causing confusion and chaos . . . breaking down morale of the civilian, and thereby destroying her will to fight. It was a sound plan, everybody who read it seemed to be for it initially. Soon we started to tear it to pieces, a couple of groups here, a couple of groups there.5 4 5 3 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Marshall," (1 9 4