up bombardment against Japan." From the Marianas-Palau line, Formosa could be attacked. In short, Arnold argued that the Marian as had to be taken to bring the war to Japan. Although long-range bombing operations from the bases would not be decisive, "we do feel that the operation of eight to ten B-29 bomber groups will make a very considerable contribution in the softening up process against the vitals of Japan." Earlier, Kenney had stated that such raids against Japan would be nothing more than a nuisance, that attacks against her shipping would be of more value. Arnold's response to Kenney showed his commitment to the B-29. Although Arnold admitted that the land, sea and air forces would have to work in concert, he believed that the bombing operations were essential for any invasion of Japan. He ended his letter by extolling the virtues of the B-29, its range, its ability to operate in all weather, and its ability to take hits.1 0 1  Arnold always took care to appear cooperative with the other services even  when he strongly believed that the AAF was poised to make the greatest contribution for the war effort. Arnold had to work with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and their planning team s, and saw his role as pushing his programs forward within the context of larger m ilitary operations. The Navy had its carriers, the army its tanks, and the AAF had its B-2S's. Arnold wanted to make certain that his service did not come out on the short end of the supply war. Arnold's advantage was that he could carry the war to the heart of Japan. His 1 0 1 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Kenney," (February 25th  194 4), Reel 176 File 5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 89 --- 82 disadvantage was that he had to rely on the other services to do that. Kenney formed his impressions from the front and was far away from the political maneuvering in Washington. Arnold was not only pu