s concentration on such targets was the 1943 attacks on the Romanian oil fields. If Germany's war machine were deprived of oil, supporters of this view held, it would come to a halt. As we will see, however, there were m any practical shortcomings in the concept of precision bombing, which in turn led to a gradual switch to area bombing tactics against civilians in Europe and the Pacific. Although focusing upon industrial and military targets, air strategists did not lose sight of the moral effects of the bombing. Donald Wilson, an instructor at the Air Corps Tactical School, in a 1971 article commented on the moral effect of the World War I I  bombing campaign. In his lectures, Wilson pointed out that while "air force relies principally upon the destruction of physical means of waging war, . . .  [it also] takes advantage of moral effect.": Modern industrial nations are susceptible to defeat by interruption of this web, which is built to permit the dependence of one section upon many or all other sections, and further that this interruption is the primary objective for an air force . . . possible that the moral collapse brought about by the breaking of this closely knit web will be sufficient, but closely connected therewith is the industrial fabric which is absolutely essential foe modern war.3 2 3 1 . Carl Spaatz, "Strategic Air Power in the European War" in Emme 229. 3 -. Donald Wilson, "Origins of a Theory for Air Strategy", Aerospace Historian 18 (March 1971): 21. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 39 --- 3 2 Wilson argued that room was left in the theory for area bombing. If a specific target could not be hit due to air opposition or weather, area bombing could be directed against industrial areas in general or even against workers, because they were an integral part of the web. Thus, it is easy to see that in the heat of battle distinctions could becom