ds about strategy, and it is through their frank exchanges, which we will examine later in this paper, that we can gain a deeper insight into Arnold's views on the war in the Pacific. Arnold, Spaatz, Eaker, Walker, Hansell, LeMay, and Kenney were seven men who directed American air operations and collectively formulated American air doctrine. What is of interest to this researcher are their ideas and actions in relation to the topic of terror bombing. Did they view terror bombing as just another form of war intended to bring about an early capitulation? Moreover, what role did institutional goals play in the escalating terror bombing toward the end of the German and Japanese campaigns? To answer these questions, we must use traditional research methods as we examine writings, letters, journals, speeches, reports, and memos of the seven giants of American air power. PREVIOUS RESEARCH AND SOURCES There is a wide range of secondary sources that deal with the bombing of Germany and Japan during World War II. Arnold produced two works, Global Mission and Winged W arfare, which still shed light on his ideas about the use of air power. In these works, however, he does not deal directly with the issue of terror Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 12 --- 5 bombing but instead publicizes the role of the Air Corps in the w ar effort. Two authors who do focus on this issue are Ronald Schaffer in his Wings of Judgment and Kenneth Werrell Blankets of Fire. Although both writers offer a comprehensive view of the terror bombing issue, they do not shed much light on attitude of the individual commanders. In the same vein, Richard Davis's Carl A. Spaatz and the Air War in Europe is a massive work in which he details Spaatz's entire career. The book is a blow-by-biow account of Spaatz's actions as the commander of the 8th Airforce. Again, however, there is little insight into his