develop aircraft such as the P-51 Mustang and the B-29 Bomber, whereas the Germans failed to bring such weapons as the M 262 Jet, V -l and V -2 rockets, and four-engine bombers to bear in sufficient numbers to affect the outcome of the war.4 3 From the beginning, Arnold was cognizant of what was required to keep a strategic force operational. Arnold was determined not to repeat the mistakes of the Germans. During the first phase, 1939 to 1943, his main concern  was to establish a credible force. In early 1941, Army Regulation 95-5 gave the Army Air Force 4:. Arnold Papers,  "An Appraisal of the German Air Force," (1943 ), Reel 169, File 1. 4 3 . William Green, Warplanes of the Third Reich (New York, Galahad Books, 1990), 63. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 49 --- 4 2 considerable autonomy. Arnold now had the full authority to shape his forces according to his conceptions. In August 1941, he stated his organizational objectives: It must be apparent to everyone that essentially our problem is three-fold. First, to build our combat units to full operating strength with personnel & equipment; and second to obtain the maximum degree of combat efficiency while accomplishing the first objective, and third, to eliminate from our active ranks, misfits and others who are impeding our progress. 4 4 Arnold was never shy about making his demands known. He threw himself into the myriad of details to accomplish the above objectives. Arnold kept pressure on his commanding officers to quickly enact the procedures necessary to build up his forces. To General Echols: "In my opinion our modification program is still far from satisfactory. There is too much lag, too much uncertainty, and too much interference with the people that are carrying out modifications."4 5  In a memo to General Stratemeyer, Arnold pointed out that it was useless to teach men how to operate the ball tur