ombing. American air leaders would ostensibly hold to this concept throughout the war even though the reality became something different. The main points of the strategy were: in modern warfare, the m ilitary, political, economic, and social facets of a nation's existence are so closely and absolutely interdependent that interruption of this delicate balance will suffice to defeat an enemy state. Strategic bombing, precisely aimed at these vital centers of an enemy industrial complex, will wreck the fragile equilibrium and destroy the enemy state's war-making capacity; consequently such destruction will also wreck the enemy nation's capacity to sustain normal day-to-day life, which will, in turn, destroy the will of its populace to fight.3 0  One of the leading air commanders during the war, Carl Spaatz put it this way: The principle of mass, by its capacity to bring all its force from widely distributed bases simultaneously to focus on single targets. The principle of objective, by its capacity to select for destruction those elements which are most vital to the enemy's war potential, and to penetrate deep into the heart of the enemy country to destroy those vital elements wherever they are 3 0 . Clodfelter, 84. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 38 --- 31 found. The principle of economy of force, by its capacity to concentrate on a limited number of vital target systems instead of being compelled to disperse its force on numerous objectives of secondary importance.3 1 In effect, Spaatz wanted to practice a form of economic warfare. According to his theory, victory could be achieved by destroying a few key elements of the enemy's economy. A classic example of this concentration on such targets was the 1943 attacks on the Romanian oil fields. If Germany's war machine were deprived of oil, supporters of this view held, it would come to a halt. As we will see, h