diversion of production from offensive weapons such as tanks to defensive weapons such as fighter aircraft and anti-aircraft guns.1 3 3 A further effect of the allied bombing campaign was the diversion and eventual destruction of the German Air Force. By 1942, the GAF was already showing signs of severe strain due to its overextended commitments in Africa and the Soviet Union. The GAF's situation would only get worse as Italy was invaded in 1943 and the intensity of the allied bombing campaign throughout occupied Europe increased. As a result, the GAF was forced to concentrate more of its pilots and planes on the home front. The intensity of the air war over Germany resulted in a shortage of experienced pilots. Unlike American and British pilots, German pilots were never rotated out of action until they were killed or too injured to fly. It was not unusual to find German pilots with 900 missions or more.1 3 4  The GAF simply could not afford to pull experienced pilots out of the front lines for training purposes. Compounding this problem was the shortage of fuel, which further limited training. In contrast, Arnold was able to devote sizable resources to his training in the U.S. At no time after 1943 was there a shortage of American pilots. Arnold could afford to pull experienced crews out of action and rotate them into his training program. By 1944, Arnold was able to cut back training programs and deactivate women (WASP) pilot units without an adverse effect on air operations. The end result of the intensive air campaign was the virtual destruction of the GAF as an effective fighting force. By the fall of 1944, German aircraft production m. Ibid !3 4 . Colin D. Heaton, "Interview: Luftwaffe Eagle Johannes Steinhoff," World War,  (May 199 8), 74. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 110 --- 103 had increased, but there were not enough pilots or fuel to support t