e. Arnold fervently believed that in the long run such a substitution would save lives or, at least, substitute the lives of U.S. soldiers with those of Japanese civilians. By May of 1944, operations out of China and India were becoming more problematic. The supply problems with the Navy were still an obstacle, as Arnold reported to General Handy: 'The latest bombshell was when the Navy decided we could not send to China the additional Air Commando outfit because they could not furnish the gasoline."9 8  There were political difficulties in China as well. Once the supplies reached China, the Nationalists demanded their share, as did General Stilwell. In between all of the political maneuvering, the Japanese offensives threatened the new air bases. The air commander in China, Chennault, found his position untenable as "he was forced to take on four or five tasks at one time without 9 7 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Kenney," (October 20th , 1943), Reel 169, File 2 9 S . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to General Handy," (May 17th , 1944), Reel 172, file 4 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 87 --- 80 ever being assured from month to month, of the means of doing one of them efficiently."9 9  In short, the situation in China did not lend itself to a modern strategic bombing campaign. Lack of modern facilities, difficulties with the Chinese, lack of supplies, and enemy activity all led Arnold to examine alternatives. With American naval and land forces advancing, island bases from which to attack Japan became available from the Pacific rim. Island bases provided several advantages over China and India. In the first place, there were no political considerations. Second, American Naval Engineers could create the type of environment necessary for modern air operations. Third, supply was from the sea, which, despite the problems with the Navy, was more efficient than flying supp