l November 1944. The basic dilemm a stemmed from the summer of 1941 when Hansell and his team formulated their strategic concept. It was argued that terror bombing couid be used at the right moment to break the morale of the people. The Balkans seemed to some policy makers vulnerable to terror. Certainly, Balkan ties to the Nazi regime were precarious. The question was: How much violence was necessary to push them over the edge? The only way to answer this question was to bomb civilians. Once extreme violence is used, however, it becomes difficult to control the consequences. There is a fine line between defeatism, the indented result, and a renewed resoluteness against a hated enemy. Allied air leaders would attem pt to find the formula throughout the rest of the war. As the war deepened and relations between the allies and Soviet Union became strained, the impulse to use extrem e violence increased. With the successful allied landing and the advance of Soviet armies in the East, American and British air leaders continued to search for ways to force Germany out Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 66 --- 5 9 of the war. The search for the precise ratio of terror to pinpoint destruction continued. In the fall of 1944, there were a number of proposals designed to shake German morale to its core. In September 1944, Arnold wanted six or seven days of attacks throughout Germany striking at military objectives. The concept was the same as General Sherman's march through Georgia. Every citizen must see the power of the allied air forces. Once they saw this power, surely they would lose all hope and become a defeated nation. CLARION, the code name for this operation, was not designed as an obliteration attack to kill the German population. When Arnold asked for comments, Spaatz proposed instead an alternative operation, SHATTER, which he described as a plan to attack t