tion of Nagoyo, Osaka and Tokyo exceeded the total destruction of German cities. According to the Japanese 241,000 were killed, 313,000 seriously injured whereas the U.S. strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS) put the death toll a t 330 ,00 0 and 476,000, respectively.1 1 4 The campaign continued through June 1945 with increasing ferocity. Hiroshima and Nagasaki represented the final acts of the American strategic bombing campaign. It was the logical conclusion to American thinking. The A-bomb was the product of a massive technological and capital-spending campaign. It represented a substantial technological innovation in warfare. The destruction by one bomb was equivalent to a series of B-29 raids. The idea of one massive shock to the Japanese political, m ilitary, and psychological system was similar to that of the incendiary attacks. In effect, American science had answered one of the questions posed by the architects of the strategic bombing campaign in the summer of 1941: Just how much force would have to be applied to force an enemy to capitulate? Conclusion As in Europe, Arnold had to spend a great deal of time and political capital to build a force capable of striking at the heart of Japan. Arnold showed the same energy and determ ination in deploying his forces in Japan as he had in Europe. His commanders were driven to produce results or face replacement. Curtis LeMay was IU. W errell, 227. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 98 --- 91 the type of commander Arnold wanted, a commander who would overcome all obstacles to get the job done. The obstacles for a strategic campaign in the Pacific were far greater than in Europe. Bases had to be established, the B-29 perfected, supply systems worked out with the Navy, and great distances covered. In one sense, the strategic campaign over Japan was less arduous that over Europe in that the resistance encountered was