er weapon of war. Douhet's preoccupation with terror bombing was a part of this process. As it turned out, no major power entered the war with a policy of terror bombing, but as time went on all sides would engage in indiscriminate bombing. W hether this tactic, was a result of Douhet's theories or an attem pt to employ the massive bombing formations to the fullest extent possible is one of the questions at the heart of this study. Although they would repudiate Douhet's extreme views on civilian deaths, Arnold and his colleagues never lost sight of their goal of establishing the bomber as the predominant weapon of war. One aspect of Douhet's doctrine that was of particular interest to airmen during the interwar period was his emphasis on the necessity of establishing independent air forces. One of Douhet's basic tenets, shared by every Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 25 --- 18 nation's air leadership, was that "before any real aerial warfare can take place, its basic elements, such as planes, personnel, and their organization into an autonomous fighting body, must first be created and forged into an efficient fighting organization."1 3  Douhet's words spoke directly to the aspirations of the young airmen. If they were to succeed, they would need independence from traditional m ilitary establishments. Arnold and his colleagues would be in charge of air policy during the Second World War. They took from Douhet a firm belief in the capacity of the strategic bomber to change the course of the war and would fight for its fullest employment during the war. Although they opposed allowing the traditional military establishment to ham per their operations, Arnold complained bitterly in Global Mission about the lack of control over air operations during the war. He argued that the U.S. air arm could have accomplished a great deal more if it had been supported by the m