me and be made ready for action. Politically, the AAF had to rely on the Navy to do the bulk of this transportation. The Navy, of course, had its own ideas on how to conduct a war in the Pacific, priorities which did not always coincide with the AAF. The Navy had its own system of supply and organization based on long experience, whereas Arnold's forces were modern and represented new concepts of warfare that Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 74 --- 6 7 were alien to naval thinking. Reliance on the Navy's supply system would become a constant irritant throughout the Pacific w ar.8 0 However, the supply situation was not the only obstacle to waging modern war in the Pacific. Unlike Europe, there were few modern facilities from which to stage air operations. In England, the AAF operated out of a highly advanced industrialized nation with bases, expertise, and a modern infrastructure for support, all of which were lacking, save for Australia, in the Pacific. Airfields would have to be carved out of jungles, built on coral reefs, and improvised in pre-modern societies such as India and China. The P 40, an aging design even in 1941, was kept in production well into 1944 because of its adaptability to the pre-modern conditions of the Pacific. Before island bases in the Pacific became available, Arnold attem pted to operate against the Japanese from bases in China and India. Much effort was wasted in this endeavor, however, as the AAF could never solve the logistical and political problems. The backwardness of the Chinese and Indian infrastructure as well as the vulnerability of the supply lines continually frustrated Pacific commanders. Furthermore, in China, air commanders found themselves competing with both Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek and General Joseph Stillwell for limited supplies which had to be flown over the Burma hump. Every tim e supplies over the Burm