owever, they had to destroy the German and Japanese air forces. Such an accomplishment would vault them over the more traditional services and make the AAF the most prominent service in the military. If the AAF achieve parity or surpass the other branches, then the value of their service and future would be assured. At the least Arnold hoped to gain full independence for the AAF within the m ilitary structure. To this end, Arnold made sure that the public was kept informed of the AAF's activities through an extensive public relations campaign. Arnold wanted the public to not only understand the nuts and bolts of the AAF's activities, but also the rationale for its operations. Through public relations Arnold hoped to gain their Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 116 --- 109 support for his service. It was for this reason that Arnold was so sensitive to negative press during the heat of battle th at he wanted nothing out there to suggest that the AAF was engaged in a war of terror. In the public mind, Arnold's war was to be a war of surgical strikes against the enemy's war making capacity. It was not long, however, before Arnold and his commanders came up against a series of limits to their strategic conception. The logistics in both the European and Pacific theaters were daunting. It  was only through Arnold's energy and determination that strategic campaigns were launched. Problems such as training, securing air bases, diversion of forces, and teething problems associated with the B- 29 delayed the deployment of Arnold's forces. Once deployed, it soon became apparent that the B-17s and B-29s were not capable of carrying out the Web theory with Pin Point accuracy. Both aircraft were severely hampered by the weather and by their own technological limitations. These limits soon brought about a contradiction in American thinking, especially as air leaders never pu