be discussed in small groups. The material will all be presented in a course entitled American Air Policy in World W ar Two. Over a course of a semester, lectures will be given dealing with the origin and development of American air doctrine and its application in the European and Pacific theaters. Furthermore, the moral implications of the application of American Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 15 --- air doctrine will be examined as well as future implications. Case studies will employed to explore the moral implications of the use of American air power. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 16 --- 9 CHAPTER I Background The foundation of air doctrine was laid on the battlefields of World War I. The seemingly pointless land war, which led to millions of deaths, caused military strategists and others to search for technological alternatives to the stalemate of trench warfare. Innovations such as the tank and poison gas were intended to overcome this stalemate. The rapid development of aeronautical technology opened up many possibilities in the minds of young air theorists for the use of air power in future warfare. By the end of the conflict, the role of air warfare had drastically increased to the point that strategists were beginning to contemplate the possibility of long-range strategic bombing campaigns. These new possibilities also generated conflicts with the traditional m ilitary establishment. The consensus among the traditional military establishment directly after the war was that air power ought to be limited to a tactical support role for land forces. However, those airmen who had been directly involved with air operations during the war argued for a much more vigorous and independent role for the airplane. In America, the most prominent ear