elf. Arnold's plan to use machines was yet another installment of the overall strategy. Ultimately, what this tactic m eant for the average German was that their lives were to be lost so American soldiers could live. By January 1945, officials in Washington and commanders in Europe were becoming frustrated. Germany had been under day and night bombardment for over a year, and yet there was no sign of her cracking. In fact, the Ardennes offensive had sent shock waves through American war leaders. It seemed, to American commanders in January 1945, that Germany was still an formidable enemy. In a memo from Spaatz to Arnold, German capabilities were stated, if not overstated: Fighting quality of the German ground armies is still very high. Certain types of German weapons are superior to ours. The morale of the civilian population has shown no signs of breaking. The recuperative power of German industry has exceeded expectations. The Germans have developed and will use increasingly a number of rocket and je t propelled pilotless aircraft, giving them  a bad weather advantage.7 5 The only sphere in which the Americans believed they had a superior force was in the air. The solution was to take full advantage of American and British air superiority. These concerns were mirrored in Washington. The Secretary of Air, Lovett, and other officials were worried that the allies would become stalemated in the West. The worst case scenario was that "the war may develop into a type of dug in trench warfare which will be slow, costly in lives and increasingly difficult to 7 5  Arnold Papers,  "Spaatz to Arnold," (January, 1945), Reel 174, file 2. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 69 --- 6 2 synchronize with the increased demands of the Pacific."7 6  The upshot of all these concerns was that, in early 1945, the hope that the European war could be ended in that year seemed distant.