to dehumanize the enemy. Racism soon became one of the central themes in the Pacific conflict. The internment of Japanese Americans in the U.S contributed to the process of dehumanization in America. In many respects, the average American thought of the war in the Pacific in more personal terms in comparison to the European conflict. The racist nature of American culture made it much easier to view the "sneak attack" on Pearl harbor as an act of a savage, uncivilized, and ungrateful people. In an effort to mobilize the American public, the government was quick to pick up on racist attitudes toward the Japanese in their propaganda for the war effort.1 1 5 FDR took a personal interest in the treatm ent of the average German as shown in an August 24, 1944 memo to Secretary of W ar Stimson. FDR was commenting on the "Handbook" for American soldiers occupying Germany. The President was concerned that the thrust of the handbook was that "Germany would be brought back as quickly as possible to their pre-war state." FDR thought that "it is of the utmost ,I6. "Why we Fight" (6) Prod.Capra Frank, 62 min, United States War Department, 1944, Videocassette. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 101 --- 94 importance that every person in Germany should realize that this time Germany is a defeated nation".1 1 7  FDR did not w ant the Germans to starve; however, he did want them to fully realize that they had lost the war. Given these attitudes, we can assume that FDR fully supported the type of terror attacks which took place on German cities in the latter stages of the war. The use of the AAF was, in a sense, similar to Sherman's march through Georgia in the waning weeks of the American Civil War. Once the German civilian population realized that their own armed forces could no longer protect them , their morale and confidence in the Nazi regime would surely collapse. As it ha