h trained pilots to operate the touchy new jets. The GAF assembled a group of expert pilots for the ME 262, but again they could not affect the outcome of the air w ar.1 3 1  But the principal effect of allied bombing was to shift labor from productive to non-productive work. From September 1943 until October 1944, between one and a half million and two million workers in industry, transport, and power, which amounted to 10-16%  of the workforce, were diverted into nonproductive work.1 3 2 The American air plan, AWPD, had envisioned that specific industries such as steel, oil, and transportation would be disrupted. With these industries being thrown into disarray, it was hoped that a general collapse in production and morale would bring the war economy to a halt. However, the report saw no evidence of a general breakdown in production or morale. In fact, the allied bombing effort was unable to fully disable any of the key industries identified in the summer of 1941. The effect of allied bombing appeared to be more general in nature. All of the key sectors were affected, but the diversion of labor from war production to non­ productive activities was one of the principal effects of the bombing campaign, not the crippling of the war economy through the destruction of specific industries. In ,3 °. Karl Toll,"Storm Bird: Nazi Germany's Desperate 11th  Hour Gamble For Victory, The ME 262 Jet Fighter was doomed From the Start," Air power, 3, (March 1993) 10-29. m. Ibid. I3 ::. Arnold Papers,  "Miscellaneous Aspects of Air Attack," (August 1945), Reel 190, File 3 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 109 --- 102 addition to the diversion of manpower, there was a concurrent diversion of production from offensive weapons such as tanks to defensive weapons such as fighter aircraft and anti-aircraft guns.1 3 3 A further effect of the allied bombing campaign was the diversio