heir respective societies and their position within the government. In the short space of 20 years, the airplane blurred the distinction between combatant and civilian. Given Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 114 --- 1 0 7 the fact that civilians had become such a vital component of modern war, was it not logical to target them? The traditional military establishment was not ready to embrace this idea, nor were many of the air theorists. But Douhet and a handful of other theorists were. Douhet glorified the capabilities of the airplane and flatly stated that not only was an attack on civilians the most efficient manner in which to win a war, but that it was more moral than engaging in a war of attrition. Douhet and his followers viewed the world from a fascist perspective. To fully accept their conception of aerial warfare, one had to accept their fascist conception of mankind. In such a conception, the sacrifice of women and children was just as valid as that of young men. American air theorists were not so bold and eager as to extol the killing of civilians. Arnold, Mitchell, Spaatz, Eaker, and Hansel! were indeed fascinated with the capabilities of the airplane. They were, however, with the possible exception of Mitchell, professionals and careerists who possessed more professional discipline than Douhet and were more limited in what they could do by technical and bureaucratic constraints. At the same time, they were also mavericks who often overestimated the capabilities of the machines that fascinated them. They were also visionaries who rose above the confines of traditional military thinking. Arnold, for instance, spent much tim e and effort speculating on the future of air power. But they had to operate within the confines of their bureaucratic and political worlds. There were many years of limited budgets and fights with Congress and the other Servic