ects of a concentrated strategic air operation. The rewards of the success of 3 6 . Arnold Papers ,"Arnold to George" (July 3 1941) Reel 167, File 2. 1 1 . Clodfelter, Pin Pointing Devastation, 90. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 42 --- strategic operations would be an independent air arm which could secure the bulk of funding. Memories of the austere budgets and obsolete equipment would quickly recede. Once George had made the case for strategic bombing, his staff could focus on Hansell's target folders. Using information Hansell had accumulated from his efforts and those of the British, planners concluded th a t electric power, transportation, and oil production systems were the key components of the German economy. It was thought that if these key sectors could be identified and destroyed (124 vital targets in all), the war could be won. Aside from the collapse of the German economy, the "means of livelihood of the German people would be destroyed." Here, George and his planners were walking a fine line. They reasoned that if civilians were attacked before key sectors were hit, German resolve would be stiffened. However, if civilians were attacked in the context of a sustained air offensive which had destroyed these sectors, the population could break. 3 8  Although it was hoped that such attacks would not be needed, they were not considered to be morally wrong. Achieving the bomber production planned in the early 1940’s superseded anything that had been imagined in the 1 93 0’s, but the seemingly inevitable march toward war in the summer of 1941 made the plan plausible. George and his group believed that the expense would be justified because bombers were less expensive than a full scale invasion of the Continent. The bomber provided a platform for America to influence world events. In these circumstances, both Secretary of War Stimson and Marshall endo