t the American people were becoming restless was the type of thinking that led officials to look for a fast end to the war. ,1. Arnold Papers,  "Kenney to Arnold," (September 194 4), Reel 176, file 5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 83 --- 76 1942-1945: Road to Tokyo The December 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor was by no means a surprise to Arnold. As early as January 1941, he had taken part in plans to strengthen the defenses of the base.9 2  In the summer and fall of 1941, the AAF leadership expected war. The rapid order of defeats suffered after Pearl Harbor, however, came as a shock to Arnold and the top military leadership. Much of 1942 and 1943 was taken up with absorbing the Japanese assault, getting supplies to China, and establishing a credible force for an eventual offensive. In these early months after Pearl Harbor, U.S. policy was to hold the line in the Pacific. As Arnold explained to Marshall, because "we do not have the initiative in the Pacific, forces would be better spent in the European theater."9 3  Both FDR and Arnold viewed the situation in the Pacific from a global perspective that relegated the Pacific theater to a lower priority. The commanders on the ground, however, did not always share this view. In the early months after Pearl Harbor confusion was the order of the day, a lesson which Arnold learned firsthand in a fact-finding trip in September 1942. Arnold met with Admiral Chester Nimitz and General Douglas MacArthur while American air and naval forces where still recovering from the Japanese assault. MacArthur seemed particularly impressed by Japanese military prowess. He was convinced of an imminent invasion of Hawaii, to be followed by an invasion of South America and the U.S. West Coast. MacArthur also believed that the Japanese were better fighting men than the Germans and that no second front could possibly be Arnold Papers