on as possible. They had allowed themselves to be drawn into a 7 5 . Ibid. 7 7 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Spaatz," (January 14th, 1945), Reel 174, fileZ. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 70 --- 6 3 terror campaign while at the same tim e still bombing legitimate military targets. Through it all, the Americans wanted to maintain good public relations. The raids on Dresden came in the context of Operation Thunderclap. After a period of long study, Spaatz issued a new set of priorities: first, oil targets: second, Berlin, Leipzig, Dresden, and associated cities; third, communications.7 8  Thunderclap was in a long series of operations designed to be the most decisive operation of the war. When the AAF could not carry out precision attacks against military targets, cities behind the retreating German armies would be hit. Because precision attacks were difficult in the winter, it m eant that the majority of attacks would be area blind bombing. Thunderclap was in line with the increased pressure exerted by Arnold to keep flying regardless of conditions until the enemy's will was broken. There were a number of factors which caused planners to attack eastern cities in the latter stages of the war. Planners wanted the roads clogged with civilians fleeing cities and towns, thereby preventing the resupply of German troops facing the Soviets. Some of the planners also thought that these raids would impress the Soviets with the effectiveness of allied air strength. Finally, eastern German cities such as Dresden had assumed a new strategic importance given the collapse of the Eastern Front in the late winter/spring of 1945. In these cities, German transportation facilities now became the focal point for supply. If these cities could be crippled, throwing their populations into the streets and countryside, the German will to resist could not help but collapse. The Allies