y, and too much interference with the people that are carrying out modifications."4 5  In a memo to General Stratemeyer, Arnold pointed out that it was useless to teach men how to operate the ball turret if there was no personnel to repair them. "It appears to me that we are still thinking in terms of pennies when we should be thinking in terms of millions of dollars. Our training people must raise their sights and do it at once."4 6 Another advantage Arnold had over the Germans is that he had the authority to carry out his conception of air power, whereas German leaders such as Milch, Udet, and Goering had to go through the Nazi apparatus to enact change. By the time Albert Speer was able to bring efficiency to the aircraft production system, it was too late. In late 1944, Germany could produce the planes, but there was no fuel to fly 4 4 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to General Martin," (August 12 1941), Reel 179, File 5. 4 5 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Echols,"(February 22 1943), Reel 169, File 3. i6. Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to General Stratemeyer," (August 2 1942), Reel 171, File 5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 50 --- 4 3 them and no personnel to fix or operate them. From the beginning Arnold was able to address these issues. He was able to build up his forces slowly, always making sure that the logistical support for a sustained bombing campaign was in place. Arnold's careful preparations meant that the allies were not fully able to respond to the initial German assault until the summer of 1943. By the fall of 1944 into the Spring of 1945, the British and American air forces had excess capacity to a point that Arnold began to cut back training and production programs. This development accounts for the fact that the bulk of the damage to German cities was done after the outcome of the war had already been decided. The force that Arnold had built took on