Arnold had to maintain the political consensus forged in the sum m er of 1941 between the American civilian and military leaders. There was constant pressure to divert and scatter his forces for other purposes, whether it was laying mines, attacking submarines, or supporting the troops in the field. Arnold's firm belief that 4 0 . Arnold, Global Mission. 371. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 47 --- 4 0 a sustained and concentrated strategic bombing campaign could shorten, if not win the war, kept him and his field commanders focused. A large part of maintaining a consensus and providing a rationale for an independent Air Force was public relations. In a July 1943 memo to Major General Ira Eaker (commander of European Theater), Arnold forcefully put forth his view on the importance of public relations. In the spirit of the "Why We Fight" film series, Arnold urged Eaker to go beyond the basic detail of operations. He wanted the public to understand the Air Force's "precept, principles, and purposes." Arnold thought it was important that people know how and why the Axis Air Forces are destroyed. "The prime purpose is the destruction of the enemy's ability to wage war, our planned persistent bombing and sapping of his vital industries." In short, "we want the people to understand and have faith in our way of making war." Arnold definitely wanted to avoid any moral qualms. When he stated that he wanted the public "to understand," he meant he wanted the public to agree with the Air Force's perception of its own role. To accomplish this aim Arnold wanted detailed reports on missions released to the public to contain "clear photographic evidence showing the before, during, and after phases of the operation."4 1  One can clearly see this reasoning at work in contemporary operations from the Gulf W ar to the war in Kosovo. The purpose is not only to inform but impress