erfected, supply systems worked out with the Navy, and great distances covered. In one sense, the strategic campaign over Japan was less arduous that over Europe in that the resistance encountered was minimal. An airman had far more chance of losing his life because of mechanical failure than from hostile enemy activity. The nature of Japanese industrial organization with its wooden cities made it possible to cause a great deal of damage to the heart of Japan with relatively light bomb loads. The fact that Arnold chose to exploit the vulnerability of Japanese cities instead of cutting off Japan's supply lines demonstrates his determination to fully employ the B-29 in the most decisive way possible. Bombed-out ports and amounts of tonnage sunk, although impressive, were less impressive than the sight of devastated Japanese population centers. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 99 --- 92 Chapter 4 ATTITUDES Thus far we have established the fact that American air and political leaders raised no great objections against terror attacks on civilians. The bombing campaigns against Germany and especially Japan were, in many cases, attacks against segments of the population who were virtually defenseless. In this chapter we shall exam ine the attitudes of the Allied top leadership with a view to determining, in general, the effect of their attitudes towards civilian and the enemy in their decisions. In the early stages of the war, both Germany and England avoided attacks on civilians, but, as is the nature of war, attitudes toward the enemy hardened as the war deepened. Hitler did not want to antagonize the British in the hope that some accommodation could be reached. For their part, the British, especially under Chamberlain, were not eager to escalate the w ar.lis After the fall of France and the London Blitz, any reluctance on both sides to attack civilians disappear