lan, everybody who read it seemed to be for it initially. Soon we started to tear it to pieces, a couple of groups here, a couple of groups there.5 4 5 3 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Marshall," (1 9 4 2 ), Reel 5, file 5. Arnold Papers ,"Arnold to Hopkins," (Septem ber 1942), Reel 167, file 6. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 55 --- 4 8 Arnold's determination to carry out his conception of a strategic offensive caused him to fight the bureaucratic battles against competing priorities from all over the world. In a sense Arnold had oversold his forces; everyone wanted a piece of them for their own particular war. At the same time, Arnold was asking a great deal of Washington and the Pentagon's developing military complex. He was demanding an enormous am ount of resources (just a few short years ago such a request would have been unthinkable) to commit to an untested conception of strategy. In January 1942, Arnold laid it all out to President Roosevelt. The AAF needed 55,000 planes of all types and personnel in numbers greater than the size of the entire Army of December 1 9 4 1 -- 91,391 pilots; 19,866 navigators; 8,135 bombardiers, etc.5 5 Although at tim es it may have appeared to Arnold that the administration was wavering, in the end their commitment insured that his strategic conception would be implem ented. In January 1943 at the Casablanca Conference, objectives for the up-coming air campaign were established. All would depend upon the destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial, and economic system and the underpinning of the morale of the German people if there were to be any hope of bringing an early end to the war. To accomplish these goals, specific targets were named. In the spring of 1943, operations were begun with attacks on submarine bases to relieve pressure on the Atlantic shipping lanes. It was envisioned at Casablanca t