r. New York: Macmillan Publishing Co, 1973. Werrell, Kenneth. Blankets of Fire. Washington D .C .:  Smithsonian Institutional Press, 1995. Willcocks, Raymond. The Ethics of Bombing Dresden. Carlisle Barracks, Pa,: U.S. Army W ar College, 1998. Wilson, Donald. "Origin of the Theory for Strategic Bombing." Aerospace Historian,  18 March 1971. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 124 --- 11 7 Questions Do two Questions. The first essay is due by October 24. 1. In a well written essay using class discussion and assigned readings, discuss and analyze the causes of the Second World War in Europe and the Pacific. 2. In a well written essay using class discussion and readings, discuss and analyze the origins of American air theory. What were the major influences on American thought and the limitations on the American air program from 1918 to 1941? 4. In a well written essay using class discussion and assigned readings, discuss and analyze the air war in either the Pacific and European theaters. What were the forces which led America to move away from Pin Point to area bombing? 5. In a well written essay discuss and analyze the gap between the air doctrine developed by the American planners and its application in both theaters. 6 . In a well written essay discuss and analyze moral implications brought on by the development of air doctrine from 1918 to 1941 and its application in the 1930's and 1940's Case Studies Case studies will be assigned during class time asking students to examine the moral implications of American bombing. Grading: 1. (A) An "A" essay shall: Show good organization, have a beginning, middle and end; Have enough detail to answer the stated question; Show evidence of the readings and class discussions; Be devoid of confusion or factual error; Show insight into the issues raised. W hat I mean by this is, that you must demonstrate that you understand t