ed so relevant in an increasingly dangerous world. Although the general staff still fought vehemently against the procurement of heavy bombers, strategic thinkers were becoming more interested in a weapon system that could project American influence beyond the immediate region. It was believed that the new super bombers (B-17) would provide a new sense of security because of their capacity to strike back at any enemy before it could cause significant damage to America. a . Russell Weigley, The American Wav of War (New York:Macmillan Publishing Co, 1973), 228 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 34 --- 2 7 With the rise of Nazism in Europe and militarism in Japan, the Roosevelt Administration increasingly looked at the world from a broader perspective. The administration wanted a weapon which could counter global threats, and the revolutionary arguments for the long range bomber began to make more sense in a hostile world environment. The effectiveness of the bomber seemed to be supported by events in Spain, China, and Ethiopia. As these foreign wars began to spread, air theorists looked abroad for possible guidance and lessons. Although they saw little which changed their views on the use of air power, American theorists saw much which confirmed their doctrine. In Spain, the exploits of the bomber captured the popular imagination. According to one description: "First the bombers dropped the explosives bombs to wreck the houses and buildings, then dropped the aluminum incendiary bombs to fire the debris. The inhabitants, who survived explosion and fire, were then machine gunned as they tried to escape."2 4  The war in Spain showed the world how horribly effective the bomber could be. Suddenly, the theories of air power strategists and futurists seemed more real. Any nation caught without such weapons was exposing itself to attack. Although Spain showed how horrib