Node: 26913, Score: 0.0945814313895981, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0170.txt, Content: extra miles of range out of the clumsy 200-gallon tanks, and it jumped the pursuing Germans. Three Thunderbolts went down with their pilots, but a dozen German fighters were shot down, probably saving several bombers. Along with the rescue of six B-17 crews from the sea, this was almost the sole merciful occurrence of the day. The Schweinfurt force had lost 36 Fortresses. In all, of 376 B-17s, 60 had gone down and 11 had to be scrapped. Seven Allied fighters were lost. The Americans alone had lost 601 men: 102 killed, 381 prisoners, and 20 interned in Switzerland, while 38 fell in enemy territory but managed to evade capture. The Germans had lost about 47 planes, but only 16 men killed. Only about 21 planes had fallen to the bomber gunners, who claimed to have shot down 288! The Regensburg attack did a lot of damage to Me-109 production, and it paid an unexpected dividend: it destroyed the fuselage jigs and acceptance gauges for the Me-262 jet fighter. But the attack was not the crushing blow that had been hoped for. The Germans recovered many machine-tools even though the buildings they were in were smashed. More tools were rushed from the Skoda works, and the factory was dispersed, first to "shadow" workshops in nearby towns and then to forest clearings. Production recovered and even increased.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 102 The Abortive Offensive The Schweinfurt attack was a comparative failure. Only one of the three main plants was seriously damaged. Although many machines were moved from the badly hit Kugelfischer plant to a branch facility, there was no major effort to disperse the industry. Fearing that it would cost too much production, Speer gambled that the Allies did not really recognize the ball bearings industry' importance. However, he did secure still greater antiaircraft defenses for Schwein furt, and he took steps to increase production elsewhere.7 BREATHING SPACE AND BUILDUP The Eighth attacked aircraft factories and air bases in France and
Node: 26912, Score: 0.0860922156402262, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0169.txt, Content: g incendiaries, were to bomb the center of Schweinfurt. That way they would hit housing and kill some skilled workers. The 1st Wing remained unlucky. After crossing the Dutch coast, it encountered a thick cloud layer. The commander of the 1st Air Task Force (the leading half of the wing) chose to go under it at 17,000 feet. This contributed to the failure of the 4th Fighter Group, one of the two groups that were to escort the force on the Antwerp-Eupen leg of the route, to rendezvous on time-it only joined the bombers just before it had to leave. The 78th Fighter Group, which managed to rendezvous, was overstretched. This cost at least one bomber; the Germans once again struck even before the Thunderbolts turned back. The decision to fly at 17,000 feet may have been unfortunate for other reasons. Flak was deadlier, and the German fighters, flying at their best altitude, were able to use the clouds as cover. They slammed repeatedly into the Americans, concentrating on the leading groups. Survivors of the Schweinfurt mission were unanimous in regard- ing it as their worst experience of the war, except possibly for those who also went on the second mission, two months later. The Germans once again had to let up as the bombers neared the target, but they had disrupted the Schweinfurt force more than they had the 4th Wing. The approach to the target had been altered at the last minute to allow for the changed position of the sun later in the day, and the attack was made from a less familiar angle. The bombing was inaccurate; the last four groups were unable to see the factories, but were so disorganized that they did not hit even the center of the city. After more fierce fighting the 1st Wing was met by the 56th Fighter Group east of Eupen. The fighter group had squeezed 15 extra miles of range out of the clumsy 200-gallon tanks, and it jumped the pursuing Germans. Three Thunderbolts went down with their pilots, but a dozen German fighters were shot down, probably saving
Node: 26879, Score: 0.0776403423336498, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0136.txt, Content: three mis- sions were completed in October, and none at all between October 21 and November 7. When they did fly the crews froze; ice even threatened to choke their inadequate oxygen masks. In terms of losses, the Eighth's initial opera- tions seemed encouraging. Even British observers, who discounted the wild claims of enemy fighters shot down, were impressed by the fact that even when the Germans got at the B-17s the latter survived. But the first missions were mis- leading. Most were escorted by fighters and aided by successful diversions. The German command was not yet worried about the Americans and had not yet reinforced the day fighter force in the West. German pilots who had encountered the B-17 were more impressed. Bombers were usually easy targets, but the B-17 (and the B-24) were different. When the Germans attacked from the rear, the normal approach to a bomber formation, they met a terrifying volume of fire. The Fortress had been well designed to 81 counter such attacks and was rugged beyond their experience; it took an average of 20-25 hits with 20 mm. shells to bring one down. The Germans realized that their fighters were not well armed for shooting down B-17s, which called for a different type of armament than that best for fighter-versus-fighter combat. This posed a dilemma that was to be increasingly serious. A fighter weighed down by the heavy, slow-firing cannon best suited for destroying bombers was at a disadvantage against Allied fighters. This had particularly serious results for the Me-109s, which formed most of the German fighter force. Certain peculiarities of its design had made arming the Me-109 a tricky problem all along. Adding more and heavier guns required bulges and gondolas that hurt its per- formance. In 1942, however, this problem was not yet acute. Unfortunately, the Germans were not stumped about how to attack the B-17 for long. Oberleutnant Egon Mayer, a fighter group commander, realized that it was vulnerable to attack from t
Node: 26865, Score: 0.0750672529726874, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0122.txt, Content: fault of the B-17 was inherent in its basic layout. For lack of space, not lifting ability, no Fortress could take anything larger than a 2,000-pound bomb in its bomb bay. The B-17F had external racks enabling it to carry a 4,000-pound bomb under each wing, but bombs in the racks caused so much drag, and other prob- lems, that they were rarely used. Fortresses normally hauled purely internal loads of 4,000 to 6,000 pounds. The United States Eighth Air Force began operations from Britain with a mixture of B-17Es and Fs and a few B-24Ds. The B-24s were initially less well armed, lacking protection underneath and in front, but a 73 retractable belly turret, lowered only in action, was later added, along with a powered nose turret. Ultimately more B-24s were built than B-17s; the Ford Com- pany built a huge plant the size of a city at Willow Run, Michigan, which after much bungling and delay, turned out 500 B-24s a month. The B-24 replaced the B-17 in the Pacific, where it was also used by the Navy, but the B-17 re- mained the preferred bomber in Europe. The B-17s were manned by crews of ten men-considerably larger than those carried by British bombers. The bombardier and navigator worked in the nose and manned the guns there when needed. The pilot and copilot sat above and behind them; aft of them, the flight engineer doubled as the top turret gunner. Behind him was the bomb bay. A catwalk gave access to the colder and draftier rear of the plane. Behind the bomb bay was the radio man. He also manned a .50-caliber gun firing upward toward the rear through a hatch, with a limited field of fire; it supplemented the protection given by the top turret against div- ing attacks. Behind the radio compartment, four full-time gunners manned the two waist guns, the ball turret, and twin machine guns in the tail. The last two positions were the most uncomfortable; the tail gunner worked on his knees, while the ball turret gunner had to squat for hours in an awkward position in- si
Node: 26914, Score: 0.074328431697707, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0171.txt, Content: ill greater antiaircraft defenses for Schwein furt, and he took steps to increase production elsewhere.7 BREATHING SPACE AND BUILDUP The Eighth attacked aircraft factories and air bases in France and the Low Countries and at Watten, in France, smashed a huge bunker designed to house V-2 rockets; the concrete was still wet, and it was wrecked beyond repair. Some of its operations were part of an elaborate but unsuccessful attempt to make the Germans think the Allies intended to land in France, provoking an air battle Bad weather delayed a return to Germany. On September 6, three weeks after the Regensburg-Schweinfurt mission, 338 B-17s set out for the SKF ball bearings plant at Stuttgart, while B-24s flew a diversion over the North Sea. Poorly planned and conducted, the mission failed Over France the force hit such heavy cloud that it should have turned back Only one wing saw the target; some units overshot, while others used up fuel circling and seeking a hole in the clouds, which inhibited bombing but not the German fighters. Between German attacks and lack of fuel, 45 went down and 10 were written off after landing. Of the B-17s that were lost, 12 managed to ditch, and Air Sea Rescue pulled 118 of their men out of the sea, which prevented a disaster not far short of the Regensburg-Schweinfurt mission. Some men were more shaken by the waste and bungling over Stuttgart than by the earlier and more famous battle.8 During September VIIIth Bomber Command was reorganized. The old 1st Bombardment Wing became the 1st Bombardment Division and the B-24 units became the 2nd Bombardment Division, while the old 4th Wing became the 3rd Bombardment Division. Each Fortress division was subdivided into three newly formed combat bomb wings, each of which, when enough units arrived, would consist of three groups. The Eighth Air Force received much new equip- ment. It began getting the new B-17G, the ultimate Flying Fortress. Most im- portant of its many improvements was a remote-con
Node: 26942, Score: 0.074073482491101, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0199.txt, Content: rman fighters reacted strongly, but all the bomber forces together lost only 21 planes (5 more were written off), while the escort claimed the destruction of 61 German fighters, for the loss of only 4 American fighters Another Me-110 unit was massacred, as 18 of 24 planes were shot down. That night the RAF joined the assault with a selective area attack on Stuttgart,of the sort Bottomley had sought for so long. On February 21 the Eighth launched another all-out effort (weather kept the Fifteenth on the ground again) against six Luftwaffe installations and two plante at Brunswick producing parts for Me-110s. Cloud forced the Eighth to bomb Brunswick on radar, and the factories were not hit; 16 bombers went down and another 7 were written off, while American fighters claimed 33 German fighter for 5 of their own lost. But the prospects for visual bombing over the next few days looked good and the operation went on. It was decided to strike Schweinfurt and aircraft plants in the central area, and the Fifteenth would finally join in by attacking Regensburg. It operated without escort. Yet again, the weather interfered with the Eighth's operations. Only the 1st Division hit some of its primary targets, damaging two plants building Junkers 88s. This third day's mission proved costly. The Germans struck the American force before it was deep in Germany, in an area where the escort was thin, destrov ing 41 bombers of the Eighth and 14 more of the Fifteenth. The Eighth's escort fighters again claimed a lopsided 59 Germans for the loss of 11 American fighters Bad weather gave the Eighth Air Force a break on February 23, while the Fif teenth made a small attack on a ball bearings plant at Steyr, in Austria. On February 24, after four months, the B-17s returned to Schweinfurt, as B-246 struck an Me-110 plant at Gotha. It was hoped that these attacks, and one by the Fifteenth Air Force on Steyr, would attract the enemy fighters and let five wings hit the targets in northeast Germa
Node: 26864, Score: 0.0730086500287893, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0121.txt, Content: ESIGNED Ordered in June 1940 and first flown in September 1941, the B-17E was really a new plane, the first model of the armadas the AAF was to send over Ger- many, in which hundreds of thousands of Americans would fight. It had armor. self-sealing tanks, tail guns, power turrets with twin .50-caliber guns behind the cockpit and in the belly, and better fields of fire for the older gun positions Installing tail guns required a completely redesigned tail, and the new tail made the plane more stable. The B-17E was a feat of engineering. Although it had the same engines as the B-17D, it was just as fast, despite greater weight and the drag of the gun turrets. It had two serious faults. The original belly turret. a remote-controlled device, never worked right and was later replaced by a man- ned "ball" turret when the Japanese showed its weakness. And the B-17E was poorly protected against head-on attacks. It had just a single hand-held .30-caliber gun in the nose, while all other gun positions held .50s. When B-17Es en- countered the Japanese in early 1942, the crews hastily replaced the .30 with a .50, and often a pair of .50s. In Britain, crews would mount four and even five .50s in the nose, and that would still not be enough. The B-17F, which began coming off the assembly lines in April 1942, looked much like the E. Its first versions had even less firepower in the nose and were hastily modified in the field. Later B-17Fs had built-in mounts for "cheek" guns on both sides of the Plexiglas nose, as well as at least two guns firing right through the nose, and improved engines. The B-17F series had additional fuel tanks in the wings-"Tokyo tanks"-which unfortunately proved very vulnerable, and new self-sealing oil tanks, as well as broader, "paddle-blade" propellers. One fault of the B-17 was inherent in its basic layout. For lack of space, not lifting ability, no Fortress could take anything larger than a 2,000-pound bomb in its bomb bay. The B-17F had external racks
Node: 26915, Score: 0.0729358942654291, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0172.txt, Content: ld consist of three groups. The Eighth Air Force received much new equip- ment. It began getting the new B-17G, the ultimate Flying Fortress. Most im- portant of its many improvements was a remote-controlled "chin" turret under the nose, to deal with head-on attacks. (Chin turrets were also installed on B-17Fs that were used as "lead ships.") The B-17G's waist positions were staggered and enclosed with Plexiglas panels, making life easier for the waist gunners, who al too often had been freezing and without room to work. Later B-17Gs had Cheyenne tail turret, powered and with better sights. But few, if any, now thought that any improvement would enable the bombers to defend themselves. In August and September the Eighth received fighter reinforcements. Drop- tanks, though too few were available, were extending the fighter's range. But 103 escort was still limited to northwestern Germany. Two of the five new fighter groups had P-38H fighters whose range theoretically allowed escort out to 450 miles, but they lacked enough planes, and equipment problems meant that the 55th Group did not become operational until October 15. The 20th Group was not ready until the end of 1943! It was already suspected that the P-38, due to its lack of acceleration and other problems not yet fully known, was not really the solution to the escort problem. The Eighth found a partial solution to another problem, bad weather, which often prevented successful visual attacks on Germany and did so in all of September. Experiments with bombing on Gee had not worked; the Americans borrowed H2S equipment from the British while developing their own version, H2X. A pathfinder group was formed to use both systems; its bombers would lead other formations. On September 27 the American pathfinders led their first operation against Emden; this was also the first mission to a German target that was escorted all the way. The target area was an important port, giving a good H2S picture. Two forces, comprisin
Node: 26782, Score: 0.0719935328943207, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0039.txt, Content: ued that modest alterations to the bombers would make all the difference They needed self-sealing fuel tanks (armor to protect the wing tanks was already being fitted) and guns to cover the side approach. Others blamed the plan of attack, complaining that a course involving a landfall far north of the target and a flight along the enemy coast had been unwise. Ludlow-Hewitt conceded the truth of the last criticism and suggested that the extent of the defeat had been because the Germans had committed "crack units," which in fact they had not done. He took steps to secure self-sealing tanks and "beam" guns. Slowly, however, the truth sank in, assisted by another disaster, when German fighters downed two of three Wellingtons over the North Sea on January 2. NIGHT OPERATIONS The RAF was faced with one of the fateful decisions of the war. It must give up strategic bombing altogether, use long-range escort, or resort to night operations, which would, apparently, reduce the danger of interception. The first choice seemed unthinkable, while the second seemed to be foreclosed by 23 fundamental engineering factors. Any fighter carrying enough fuel to accom- pany bombers to a distant target, it was believed, would be too heavy and un- maneuverable to deal with enemy interceptors. (In fact, Giro Horikoshi, the designer of the Japanese Zero fighter, had already disproved this notion- unknown to the British.) Night operations seemed the only choice. Leaflet dropping at night by Whitley bombers of Bomber Command's 4 Group seemed encouraging. They met no effective opposition during the bitter winter of 1939-1940, despite all sorts of operational difficulties. Without heaters or proper clothing, the crews were miserably cold. Oxygen supplies were limited. Planes iced up, and engines cut out or caught fire. Still, there were few losses. Bomber Command hastened to provide de-icers and heaters, but the problem of finding and hitting the target remained. Prewar tests of Bomber Command's
Node: 26819, Score: 0.0704958058338574, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0076.txt, Content: pilots were only sergeants; nevertheless, they commanded the plane and a crew of six other men: navigator, bombardier, flight engineer, radio operator, and two full- time gunners. RAF four-engine bombers were lightly armed by American stan- dards; there were only three gun positions, all power-operated turrets. The top and tail turrets were manned by full-time gunners; the one in the nose was manned by the bombardier when necessary-the Germans rarely attacked night bombers from ahead. Later the Canadian 6 Group wisely added a belly turret and an additional full-time gunner to its bombers. The British turrets were excellent-it was only in late 1943 that a comparable turret would be added to the much more threatened nose of the B-17-but they were pitifully underarmed, with .303-caliber machine guns. Plans to rearm them with American .50s were aborted by Pearl Harbor and only resumed late in the war. The arming of the turrets may not have mattered much, for the German night fighters depended on surprise, trying to remain unseen until they opened fire. 45 The bombers depended mainly on seeing the enemy first and then taking violent evasive action. Gunners were mainly important as lookouts. The carefully rehearsed "corkscrew" maneuver, rather than their guns, saved many British bombers. The crew of a shot-down plane stood little chance of survival; only a fifth managed to bail out. Until late in 1944 the prospects for bomber crewmen were grim. Losses averaged about 5 percent; 7 percent was about as much as Bomber Command, as an organization, could stand for a long period. Only a fraction of the bomber crews completed a full "tour" of 30 operations. The sur- vivors then went to train new crews (in itself hazardous) for some months, then returned for a second tour of 30. (Occasionally, men serving in a squadron that had suffered exceptional losses were let off before 30 trips.) In May 1943 the second tour was mercifully limited to 20 operations. Crews serving in Mosquitos
Node: 26943, Score: 0.0694986494369647, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0200.txt, Content: 46 struck an Me-110 plant at Gotha. It was hoped that these attacks, and one by the Fifteenth Air Force on Steyr, would attract the enemy fighters and let five wings hit the targets in northeast Germany that had been saved by weather on February 20. The ploy worked, at heavy cost to the forces attacking Gotha and Steyr, but weather again forced an attack on Rostock. The targets at Gotha and Schweinfurt were hit hard, but ball bearing production there had already been dispersed. The Eighth lost 44 bombers of 505, and the Fifteenth lost 17 of a force of just 87. American fighters claimed 38 German planes for 10 of their own lost. That night Bomber Command finally struck Schweinfurt. On February 25 the weather allowed a last day of concentrated effort. The Eighth attacked the ball bearings plant at Stuttgart and aircraft plants at Augsburg, Fürth, and Regensburg; the Fifteenth struck another plant at Regensburg. The Germans concentrated on the Fifteenth's bomber force, which had no escort in the target area, downing 33 of its 176 planes, while the Eighth lost 31 bombers of the 754 dispatched and junked another 3. The Eighth's escort claimed 26 German planes for 3 missing in action and 2 more damaged beyond repair. The bombing was very accurate, and more concentrated against single- engine fighter plants than previous attacks. Then the weather closed in; Big Week was at an end. When the Eighth next visited Brunswick on February 29, it bombed on radar. The Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces together had lost 226 heavy bombers and 28 fighters, and about 2,600 men. The RAF had lost 157 bombers, while dropping 9,000 tons of bombs on Schweinfurt, Augsburg, Steyr, and Leipzig. The Eighth had dropped 10,000 tons of bombs, nearly 4,000 of which fell on aircraft plants. The attacks on ball bearings production simply failed, for reasons already discussed. The results of the attacks on the aircraft industry were more com- plex. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey later estimat
Node: 26911, Score: 0.0685170191019994, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0168.txt, Content: 56th and 353rd fighter groups left the bombers at Eupen. in Belgium. Some 300 German fighters were ready for action, deployed in depth and there were constant attacks. Night fighters stalked behind to catch crip- ples. The Germans fired rockets and tried air-to-air bombing, but most of the damage was done with conventional attacks by single-engine fighters. By the time the force reached Regensburg, the Germans had largely exhausted their fuel and ammunition. Only some test pilots from a local factory defense unit harassed the bombers as they settle into their bomb run. Because of the target's importance, the B-17s bombed from relatively low 17,000 to 20,000 feet; fortunately, Regensburg was not particularly heavily defend- ed by flak. In spite of the heavy losses, the bombing was very accurate, destroy- ing many workshops and storerooms, and a hangar and finished planes on the factory airfield. But the most important single building, the final assembly shop. was not hit. Le May's force reached Africa without much further trouble. It had had 24 planes shot down. He found the African bases in poor shape, which discouraged future "shuttle missions" there. The Germans had expected the force that hit Regensburg to return to England, and were preparing for another great battle. They had one, but not quite as they expected. Just as they realized that Le May was going south, they detected a second force coming from England. The 1st Wing, nine groups of bombers comprising 230 planes, had finally taken off for Schweinfurt as the 4th Wind neared Regensburg. Its target was not quite so far, but it would have to fight 101 all the way there and back. The bombing plan had one unusual feature, for an American attack. If smoke hid the three factory targets, the last four groups, carrying incendiaries, were to bomb the center of Schweinfurt. That way they would hit housing and kill some skilled workers. The 1st Wing remained unlucky. After crossing the Dutch coast, it encountered a t
Node: 26927, Score: 0.0681276629333881, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0184.txt, Content: t to an almost endless series of woes. Half or more of the P-38 losses in the winter of 1943-1944 were due to mechanical problems. At first sight this was puzzling, for the Lightning had piled up a fine record in the Mediterranean and the Pacific. But conditions in other theaters were very different from those in Northern Europe. After the pilots had realized that the P-38, like other Allied planes, could not match the very maneuverable Japanese fighters in a dogfight, they found it superior in almost every other respect. They easily outdived Japanese planes, without going into a very fast or steep dive, and they rarely flew above 25,000 feet. Conditions in the Mediterranean were not too different. There the German fighters, usually escorting their own bombers and transports or covering convoys, rarely flew very high. Most combat took place below 20,000 feet, where the Lightning was better in most respects than  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 112 The Struggle for Air Superiority the FW-190 and Me-109. Operations at 30,000 feet or more, in the cold and damp of a European winter, were something else. Even when it functioned properly, the Lightning was not well suited, in it- current form, for high-altitude escort in Europe. At 30,000 feet its acceleration and rate of roll were poor. Moreover, it suffered from "compressibility" in a fast dive; the Germans could dive away from American pilots, who were rightly afraid that compressibility would tear their planes apart. The twin engines, which gave pilots in the Pacific security against engine failure on long overwater flights, were a drawback over Germany. The ability to fly on one engine proved of little use. when one engine was hit, it caught fire, and the pilot had to bail out. At least some of these faults were corrected, albeit slowly. Later-model P-381. had adequate cockpit heaters and windscreen defrosters, better electrical and engine-cooling systems, and bigger fuel tanks. P-38J-25s and P-38Ls, which arrived s
Node: 26899, Score: 0.0677005843167261, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0156.txt, Content: Fieseler plant and another factory at Kassel. Again, after a tough fight, Thunderbolts saved the bombers from heavier losses as they surprised the pursuing Germans. That ended Blitz Week. Although the weather was reasonably good the next day, after six big missions in a week, the Americans were in no shape to attack again. The men were exhausted; although it was midsummer, many had suf- fered frostbite, and anoxia when ice formed in oxygen tubes. Eaker had driven  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 94 The Abortive Offensive his men as far as they could take it, or farther; the men who had survived sus fered a high rate of mental breakdowns. Blitz Week had also been costly in other ways. The Eighth had lost 88 B-17s in action; their crews were now dead or prisoners. And 17 other B-17s were being scrapped; besides this, 10 P-47s and 2 B-26s had been lost in action or junked. Eaker's operational bomber strength had been reduced to under 200 planes. He had lost 8.5 percent of the planes that had actually attacked the targets. That was not a rate that could be stood for long. The Germans were improving their defensive methods. They were introduc ing 30 mm. cannon as well as rockets. The growing number of day fighters were spreading over all of Germany, including the previously almost undefended south Well stocked bases were everywhere, so that fighters could rearm and refuel and fly a second or even third sortie against deep-penetrating bombers.3 But Arnold would not tolerate waiting for full-length escort before striking again deep into Germany, and Eaker himself was unwilling to let German fighter production grow unmolested. Deep penetrations would go on, in the hope that careful planning would keep losses down until long-range fighters were available while the bombers struck critical targets. Meanwhile, B-24 units that Eaker had parted with earlier were trying for a "decisive" blow. PLOESTI On August 1, 1943, as the Eighth Air Force was preparing to attack Schwein- furt
Node: 26781, Score: 0.0673624636655966, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0038.txt, Content: ak. The RAF wrongly ascribed all the losses to flak. Inability to find the German fleet delayed a decisive test until December, when only the better armed, more rugged Wellingtons were used. On December 3. twenty-four Wellingtons attacked German warships near Heligoland, without success. German fighters approached the tight British formation cautiously, fir- ing only from long range. The Wellingtons all got home, suffering only some damage to flak. On December 14, twelve Wellingtons patrolling off the Ger- man coast ran into fighters. This time the German pilots meant business; five Wellingtons went down and another crashed on landing. The planes that returned claimed to have shot down one German fighter. The RAF again wrongly attributed most or all of its losses to flak. On December 18, twenty-four Well- ingtons went out. Two turned back; the Germans detected the rest on radar well out to sea, but took time to assemble their fighters. In earlier encounters the Germans had noted that the Wellingtons' rear turrets were dangerous but that their traverse was limited; there was nothing to oppose a side or beam at- tack. The Germans intercepted too late to cause much trouble before the British started bomb runs on a battleship and a cruiser. But the British, following orders not to bomb if there was any danger of hitting the shore, did not drop their bombs! Then the German fighters closed in. Only ten Wellingtons returned home; two German fighters went down. There was no doubt, this time, that fighters had caused the terrible losses. If this episode was typical, daylight attacks on inland German targets without escort would be suicidal. There was a spate of rationalizing by some senior of- ficers. Some blamed the disaster on a failure to keep formation under fire. Others argued that modest alterations to the bombers would make all the difference They needed self-sealing fuel tanks (armor to protect the wing tanks was already being fitted) and guns to cover the side appro
Node: 26769, Score: 0.0666830117591218, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0026.txt, Content: erator, which was test-flown in 1939. Awkward looking, with a slab-sided fuselage, high wings, and a twin tail, it was faster than the B-17 and could fly farther with a ton more of bombs. It became a teammate rather than a replacement for the B-17, although eventually more B-24s were built than Fortresses. The B-24 never became a legend, as the older plane did; men who flew both types preferred the B-17. Although the final model of the B-17 carried more guns than the B-24, the latter may have been just as well protected in practice. But the B-24 was less stable and harder to fly in formation-an ex- hausting job even in the B-17-and was more likely to catch fire when hit. Us- ing hydraulic systems for many functions that were carried out electrically on the B-17, the Liberator was more vulnerable to damage and flew less well when it lost an engine. But it was an invaluable workhorse, although the B-17 remained the preferred plane in Europe, the toughest theater, throughout the war. 15 As World War II began, the Army Air Corps had the nucleus of a well planned strategic bombing force. The obverse of its commitment to some outstanding heavy bomber designs was the backwardness of its fighters; it had developed in precisely the opposite way from the RAF. This was a serious handicap during the first years of the war. Even the new Bell P-39 and the Curtiss P-40 were inferior to European fighters, because these new American fighters were hobbled by inadequate Allison engines with poor high-altitude performance. The Americans had concentrated on air-cooled radial engines, preferred for civil airliners, navy aircraft, and army bombers, and had lagged behind the British and the Germans in work on liquid-cooled engines, for which army fighters were the sole American market. The Army's third new fighter, the Lockheed P-38 Lightning, was an outstanding plane of unusual design. It had twin engines mounted in long booms, the pilot and guns housed in a small nacelle between them. Bu
Node: 26898, Score: 0.066164547232464, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0155.txt, Content: er- sionary routing had fooled the Germans about the Americans' objective for a time. The interception was determined; even the single-engine fighters pursued the withdrawing Americans well out to sea. In all, 19 B-17s went down, and another went to the scrap heap. The Germans were known to have lost at least 6 fighters. A return to Hamburg the next day, and a blow against rubber and tire plants at Hannover, proved costly but successful, although smoke still handi- capped the attackers at Hamburg. A small force of only 92 planes, of which 16 were lost, left the Hannover plants burning furiously. Ironically, while the lack of close cooperation with the RAF at the strategic level was bad, too-close cooperation at the tactical level had proven harmful. After a day's rest, the Eighth launched its deepest penetration yet. Despite bad weather, it struck the Fieseler works at Kassel and a plant building FW-190s at Oscherleben, just 90 miles from Berlin. Only 28 planes managed to reach Oschersleben and find a hole through the clouds, but they cost the Germans four weeks' production there-a total of 50 FW-190s. The price was heavy losses in a terrific air battle, despite the first use of drop-tanks by Thunderbolts. Meeting the withdrawing Fortresses, the P-47s drove off the pursuing German fighters. The Germans had scored an ominous success. For the first time, they scored hits with new 210 mm. air-to-air rockets. These clumsy spin-stabilized missiles, fired out of bulky tubes, were not too accurate, but they outranged the bombers' guns. A single hit could destroy a bomber. On July 29 the bombers reverted to coastal targets, successfully striking Kiel and the Heinkel plant at Warnemunde, which was building FW-190s. On July 30 the Eighth returned with one massed force to hit the Fieseler plant and another factory at Kassel. Again, after a tough fight, Thunderbolts saved the bombers from heavier losses as they surprised the pursuing Germans. That ended Blitz Week. Although the
Node: 27076, Score: 0.0659259796876152, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0333.txt, Content: . Eventually the Allies would probably have jammed any radio-guidance systems the Germans could have developed for either antiaircraft or offensive missiles, but a combina- tion of fast fighters like the Do-335 and missiles might have enabled the Ger- mans to regain air superiority and even do serious damage to Allied bases for a time. The Germans' failure to fully mobilize for war until 1942 left the Luftwaffe far smaller than it need have been. Their failure to build more fighters was exacerbated by their reluctance to stop bomber production in favor of fighters until 1944. The Germans also blundered in handling their training program. Initially it was just not big enough; later they fell for the temptation to turn out as many pilots as they could as soon as possible, even though they were less well trained. This proved foolish, as the inadequately trained pilots proved easy prey for Allied pilots. The Strategic Bombing Survey later concluded that "the deterioration of quality of German pilots appears to be the most important single cause of the defeat of the German Air Force."11 The Germans made other, tactical mistakes. In night defense their one major mistake was to end the night intruder operations over Britain in 1941. In day fighting their mistakes were more numerous. During 1943 they usually avoided engaging American escort fighters, either striking after the escorts had left the bombers or evading them to hit the bombers in preference. The concentration on shooting down bombers was understandable up to a point, but it let American fighter units grow in experience and fly deeper and deeper into Germany. The Luftwaffe's mistaken, or at least overlong, reliance on the clumsy twin-engine fighters stemmed from and accentuated the concentration on fighting bombers. So did its addiction to assembling large formations before engaging the enemy. Given the vast superiority of the Allies in numbers and quality, however, the Luftwaffe's tactical errors probably merely
Node: 26766, Score: 0.0656182085794621, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0023.txt, Content: e might be to attack air- craft assembly plants, while in the long run, strategic bombing might so disrupt the enemy as to destroy his will to resist independent of other military opera- tions. Although it was occasionally questioned, there was a growing assump- tion that a properly constituted bomber formation could defend itself against interceptors. The assumption seemed necessary, because officers associated with fighter aircraft, as well as the bomber advocates, thought that "pursuit" planes could not have enough range to accompany bombers to distant targets. Even fighter advocates like Captain Claire Chennault, while deriding the self-defending bomber, did not believe in escort. The question of what would happen if the daylight bomber could not defend itself was not really faced; some suggested that in that case night operations would be undertaken. But the self-defending bomber concept and the related premise that fighters could never attain the range of bombers hardened into dogma. This was a near fatal flaw in the work of men otherwise brilliant and farseeing. The Tactical School settled on a doctrine calling for high-level attacks by the largest possible formations of bombers, aimed at disrupting what was believed to be the delicately balanced, complex fabric of a modern industrial economy. Given the range limitations of bombers in the foreseeable future, this meant that an offensive against any likely enemy must be based overseas. The United States would require allies to supply bases. So, although Army air power ad- vocates often argued that an invasion of the United States could be defeated by land-based aircraft alone, their ideas were nevertheless incompatible with the military premises of isolationism. During the early 1930s the Tactical School refined its ideas about the proper targets for an air offensive, stressing the enemy's electric power plants, oil in- dustry, and aircraft production. Unlike the RAF, it carefully studied the prob- lems of bom
Node: 26920, Score: 0.0654085100120405, Chunk File: levine_bombing/chunks/levine_bombing_0177.txt, Content: rs, were the main enemy, in the most furious air battle of the war. The Germans used the same tactics as at Münster, concentrating on a single formation at a time. Single-engine fighters, some using rockets, mostly attacked from head-on or just off to the side. Twin-engine fighters and bombers came in from the rear. Standing out to one side to avoid the tail guns, they fired rockets and blasted away with heavy cannon. On this mission they left crippled planes to the single-engine fighters; their aim was to disrupt the formations. The Germans concentrated on the 1st Division; the 3rd's turn apparently confused them, and it suffered less. Despite terrible losses, about 228 planes reached Schweinfurt, bombing with remarkable accuracy. Then the Germans hounded the B-17s right back to the coast, as weather prevented the arrival of the withdrawal escort. Over Europe, 60 bombers went down, and another 5 crashed in England; a dozen more had to be scrapped. Of the men, 605 were missing or dead, and 43 wounded. Morale at American bomber bases hit rock bottom. As after Ploesti, the extent of the losses caused widespread questions. President Roosevelt held an embarrassing press conference, notable for its obfuscations.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 106 The Abortive Offensive General Arnold claimed, "The opposition isn't nearly what it was, and we are wearing them down." The wild claim that the enemy had lost over 700 planes in the first half of October was played up. (The Americans had claimed 186 on October 14 alone, when the actual German losses were 43.) 107 But the men in England knew better. Schweinfurt had shown that unescorted attacks deep into Germany were not even tolerable as occasional enterprises in the interim before the Eighth received long-range fighters. Unlike the August 17 mission, this one had been as well planned and executed as such an opera tion could possible be; after hours of the fiercest imaginable attack, the bomb ing had been better than could ha