Node: 20195, Score: -0.0075165497112423, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0121.txt, Content: med logical to many in the Air Force that inaccurate bombing was better than no bombing at all.” 188 Shandroff remarks that this shift in emphasis occurred “within a milieu dominated by one central theme: the drive to achieve military vic-tory. When  conflicting doctrines and policies clashed, they were judged by the  pragmatic test of military efficacy and the degree to which they would EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 70 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [155]contribute to victory. Moral and political considerations were secondary.”189 Finally, Barton  Bernstein argues that the war caused a redefinition of moral- ity that allowed Hiroshima and Nagasaki to occur, so that by 1945, “there were few moral restraints left in what had become virtually a total war. Even FDR’s prewar concern for sparing enemy civilians had fallen by the wayside. In that new moral climate, any nation that had the A-bomb would probably have used it against enemy peoples. . . . America was not morally unique—just technologically exceptional. Only it had the bomb, and so only it used it.” 190 This chapter demonstrates the causal underpinnings of this erosion of moral restraint. Most governments began to fight by targeting military forces. But when victory appeared imperiled, or the costs of fighting be-came unacceptable, even societies that found bombing of civilians morally abhorrent—and military organizations that preferred precision bombing of military targets—turned to civilian victimization as a means to manage costs and produce victory by eroding enemy morale or undermining the adversary’s ability to resist. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use
Node: 20140, Score: -0.0067702800555552, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0066.txt, Content: bombing the population as inefficient rather than immoral. 26 United States air leaders, however, wanted to avoid giving the American public the impression that bombing strategy was based on targeting civilians because they believed most Americans disapproved of the practice. But AAF plan-ners did foresee circumstances in which noncombatants might be attacked. In fact, AWPD/1—the air corps blueprint for a potential war with Germany written in 1941—advocated outright attacks on civilians as potentially de- cisive when the enemy was on the ropes. 27 This eventuality aside, however, “American air strategy aimed not at killing large numbers of civilians di-rectly but at causing general social collapse through the precision bombing of key industrial nodes.” “Human beings,” wrote Generals Hap Arnold and Ira Eaker in their 1941 book Winged Warfare, “are not priority targets except in special situations.” 28 Against Japan, AAF officers before the war intended to carry out their precision doctrine, resisting suggestions made by Chen-nault, Marshall, and Roosevelt that they attack Japanese urban areas with incendiaries. As Arnold put it in a discussion with Marshall in 1941, any strategic bombing of Japan would be intended to destroy “Japanese facto-ries in order to cripple production of munitions and essential articles for maintenance of economic structure in Japan.” 29 In sum, U.S. government officials, civilian commentators, as well as some air officers manifested considerable interest in the possibility of urban in-cendiary attack on Japan before Pearl Harbor. The key underlying factor that explains this interest was the well-known vulnerability of Japanese cit-ies to fire. Some of the statements and policies made before the war began, however, are attributable to the hopes of members of the Roosevelt admin-istration that Japan could be deterred from launching a war by the threat of aerial retaliation against its cities. The official position and plans of the air force i
Node: 20083, Score: -0.0061016787932186, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0009.txt, Content: vilians were being killed, or sought to capitalize on the fear these deaths created among the enemy population. I argue, therefore, that civilian victimization should include all cases where it can be determined that belligerents intended to kill an adver - sary’s noncombatants, but it should not be limited to such cases. The concept should also include strategies that cause large numbers—tens of thousands—of civilian deaths owing to belligerents’ inability or refusal to discriminate between combatants and noncombatants or their failure to ex-ercise due care in their treatment of civilians. Finally, the scope of this book is limited to the killing of enemy noncom- batants during international wars. Victimization that occurs within the per-petrator’s recognized borders is included only insofar as it occurs during an interstate war and the targeted population shares the nationality of the enemy state (e.g., Greeks in Turkey during the Greco-Turkish war, 1919– 22). 19 Cases of killing perpetrated by nonstate actors—such as insurgent gr oups or terrorists—are excluded, as are instances of anticivilian violence that occur during civil wars, after an international war is over, or outside of war altogether. 20 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 7 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [19]Policies of Civilian Victimization I consider civilian victimization to have occurred when belligerents make widespread, repeated, and systematic use of any of the following tools: mas- sacre, starvation, indiscriminate bombardment, or forced relocation or con-centration of civilians in circumstances that belligerents foresee will result in many deaths. Massacres consist of “large-scale, face-to-face violence against civilians targeted as groups” and occur in a number of contexts. 21 Some massacres, as noted above, are generated by passions aro
Node: 20129, Score: -0.0055269954675986, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0055.txt, Content: ith more than thirty-eight thousand people was bombed. The record of destruction is impressive: In all, sixty-six cities (including Hiroshima and Nagasaki)—home to 20.8 million people—were attacked. The airmen destroyed 178 square miles (about three times the area of the District of Columbia) and 43 percent of the built-up areas of these cities. Thirty-five of the cities lost 1 or more square miles of their central sections. . . . According to Japanese reports, the bombing killed 241,000, seriously injured 313,000, and destroyed 2.3 million homes. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS) put the death toll at 330,000, number of injured at 476,000, and buildings destroyed at 2.5 million. The bombing forced 8.5 million people to flee their homes. 7 Why did the United States unleash this reign of fire on Japanese civilians? I argue that three factors explain the outcome. First, U.S. leaders from Presi- dent Roosevelt on down understood that a war against Japan could not be won quickly and was likely to involve significant human costs. The vast dis-tances involved and the oceanic nature of the theater meant that it would be impossible to land large armies and advance across land as in most wars. Instead, troops would have to be moved across vast expanses of ocean and landed on tiny islands to assault prepared defenses. Put simply, the terrain of the Pacific War favored the defense and would require much time and many EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 33 --- Table 4.1. The fire blitz on Japan, March 1945 City DateSquare miles burned Deaths HomelessHomes destroyedBombers over  targetBomb tonnage Bombers lost Tokyo March 9 15.8 84,000–100,000 1–1.15 million 267,171 279 1,665 14 Nagoya March 11 2.1 2,700 NA  25,000 285 1,790 1 Osaka March 13 8.1 3,000–4,000 500,000 130,000–200,000 274 1,733 2 Kobe March 16 2.9 2,600–8,000 242,000–
Node: 20079, Score: -0.005224349035922, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0005.txt, Content: f-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 4 --- Targeting Civilians in War [16]caused by this strategy were not a side-effect of strikes on military targets, or a product of a refusal to discriminate between soldiers and civilians, but rather the intended object of the strategy. In other cases, however, belligerents mount a pattern of repeated at- tacks over an extended period that fail to distinguish between combatants and noncombatants and thus kill tens of thousands of civilians. Although killing noncombatants is not the avowed purpose of such a strategy, this outcome is nevertheless foreseeable, predictable, and often desired, and thus constitutes civilian victimization. The U.S. Army Air Forces during World War II, for example, launched seventy self-described attacks on a “city area” in Germany, raids that qualify as intentional civilian victim-ization. United States bombers also devoted about half of their total ef-fort to radar bombing, which—although not purposefully directed at civilians— American military officers knew was the functional equivalent of British area bombing. According to Thomas Searle, “USAAF commanders essentially acknowledged this fact by using a large percentage of incendi-ary bombs (the preferred weapon against cities) on these raids even though such bombs were ineffective against rail yards, the official targets.” 13 The adoption and exploitation of this indiscriminate form of attack thus consti- tute civilian victimization. Contrast each of these strategies with the U.S. strategic bombing cam- paign during the 1991 Persian Gulf War. In that conflict, for example, F-117 aircraft bombed the Al-Firdos bunker in Baghdad, an installation that U.S. air planners believed was a command-and-control center. Unknown to these planners, however, the Iraqi regime was using Al-Firdos as a bomb shelter for civilian dependents of Iraqi officials. The air strike killed approximately two hundred to three hundred civilians. These deaths, although tra
Node: 20080, Score: -0.0047408676248805, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0006.txt, Content: he Iraqi regime was using Al-Firdos as a bomb shelter for civilian dependents of Iraqi officials. The air strike killed approximately two hundred to three hundred civilians. These deaths, although tragic, did not result from a government policy of targeting noncombatants. Nor did the casualties stem from a refusal to discriminate between soldiers and civil-ians, as the U.S. military did not even know there were noncombatants pres-ent at the target. Moreover, immediately after the Al-Firdos disaster, U.S. officials declared Baghdad off-limits to further air strikes, and few targets were struck in the Iraqi capital for the remainder of the war. 14 Table 1.1 high- lights the differences among these types of violence and provides examples of each. 15 Clearly there are cases in which establishing the intentionality or delib- erateness of civilian victimization is harder than in the British case. Policy-makers do not always speak openly or truthfully when it comes to killing innocent people: there is no mention in the memoirs of British leaders, for example, that the policy of blockade in World War I was meant to starve the German people. President Truman, moreover, spoke of Hiroshima and Nagasaki as purely military targets. 16 These cases highlight the importance of examining internal government documents and private communications whenever possible to supplement leaders’ official pronouncements. They EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 5 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [17]also underline the importance of observing behavioral indicators that may indicate a shift toward civilian victimization—increasing indiscriminateness, decreasing concern for civilian life, or variation in the types of weapons used (incendiary versus high explosive bombs, for example). Other analysts have chosen to include only intentional civilian de
Node: 20089, Score: -0.0040739322247965, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0015.txt, Content: ritarian states to engage in mass killing. After exam-ining twenty-five cases of counterinsurgent warfare by democracies and EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 10 --- Targeting Civilians in War [22] autocracies between 1945 and 1990, Michael Engelhardt concludes that the “literature confirms the assumption that non-democratic regimes are free to use much harsher tactics in dealing with insurgency than are democratic regimes.” Finally, Gil Merom argues that “democracies fail in small wars because they cannot find a winning balance between the costs of war in terms of human lives [to their own military forces] and the political cost incurred by controlling the latter with force, between acceptable levels of casualties and acceptable levels of brutality.” 42 The most common argument advanced to explain the powerful aversion to civilian victimization by democracies is that the norms inherent in demo-cratic societies proscribe killing the innocent. 43 Valentino, Huth, and Balch- Lindsay, for example, argue that democratic norms are the key restraint against killing civilians: “If democratic values promote tolerance, nonvio-lence, and respect for legal constraints, then democracies should wage their wars more humanely than other forms of government.” 44 Other scholars, however, argue that norms of nonviolence and respect for innocent life have their origins in liberal rather than democratic theory. Liberal norms forbid violating the rights of others or treating people as means to an end. These norms apply even to the citizens of enemy states in wartime. 45 Michael Doyle, for example, contends that restraints on violence against civilians have their origin within liberal thought and endorses Kant’s view that liberal democracies must “maintain . . . a scrupulous respect for the  laws of war.” 46 A contrasting perspective on democracy rooted
Node: 20093, Score: -0.0036728858276626, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0019.txt, Content: viewed as the nation’s least popular conflicts. 59 Moreover, opposi- tion parties hardly ever dissent from governments’ choices to threaten or use force. This fact renders the support of the opposition—thought by some to be a signal of credibility to potential targets—rather uninformative. 60 The restraining power of public opinion on democratic leaders’ choices to go to war, therefore—or to victimize noncombatants once in a war—appears frail. Perceptions of Civilized Versus Barbaric Identity Other scholars argue that mistreatment of civilians is more likely to occur in conflicts in which belligerents view each other as “barbaric” or subhuman. John Dower, for example, has documented how racial hatred between Japan and the United States in World War II contributed to battle-field atrocities and eased the way toward incendiary bombing of Japanese cities. 61 Other historians have advanced this thesis to explain brutality in wars between Christian Europe and the Islamic Middle East, the mass ex-termination of native civilizations in the New World, and violence in wars of empire, arguing that the “rules, objectives and conduct of war were alto-gether different once civilization had been left behind.” Against barbarians, notes another analyst, “Methods of warfare that in Europe were morally and legally barred were considered legitimate in the face of an enemy who did not seem to subscribe to the same cultural code.” As a Greek officer put it after the Balkan wars of 1912–13, “When you have to deal with barbar- ians, you must behave like a barbarian yourself. It is the only thing they understand.” 62 Problems with the Argument Three flaws undermine the identity argument. First, it is not clear that objective differences in identity correlate with civilian victimization. For every historian who argues that wars between Christian Europe and the Islamic world were particularly brutal, for example, others contend that wars between Europeans were often just as savage. 63 Simil
Node: 20163, Score: -0.0033073143593123, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0089.txt, Content: blic opinion in the United Kingdom as well as the United States de- manded, if not the extermination of the Japanese people, then most certainly the country’s ‘thoroughgoing defeat,’ ” even if this meant killing large num- bers of Japanese civilians. 89 To what extent did the American public’s punitive attitudes toward Japan influence the decisions of U.S. officials regarding the use of force against Japanese civilians? Public attitudes were probably not the primary reason for the decision to target civilians in the Pacific War. As I have shown, civil-ian officials were only part of the story; two of the crucial decision-makers (Arnold and LeMay) were military men not subject to electoral pressures. The central civilian decision-maker, FDR, did worry about public attitudes to U.S. casualties and “had a horror of American troops landing again on the continent and becoming involved in . . . trench warfare with all its ap-palling losses.” The president “also recognized the limits on American tol-erance of sacrifices in another world war” and hoped that Soviet manpower in the European theater would carry the casualty burden. “No similar op-portunity existed in the Pacific,” however, “which only made the incentive to employ air power there more intense.” 90 Still, although the president often expressed his hope that bombing could limit U.S. casualties, he was by no means the driving force behind firebombing. Despite punitive public attitudes toward Japan, firebomb-ing did not begin there until precision bombing failed, notwithstanding widespread knowledge of the probable effectiveness of fire attacks against Japan. Moreover, 1944 was an election year for Roosevelt: if public hatred of Japan was so widespread and demands to conserve on U.S. casualties were so important, why not initiate incendiary attacks on Japan in the midst of the campaign in autumn 1944 when it could have paid significant political dividends? It seems unlikely, therefore, that electoral politics were
Node: 20082, Score: -0.0029445802036272, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0008.txt, Content: ian, deaths are always intended.17 This definition undesirably stretches the concept of intentionality. Valentino, for example, argues that if noncombatants are the direct object of the policy, their deaths should be considered intentional if they are a foreseeable result of the policy. But this statement equates the mere knowledge that civilians will die with intending or desiring their deaths. Valentino thus contends that the fatali-ties of Boer women and children in British concentration camps during the Second Anglo-Boer War (1899– 1902) were intentional because the civilians themselves were the object of the policy. This judgment is belied by the evidence, however, which shows that British officials did not purpose-fully try to kill these people, or hope to bring about the deaths. According to historian Thomas Pakenham, “Kitchener no more desired the death of women and children in the camps than of the wounded Dervishes after Omdurman, or of his own soldiers in the typhoid-stricken hospitals of Bloemfontein. He was simply not interested.” 18 Civilians were the direct object of the reconcentration policy, but this does not necessarily make their deaths intentional. Valentino also excludes from his definition all civilian fatalities that result from strikes on military targets, deeming these casualties to be unintended collateral damage. This, too, involves conceptual stretching, this time of col-lateral damage. When a strategy ostensibly directed at military targets gen-erates tens of thousands of noncombatant fatalities, can these deaths still be considered collateral? Excluding these cases also ignores substantial evi-dence that some attackers simply did not make any attempt to distinguish between combatants and noncombatants, did not care that large numbers of civilians were being killed, or sought to capitalize on the fear these deaths created among the enemy population. I argue, therefore, that civilian victimization should include all cases where it can be
Node: 20090, Score: -0.0014197262424442, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0016.txt, Content: their origin within liberal thought and endorses Kant’s view that liberal democracies must “maintain . . . a scrupulous respect for the  laws of war.” 46 A contrasting perspective on democracy rooted in institutions, however, implies that democracies should be more likely to inflict civilian victim-ization on their foes. The logic is simple: as wars become protracted and the costs of fighting increase, public support tends to decline. 47 Knowing this, democratic elites labor to keep casualties down and maintain public backing for the war effort, which may produce civilian victimization as a means to manage costs. Moreover, because losing a war—or even fighting to a protracted draw—threatens leaders’ tenure in office, democratic execu-tives have incentives to fight hard and make sure they win. “Fighting hard” could be interpreted to include civilian victimization. 48 The threat of removal for losing a war also gives democrats incentives to pick easier fights in the first place. This implies that democratic war initiators should be less likely to victimize noncombatants because these conflicts are unlikely to become wars of attrition. 49 Autocracies, by contrast, are less vulnerable to either of these forces because leaders in such regimes are not subject to public recall. Problems with Regime-Type Arguments Several problems confront either version of the regime-type argument. First, it is unclear if democracies actually externalize their domestic norms. Liberal democracies, for example, are supposed to go to war for “liberal” EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 11 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [23]reasons only—that is, in self-defense or to prevent human rights abuses. Yet liberal states routinely attacked and subjugated African and Asian tribes in the nineteenth century for reasons not remotely connected to securi
Node: 20087, Score: -0.0011574167467576, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0013.txt, Content: ntire population of certain islands—into camps where many died owing to sickness and disease. 36 According to one American congressman who visited the Philippines, “You never hear of any disturbances in Northern Luzon . . . because there isn’t anybody there to rebel. . . . The good Lord in heaven only knows the number of Filipinos that were put under ground.” 37 High mortality rates similarly followed Britain’s incarceration of Boer and African women and children in South Africa (1899–1902) and Spain’s con-centration of Cuba’s rural population (1895–98). Evicting people entirely from their homes and forcing them to travel long distances also commonly generate significant fatalities, a process made worse by the violence that is often needed to compel people to abandon EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 9 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [21]their dwellings. As many as eight thousand Cherokee Indians died along the Trail of Tears in the late 1830s after being forced by the U.S. govern- ment to leave their homes in Georgia.38 According to a veteran of this expul- sion, “I fought through the civil war and have seen men shot to pieces and slaughtered by thousands, but the Cherokee removal was the cruelest work I ever knew.” 39 Turkey’s removal of its Armenian population from Eastern Anatolia during World War I caused substantial mortality even without the attendant massacres and brutality. 40 In the Second Balkan War in 1913, the Greek Army burned at least 161 villages and massacred thousands in a “war of devastation” to ensure that “no Bulgarian subjects” remained in Greek-controlled territory. 41 In short, civilian victimization is a government-sanctioned policy in war- time that targets enemy civilians intentionally or fails to discriminate be-tween combatants and noncombatants. Belligerents need not put a gun to thei
Node: 20092, Score: -0.0006414097772521, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0018.txt, Content: It is unclear whether the incentives created by the risks of losing power dominate those created by the potential costs. Indeed, recent scholarship on war termina-tion has found that—contrary to the democracy argument—the costs of re-moval are the most important factor. Leaders in oligarchic regimes, because they are likely to be removed and punished for even a moderate loss in war, tend to gamble for resurrection, risking catastrophic defeat (and sure punishment) for a slim chance at victory (and continuing in office). 55 Demo- cratic leaders, by contrast, are willing to settle on moderately losing terms because although they will lose office, they will not lose their lives. Dicta-tors, too, will settle for small losses because they can repress any domestic unrest that results. Focusing solely on the risk of removal and ignoring the potential costs of removal, therefore, is misleading. 56 Finally, the democracy argument erroneously assumes that public opinion acts as a brake on leaders’ ability to conduct foreign policy but that leaders lack the ability to shape citizens’ views. In fact, leaders in democracies are not cravenly dependent on public opinion, but possess substantial leeway to act independently, particularly when it comes to state security. 57 Further- more, the initiation of force abroad by a democracy is frequently met with EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 12 --- Targeting Civilians in War [24]a “rally-round-the-flag” effect whereby much of the public closes ranks be- hind the executive.58 Two-thirds of the American public, for instance, ini- tially favored U.S. intervention in Korea and Vietnam, wars that are now widely viewed as the nation’s least popular conflicts. 59 Moreover, opposi- tion parties hardly ever dissent from governments’ choices to threaten or use force. This fact renders the support of the oppositi
Node: 20091, Score: 0.0021939420786031, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0017.txt, Content: in self-defense or to prevent human rights abuses. Yet liberal states routinely attacked and subjugated African and Asian tribes in the nineteenth century for reasons not remotely connected to security and have rarely intervened abroad to stop genocide. 50 Liberal democracies often sponsor war crimes tribunals, but hardly ever allow their own soldiers or statesmen to be tried for such violations. 51 Democracies have also under- mined or overthrown other democracies and supported brutal dictators when it suited their interests, such as fighting communism during the cold war or terrorism today. 52 Second, publics in liberal democracies—just as they do not always oppose war—do not uniformly disapprove of civilian victimization. A principled minority can always be counted on to denounce attacking noncombatants, but the majority of people—although firm believers in civilian immunity in theory—are prepared to countenance civilian deaths when their country goes to war. 53 This is why some authors argue that democratic institutions facilitate civilian victimization, either by forcing elites to attend to vindic-tive public opinion or by putting pressure on leaders to win wars quickly and at low cost. 54 Third, several analysts question the view that democracies are the only regime type whose domestic institutions systematically affect leaders’ be-havior. Democratic peace theorists argue that the risk of removal from office gives democrats incentives to avoid antagonizing voters. However, while the risks of losing power in a democracy from policy failure are no doubt higher than in less open political systems, the costs of being removed are much lower: democratic rulers are never punished by exile or death, whereas leaders of authoritarian regimes sometimes do suffer this fate. It is unclear whether the incentives created by the risks of losing power dominate those created by the potential costs. Indeed, recent scholarship on war termina-tion has found that—contrary to the d
Node: 20116, Score: 0.0021961386731254, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0042.txt, Content: r, the basic logic of territorial annexation still holds, and no special murderous ideology is needed to generate civilian victimization in these conflicts. A Tactic of Early Resort. Civilian victimization in wars in which the an- nexation of enemy-inhabited territory is the goal tends to be a tactic of early resort because civilians are readily accessible, and attacking them pays im-mediate military and political dividends by removing threats of  rebellion EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 25 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [37]and subversion in the army’s rear area. Furthermore, deterrence is unlikely to act as a restraint because one side may have exclusive access to the adver-sary’s civilians as a consequence of invading enemy territory. Eliminating fifth columns in one’s midst may also seem necessary for survival and hence override fears that the enemy might launch reprisals elsewhere. Moreover, states involved in aggressive wars to seize and colonize territory, or locked in struggles for survival to eliminate fifth columns, are probably less sus-ceptible to norms against harming noncombatants. The Rationality of Civilian Victimization As noted in the introduction, civilian victimization is commonly thought to be irrational because attacking noncombatants is generally ineffective and sometimes even steels the enemy’s resolve to resist. 104 This raises a puz- zling question: If governments know that victimizing civilians will not help achieve their objectives, then why would they do it? Those who uncritically condemn policies of civilian victimization wrongly assume that such policies are always ineffective. 105 There is signifi - cant variation in the success rate of civilian victimization over time and across different types of warfare. In the past, sieges regularly succeeded at capturing enemy towns by star
Node: 20139, Score: 0.0026725307105385, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0065.txt, Content: though the authors drastically underestimated the number of incendiaries needed to start uncontrollable fires, suggesting that only five bombers could burn Osaka, three Kyoto, and two Kobe, they maintained that “the fact remains that this [firebombing] is the cheapest possible way to cripple Japan. It will shorten the war by months or even years and reduce American and Allied losses by tens of thousands.” 23 On the whole, however, discussions inside the AAF before the war re- garding the possibility of bombing Japan followed the theory of precision bombing developed and taught in the interwar period at the Air Corps Tactical School. This theory—variously called the industrial web or  critical EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 39 --- Targeting Civilians in War [124]node theory—argued that wartime economies were deeply interdependent. Destroying one or a few critical components or nodes in the economy could bring production to a grinding halt. “Resting on assumptions about the complex and fragile nature of modern industrial economies,” comments Tami Davis Biddle, “the ‘industrial fabric’ approach postulated that by care-fully choosing the right card at the base of an intricate structure, an air force could bring the whole house of cards crashing down.” 24 American air doctrine, unlike that developed contemporaneously in Great Britain, largely eschewed targeting civilians directly in favor of bombing an enemy state’s economic infrastructure, but like British doctrine it still hoped to achieve decisive morale effects. 25 Morality did not drive the Americans’ stand against targeting civilians directly, however: American airmen largely viewed bombing the population as inefficient rather than immoral. 26 United States air leaders, however, wanted to avoid giving the American public the impression that bombing strategy was based on targetin
Node: 20164, Score: 0.0035321337860825, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0090.txt, Content: ot initiate incendiary attacks on Japan in the midst of the campaign in autumn 1944 when it could have paid significant political dividends? It seems unlikely, therefore, that electoral politics were the criti-cal factor in causing civilian victimization in 1945. By contrast, there is little evidence that liberal norms played much of a role in restraining the bombing of Japanese civilians. Before the United States entered the war, the Roosevelt administration issued frequent proclamations denouncing indiscriminate bombardment of civilian populations. When war broke out in Europe in September 1939, for example, the president issued a plea to all sides to abstain from “the ruthless bombing from the air of ci-vilians in unfortified centers of population [that] has sickened the hearts of every civilized man and woman, and has profoundly shocked the conscience of humanity.” 91 The American public was also resolutely opposed to urban area bombing as “counter to American humanitarian ideals” in the 1930s.92 But when the United States entered the war, and especially when the costs of fighting began to mount, these idealistic declarations disappeared. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 53 --- Targeting Civilians in War [138]FDR, for example, eventually came to believe that the German people had to be taught a severe lesson: “We either have to castrate the German people or you have got to treat them in such manner so they can’t just go on repro-ducing people who want to continue the way they have in the past.” 93 As far as Japan was concerned, FDR was reported to be “simply delighted” in November 1940 at the prospect of using fire to obliterate Japanese cities and viewed the RAF’s demolition of Hamburg as “ ‘an impressive demonstra- tion’ of what America might achieve against Japan.” 94 The president even approved a bizarre scheme that propose
Node: 20081, Score: 0.0042096138762779, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0007.txt, Content: ecreasing concern for civilian life, or variation in the types of weapons used (incendiary versus high explosive bombs, for example). Other analysts have chosen to include only intentional civilian deaths in their studies. Kalyvas, for example, looks only at the deliberate killing of noncombatants—homicide—excluding deaths inflicted unintentionally (collateral damage) and nonviolently (famine and disease). Valentino also focuses on intentionality, differentiating intentional from unintentional deaths based on the civilian or military nature of the target: when the Table 1.1. A typology of civilian casualties Intentional Indiscriminate Collateral Government- sanctioned  strategyBritish blockade of Germany,  1915–19Prussian shelling of Paris, 1871Civilian deaths inflicted by  U.S. bombing  of Iraq, 1991,  or Serbia, 1999 British bombing of Germany,  1942–45U.S. radar bombing of  Germany, 1943–45 U.S. firebombing of Japan, 1945German “Blitz” on Britain, 1940–41 Bulgarian, Greek, Serbian, and  Turkish  massacres in  the Balkan Wars,  1912–13U.S. bombing of North Vietnam  (Rolling Thunder),  1965–68 German Einsatzgruppen  massacres in  U.S.S.R., 1941–42Boer and African civilian  deaths in concen-tration camps,  1900–1902 Not government- sanctioned or a  strategyMassacre at Deir Yassin by Jewish  militias, 1948Shelling of Vicksburg, U.S.  Civil War, 1863Civilians shot or bombed  in crossfire  between  opposing  forces My Lai massacre, Vietnam War,  March 1968 Haditha massacre, Iraq, 2005 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 6 --- Targeting Civilians in War [18]target is military, civilian deaths are always unintended; when the tar - get is civilian, deaths are always intended.17 This definition undesirably stretches the concept of intentionality. Valentino, for example, argues that if noncombatants are the direct object of the policy, their
Node: 20095, Score: 0.0046729573334792, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0021.txt, Content: only about 20 percent of the time. 66 Although the majority of the cases in Arreguín-Toft’s dataset com- prise wars of imperial expansion, maintenance of empire, or decoloniza-tion, there are also a substantial number of interstate wars and civil wars. To eliminate overlap with my dataset but still retain my focus on interna-tional conflict, I dropped these two types of conflicts and reanalyzed the data. Eliminating interstate and civil wars resulted in a slight increase in the frequency of barbarism, from 20 to 23.6 percent (N  106), but this fig- ure is still somewhat smaller than the frequency of civilian victimization in interstate wars. Arreguín-Toft also included many conflicts that do not ap-pear in any conflict dataset (including eleven between the United States and Native American tribes in the nineteenth century) as well as clashes that are ambiguous as to whether they are civil or colonial wars, such as rebellions by groups against land empires like the Ottoman or Russian Empires. Drop-ping these conflicts yields precisely the same result: barbarism occurred in 23.6 percent of the cases (N = 72). Thus, it does not appear that civilian victimization is more frequent in imperial and colonial conflicts than it is in interstate conflicts. A second reason to doubt the identity argument for civilian victimiza- tion is that demonization of the enemy is ubiquitous in war, yet civilian victimization is relatively rare. States in conflict almost always vilify each other, and political elites have considerable incentives to use such rheto-ric, both to convince their populations that war is justified and to mobilize them to fight the conflict. 67 The occurrence of civilian victimization in war, however, varies. Demonization, moreover, when it does occur, is likely to be motivated by clashes of interest rather than actual beliefs about the bar-baric nature of the enemy. Germany’s transformation in American rhetoric  from advanced constitutional state to autocracy be
Node: 20162, Score: 0.0053867206484109, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0088.txt, Content: ough Allied military planners remained sensitive to the moral issue of bombing civilians (and to the possibility that reliance on obliteration bomb-ing might provoke a public reaction detrimental to the postwar development of the air forces), no sustained protest ever materialized. The Allied air raids were widely accepted as just retribution as well as sound strategic policy, and the few critics who raised ethical and humanitarian questions about the heavy bombing of German cities were usually denounced as hopeless idealists, fools, or traitors. When Tokyo was incinerated, there was scarcely a murmur of protest on the home front. . . . Japan had merely reaped what it sowed. 86 The American public overwhelmingly approved of firebombing on Jap- anese cities. In the immediate aftermath of Pearl Harbor, an opinion poll showed that 67 percent favored aerial bombardment of Japanese cities. Undermining the argument that deterrence can prevent resort to civilian victimization, another survey found that of the 59 percent who believed the United States should fight an “all-out” war against Japan, 84 percent ap- proved of bombing Japanese cities even if it meant Axis retaliation against American cities. 87 An article in Harper’s magazine summarized the prevail- ing view: “It seems brutal to be talking about burning homes. But we are EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 52 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [137] engaged in a life and death struggle for national survival, and we are there- fore justified in taking any action which will save the lives of  American sol- diers and sailors.”88 In short, as Dower puts it, “The overwhelming thrust of public opinion in the United Kingdom as well as the United States de- manded, if not the extermination of the Japanese people, then most certainly the country’s ‘thoroughgoing defeat,’ ” even if this me