Node: 20183, Score: 0.0756634061119612, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0109.txt, Content: s single-engine fighters, leaving only the single-engine Bf 109 as the equal of the British Hurricanes and Spitfires. Two raids in particular devastated the German bomber force. First, on August 15 (known as “Black Thursday” to the Luftwaffe), British fighters annihilated unescorted German bombers and Bf 110s attacking northern Britain from Norway, shooting down twenty-two aircraft at no cost to them-selves. 158 The results of this raid, according to Williamson Murray, “proved once and for all that unsupported daylight bomber operations against  Britain were nearly impossible.” 159 As a result, German Bf 109s had to escort the operations of every other type of aircraft (even the Bf 110, nominally a fighter) in addition to conducting their own attacks on Fighter Command. Second, on August 18, German dive-bombers attacking RAF airfields in southern England suffered appalling losses with twenty-eight shot down, forcing Göring to withdraw the remaining Stukas from action the follow-ing day. 160 The Stukas, which had performed so well in Poland and France, were no match for determined fighter resistance and could not be escorted properly because of their slow cruising speed. German losses, even more than those of Fighter Command, were un- sustainable. The Luftwaffe lost 284 aircraft in the first week of Adlerangriff, 12.5 percent of those engaged in the battle. 161 During the month of August, total losses amounted to 774, a full 18.5 percent of the combat aircraft in the Luftwaffe inventory on August 1.162 The Battle Equalizes. Despite these heavy losses, German bombers con- tinued to hammer RAF airfields and the battle began to equalize. In the second phase of Adlerangriff (August 24–September 6), the Germans nearly pulled even in the loss-exchange ratio, destroying 273 British fighters while losing 308 total aircraft (109 bombers). Overall, the British lost 657 fighters to all causes in the four weeks after August 8. Fighter Command’s frontline strength remained about
Node: 20186, Score: 0.0703293298431498, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0112.txt, Content: hem bombers) on September 7, compared to 746 serviceable Hurricanes and Spitfires for Fighter Command.168 Deceived by their own inflated kill estimates, however, Luftwaffe leaders convinced themselves that the RAF was on its last legs. The Germans, therefore, launched mas-sive daylight raids totaling over thirteen hundred sorties on September 15 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 65 --- Targeting Civilians in War [150]designed to deliver the coup de grâce to Fighter Command only to be stunned when the British met the raiders with huge clouds of fighters. The Luftwaffe was routed, its attacks broken up and its bombs dropped wildly at a cost of 56 aircraft to the RAF’s 26. 169 This trend continued for the rest of the month until Göring terminated the daylight missions owing to unen-durable losses: from September 16 to September 30 his forces had lost 199 aircraft, more than 13 percent of the aircraft available on the 7th. 170 Opera- tion Sea Lion—postponed indefinitely by the Führer on September 17—was canceled for good on October 12. Phase Three: The Blitz The defensive advantage of fighters over bombers—even heavily escorted bombers—resulted in severe losses for the Luftwaffe and the failure of the daylight bombing of Britain in 1940. “The Luftwaffe simply could not sus- tain constant large-scale daytime bomber sorties,” concludes Telford Taylor. “Fighter Command’s defense was too fierce, and the strain and the losses suffered by the German crews too great.” 171 Heavy casualties in the opening days of Adlerangriff prompted a partial shift to night bombing in late Au- gust, a shift consummated by the disastrous massed day raids of September. Although most historians give September 7 as the opening of the Blitz, this date actually marks the beginning of the final segment of Adlerangriff, when the goal was still the destruction of Fight
Node: 20182, Score: 0.0649199157098743, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0108.txt, Content: tack British fighters not only in the air, but also on the ground through the destruction of airfields, radar stations, and related infrastructure in a thirteen-day offensive south and southeast of London. 156 To carry out this plan the Luftwaffe deployed almost 2,300 serviceable aircraft facing England: 963 fighters and 1,314 bombers (316 single-engine “Stukas” and 998 twin-engine aircraft of various makes). In the crucial category of single-engine fighters in the southern sector of op-erations (Fighter Command’s 10 and 11 Groups), the Germans possessed a superiority of 702 Bf 109s to 312 British Hurricanes and Spitfires, more than a two to one advantage. 157 Table 4.4. German and British aircraft lost in combat, July–September 1940 July 1– August 8August 13–18August 24– September 6September 7–15September 16–30 Total Germany 279 247 308 174 199 1,207 Britain 142 131 273 131 115 792 Source: Figures are from Matthew Cooper, The German Air Force 1933–1945: An Anatomy of Failure (London: Jane’s Publishing, 1981), 129, 140, 141, 145, 154–55, 158. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 63 --- Targeting Civilians in War [148]A Disastrous Beginning. Adlerangriff opened disastrously for the Luftwaffe on August 13: the Germans lost 45 aircraft to Fighter Command’s 13. Over- all, the British emerged from the first week of Adlerangriff (August 13–18) with a significant edge over the Luftwaffe—131 British fighters lost to 247 German aircraft. Germany’s medium bombers, the Ju 88 and the He 111, its primary dive bomber, the Ju 87 “Stuka,” and its twin-engine fighter, the Bf 110, all turned out to be too slow and poorly maneuverable to escape from Britain’s single-engine fighters, leaving only the single-engine Bf 109 as the equal of the British Hurricanes and Spitfires. Two raids in particular devastated the German bomber force. First, on August 15 (k
Node: 20184, Score: 0.0636347839622234, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0110.txt, Content: tish fighters while losing 308 total aircraft (109 bombers). Overall, the British lost 657 fighters to all causes in the four weeks after August 8. Fighter Command’s frontline strength remained about the same as it had at the commencement of the battle, but its reserves were dwindling. Moreover, Fighter Command began to experience a shortage of experienced pilots. Matthew Cooper argues that the Germans were four to five weeks away from attaining air superiority in early September, and Peter Townsend opines that “with the combined weight of its bombers and fighters, the Luftwaffe was gradually overpow-ering Fighter Command.” 163 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 64 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [149]The Germans, however, were running out of time. Shipping for the inva- sion was assembled, but Hitler repeatedly postponed the date, waiting for the Luftwaffe to knock out Fighter Command. But the pesky British showed no signs of cracking, and soon the Germans would face poor weather. With a sense of desperation, Luftwaffe leaders turned to London as the last re-maining target that would draw out the British fighters where they could be destroyed. As Williamson Murray puts it, “The impact of losses over southern England combined with inclinations already present in Luftwaffe doctrine to induce a change in German air strategy early in September.” 164 Hitler approved this target change on September 5, lifting his ban on bomb- ing the British capital out of anger at Bomber Command raids on Berlin ordered by Churchill in retaliation for the accidental bombing of London by twelve German aircraft on the night of August 24. This mishap, of course, was made possible by the Luftwaffe’s unsustainable daylight bomber losses over Britain, which forced the Germans to begin bombing at night. With Hitler now in the mood for reprisals, the Luftwa
Node: 20187, Score: 0.0526048160719679, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0113.txt, Content: er. Although most historians give September 7 as the opening of the Blitz, this date actually marks the beginning of the final segment of Adlerangriff, when the goal was still the destruction of Fighter Command by large-scale attacks on London. 172 The failure of these raids to achieve their objective meant that Germany could not invade Britain in 1940. Hitler thus had only one weapon left in his arsenal, namely night bombardment of England’s cities to destroy civilian morale: “It was hoped that a heavy bombardment would destroy its citizens’ will to resist, and that this, together with the economic blockade, would induce the Government to sue for peace.” 173 This strategy offered the possibility, however remote, of defeating Britain without an invasion while also lowering Luftwaffe bomber losses to an acceptable level. Three factors were important in bringing about the gradual shift in Ger - man aerial operations from attrition and defeat of the RAF by day to destruc-tion of British war industry and civilian morale by night. Probably the most important was the crippling losses sustained by the German bomber force. Already in the first week of Adlerangriff, the magnitude of the damage was so severe that Göring ordered that flight crews should consist of no more than one officer. 174 Göring also drastically increased the size of fighter escorts for bomber missions and withdrew the dive-bomber force. The shift to night bombing radically curtailed bomber losses: in the two months from Septem-ber 7 to November 13, 1940, the Luftwaffe lost only 100 aircraft on night op- erations over Britain. 175 Fighter Command, so deadly in daylight, could do little by night, having few night fighters of indifferent quality. The Germans, notes Matthew Cooper, “soon realised that night attacks represented a safe EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 66 ---
Node: 20151, Score: 0.0515605975414596, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0077.txt, Content: limsy construction all gone . . . everything burned down, or up, and drill presses standing like skeletons.” 61 Precision attacks on plants, therefore, could slow output, but were unable to bring production to a halt. Third, the long distances the B-29s had to fly to strike Japan reduced the weight of bombs they could carry, which in turn limited their destructive power. Fourth, the AAF’s daylight precision tactics required bombers to fly in formation at high altitude, but this approach played into the strengths of Japanese defenses. Japan’s day-fighter force was far superior to its night-fighters, and the antiaircraft artillery protecting Japanese targets was mostly long range, able to inflict more damage to high-flying planes than those at lower altitudes. B-29s attacking from high altitude in daylight thus met relatively heavy fighter opposition. For example, the first two missions con-ducted after LeMay took command—daylight raids against the Mitsubishi (January 23) and Nakajima (January 27) aircraft facilities—experienced 691 and 984 fighter attacks, respectively. While only two B-29s were lost on the former attack, nine fell victim to enemy defenses on the latter. 62 In short, the weather and physical conditions in the Pacific theater fa- vored the defense and rendered achieving decisive results with HE bomb-ing almost impossible. The Shift to Firebombing Given the failure of bombing with HE, Washington continued to push for further incendiary raids in February 1945 to gauge the effectiveness of fire attacks on Japanese cities. LeMay launched two—against Kobe and Tokyo—the latter of which burned out one square mile of the Japa-nese capital. Both of these missions were flown at high altitude, however, which limited their effectiveness: the aircraft could not carry many bombs, and the extreme winds at high altitude scattered the relatively lightweight  incendiaries across a wide area, preventing large fires from starting. In view EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/202
Node: 20181, Score: 0.0445011589811307, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0107.txt, Content: the German fighters—except insofar as they were interested in us. Our job was defense. German fighters could do no harm EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 62 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [147]to Britain. German bombers with their deadly loads were the menace. Our orders were to seek them out and destroy them.”152 The battle did not go well for the Luftwaffe. In the four weeks between July 10 and August 8, Luftwaffe bombers sank only 40,000 tons of British coastal shipping, a paltry 1 percent of the 4 million tons then operating. To destroy this meager tonnage, German aircraft suffered heavily. In five weeks of operations after July 1, Luftwaffe aircraft losses were nearly dou- ble those of Fighter Command, 279 against 142; 181 of the German losses were bombers. 153 Relative loss rates for the entire Battle of Britain are dis- played in table 4.4. Phase Two: Adlerangriff Observing the evident failure of the Kanalkampf to destroy Fighter Com- mand or isolate Britain from trade, Hitler issued Directive No. 16 calling for an invasion of Great Britain. To support Operation Sea Lion, Hitler au-thorized unlimited air and sea operations against Britain to begin anytime after August 5, with the proviso that London was to remain off limits. 154 Air superiority was vital to a cross-channel invasion, so the destruction of Fighter Command remained the central goal of air operations: “The English Air Force must be so reduced morally and physically that it is unable to deliver any significant attack against the German crossing.” 155 To achieve this goal, however, the new plan—designated Adlerangriff (Eagle Attack)—adopted a different means: attack British fighters not only in the air, but also on the ground through the destruction of airfields, radar stations, and related infrastructure in a thirteen-day offensive south and southeast of Lo
Node: 20180, Score: 0.0402902865600393, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0106.txt, Content: man Air Force could achieve little in a potential war against England and that to fight with the resources then at its disposal appeared “fruitless.” 146 Another study from 1939 accurately predicted the likely course of an air offensive against Britain: operations staffers “held out little hope of success in an onslaught against Britain’s fighter force as a pre-liminary to a general attack at a later date. Conditions favoured the defence, and it was considered that losses suffered by the attacking forces would be prohibitively high.” 147 The air force high command’s view in May–June 1940 was that “with existing forces, the Luftwaffe on its own lacked the necessary strength to gain a decisive victory over Britain.” 148 Phase One: Kanalkampf This first phase of concerted air operations against Britain, often referred to as the Kanalkampf (channel war), lasted for roughly six weeks starting July 1, 1940, but achieved no decisive results. Luftwaffe chief Hermann Göring, in his General Directions for the Operation of the Luftwaffe against  England issued on June 30, designated the destruction of Fighter Command as the principal objective of the air campaign. 149 The Germans hoped that strikes on British shipping and ports would draw English fighters into the air where the Luftwaffe’s elite single-engine fighter—the Bf 109—could de- stroy them.150 Göring’s order also “stressed that every effort should be made to avoid unnecessary loss of life amongst the civil population.”151 British fighters, however, assiduously avoided engaging their German counterparts. Chief of Fighter Command Hugh Dowding knew that only German bombers could destroy Britain’s vital industries or Fighter Com-mand’s bases. As one RAF pilot later put it, “We RAF fighters were not in the least interested in the German fighters—except insofar as they were interested in us. Our job was defense. German fighters could do no harm EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All u
Node: 20171, Score: 0.0397861667533268, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0097.txt, Content: d palpable results to justify an independent service. But other air forces—the RAF and the Luftwaffe—that were already independent behaved in similar ways: both first attempted precision attack and later shifted to more indiscriminate tac-tics owing to ineffectiveness and high loss rates. For the parochial interests argument to be true, one would have to argue that the escalation to firebomb-ing would not have occurred had the air force been independent. Moreover, the organizational argument implies that the failure of precision bombing was the key factor behind the shift to firebombing, but this ignores the AAF’s extensive exploration of and planning for incendiary attack in the Pacific the-ater well before it suffered the loss of a single aircraft over Japan. A slightly different take on the organizational argument places respon- sibility for the shift to firebombing on LeMay alone. Conrad Crane, for ex-ample, points out that LeMay had great autonomy in his command, was not a product of the ACTS precision doctrine school of thought, pioneered blind bombing methods in Europe, and led and ordered area raids in  Europe and the Far East. 114 This argument, however, ultimately fails. Air planners were well aware of Japan’s vulnerability to fire, and the plans for air at- tack on Japan called for eventual incendiary raids on urban areas. Even had  Hansell remained in command, the shift in emphasis to firebombing would have come sooner or later. 115 Hansell himself points out in his memoirs that LeMay was not chiefly behind the shift to fire attack: “The change to area urban incendiary attack, when it finally came, can not be laid directly at General LeMay’s door. Its initial support came from Twentieth Air Force Headquarters. And it had begun with the selection of urban targets, after a revised report on Far East economic objectives was written and issued in October 1944 by the Committee of Operations Analysts.” 116 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBI
Node: 20188, Score: 0.0378190710861946, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0114.txt, Content: cks represented a safe EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 66 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [151]way of  proceeding with the war against Britain. . . . The Luftwaffe’s bombers, which by day were so vulnerable, had, in the autumn of 1940, little to fear by night.”176 Yet the decrease in aircraft losses was not a victory for the  Luftwaffe, as one historian notes: “Arguably the continued bombing campaign was ac- tually an admission of defeat, a desperate alternative to the direct, annihilat-ing contest with Fighter Command that, had the Luftwaffe emerged victori-ous, would have enabled it to rule the skies over England.” 177 Moreover, although Göring’s generals believed they were destroying Britain’s fighter force at a rapid pace, air superiority was not being gained quickly enough. Many Luftwaffe officers argued that only by attacking London could they force Fighter Command to commit its entire force where it could be destroyed. The first few weeks of the round-the-clock offensive versus London, therefore, supported the goal of knocking out the RAF. As is well known, of course, by turning the attack toward London, Göring pro-vided battered Fighter Command with a much-needed breather from the strikes on its bases, and is widely regarded as the key blunder that lost Germany the battle. Finally, there is the matter of the British raids on Berlin, which provoked Hitler into revoking the ban on bombing London. Most historians argue that Churchill ordered these missions hoping that Hitler would retaliate in kind against London, thus easing the pressure on a beleaguered Fighter Command—a rare example of a leader inviting strikes on his own civilian population to reduce his country’s military losses. 178 Hitler did indeed send his bombers to London, but Churchill’s provocation only quickened a deci-sion that probably would have come so
Node: 20147, Score: 0.0374424477085525, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0073.txt, Content: poor results. In the first mission, flown on November 24, 1944, against the Nakajima Musashino aircraft engine fac- tory in Tokyo, only 24 of the 111 B- 29s that left Saipan bombed the primary target; another 64 attacked urban areas. 47 Roughly 1 percent of the buildings and 2 percent of the machine tools were damaged. Eighty-one Superfor- tresses headed back to the same plant on November 27 but were foiled by clouds and forced to bomb by radar. The bombers returned to Musashino again on December 3 and 27, inflicting little damage: twenty-six bombs fell in the target area on each occasion. 48 Meanwhile, Hansell mounted three raids in December against the Mitsubishi aircraft engine plant in Nagoya with varying degrees of success. Arnold, however, was not satisfied with the achievements of the B-29s; desiring a “full-scale test of the potential for firing Japanese cities,” Arnold (through his deputy Norstad) urged Hansell on December 19 to fly an incendiary raid on Nagoya. 49 Hansell resisted, ar- guing that success with HE bombing was just around the corner, but these results failed to materialize quickly enough to save Hansell’s job, as Arnold sacked him in favor of LeMay on January 7, 1945. By all accounts, Hansell “left a legacy of miniscule accomplishment in terms of target destruction coupled with serious losses.” 50 During Hansell’s tenure, Twenty-first Bomber Command undertook fourteen missions, ten of which were daylight HE efforts against particular industrial targets. As Kenneth Werrell observes, “On the ten raids against the aircraft targets, only three achieved results considered good: two against Nagoya, and the one attack [Hansell’s last, coming on January 19] on the Kawasaki plant” in Akashi. 51 Only 14 percent of bombs fell within a thousand feet of the target on these three raids, as opposed to 2 percent on the other seven missions. Thirty-four B-29s were lost, fifteen to enemy fire and nineteen to opera-tional causes. 52 Contrary to conventional wis
Node: 20193, Score: 0.0369017885849505, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0119.txt, Content: ore than a handful of pinpricks on German cities. From the time Germany invaded Poland until the Battle of France, Bomber Command’s operations consisted mostly of raids on naval vessels and dropping leaflets. Some limited bomb-ing of German oil and rail targets began on May 15, 1940, but more effort was devoted to leafleting, mining the North Sea, and attacking German invasion barges, coastal shipping, and aircraft targets. After the Blitz was well underway, the Air Ministry designated oil as the primary target on October 30, with undermining civilian morale as a secondary objective. Of course, owing to the radical inaccuracy of British bombing, “the Germans were scarcely aware that their oil resources were supposed to have been EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 69 --- Targeting Civilians in War [154]the object of a systematic British assault.”185 Bomber Command launched its first explicit area raid on Mannheim in mid December, but this attack was ordered as a reprisal for the Luftwaffe’s destruction of Coventry the previous month. It was not until July 9, 1941, that civilian morale rose to the top of the list of priorities, and only in 1942 did major urban area raids begin. Unless one is willing to ascribe the entirety of the Blitz to the largely symbolic Bomber Command reprisal attacks on Berlin in August 1940 and a handful of ineffective missions against industrial targets, the “Blitz as repri-sal” argument is not credible. Indeed, the damage from the August 24 raid was so slight that German propaganda minister Josef Goebbels was forced to make it worse to gain any propaganda value from it. As one historian comments, “So feeble were the British efforts against German soil in the autumn of 1940 that Goebbels had to resort to faking British ‘atrocities’ to rouse the German public.” 186 The parochial organizational interest argument
Node: 20146, Score: 0.0345407089532039, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0072.txt, Content: attack sortie from China required seven trips over the Himalayas from India. 45 These lo- gistical limitations made it nearly impossible to mount substantial attacks. Second, only a small part of southern Japan was within striking distance of B-29s operating from China, drastically limiting the available targets. In fact, during Twentieth Bomber Command’s ten-month stint in China, the B-29s flew only nine missions against Japan (out of forty-nine total), deliv-ering a scant 961 tons of bombs (of 11,244 total) on targets in Kyushu, the southernmost of the Japanese main islands. 46 Operations from the Marianas. American conquest of the Marianas Islands (Saipan, Guam, and Tinian) in the summer of 1944 provided the AAF with bases from which B-29s could bomb almost all of Japan. This was by no means an easy trip, however: the round-trip flight to Japan from Saipan was thirty-one hundred miles, nearly the operational limit of the B-29. Gen-eral Haywood “Possum” Hansell was appointed commander of the newly constituted Twenty-first Bomber Command. Hansell had taught at the Air EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 43 --- Targeting Civilians in War [128]Corps Tactical School (ACTS) in the 1930s and was one of the principal ar- chitects and foremost advocates of the industrial web theory and precision bombing. Hansell was also one of the authors of AWPD/1, the blueprint for U.S. bombing in Germany. Unsurprisingly, Hansell began a campaign against Japan intended to destroy the following targets (listed in descend-ing order of importance) with HE: aircraft industry, industry in cities, ship-ping, and coke, steel, and oil. In general, Hansell achieved poor results. In the first mission, flown on November 24, 1944, against the Nakajima Musashino aircraft engine fac- tory in Tokyo, only 24 of the 111 B- 29s that left Saipan bombed the primary target;
Node: 20190, Score: 0.0343308688158315, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0116.txt, Content: was forced on the Luftwaffe because of the high combat attrition suffered through daylight raids. Thus gradually during the course of the Battle of Britain the German leadership began to move more towards the concept of a full strategic air offensive for the first time. This was not to be a limited strategic operation, but an offensive like that planned and prepared by the British: to bring the war to an end through the exercise of air power. 180 Alternative Explanations None of the alternative explanations for civilian victimization offer con- vincing accounts of the Blitz. I focus below on regime type and organiza- tional theory, since I have uncovered no evidence that key German leaders viewed the British as barbarians. Regime Type. The Blitz is superficially consistent with the norms version of the regime-type hypothesis: Nazi Germany was a dictatorship, and it victimized noncombatants. The details of the case, however, contradict both versions of the argument. Hitler repeatedly forbade his military com-manders from striking directly at urban neighborhoods, restraint that is not attributable to liberal norms. In general, Hitler’s directives and utterances portray him as viewing intentional attacks on civilians with airpower as a last resort, and his actions show that he used this instrument in a reprisal mode, attempting to punish and deter attacks on German cities. 181 Since Germany was not a liberal democracy, Hitler’s restrained application of air-power versus civilians undermines the norms argument. The case evidence also contradicts the institutions hypothesis. For a leader not subject to public recall, Hitler worried extensively about his popularity among the German people, suggesting that this concern is not peculiar to democratic leaders. In general, Hitler’s regime was remarkably cost-sensitive, possibly because of its reluctance to mobilize German society for modern war. The Führer and his Wehrmacht developed a strategy and force structure designed to
Node: 20156, Score: 0.0342003357027043, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0082.txt, Content: can bring Japan to her knees by B-29 bombing before the ground troops or the Navy ever land on the shores of the main island of Japan.” The next month Arnold told LeMay that “combined with mining the maximum [incendiary] efforts of the near future will perhaps do more to shorten the Pacific war than any other comparable military engagement.” 69 Clearly Arnold believed that airpower could defeat Japan by burning down cities, which would avert the costly invasion of the Japanese heart-land. Securing the early surrender of Japan, however, would also serve Arnold’s other major objective: independence for the air force. Michael Sherry, for example, downplays operational factors and the desire to pre-clude invasion as motivations for firebombing, arguing that the shift to fire was made because “incendiary bombing was easy and because doing it rescued the AAF’s flagging fortunes.” 70 The failure of precision bomb- ing endangered the AAF’s quest to become an independent service after the war, and even raised the possibility that Twenty-first Bomber Com-mand would be diverted to other missions subordinate to the army or navy in the Pacific. In short, “achieving victory and enhancing the air force’s reputation were inseparable objectives for the AAF”; incendiary bombing appeared to be the most promising way to inflict the maximum damage on Japan with airpower. Thus Arnold became a fervent supporter of firebombing. 71 Other voices in the AAF also expressed the view that incendiary bomb- ing could shorten the war and save American lives. Norstad, for example, told LeMay in April 1945, “We can only guess what the effect [of continued firebombing] will be on the Japanese. Certainly their warmaking ability will have been curtailed. Possibly they may lose their taste for more war.” An officer in the Fifth Air Force described U.S. air strategy in a July newsletter as follows: “We are making War and making it in the all-out fashion which saves American lives, shortens the agony whic
Node: 20189, Score: 0.0340451381185474, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0115.txt, Content: n civilian population to reduce his country’s military losses. 178 Hitler did indeed send his bombers to London, but Churchill’s provocation only quickened a deci-sion that probably would have come sooner or later anyway owing to rising losses and Luftwaffe preferences. 179 Göring and his generals were already pressing for a decisive move against London to destroy the RAF indepen-dently of the pinprick Bomber Command raids on Berlin, and later hoped to knock Britain out of the war with airpower alone. Reprisal was undoubt-edly a motive for sending the Luftwaffe’s bombers against the  British capi- tal, but they would have gotten there eventually even without the attacks on Berlin. Having failed to force Britain to come to terms with blockade, and with invasion rendered impossible by the failure to win air superiority, Hitler chose to continue the war against “perfidious Albion” with the only means at his disposal that was not prohibitively costly: night bombing. This is the conclusion reached by R. J. Overy: Thus when Göring turned the bombers against London in the Battle of Britain and the Blitz, it was not just out of the desire for reprisals against British raids on Germany, but because it was now hoped that, everything else having failed, Terrorangriffe would bring the British to their senses. The attacks were also combined with instructions to attack “the armaments in-dustry (particularly air armament). The important harbours. London will be EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 67 --- Targeting Civilians in War [152] attacked constantly night and day in order to destroy the city.” The Blitz was an extension of this strategic aim, and was forced on the Luftwaffe because of the high combat attrition suffered through daylight raids. Thus gradually during the course of the Battle of Britain the German leadership began to move more tow
Node: 20178, Score: 0.032817297373984, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0104.txt, Content: r later she would have to accept the reality of her position and sue for peace.” 138 Until July 1940, therefore, the German strategy to defeat England was based on blockade (but not a starvation blockade), and German bombing in the early summer of 1940 concentrated on ports, military installations, and coastal shipping. Later, after Hitler ordered preparations for an invasion of Great Britain (Operation Sea Lion) on July 11, the Luftwaffe attempted to destroy the British fighter force to gain air superiority over the English Channel and southern England. The initial stages of this battle proved enormously costly to the Luftwaffe, which—in a last ditch effort to destroy RAF Fighter Command—pressed for massive attacks on London, heretofore prohibited by Hitler. Hitler vacated his ban on London in early September owing to British strikes on Berlin (probably calculated to relieve the pressure on RAF Fighter Command by provoking the Germans to retaliate with city bomb-ing), and the Luftwaffe opened a new phase of the attack by launching large bomber raids against targets in London. 139 British fighters savaged these strikes, however, forcing the Luftwaffe to abandon daytime operations and continue its offensive against Britain at night. Hitler’s Beliefs and Luftwaffe Capabilities Hitler’s war directives and his conduct of the war up to the summer of 1940 indicated his inclination to limit the impact of the air war on civilians. As already indicated, the Luftwaffe lacked the ability and doctrine to pros-ecute extended campaigns of punishment bombing. Moreover, Hitler con-sciously limited German air strikes on cities in order to protect Germany from counterstrikes. “The German restraints in the campaign through the Low Countries and France,” argues George Quester, “had demonstrated a continuing desire to impress distinctions on the Allies which would prevent a heavy assault on German cities.” Hitler further hoped to convince Britain to make peace after the fall of France a
Node: 20137, Score: 0.0309699595029139, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0063.txt, Content: civilian and military officials knew well that Japan was a much better target for incendiary attack than Germany. This awareness mani-fested itself in extensive prewar interest in the potential of fire as a weapon against Japanese cities by civilians both inside and outside of government, as well as a few air officers, although most cleaved to their doctrine of preci-sion bombing. Concerted planning inside the air force began in 1943 for an incendiary campaign. Prewar Interest in Incendiary Attack. In contrast to the bombing of  Germany, American officials expressed great interest in using fire as a weapon against Japan. The main reason for this interest was the greater vulnerability of Japanese urban construction to fire. Eighty percent of Japanese cities were built out of wood and paper, whereas 95 percent of German cities were EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 38 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [123]constructed of stone and brick. The 1923 earthquake, which started devas- tating fires in Tokyo, brought this fact to the attention of American leaders, and the potential of firebombing figured prominently in their minds in the years leading up to the outbreak of the Pacific War. Former General Billy Mitchell, for example, pointed out in the 1920s and 1930s that the wood and paper construction of Japan’s towns “form the greatest aerial targets the world has ever seen. . . . Incendiary projectiles would burn the cities to the ground in short order.” 20 Claire Chennault, who came out of retirement to command Chiang Kai-shek’s air force in China, wrote to Hap Arnold in 1940 to inform him of the potential for incendiary attack on Japan’s cities. “Whereas Arnold and the airmen rejected the idea” as contrary to the AAF doctrine of precision bombardment, writes Kenneth Werrell, “[President] Roosevelt was delighted by the proposal and o
Node: 20185, Score: 0.030813378784283, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0111.txt, Content: ourse, was made possible by the Luftwaffe’s unsustainable daylight bomber losses over Britain, which forced the Germans to begin bombing at night. With Hitler now in the mood for reprisals, the Luftwaffe turned to round-the-clock bombing of military targets in London. The Bombers Head for London. The new attacks commenced on September 7 with a strike on the docklands in London. For all of Hitler’s bloodthirsty rhetoric about killing British civilians, the main objective of Luftwaffe at-tacks on London at this point was still to destroy the RAF, not terrorize the populace. Many civilians were indeed killed—1,000 on the night of  September 7, 412 on September 8, 370 on September 9—but undermining morale was only a secondary goal. 165 General Albert Kesselring, commander of Luftflotte 2, “pressed for an all-out attack on the capital. Apart from its value as a target, chances were good that London’s morale might crack.”166 Kesselring and others recommended attacks on residential neighborhoods, but Hitler would not allow it. Hitler rejected the intentional targeting of resi-dential areas suggested to him by Luftwaffe chief of staff Hans Jeschonnek on September 14, for example, ordering that “although the target area has been extended, air raids on London will continue to be directed primarily against installations of military importance and vital facilities in the city, in-cluding train stations. Terror raids on purely residential areas should only be a last resort to exert pressure and, therefore, should not be used at this time.” 167 The will of the populace might indeed break, but it would do so as a result of strikes on military targets, not from the all-out slaughter of civilians. The German air fleets flying against Britain numbered 1,524 operational aircraft (772 of them bombers) on September 7, compared to 746 serviceable Hurricanes and Spitfires for Fighter Command.168 Deceived by their own inflated kill estimates, however, Luftwaffe leaders convinced themselves
Node: 20174, Score: 0.0300353437652476, Chunk File: downes_strategic/chunks/downes_strategic_0100.txt, Content: ]an end to the Blitz. Substantial numbers of bombers had already been with- drawn to support the invasions of Greece and Yugoslavia, and with Opera-tion  Barbarossa looming, by late May only four groups of bombers (down from a high of forty-four) remained facing Britain. Historians agree that although the Luftwaffe did not target civilian neigh- borhoods specifically, the targets they did choose—“factories, docks, the government quarter of Whitehall, and the economic and financial centre of the City of London”—made it “inevitable that a large proportion of the population would be killed and their houses destroyed,” a development that Matthew Cooper argues German leaders “positively welcomed” “be-cause of the impact they hoped it would have upon the British people.” 122 According to Richard Overy, this target set exposed “the gradual abandon-ment of any pretence that civilians and civilian morale would not become targets.” 123 “It cannot be denied,” concludes Horst Boog, “that, in practice, the German air raids on Britain assumed an indiscriminate nature” judged by their results, “and that the terrorisation of the civilian population was accepted as a not unwelcome side-effect.” 124 Historians also agree that as bad as the destruction was in the winter of 1940– 41, it could have been worse. Luftwaffe bomb loads, for example, con- sisted of a relatively low proportion of incendiary bombs. Between Septem-ber 7, 1940, and May 10, 1941, Luftwaffe bombers dropped a total of 21,774 tons of bombs on London, only 2,633 tons (12 percent) of which were in- cendiaries. Against the whole of Britain in the same period, the Luftwaffe delivered 54,420 tons of bombs, with 7,920 tons (just under 15 percent) of this total consisting of firebombs. 125 If the Germans sought only to annihi- late British civilians, their bomb loads would have included a higher ratio of incendiary bombs. Furthermore, the Luftwaffe had developed means of de-livering bombs—such as Knickebein and X-Gerät—with