Node: 2508, Score: 0.0549423432882757, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0306.txt, Content: edder was among the greatest losers from the Ardennes surprise. His strategy seemed to have been decisively refuted by the panzer divisions. He had also come into conflict with some of the Allied ground commanders. A serious campaign was being waged for his ouster. Although his opponents lacked the power to achieve their highest aims, they did succeed in having him shunted off to Moscow on a trip lasting from 1 to 19 January.16 SHAEF G-2 labored in the wilderness.  Nevertheless, SHAEF unwaveringly held to its position that attacks on marshalling yards supplemented by the canal raids were having serious and immediate economic consequences for Germany.12 It gradually clarified the details of the situation in Germany. In early November it relied on prisoner of war reports indicating that the DR was satisfying only the bare minimum of economic demand. It suggested that the Reichsbahn still enjoyed a strong repair service that enabled it to overcome damage rapidly. It also credited the DR with being able to reroute traffic easily and to make more intense use of its locomotives. Nor did the Reichsbahn suffer from sabotage. But SHAEF went astray when it also perceived a sufficiency of locomotive coal and a smoothly functioning telecommunications system in the DR.48 It also discovered the Reichsbahn’s repair priorities based on agent and prisoner reports and photo reconnaissance. Line cuts were identified as having first priority. Marshalling yards came second, then passenger stations, freight loading areas, and finally locomotive sheds.12 SHAEF did not draw the conclusion that the disruption of marshalling was much more important than damage to locomotive-servicing facilities. Instead it steadfastly insisted that there was a locomotive shortage. At the end of November it accepted a spurious report from Switzerland of an impending strike among Reichsbahn employees. At the same time, though, it placed an important piece of the puzzle. It noticed that a coal shortage had immo
Node: 2425, Score: 0.0543953778331375, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0223.txt, Content: al priority11! By comparison, national hard coal production tumbled by 31 percent.1!2 The difference is explained by the consumption of stocks of coal and components. In this way assault gun output, easier to sustain than that of tanks due to its lower demand for steel, actually rose by a third from August.113 Output of the 88mm PAK 43 antitank gun was a fifth higher than in August and twice as high as during the The Army Armaments Office attributed the shortfall exclusively to “transportacion difficulties.”146 Considering that the Army was in dire need of every weapon that it could lay its hands on after the the transportation offensive.14Z The very clouds that intensified the attack concealed its results. They were also unanimous in pinpointing the lack of reliable ground sources.118 The Special Measures West instituted by the Reichsbahn in September were finally mentioned in RRS and SHAEF appreciations in early November. They concurred that this meant a reduction in the DR’s overall capability.U2 But RRS and MEW considered the DR to be moving the same volume of traffic as during the same period in 1943.120 SHAEF and OSS, based on prisoner interrogations, both argued that morale among the Reichsbahn train crews was sinking.12! No one on the German side was aware of this. MAGIC provided no useful evidence.122 OSS agents and PW interrogators did learn that the Hamm and Soest gateways were closed at the end of September.123 Ultra had no impact on the formation of policy for reasons that will become clear shortly. No less than EOU, SHAEF engaged in policy-directed intelligence appreciation. While it recognized the importance of marshalling, it interpreted the available evidence to conclude that a major locomotive shortage afflicted the DR due to the destruction of repair facilities.124 The difficult problem of piecing together the complicated puzzle to form a reasonably accurate image of the German economy remained beyond most Allied intelligence agencies. Consequentl
Node: 2512, Score: 0.0541743538449576, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0310.txt, Content: hr. By mid-February it had accurately divined that armaments production in the Ruhr itself was declining and the region’s ability to support its tributaries was waning. A final offensive against the Reichsbahn’s network serving the region would end armaments production. SHAEF was in no doubt now about the root of the problem. A severe coal famine had erupted forcing the DR to burn brown coal in its locomotives. The bombing of marshalling yards before the loss of Upper Silesia had created a glut of freight cars forcing the Reichsbahn to derail them by the score.22 In the space of a few weeks SHAEF had rapidly apprehended the situation. The CSTC, using the golden bridge, followed suit.  + tana + wer on nm avowed a 1 rt nama atoomare coe soa waa ere ane “a saad 1 rr ey  Page 164 of 282 59% _—S eee os telecommunications system in the DR.18 It also discovered the Reichsbahn’s repair priorities based on agent and prisoner reports and photo reconnaissance. Line cuts were identified as having first Switzerland of an impending strike among Reichsbahn employees. At the same time, though, it placed an important piece of the puzzle. It noticed that a coal shortage had immobilized locomotives.22 of various war supplies.”22 Another, which had lain unused since October 1944, stated, “On 20 October, Reich Minister for Equipment and War Production reported that, on account of destruction of sharp decline: in armaments production.2° fully accepted Tedder’s strategy. It tolerated transportation attacks only in relation to what it considered an exceptional case—the Ruhr after the loss of Upper Silesia.28 In mid-February Lawrence, Wood, Bufton, and all the other members of the CSTC except the EOU representatives seized upon the loss of Upper Silesia as the crucial development that justified an air offensive to isolate the Rhenish-Westphalian industrial region.22 By the end of the month it had completely adopted the SHAEF position. Its meeting of 28 February was dominated by discussion o
Node: 2239, Score: 0.0541650012211329, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0037.txt, Content: e result of bureaucratic competition but in response to an air-raid emergency. It marked the first weakening of the system. The initial economic emergency caused by an air raid occurred in the summer and fall of 1943 as a result of the Eighth Air Force’s attacks on the ball-bearing plants concentrated at Schweinfurt. The response hit upon by Speer was the appointment of Philip Kessler as Plenipotentiary for Bail-Bearings. Kessler brilliantly mastered the problem and did not disturb the regular armaments organization. Speer had been fortunate because Kessler was an unusually selfless individual. But an ominous precedent had been set.65 He would not be so lucky in the future.  The second armaments emergency caused by air raids erupted in the week of 19 to 25 February 1944. The American Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces, using escort fighters to protect their bombers, conducted a series of violent attacks against airframe plants in Germany and Austria. Speer, supported by Gen. Adolf Galland, Inspector of Fighters in the Luftwaffe, had long been clamoring for an increase in fighter production.££ The incentive of the attacks, combined with a smouldering dispute between Milch and Karl Saur of Speer’s Technical Office, led to the formation of the Fighter Staff (Jagerstab) under Saur on I March 1944. Speer and Milch had not desired Saur’s appointment, but Hitler, acting on impulse, named him during a discussion at his headquarters.£2 He immediately set to work with ruthless energy and within weeks had not only made good the losses suffered from the bombing but even doubled fighter production: He also hastily initiated a program of plant dispersal, which spread both fuselage and engine factories throughout the Reich and began ambitious projects to build underground and concrete protected plants.®8 Speer had resorted to the method used before to solve this second armaments emergency. The result was organizational chaos and the emergence of a powerful if clumsy competitor from w
Node: 2382, Score: 0.0539498299262249, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0180.txt, Content: 282 34% 12 September.?! Speer had decided to have the German economy live solely for the present in the realization that failure to survive the present would mean the end to all hopes for the future. Information gleaned from photo reconnaissance clearly showed the results of the raids on marshalling yards in France, Belgium, and western Germany. However, the photos could give only an approximation of how the overall level of traffic had been affected and, in particular, what types of movement had been reduced to allow military traffic to continue flowing. Moreover, the pictures could not resolve questions about whether marshalling yard or bridge attacks had been the most effective. Ultra partially filled the breach. In April and May it laid bare army and Luftwaffe communications that clearly showed that the volume of rail traffic had fallen dramatically and that military movements had not been spared. At the same time, GC and CS solved the cipher used by the German police.72 With the deterioration in telephone service, coal, steel, and chemical companies increas- ingly used the police radio net to transmit information to Berlin. But neither of these sources was fully exploited because the bodies interpreting them were locked in bureaucratic political strife.  On 27 May, EOU attempted to preempt its opposition by presenting to Spaatz a proposal for the use of the strategic air forces after the solidification of the lodgement in Normandy. It suggested that limited efforts be made to strike aircraft factories and airfields to weaken further the Luftwaffe. In addition, two arcs of interdiction should be created, one along the Seine-Loire line and the other along the Albert Canal and the Meuse to choke off rail traffic. The specific targets would be bridges. Finally, a concerted assault on Germany’s petroleum industry would be launched, supported by raids on ball-bearing, ordnance, and tank engine plants. “The heavy bomber force could make no greater contribution to the
Node: 2282, Score: 0.0527543748094192, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0080.txt, Content: osedly unbreakable cipher.22  The care taken to mask its inner workings and to ensure the flow of information despite external interference was matched by the Reichsbahn’s preparations to maintain the movement of traffic. Like all public organizations in the Third Reich, the DR created a chapter of the Reich Air Defense League (Reichsluftschutzbund), dubbed the Railway Air Protection Service (Eisenbahn Luftschutzdi- enst). It monitored the air situation based on information obtained from the Luftwaffe and its own offices and issued air-raid warnings. When attack appeared imminent, trains halted in tunnels and wooded areas and the crews disembarked. No train could enter or leave a yard during an attack. Yards ceased operations during raids but worked until the last possible moment. Then crews took to shrapnel shelters and small concrete bunkers erected near their work places. Occasionally they used the heavier bunkers built to protect the traveling public.2&  In February 1944 the increased weight of air attack on German industry prompted the DR to establish a central Air Raid Control Office (Luftschutzbefehlstelle) in the Transportation Ministry. It was responsible for allocating manpower and materials to regions struck by air raids.22 Prior to the war, repair columns had been formed consisting of a total of 16,000 men of whom 5,700 were from the DR itself. They were committed to the restoration of heavily damaged yards.28 Organic repair personnel handled lesser damage. The DR had always fielded dedicated right-of-way repair trains. They  were enitinned with snecial tanls and machine schon enniinment and were haced at mainr stations thraughant the evstem During the war thev were reinforced and kent at instant readiness 29 Materials  Page 38 of 282 15% SWITZERLAND Cuuncary kilometers of cable serving over 600,000 telephones and 200,000 teletypes.145During the war over 7,700 kilometers of new line were laid.16 Directorates were connected to Berlin by double cable lines
Node: 2442, Score: 0.0508476508405899, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0240.txt, Content: The Soest gateway was struck twice at its source and twice at the Altenbecken Viaduct. The Geisecke gateway was bombed only once, at Kassel. An area raid disrupted operations at Vorhalle and Hagen, Glessen was pummeled three times, Frankfurt/Main twice, and Siegen once. The Hamm route was struck five times including twice at Hanover and twice at the Bielefeld Viaduct. Only seven raids were flown against the remaining gateway leading north through Miinster: two at the source, three against Osnabriick, and one each against Wanne-Eickel and Essen, both of which sent coal along the route. Overall 150 transportation attacks were conducted during the six weeks following the promulgation of the first transportation plan, but only 59 fell on the gateways. The intensity and focus of the attacks increased during the period of the Ardennes offensive. The Hohenbudberg flow was pounded eighteen times, the Wedau route eight times, Hamm twice, once at the great yard itself and once at Bielefeld. The Soest line was attacked only once, the Geisecke gateway twice, Miinster not at all and the southward-leading Vorhalle line seven times. A clear pattern emerged. Attacks were concentrated in the area from Cologne south to Karlsruhe. This was the result of Tedder’s desire simultaneously to weaken economic traffic and to support the armies. Given the predilections of the members of the CSTC, a slight but real preference was given to the second of Tedder’s aims. Of equal importance was the fact that the air forces as often as not ignored the CSTC  Page 127 of 282 46% armaments, and iron ore.’ But all of these improvisations were nullified by the continued attacks. Overall, the Ladbergen passage was closed from 4 November to 23 December 1944 and from 1 Jan- December.12 Then bad luck again played havoc on the Rhine. In late December the Autobahn Bridge and the South Bridge south of the ruins of the Cologne-Miilheimer Bridge sagged close to the water gateway leading north through Minster: two
Node: 2436, Score: 0.0507404503411558, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0234.txt, Content: 123 of 282 45% Bebra, and Fulda. This new list pinpointed the gateways leading eastward and southward at their termini.2 The second factor helping Tedder was the weather. Throughout November and the first half at least across the Rhine. The second objective of the attacks was to destroy supplies in marshalling yards in and outside the bridge ring.4 Clearly the lessons learned by the CSTC differed from those drawn by Tedder. The consequence of these changes in strategic focus was that between 1 November and 15 December 1944, air attacks on transportation were scattered and target selection was inconsistent and did not fully exploit the geographical weaknesses of the Reichsbahn or the German economy. During the Ardennes phase, lasting from 16 December 1944 to the end of January 1945, it was more focused but still did not fully capitalize upon the geographical vulnerability of the transportation system. However, because of the sheer volume of explosives that was unleashed after weeks of severe bombing and the fact that the Reichsbahn was compelled to try to operate in the area most heavily attacked, the hail of blows was decisive. The onslaught unwittingly took advantage of the interdependence of the Reichsbahn system and overwhelmed it. Between the beginning of November 1944 and the end of January 1945 a total of 102,796 tons of bombs was dropped on transportation targets, primarily marshalling yards. The heaviest month was December 1944 when 45,818 tons smothered yards, lines, and bridges. The biggest contributor during the entire period was the Eighth Air Force, which accounted for 55 percent of the total.4  When the first transportation plan was implemented early in November, the inland waterway system was still reeling from the sledgehammer blows landed during September and October. The new wave of attacks that followed virtually eliminated it as a useful economic resource. The bombers were assisted by the onset of ice toward the end of December.  The Dortmund-Em
Node: 2348, Score: 0.0490653292034282, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0146.txt, Content: n earlier, in December 1942, MEW had pointed out that the coal-mining sector was especially vulnerable to disruption from indirect causes such as transportation snarls.23 The RRS produced a number of accurate portrayals of the Reichsbahn and its economic importance. In November 1940 Sherrington sent Bomber Command a report, later forwarded to the Eighth Air Force, which emphasized that marshalling yards were the heart and most vulnerable  Page 74 of 282 27% German aircraft output until the last half of 1942 and then after the last half of 1943 underestimated fighter production by 58 percent and total output by a third.42 It had greater success judging tank EOU itself never studied transportation, let alone the Reichsbahn.*! Instead it relied on papers prepared by others such as MAAF. On 8 February 1944 it counseled USSTAF that the delay incurred German economy that presented an accurate picture of the coal industry and the role of the Reichsbahn and the inland waterways.54 Even earlier, in December 1942, MEW had pointed out that the coal-mining sector was especially vulnerable to disruption from indirect causes such as transportation snarls.22 The RRS produced a number of accurate portrayals of the Reichsbahn and its economic part of a railway. He especially underscored the importance of those in the Ruhr.*6 In another report prepared at the same time, he deprecated attacking locomotives, even bombing their servicing sheds and facilities, unless the assault were part of an offensive against marshalling yards.*Z In March 1941 Sherrington completed another paper that was distributed both to Bomber Command and later to the Eighth Air Force, in which he advocated attacking railroad centers, those key locations where marshalling and vehicle servicing took place. He emphasized that since the Reichsbahn was the primary carrier of Ruhr coal, it was the most important single element in the German economy.£8 Sherrington’s reports were concise and generally accurate. They can
Node: 2511, Score: 0.0485875131595221, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0309.txt, Content: vided by the Red Army when it overran Upper Silesia. SHAEF G-2  Page 163 of 282 59% eeeEee——eee———————eE—e——eE—EE——— ee ee EEE eee ee ee _E—————ee———e—ee eee Eee resources, that is, overcome the Reich economy’s elasticity of supply before it could reduce the combat power of the Wehrmacht.13 The CSTC feared that another “eight months or a year” would pass they did succeed in having him shunted off to Moscow on a trip lasting from 1 to 19 January.46 SHAEF G-2 labored in the wilderness. was the first to sense the importance of the Red Army’s success. On 5 February it stressed in its regular transportation report that the loss of Upper Silesia imposed an even heavier burden on the Ruhr and especially on the Reichsbahn’s already weakened marshalling yards and arteries serving it.26 This argument proved decisive. Yet it did not have an immediate effect on bombing priorities. The committee system used by the Allies to formulate strategy was slow. It produced flaccid compromises. Viewed in another light, it also prevented gross mistakes and it ensured that when a strategy was agreed it would be implemented by subordinate operational eche-lons. Moreover, the bureaucratic situation had been simplified by February. Tedder had returned from Moscow and reasserted his position. Now decision making centered on just two forums: the CSTC and the air commanders’ conferences. Tedder retained his control of the latter and outmaneuvered the former.22 The CSTC never fully accepted Tedder’s strategy. It tolerated transportation attacks only in relation to what it considered an exceptional case—the Ruhr after the loss of Upper Silesia.2& Like a hunter closing in for the kill, SHAEF G-2 refined its arguments in favor of transportation bombing and pressed for a concerted effort to isolate the Ruhr. By mid-February it had accurately divined that armaments production in the Ruhr itself was declining and the region’s ability to support its tributaries was waning. A final offensive against the R
Node: 2539, Score: 0.0477983231410199, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0337.txt, Content: the performance of both the Reichsbahn and the inland waterway system. But the repair crews limited the spread of the paralysis. Sharpened measures to focus on final arms production were implemented and stocks were reduced. The most serious losses in the last area were in coal where winter supplies could not be accumulated and existing caches shrank. The output of selected arma- ments continued to rise, although the overall armaments production index sank.  Beginning on 1 November the First Transportation Plan caused further reductions in the performance of the transportation system. A major effort by the repair crews and poor target selection allowed the Reichsbahn to rebound during mid-November. But its energies were fatally sapped in the effort. Production continued to rise in certain areas but at an ever slower rate. Speer applied add-  Page 178 of 282 65% 2S eee ———E—EE—E—EE—~_—————E———————E—E ee SS eee eee ee ee ee rr er EE Se ee ee itional managerial palliatives and appointed special deputies to assist him, but the situation was fast slipping from his grasp. The destruction was too great and his own apparatus was disintegrating.  The culmination was reached in late December 1944 and early January 1945. The Ardennes offensive threw the Allies into despair, and Tedder’s influence waned. But they responded with an even more terrific pummeling of the Reichsbahn. The effort to support the offensive combined with the effects of three months of pounding from the air broke the DR’s back. Coal distribution, with the alternative of water transport denied by bombing, was paralyzed. Car placings spiraled downward ever more rapidly. The hoped-for turn in the military situation did not occur, and Speer’s gamble of relying on elasticity rebounded on Germany with a vengeance. Coal stocks were either exhausted or could not be redisposed. Components deliveries were hopelessly snarled. Finished goods could not be delivered. Telecommunications virtually collapsed, rendering cent
Node: 2518, Score: 0.0467915401016092, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0316.txt, Content: in February. A total of seventeen attacks was flown against the three main viaducts by the Eighth Air Force and Bomber Command. It was Bomber Command, using its heavy 12,000 and 22,000 pound weapons, that smashed each of them: Bielefeld on 14 March, Altenbecken on 19 March,  Page 167 of 282 61% ee eee cee eee ee ee Ae A RR RE ae, A SERRE AE Ae SERS Cy ee ee eee Pes ee ee ee eee ee Oe eee ey eae ee and Dresden urban areas were raised to second position, transportation falling to third.35 Churchill had decided that a final series of massive blows would push the German people to despair and to and the Ruhr arteries through Paderborn, Hamm, and Minster last.28 Tedder realized that although the coal gateways figured prominently in these priorities, the crucial routes leading to the east were slighted. He resorted to behind-the-scenes maneuvering to have them lifted to first position.22 A new feature of the attack, complementing the blows to marshalling yards, would be a major effort to Under the interim plan, 50,000 tons of bombs was dropped on transportation targets in February. In March the same amount was expended.4£ In both months the lion’s share was contributed by the and Arnsberg on 20 March. Overall, the Allied air forces flew forty-two major attacks against eighteen bridges and viaducts linking the Ruhr to its hinterland. Ten were completely destroyed, three were damaged and therefore impassable, and only one partly passable. Two came under artillery fire leaving only two operational.48 The Luftwaffe attempted to ward off these attacks by concentrating flak along the coal gateways, near bridges and viaducts on the Hamm, Miinster, and Soest routes and near important grade crossings on the Vorhalle line.42 The effort was too weak and came too late.  The Reichsbahn, already reeling from months of repeated sledgehammer blows, finally came to a halt. Although a few trains furtively made their way to Wehrmacht units carrying armaments or out of the Ruhr bearing a few
Node: 2383, Score: 0.0464732535701362, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0181.txt, Content: rted assault on Germany’s petroleum industry would be launched, supported by raids on ball-bearing, ordnance, and tank engine plants. “The heavy bomber force could make no greater contribution to the victory on the field,” concluded EOU, “than to press home the attack against German oil production.”23 Two days after the landings in France, Spaatz implemented this scheme, giving oil first priority.44 But he had moved too soon. Eisenhower and Tedder made heavy demands on the bombers to support Montgomery’s precarious toehold on the continent, so Spaatz’s initiative was stymied.  A critical factor bearing on how the strategic bombers would be used was the picture of the overall performance of the German economy developed by MEW. In its six-month summary issued in  Taann MTT eam a eanannahler anauenta nntimatas af Caeman anal nenduntian and tha imnlinntiane af tha antininatad lane af Cnindiah avn oumnling Th ear nn chanean in aemamante nenduntian thauch  Page 95 of 282 34% situation. Lhe Wenhrmacnt was Dadly 1n need OF large quantities of new equipment to replace the staggering losses tnat it nad sustained during the summer. At the same time, because of the bombing oil production.”23 Two days after the landings in France, Spaatz implemented this scheme, giving oil first priority.24 But he had moved too soon. Eisenhower and Tedder made heavy demands on the June, MEW gave a reasonably accurate estimate of German coal production and the implications of the anticipated loss of Swedish ore supplies. It saw no change in armaments production, though it discounted the possibility of any substantial increases. MEW did detect growing transportat ion problems and saw the Reichsbahn in particular as being in difficulty. But it did not know what this meant for the future. It was certain, however, that dispersal had increased the vulnerability of the economy to disruption of transportation.22 MEW’s appraisal was basically accurate but because of its many qualifications, it was hardly
Node: 2466, Score: 0.0457629217206367, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0264.txt, Content: shipped what it could. But the Allied bombers intervened to veto its plans. The Reichsbahn was unable to move all of the trains that the eastern syndicate loaded because of snarls in marshalling yards in the west. For the same reason, the transfer of unuseable fuel from bomb-damaged facilities such as the Leuna synthetic fuel plant proved impossible. In this case, problems in RBD Halle nullified the RMfRuKk’s efforts.28  The implications of the breakdown in marshalling, the severing of the Ruhr’s waterways, and the disintegration of telecommunications and interregional coordination were clear to Riidiger Schmidt from his post in the Essen. Throughout November and December he reported to the RWKS board of directors that the source of the syndicate’s problems was the decline in car placings and barge movements due to air raids. The collapse of telephone and telegraph service caused by the raids hindered coordination among the syndicate’s mines and trading companies, with its customers and the Reichsbahn.22 By the second week of November he already feared a collapse of industrial activity and considered the crisis the worst ever faced by the German mining industry. No scheduled distribution was nossible and stocks could not he mobilized. In late Novemher and earlv Decemher he informed the hoard that stacks had heen exhausted. Even the most imnortant consimers could  Page 140 of 282 51% what it had been scheduled to ship.% In January, arrivals from Upper Silesia sank to only a third of target.25 The failure of the Upper Silesian Hard Coal Syndicate’s help to meet expectations triggered synthetic fuel plant proved impossible. In this case, problems in RBD Halle nullified the RMfRuK’s efforts.28 distribution was possible and stocks could not be mobilized. In late November and early December he informed the board that stocks had been exhausted. Even the most important consumers could not be satisfied.122 As he put it on 14 November, “It is in no way a production, rather on
Node: 2366, Score: 0.045629164691311, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0164.txt, Content: trains destined for France clogged the sidings. Trains that were sent into France frequently did not return, thus creating a shortage of empty cars.22 During the third quarter, freight and coal car placings were a third below normal.22 The most immediate effect of this was a fuel shortage in the Saar and a decline in minette arrivals of 98 percent.24 The iron and steel industry was forced to consume stocks to maintain production. But iron output dropped by 43 percent and steel production by 40 percent.25 Since the Saar contributed almost a third of national iron production and a quarter of steel output, these losses represented a major blow to Speer’s production plans. The Saar ceased to bea significant factor in German industrial life. But the Ruhr continued to work at a high pitch. Steel output continued normally into September. This was accomplished at the expense of stockpiles. Arrivals of Swedish ore began to decline only in September. Minette supplies virtually ceased at the end of August.26 Since the Ruhr was not heavily dependent on minette, this was not important by itself. However, with the impending cessation of Swedish deliveries, it was a harbinger of problems lying just over the horizon. Stocks were reduced in August to 22 percent below normal.22 Raw iron output in August declined by only 4 percent.28 The case of Vereinigte Stahlwerke illustrates the situation nicely. Iron and steel production both proceeded satisfactorily compared to the monthly aver-  Page 86 of 282 31% West, appealed to the RWKS to transfer some of its coal t traffic to the waterways. Initially, though, the syndicate balked. to form them at the mines as was being done in Upper Silesia.1& and Réchling agreed to compensate by increasing shipments of minette.1Z But during August, overall ore movements fell by a quarter. Shipments by water, especially on the Rhine, held steady but rail- did not return, thus creating a shortage of empty cars.22 During the third quarter, freight and coal
Node: 2386, Score: 0.0455954628808987, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0184.txt, Content: hipments. Subsequent investigation showed that a brutal coal famine had swept the 1944 level. By D-Day it was 70 percent lower and by the end of July a staggering 90 percent lower.78 There had never been a car shortage. Nor had there been a lack of locomotives. The vehicles available, and the Reichsbahn had constantly fed more into the system from Germany, could not be used because marshalling was in disarray.272 Captured documents proved that even military movement had to the units thrown against the Allied landing. But it had also spread far greater chaos in the French economy than Tedder or Zuckerman had imagined possible beforehand. They now fully realized the importance of marshalling yards both to railway activities and to coal supplies. They perceived that similar attacks would have dire, possibly decisive effects on the German economy. They were more firmly convinced than ever that the transportation offensive should continue unabated and that it should be extended eastward into Germany as far and as soon as possible. In the meantime, Tedder had become very dissatisfied with the quality of the intelligence analyses that he was receiving from the Air Ministry and other agencies. Therefore, he ordered SHAEF G-2 to begin preparing weekly summaries of intelligence bearing on the transportation offensive in mid-July.82 EOU was not susceptible to the evidence uncovered by Zuckerman. It had adopted the oil alternative and now defended it as an article of faith. No one can doubt that the oil offensive was extremely effective in reducing the combat power of the Wehrmacht and especially the Luftwaffe. Nor can it be doubted that it exerted no influence on the operations of German industry. The issue then, as it had been before Overlord, turned on how much of the Allies’ massive bombing capacity would be devoted to each. One can sympathize with Spaatz’s staff, beleaguered as it was with requests for support from the army, attacks on V-Weapon sites, and submarine pens. B
Node: 2423, Score: 0.0454687513836503, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0221.txt, Content: hat 307,000 cars were caught in backlogged trains and were therefore unavailable. A further 62,000 were delayed in loading and unloading because freight car turnaround time was up to 12.7 days in October, a quarter more than during the previous year.12 The effort to repair freight cars was actually reduced because there was no freight car shortage.10 In effect, the Reichsbahn had lost access to over a third of its entire freight car park simply through disorganization in marshalling. Nor was there a locomotive shortage. By the end of mere 7 percent of all coal shipments. Local sales accounted for 14 percent. Even in its weakened state the Reichsbahn still moved three-quarters of the nation’s coal traffic.112 The geographical division Speer and Kehrl managed to maintain output of selected weapons at a very high rate. The overall armaments production index declined by only 9 percent during the period of special priority111 By defeats of the summer of 1944, it is clear that transportation bombing was already exerting a direct if far from decisive influence on the actual conibat power of the Wehrmacht. By late October 1944 the bombing of marshalling yards and the cutting of the Ruhr waterways had caused a severe reduction in Germany’s coal supplies, substantially reduced iron and steel output, forced a slight contrac- tion of armaments production but not of key weapons, and gravely hindered the exchange of goods within the economy and the delivery of weapons to the Wehrmacht. It had also imposed extraor- dinary strain on Speer’s administrative apparatus, causing it and the Reichsbahn to begin to disintegrate. In Germany there were few people who fully understood what was actually happening to the Reich economy. The decline in the operations of the Reichsbahn and the barges was apparent to all, but the consequences were not. Only Ganzenmiiller, Speer, Kehrl, and a few others at the highest levels of the RMfRuK, the Transportation Ministry, and in industry clearly underst
Node: 2384, Score: 0.0452764607520524, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0182.txt, Content: , however, that dispersal had increased the vulnerability of the economy to disruption of transportation.22 MEW’s appraisal was basically accurate but because of its many qualifications, it was hardly useful in the bureaucratic struggle where shrewdness, bolder assertions, and more specific information would prove decisive. EOU attempted again to land the first blow by sending Kindleberger to France to gather data on the effects of the Overlord transportation campaign. On 19 June he reported to Twenty-first Army Group and EOU that none of the evidence that he had obtained showed that the Germans had been handicapped by raids on railway centers. Instead, cutting bridges had exerted a noticeable influence on traffic.276  A bit over a month lacer, on 25 August, Solly Zuckerman received an urgent telephone call from Maj. Derek Ezra. Zuckerman had followed Tedder to the continent and was then in Paris directing the search for information on the impact of the transportation plan on the French and Belgian railways. Ezra had been seconded to Zuckerman’s Bombing Analysis Unit (BAU) from SHAEF G-2. He was a vociferous opponent of Zuckerman’s plan. He asked the scientist to come to his office immediately. There Ezra showed him two long rolls of what appeared at first glance to be wallpaper. They were actually the traffic flow charts of the French National Railway (Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer Francais, SNCF) from 1940 to the end of May 1944. Zuckerman snatched them and raced to Tedder’s office. He and the Deputy Supreme Commander sprawled on the floor in the antechamber and pored over them. They showed clearly that French railway traffic had declined precipitately soon after the bombing began. The most striking feature of the charts was the unmistakable, catastrophic drop in coal shipments.22 Subsequent investigation showed that a brutal coal famine had swept the country. Coke traffic disappeared and minette shipments to the Saar and the Ruhr were reduced to a trickle.
Node: 2394, Score: 0.0451768462166903, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0192.txt, Content: er. The third blow was landed on 14 October. The Eighth Air Force was unable to attack synthetic fuel targets in central Germany due to cloud cover so it chose to implement Hurricane I with a series of massive raids against railway facilities in the Cologne area. Two of the raids were made against the Cologne-Gereon marshalling yard on the left bank of the Rhine within walking distance to the north of the great cathedral. During one of the attacks, onlookers were shocked to see the massive Cologne-Miilheimer Bridge erupt in smoke and flame and then tumble into the Rhine, its roadway in one piece. The 14,808-ton, 69 5-meter-long bridge had been prepared for demolition in anticipation of the onrushing Allied armies. The triggers for the charges were in the Gereon marshalling yard. One of the raids had tripped them. Through a stroke of sheer luck, the bridge had been neatly dropped into the river, severing the vital coal artery to southern Germany. High priority was given to the repair  nfEnet Tha aearin an nnuntaend Aifhavlie in aAbtainina Lanes anrineant rohiah enn in chacet aunnler in Qnemanes and in anncnnchina tha atenatuen theauch tha hawk Lattnend chan aean seen dina  Page 102 of 282 37% alr forces.- olgnilicantly, 75 percent was dropped Dilnaly, using radar ihe oiennth Air rorce aione Contributed 1o6,o%% tons.= 1 ne cloudy weather caused the Hignith to put the einpinasis on trarnsporta- passages was reopened on 21 October. The loss of a month’s traffic and the restricted capacity of the waterway when it did reopen meant that hard coal traffic north and east, as measured at the Miin- Just when it seemed that the Ruhr link to central Germany would be restored, the Eighth Air Force cut the MLK at Minden on 26 October.42 The B-24S struck the waterway as it passed over the Weser effort. The crews encountered difficulty in obtaining heavy equipment, which was in short supply in Germany, and in approaching the structure through the bomb-battered urban area surrounding
Node: 2492, Score: 0.0442644729872989, Chunk File: mierzejewski_railway/chunks/mierzejewski_railway_0290.txt, Content: maments shipments, a total of Throughout the events of 1944-1945, Speer and Kehr] fought to assist the Reichsbahn and to maintain a bare minimum of armaments production. In late November, Speer restricted the use of materials for transportation facility repair and the building of underground factories.186 Wholesale regional electricity cutoffs were implemented in hopes of conserving coal.182 But this only caused Planning expressed its fear that elasticity was about to be exhausted.12!Within a few days though, it proposed new ways to conserve raw materials and continue production.122 one day sooner was important.123  But Speer’s system buckled under the pressure. His very attempts to maintain control sparked opposition. On 30 January 1945 his own ministry began dispatching coal trains to relieve emergencies, thus sparking bitter opposition from the RWKS. This precipitated the final break between Schmidt and the syndicate and the RMfRuK. Vogler, of United Steel and the RVE, newly appointed as head of Speer’s own Ruhr Staff, strongly opposed Kehrl’s coal-transport space-allocation scheme and promised to ignore it on 22 December.124  The corrosive atmosphere of internal bureaucratic competition fostered by Hitler and the increase in the power of Martin Bormann, the head of his party chancellery, contributed to the further disintegration of Speer’s system. The Party launched vitriolic attacks on the Reichsbahn, which the railway forcefully rejected. The SS also singled out the beleaguered railway for criticism. Dorpmiiller took the extraordinary step of personally informing Kaltenbrunner of his refusal to countenance such attacks. Speer moved sharply to prohibit Gauleiters from confiscating coal from trains not in- tended for their region. But in January 1945 he arrogated the same powers to his own ministry.122  Sneer had ennnerated clacely with the Reichchahn cineca hic annnintment in 1949 Ha and Ganzanmiiller in nartienlar had davelaned a cardial nrnfaccinnal ralatinnc