Node: 7738, Score: 0.0443223329597893, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0033.txt, Content: dérs maintained this position even when faced with evidence to the contrary.  Colonel Carl Spaatz, later to become the commander of Eighth Air Force and then commander of USAAF in the European Theater of Operations, travelled to England in 1940 to observe Royal Air Force operations against Germany.“ Despite British and German experience, Colonel Spaatz remained convinced that self-defended bombers could effectively strike targets without the aid of escorts. Spaatz’ reports reinforced Army Air Corps thinking at the time and influenced how the service spent its money. The production of bombers remained the Air Corps’ top priority while prominent airpower leaders viewed fighter escorts as an unnecessary capability. Thus, in June 1941, when the Air Corps became the United States Army Air Forces, airpower doctrine centered on high-altitude, daylight, precision bombing.  While the RAF entered the war with this same philosophy, early results dictated a change in philosophy. From the outset of war, the RAF struggled to employ their bombers effectively against German targets. Not only were the bombing raids failing to have any significant impact on the German industrial base, the RAF’s small force size could not sustain the losses they were taking.4“2! To preserve the force, the RAF transitioned to a philosophy of night-time area bombing of cities hoping to undermine the German workforce’s productivity and morale.2! This change in philosophy set the stage for the establishment of the Combined Bomber Offensive after the United States entered the war.  While the RAF had switched to night-time area bombing against cities, the USAAF remained steadfastly committed to high-altitude, daylight, precision bombing. When President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill met in Casablanca on January 14, 1943, the two parties agreed on a combined approach to keep the pressure on Germany.“! The Casablanca Directive endorsed a “sustained and unremitting air offensive, calling for a Combined
Node: 7790, Score: 0.0419105371698218, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0085.txt, Content: ining air superiority over Germany and were responsible for many friendly losses. In order to prosecute targets in other industries, the United States had to marginalize the German single-engine fighter force. Additionally, in order to conduct a landing on the continent, the Allies required air superiority. Through their analysis, the EOU determined aircraft engines stood as the best target system to reduce German aircraft production.414  From the EOU’s analysis on essential German war industries, the ball bearing industry stood out as a key industry that could affect German war production as a whole.“25! The ball bearing industry did not appear to be robust and thus provided an economically, feasible target. Without a robust bomber force in theater, the Allies needed to attack those industries where the fewest number of targets would create the greatest effects. For this reason, ball bearings became an important target. In early 1943, the Allies did not have the forces in place to attack the vast number of transportation and oil  targets. Both of these target systems were beyond the operational grasp of the Allied bomber force.!"26 With these assessments, the EOU began developing an alternative approach tr the Allies.  On February 26, 1943, the EOU produced an informal draft air plan that emphasized targeting German fighter aircraft.17! Colonel Hughes lobbied hard for the EOU’s plan and convinced military leaders of its validity. As proof, the POINTBLANK Directive released on June 7, 1943 closely reflected the recommendations presented by the EOU.“1£! Operation POINTBLANK, its military codename, sought to sustain attacks on the Luftwaffe, with the aim of drastically reducing the strength of the German Air Force and its production capability. With aircraft as the top priority, ball bearings received a secondary priority since they played a large role in aircraft production.!4% The wording in the POINTBLANK Directive highlighted the importance of aggressively pursuin
Node: 7787, Score: 0.0408363574246259, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0082.txt, Content: or maintaining air superiority over Germany and were responsible for many friendly losses. In order to prosecute targets in other industries, the United States had to marginalize the German single-engine fighter force. Additionally, in order to conduct a landing on the continent, the Allies required air superiority. Through their analysis, the EOU determined aircraft engines stood as the best target system to reduce German aircraft production.414  From the EOU’s analysis on essential German war industries, the ball bearing industry stood out as a key industry that could affect German war production as a whole.{445! The ball bearing industry did not appear to be robust and thus provided an economically, feasible target. Without a robust bomber force in theater, the Allies needed to attack those industries where the fewest number of targets would create the greatest effects. For this reason, ball bearings became an important target. In early 1943, the Allies did not have the forces in place to attack the vast number of transportation and oil targets. Both of these target systems were beyond the operational grasp of the Allied bomber force.“ With these assessments, the EOU began developing an alternative approach for the Allies.  On February 26, 1943, the EOU produced an informal draft air plan that emphasized targeting German fighter aircraft.412 Colonel Hughes lobbied hard for the EOU’s plan and convinced military leaders of its validity. As proof, the POINTBLANK Directive released on June 7, 1943 closely reflected the recommendations presented by the EOU.“18! Operation POINTBLANK, its military codename, sought to sustain attacks on the Luftwaffe, with the aim of drastically reducing the strength of the German Air Force and its production capability. With aircraft as the top priority, ball bearings received a secondary priority since they played a large role in aircraft production. “12 The wording in the POINTBLANK Directive highlighted the importance of aggressively
Node: 7804, Score: 0.0402701487286341, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0099.txt, Content: range fighter escort, the Allies would inflict intolerable losses on the German fighter force. While many agreed with General Spaatz’s presentation, General Eisenhower did not select the ‘Oil Plan’ since it could neither guarantee success nor that these attacks would have an effect on German strength in the West prior to D-Day.443!  The EOU was very forthright in their plan, acknowledging that due to their storage capacity, if Germany chose to allocate stocks to the Western Front, attacks on oil would not affect the opening stages of Operational OVERLORD through D+30.!*! This fact led General Eisenhower to select a course of action that focused solely on striking marshaling yards, thinking it would have a more immediate effect in support of the Allied invasion. As the date of invasion came closer, General Eisenhower focused on actions that would assist troops in establishing a beachhead.!“45! Therefore, attacks on oil would not occur until after the Allies established lodgment in Northern Europe. General Spaatz vehemently disagreed with this decision as he thought attacks on marshaling yards would have diffuse, generalized effects but would not interdict military supplies because of redundancy and Germany’s ability to repair damaged lines overnight 4%  Approaching General Eisenhower, General Spaatz felt so strongly that the Allies should pursue oil targets that he threatened to resign.“47 In response, General Eisenhower gave General Spaatz two good weather days to pursue oil targets. The attacks on oil proved very successful and messages intercepted by intelligence showed that the attacks caused panic in Germany and resulted in the Germans elevating their defenses of oil production to top priority.{48! The Germans were so concerned about their oil situation that they transferred anti-aircraft guns from their cities to their synthetic oil plants.{449! While supporting Operation OVERLORD remained the top priority, Germany’s reaction to the attacks on their oil industr
Node: 7803, Score: 0.0395006968330705, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0098.txt, Content: ng specific targets.{3% Colonel Hughes hurried the plan through the staffing process and presented the plan to General Spaatz on 5 March 1944.{37! General Spaatz recognized that the EOU’s plan was essentially an ‘Oil Plan’ and he agreed that a radical reduction of German oil supplies would substantially degrade the fighting capability of German ground and air forces.38! General Spaatz immediately accepted the draft plan and directed his staff to prepare it for presentation to General Eisenhower, the Supreme Commander of Allied Forces in Europe. The final plan sub-  mitted to General Eisenhower contained only minor changes to the EOU’s original plan and included the EOU appendices in their entirety.43% iN  Ata25 March 1944 meeting with General Eisenhower and his deputy, Air Chief Marshal Tedder, General Spaatz presented his plan. He argued that oil yielded the biggest strategic utility and saw it as a bottleneck in the German war machine.“* Further, intelligence reports suggested that after the Allies success during “Big Week,” the Germans intended to conserve their aircraft and pilots in prep-  aration for an Allied invasion.“41 General Spaatz contended that going after oil would force the Germans to alter their plan.  According to General Spaatz, German aircraft would have to remain in central Germany to protect their fuel sources rather than move west to repel an Allied invasion.{42! Further, the attacks on oil would corner the German Air Force into a difficult situation. If they elected to preserve their fighters, the Allies would face little resistance as they destroyed a key strategic resource needed by the Germans to sustain their war effort. With that option unacceptable, the German Air Force would interdict Allied bombing missions and with the arrival of a long-range fighter escort, the Allies would inflict intolerable losses on the German fighter force. While many agreed with General Spaatz’s presentation, General Eisenhower did not select the ‘Oil Plan’ si
Node: 7785, Score: 0.0394694855231585, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0080.txt, Content: or maintaining air superiority over Germany and were responsible for many friendly losses. In order to prosecute targets in other industries, the United States had to marginalize the German single-engine fighter force. Additionally, in order to conduct a landing on the continent, the Allies required air superiority. Through their analysis, the EOU determined aircraft engines stood as the best target system to reduce German aircraft production 14  From the EOU’s analysis on essential German war industries, the ball bearing industry stood out as a key industry that could affect German war production as a whole.22*! The ball bearing industry  did not appear to be robust and thus provided an economically, feasible target. Without a robust bomber force in theater, the Allies needed to attack those industries where the fewest number of targets would create the greatest effects. For this reason, ball bearings became an important target. In early 1943, the Allies did not have the forces in place to attack the vast number of transportation and oil targets. Both of these target systems were beyond the operational grasp of the Allied bomber force.“ With these assessments, the EOU began developing an alternative approach for the Allies.  On February 26, 1943, the EOU produced an informal draft air plan that emphasized targeting German fighter aircraft.{17 Colonel Hughes lobbied hard for the EOU’s plan and convinced military leaders of its validity. As proof, the POINTBLANK Directive released on June 7, 1943 closely reflected the recommendations presented by the EOU.4£! Operation POINTBLANK, its military codename,  Page 29 of 52 50%  ile Udoadidll€a LILECLIVE WeTIt OF LO ALMIOUTICE LIE Live Prilllaly tal eects 10F all dttack, PLiOLlitized ds LOMOW Ss. 1. German submarine construction yards and bases.  2. The German aircraft industry.  3. Transportation.  4. The German oil industry.  5. Other targets in enemy war industry.!22%  The directive purposely did not stipulate specific m
Node: 7743, Score: 0.0390887644813223, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0038.txt, Content: of flak and approach the targets straight and level in their group formations. Through their analysis, the Oper- ations Research Section proved this approach was more effective and greatly improved bombing accuracy.  Not only did this method improve accuracy, but it also minimized loss rates of aircraft and aircrew. Operations research analysts discovered that evasive maneuvers did not improve the bombers chance of avoiding flak while it increased the chance of mid-air collision. Further, maintaining a tight formation improved the formations’ defensive capability since it provided overlapping fields of fire. Overall, these tight formations improved the aircrews’ chance of survival and decreased the number of times aircrews had to restrike targets. While the tight formations provided many positives, they also increased the risk of fratricide.  In their search to find ways to minimize losses, the Losses and Battle Damage Subsection discovered that the waist gunners were shooting up their own aircraft and identified the vulnerability  Page 10 of 52 19%  preserve the force, the RAF transitioned to a philosophy of night-time area bombing of cities hoping to undermine the German workforce’s productivity and morale.*#! This change in philosophy set the stage for the establishment of the Combined Bomber Offensive after the United States entered the war.  While the RAF had switched to night-time area bombing against cities, the USAAF remained steadfastly committed to high-altitude, daylight, precision bombing. When President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill met in Casablanca on January 14, 1943, the two parties agreed on a combined approach to keep the pressure on Germany.*! The Casablanca Directive endorsed a “sustained and unremitting air offensive, calling for a Combined Bomber Offensive.”!45! The USAAF and their doctrine of high-altitude, precision bombing struck targets by day while the RAF used area bombing to strike targets at night. It was under this pretense,
Node: 7801, Score: 0.0385498896330555, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0096.txt, Content: nhower gave General Spaatz two good weather days to pursue oil targets. The attacks on oil proved very successful and messages intercepted by intelligence showed that the attacks caused panic in Germany and resulted in the Germans elevating their defenses of oil production to top priority.{48! The Germans were so concerned about their oil situation that they transferred anti-aircraft guns from their cities to their synthetic oil plants.!449! While supporting Operation OVERLORD remained the top priority, Germany’s reaction to the attacks on their oil industry convinced the Allies that the oil industry was, in fact, a lucrative strategic target.  The German Air Force desperately defended oil targets taking huge losses and was in no position to contest the Allies’ invasion on D-Day.{5% In addition to directly reducing Germany’s ability to defend against the Allies invasion from the air, the strategic attacks on German oil targets greatly affected the German war effort by the end of the summer. In March 1944, Germany was producing 180,000 metric tons of fuel, but by September, fuel production was down to only 10,000 tons.@=4} Additionally, in that same period, Allied bombing reduced German fuel supplies from 981,000 tons to 281,000 tons.452! Overall, the attacks on oil severely hampered the German war effort and validated the recommendations provided by the EOU  The EOU was behind the decision of the USAAF to attack oil. In helping guide the decision to pursue oil and in developing a system of comparative target analysis that indicated oil as the optimum target, the EOU was more useful to the strategic bombing campaign in the weeks following “Big Week” than at any other point during the war.53! The EOU took General Spaatz’s guidance and reviewed existing documentation before selecting the oil industry as the most lucrative target system.  The EOU staffed a memorandum through USAAF leadership to ensure the German oil industry aligned with strategic objectives. The fact t
Node: 7800, Score: 0.0383247668148356, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0095.txt, Content: d corner the German Air Force into a difficult situation. If they elected to preserve their fighters, the Allies would face little resistance as they destroyed a key strategic resource needed by the Germans to sustain their war effort. With that option unacceptable, the German Air Force would interdict Allied bombing missions and with the arrival of a long-range fighter escort, the Allies would inflict intolerable losses on the German fighter force. While many agreed with General Spaatz’s presentation, General Eisenhower did not select the ‘Oil Plan’ since it could neither guarantee success nor that these attacks would have an effect on German strength in the West prior to D-Day.{43!  The EOU was very forthright in their plan, acknowledging that due to their storage capacity, if Germany chose to allocate stocks to the Western Front, attacks on oil would not affect the opening stages of Operational OVERLORD through D+30.!244! This fact led General Eisenhower to select a course of action that focused solely on striking marshaling yards, thinking it would have a more immediate effect in support of the Allied invasion. As the date of invasion came closer, General Eisenhower focused on actions that would assist troops in establishing a beachhead.!“45! Therefore, attacks on oil would not occur until after the Allies established lodgment in Northern Europe. General Spaatz vehemently disagreed with this decision as he thought attacks on marshaling yards would  have diffuse, generalized effects but would not interdict military supplies because of redundancy and Germany’s ability to repair damaged lines overnight.{4%  Approaching General Eisenhower, General Spaatz felt so strongly that the Allies should pursue oil targets that he threatened to resign.{47 In response, General Eisenhower gave General Spaatz two good weather days to pursue oil targets. The attacks on oil proved very successful and messages intercepted by intelligence showed that the attacks caused panic in Germa
Node: 7748, Score: 0.037774566506994, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0043.txt, Content: this approach was more effective and greatly improved bombing accuracy.  Not only did this method improve accuracy, but it also minimized loss rates of aircraft and aircrew. Operations research analysts discovered that evasive maneuvers did not iProve the bombers chance of avoiding flak while it increased the chance of mid-air collision. Further, maintaining a tight formation improved the formations’ defensive capability since it provided overlapping fields of fire. Overall, these tight formations improved the aircrews’ chance of survival and decreased the number of times aircrews had to restrike targets. While the tight formations provided many positives, they also increased the risk of fratricide.  In their search to find ways to minimize losses, the Losses and Battle Damage Subsection discovered that the waist gunners were shooting up their own aircraft and identified the vulnerability of the hydraulic and electrical systems in the B-17 and B-24.2! Another major finding from the analysis was that the aircraft engines were extremely susceptible to catching fire from enemy anti- aircraft artillery. To improve the survivability of the aircraft, the analysts recommended modifications to the aircraft such as additional armor around the engines.&3! The USAAF concurred with the recommendations and incorporated the changes in the aircraft production facilities. These few examples provide a solid illustration of the tactical impact the Operations Research Section had on Eighth Air Force bombing operations.  In addition to affecting operations at the tactical level, operations research also impacted operational and strategic planning. General “Hap” Arnold, commanding general of the USAAF, established the Committee of Operations Analysts (COA) to examine which targets would erode German strength sufficiently to allow for an Allied invasion. While military planners knew how to destroy targets, they needed help from operations research analysts to know which targets to hit.
Node: 7746, Score: 0.0377644341750464, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0041.txt, Content: 2! He ordered his pilots to ignore the threat of flak and approach the targets straight and level in their group formations. Through their analysis, the Oper- ations Research Section proved this approach was more effective and greatly improved bombing accuracy.  Not only did this method improve accuracy, but it also minimized loss rates of aircraft and aircrew. Operations research analysts discovered that evasive maneuvers did not improve the bombers chance of avoiding flak while it increased the chance of mid-air collision. Further, maintaining a tight formation improved the formations’ defensive capability since it provided overlapping fields of fire. Overall, these tight formations improved the aircrews’ chance of survival and decreased the number of times aircrews had to restrike targets. While the tight formations provided many positives, they also increased the risk of fratricide.  In their search to find ways to minimize losses, the Losses and Battle Damage Subsection discovered that the waist gunners were shooting up their own aircraft and identified the vulnerability of the hydraulic and electrical systems in the B-17 and B-24.2! Another major finding from the analysis was that the aircraft engines were extremely susceptible to catching fire from enemy anti- aircraft artillery. To improve the survivability of the aircraft, the analysts recommended modifications to the aircraft such as additional armor around the engines.&3! The USAAF concurred with the recommendations and incorporated the changes in the aircraft production facilities. These few examples provide a solid illustration of the tactical impact the Operations Research Section had on Eighth Air Force bombing operations.  Page 13 of 52 25%  HAL CILE LACLIVGL LEVEL, UPELALIUIIS LEOCALLL ALALYOLS PEUV IMO LLIALLY SIG AIR ALIL CUPIELLUIULLUELS ELIAL LILLE MOR LILLE CLICULLV ELIE UL UVIMUIIS VUPELALIUIld. VV ARLE) del etitls fall PULL, LHS Pei ativils Reotai til Section analyzed different aspects of aer
Node: 7796, Score: 0.0367605656053516, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0091.txt, Content: and included the EOU appendices in their entirety.42%  Ata25 March 1944 meeting with General Eisenhower and his deputy, Air Chief Marshal Tedder, General Spaatz presented his plan. He argued that oil yielded the biggest strategic utility and saw it as a bottleneck in the German war machine.“* Further, intelligence reports suggested that after the Allies success during “Big Week,” the Germans intended to conserve their aircraft and pilots in prep- aration for an Allied invasion.“4 General Spaatz contended that going after oil would force the Germans to alter their plan.  According to General Spaatz, German aircraft would have to remain in central Germany to protect their fuel sources rather than move west to repel an Allied invasion.{42! Further, the attacks on oil would corner the German Air Force into a difficult situation. If they elected to preserve their fighters, the Allies would face little resistance as they destroyed a key strategic resource needed by the Germans to sustain their war effort. With that option unacceptable, the German Air Force would interdict Allied bombing missions and with the arrival of a long-range fighter escort, the Allies would inflict intolerable losses on the German fighter force. While many agreed with General Spaatz’s presentation, General Eisenhower did not select the ‘Oil Plan’ since it could neither guarantee success nor that these attacks would have an effect on German strength in the West prior to D-Day.{42!  The EOU was very forthright in their plan, acknowledging that due to their storage capacity, if Germany chose to allocate stocks to the Western Front, attacks on oil would not affect the opening stages of Operational OVERLORD through D+30.!*! This fact led General Eisenhower to select a course of action that focused solely on striking marshaling yards, thinking it would have a more immediate effect in support of the Allied invasion. As the date of invasion came closer, General Eisenhower focused on actions that would ass
Node: 7761, Score: 0.0367604221405267, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0056.txt, Content: le the EOU took into account the strategic and economic importance of particular industries to Germany, the primary factor when looking at German industries was the military indispensability of an industry’s products.“ This overarching theory provided the foundation from which the EOU developed a detailed methodology to analyze and assess the feasibility and suitability of different target systems.  In analyzing and assessing the merits of competing target systems, the EOU was careful to avoid long-term specialization.“! The EOU did not want its members to become wed to the targets they studied, which could produce biased recommendations. Therefore, the members migrated from one target system to another to develop a more well-rounded appreciation of the enemy’s industrial capabilities.  Nevertheless, when studying a target system, the EOU expected its members to become experts on that particular system. Specifically, the team examined eleven different factors, listed below, for each target system.  1. Importance of the product to war production. . Specialization of use pattern. . Importance of individual plant.  . Importance of indirect effect.  2 3 4 5. Tightness of supply situation. 6. Ease of repair.  7. Possibility of substitution.  8. Vulnerability of plant.  9. Size of target.  10. East of locating target.  11. Strength of defenses at target and en route.{!  With respect to the second factor, specialization of use pattern, the EOU worked under the assumption that it is better to target those industries where the output goes into essential uses vice a wide variety of uses.{! For the fourth factor of importance of indirect effect, the EOU favored those industries that, if targeted, would produce widespread effects rather than a single isolated effect“! The sixth and seventh factors addressed the amount of redundancy, or ‘cushion’ as the EOU coined it, in a particular German industry. If the Germans could repair the industry quickly or another plant could quickly
Node: 7816, Score: 0.0357395989405332, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0111.txt, Content: ndersqn, went to Italy and saw first-hand that a modest number of bombers could successfully destroy bridges.2”2! Upon returning from the trip, General Spaatz was strongly behind the bridge plan even thet it was a tactical vice strategic target. He took the view that attacks on marshaling yards would not provide the lasting effects needed to prevent German reinforcements from reaching Northern France. In early May, General Spaatz presented General Eisenhower an alternative to the marshaling yards plan and recommended experimental attacks to prove the effectiveness of bombers against bridges.273!  On 7 May 1944, the Ninth Air Force conducted experimental attacks on six Seine bridges with less than fifty P-47 fighter-bombers.74! The attacks proved unexpectedly successful with three bridges badly damaged and a fourth dropped into the river." Air planners placed pictures depicting the bridge dropped into the river on the desk of every major figure concerned with the bombing business and shortly thereafter, the bridge campaign began in earnest.275!  The bridges turned out to be extraordinarily efficient objectives and made a major contribution toward obstructing the German war effort. By D-Day, the interdiction of the Seine was complete, significantly impeding Germany’s efforts to reinforce its forces in Normandy from the Calais area and elsewhere.#74 Additionally, as the EOU intended, the effectiveness of the bridge campaign enabled the heavy bombers to pursue the oil targets.78  Once again, the EOU took higher guidance, conducted thorough research and analysis, and developed a plan outlining targets that best aligned with higher objectives. While in this instance the EOU focused on tactical rather than strategic targets, they understood the strategic importance of establishing a beachhead in Northern France, and thus sought to identify the target system that would best support that operation. To ensure their recommendations aligned with military and political objective
Node: 7745, Score: 0.0352329716149182, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0040.txt, Content: AAF developed operations research sections in their headquarters with the goal of improving the effectiveness of their strategic bombing campaign.  At the tactical level, operations research analysts provided many significant contributions that increased the effectiveness of bombing operations. Within Eighth Air Force, the Operations Research Section analyzed different aspects of aerial bombardment to include bombing accuracy, bombs and fuses, general mission analysis, radar and radio countermeasures, and loss and battle damage.8! Of particular interest to Major General Ira Eaker, the Eighth Air Force commander, was improving bombing accuracy and minimizing loss rates.  The Bombing Accuracy Subsection in Eighth Air Force assumed responsibility for improving bombing accuracy and immediately challenged existing procedures. Entering the war, standard operating procedures dictated that each bombardier chose his own drop point. Nevertheless, after thorough analysis, the operations research analysts concluded that to improve accuracy only the lead aircraft in the formation should perform a sighting operation. The rest of the bombardiers in the combat box released their bombs when the lead bombardier released. Eighth Air Force used this approach during the attack on Vegesack and achieved remarkable results.&% Bomber Command adopted this procedure immediately.  In addition to improving accuracy by changing procedures to have all bombers drop on the lead bombardier’s command, operations research analysts discovered that evasive action over a target negatively affected bombing accuracy. Colonel Curtis Lemay, Commander of the 305th Bombardment Group, understood that evasive maneuvers over the target were negatively affecting accuracy resulting in crews having to restrike a target 2! He ordered his pilots to ignore the threat of flak and approach the targets straight and level in their group formations. Through their analysis, the Oper- ations Research Section proved this appro
Node: 7818, Score: 0.033316794335914, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0113.txt, Content: int reports, the EOU became experts on the German  industrial complex and were prepared to assist USAAF planners with target selection and prioritization.  The EOU took an effects-based approach in identifying and prioritizing targets. Lacking a robust air capability at the beginning of 1943, the EOU understood the need to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of US airpower using limited available bomber assets to produce the greatest effect on the German war economy. In the EOU’s estimation, multiple strikes on targets within a single industry would have a greater effect on Germany’s war production than striking a key target in multiple industries.“ Taking this approach, the EOU pursued those industries where the minimum  number of targets would have the greatest effect on the German war effort 81  Page 41 of 52 69%  The bridges turned out to be extraordinarily efficient objectives and made a major contribution toward obstructing the German war effort. By D-Day, the interdiction of the Seine was complete, significantly impeding Germany’s efforts to reinforce its forces in Normandy from the Calais area and elsewhere.274 Additionally, as the EOU intended, the effectiveness of the bridge campaign enabled the heavy bombers to pursue the oil targets {178  Once again, the EOU took higher guidance, conducted thorough research and analysis, and developed a plan outlining targets that best aligned with higher objectives. While in this instance the EOU focused on tactical rather than strategic targets, they understood the strategic importance of establishing a beachhead in Northern France, and thus sought to identify the target system that would best support that operation. To ensure their recommendations aligned with military and political objectives, the EOU worked closely with Colonel Hughes and the rest of General Spaatz’s staff. Although not adopted initially, the EOU’s ability to understand the environment, conduct in-depth research and analysis, and develop detai
Node: 7762, Score: 0.0331918946083481, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0057.txt, Content: seventh factors addressed the amount of redundancy, or ‘cushion’ as the EOU coined it, in a particular German industry. If the Germans could repair the industry quickly or another plant could quickly make up for the loss, then it was not as attractive a target. Factors eight through ten addressed the ease of striking the target. Would the USAAF be able to find the target and if found and struck, would the attack significantly damage the plant? The last factor addressed the risk associated with pursuing a particular target. This essentially became a cost-benefit analysis of whether strik- ing a certain target was worth the risk to aircrews. A thorough understanding of each of these factors provided the source of comparison between target systems.  To compare the different industries the EOU members assigned a score (e.g. anumber from 0 to 10) to each of the factors.{5! However, the EOU recognized that target selection was more complicated than a simple mathematical equation. They understood the inherent flaw of arbitrarily assigning numbers to each of the factors and knew senior leaders would not select targets based on the scores. Further, it was not a simple additive process. The targets had to satisfy three simple tests to be considered:  1. You must be able to reach it and drop bombs on it. 2. You must be able to damage it when you do hit it. 3. You must be able to impair the war effort, directly or indirectly, when you damage it.  Therefore, even if a target received high scores for two of the tests, if it could not satisfy one of the tests, then the EOU removed that target from consideration.!# In general, while recognizing the limitation of quantifying each targets’ potential, the scores provided a source of discussion and a means to compare various targets and target systems.  The EOU members not only needed to be experts on each target within a target system, they also needed to understand the interrelationships within an industry. Only with a broad underst
Node: 7789, Score: 0.0322088738071757, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0084.txt, Content: ous influx of bombers, the strategic bombing campaign began gaining momentum toward the close of 1943 and the USAAF in Europe had reached its full strength and capabilities in February 1944.24! with these numbers and cooperation from the weather, the Allies executed an aggressive week-long bombing campaign against the German Air Force. “Big Week” was a great success, resulting in the tactical defeat of the German fighter force over its own bases, and necessitating a change in the Allies’ bombing strategy.!125!  General Spaatz, the commander of US Strategic Air Forces in Europe believed the Allies’ success during “Big Week” signaled that the destruction of other German industries was not only feasible, but also desirable 125! The EOU, hearing this guidance, began looking at alternative target systems to determine which industry the strategic bombing campaign should pursue next. Specifically, Colonel  Page 29 of 52 50%  Upon inspection, the EOU felt the priorities required modification in order to fit with political and military aims and USAAF capabilities.*“ Understanding the strategic goals, the EOU thought changes were necessary to achieve those goals. For one, the attacks on the submarine yards needed to be drastically reduced or eliminated. Not only were the Allies successfully dealing with German submarines at sea, but attacks on production and bases were not making a significant difference.{*12! Since the submarines had an extremely long production interval, effects from bombing submar- ine production would not be felt for months.!"12! Conversely, attacks on aircraft production would have a more immediate effect.  The EOU determined attacks on aircraft industry should focus on single-engine fighters. The single-engine fighters were Germany’s primary hope for maintaining air superiority over Germany and were responsible for many friendly losses. In order to prosecute targets in other industries, the United States had to marginalize the German single-engine fight
Node: 7814, Score: 0.0320880940288227, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0109.txt, Content: nts on a bridge, any bomb on a railway center causes damage and since marshaling yards were expansive, bombers were more likely to hit something of value.{711 since Operation OVERLORD stood as General Eisenhower’s number one priority, General Eisenhower chose the marshaling yard plan since he felt it would have a greater immediate impact on Germany’s ability to counter the Allies’ invasion. This decision disappointed General Spaatz and the EOU, yet they continued their research and analysis to determine which tactical targets would have the greatest effect on German movement in Northern France.  The EOU continued to collect and analyze data from Italy that supported the bombing of bridges. Towards the end of April 1944, General Spaatz and his deputy, General Anderson, went to Italy and saw first-hand that a modest number of bombers could successfully destroy bridges.7! Upon returning from the trip, General Spaatz was strongly behind the bridge plan even though it was a tactical vice strategic target. He took the view that attacks on marshaling yards would not provide the lasting effects needed to prevent German reinforcements from reaching Northern France. In early May, General Spaatz presented General Eisenhower an alternative to the marshaling yards plan and recommended experimental attacks to prove the effectiveness of bombers against bridges.173!  On 7 May 1944, the Ninth Air Force conducted experimental attacks on six Seine bridges with less than fifty P-47 fighter-bombers.” The attacks proved unexpectedly successful with three bridges badlv damaged and a fourth dropped into the river.7* Air planners placed pictures depicting the bridge dropped into the river on the desk of everv maior figure concerned with the bombing business  Page 36 of 52 62%  SOULALIIIE, LLID INULTLIAIIUY UALLICIIEIM UY LANs UUE LIME 111159 UL ULIMBES QUUVE LLID CELIO VIS CULL PIC A  SRC EEE UME AIIM LIB AILELSUUITLUELS WUE LARS VUE Le ULI ESS LLRCills Mp Lie oli altel bombers to strike oi
Node: 7736, Score: 0.031614652493599, Chunk File: ballew_intel/chunks/ballew_intel_0031.txt, Content: bing?  After conducting tests in 1931, results indicated that, in fact, high altitude bombing proved more effective than low altitude bombing. At higher altitudes, aircraft were less susceptible to enemy anti-aircraft weapons. Furthermore, in a surprise, the test results indicated that low-level bombing was not very effective. At low levels, the bombs tended to ricochet off the ground and miss their targets. Additionally, the low angle of impact made the fuzes more liable to fail or the bombs tended to detonate on their side, which reduced the effectiveness of the explosion and resulting fragmen- tation.2®! Conversely, the tests illustrated that the best destruction occurred from the “mining effect” achieved when a bomb buried itself in the earth.2% Dropping from higher altitudes provided the kinetic energy needed to penetrate the earth, increasing the effectiveness of the bombs. Consequently, high altitude, precision bombing was adopted into Army Air Corps doctrine during the interwar years.  Army Air Corps leaders codified this doctrine under the pretense that the bomber would always get through. The thought was that by flying at high altitudes the bombers would avoid most enemy anti-aircraft weapon systems while the built-in defenses of the bomber formations would prevent the bombers from falling prey to enemy fighter aircraft.4% Army Air Corps leaders maintained this position even when faced with evidence to the contrary.  Colonel Carl Spaatz, later to become the commander of Eighth Air Force and then commander of USAAF in the European Theater of Operations, travelled to England in 1940 to observe Royal Air  Page 5 of 52 12%  more effective.  In the mid to late 1920s, when the question on high versus low altitude bombing arose, common sense led many to believe that low altitude bombing was superior. Although the low altitude bombers faced greater risk from enemy anti-aircraft artillery, the perceived improvement in accuracy more than made up for this risk.27! Ho