Node: 20599, Score: -0.0340299470151558, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0359.txt, Content: deflected from the commitment to mission above all else—if necessary, even above personal safety, career, and associations. To be sure, not all military personnel will choose to be professionals at arms, but that choice has nothing to do with their skills, specializations, or assignments; it is about their acceptance of a prior and overriding  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 306 --- A Theory to Fly By 283 commitment to mission. There may be places in modern military institutions for people who choose not to be professionals at arms— perhaps because of some technical specialty—but those places are not in the military institution's leadership; their responsibility is too high for anything less than a total commitment to mission. If the leaders are not committed to mission, they can hardly complain if their followers are not. Thus, the trustees of the state of the profession of arms in the military are properly its leaders; they fulfill that trusteeship by their evident commitment to the institution's mission over everything else, including their careers, avocations, friends, and even their institu­ tion itself. The distinctions between the imperatives of business and the profes­ sion of arms in defining the military ethos are nicely summarized by Frank Wood: Attempting any specification of a military ethos.. .would be inappropriate here; one can only offer some general observations regarding a desirable emphasis. National contingencies and traditions vary considerably but, whatever the specifics, the emphasis would be on a morality of military service that is • nation-centered, not organization-centered; • mission-centered, not career-centered; • group-centered, not individual-centered; • service-centered, not work-centered. Traditionally, these values have been emphasized in military creeds and culture. Military leaders have always sought to bring them to life in the armed forces, and the best leaders are still seeking them today.4 Those values are centered on
Node: 20272, Score: -0.0246166263747916, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0032.txt, Content: of government. While there were still others with views in between these extremes, the distance between these two was so great as to beg some understanding of their coexistence by people who had access to the same information. After the first few interviews revealed these extremes, we began collect­ ing the evidence offered in support of these views. Surely, if a person of one extreme view was confronted with all the evidence and arguments collected from those at the other extreme, we should be able to see some movement or adjustment; perhaps, (a naive thought) we could even draw these disparate views closer together. After collecting evidence and arguments from both extreme views, we were ready to test our theory. When we found, during the course of an interview, a person holding views close to one of the extremes, we would explain that our interviews had, of course, exposed us to people who held quite different views of the problem. Would they be willing to comment on some of the evidence and arguments offered by those who differed? Without exception, they were most willing, even eager to take on the opposition. Since many of these interviews were conducted in homes or in gracious office settings, I have the visual recollection of the evidence or arguments being laid out on or over coffee tables. We would lay out on the table from  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 42 --- Is There a Problem? 19 our collection what we thought was the best case for the opposing view in the form of a dozen pieces of evidence or argumentation. These pieces might include clinical evidence, research experiments, tests, compara­ tive data, analyses, and closely reasoned theories. Then, the person being interviewed would rise to the challenge and paw through to the collection on the table. Piece by piece, each item would be picked up, examined, and demolished or dismissed. Not one piece would be left. When the table had been figuratively cleared, we would ask the person being intervi
Node: 20476, Score: -0.0219378057551375, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0236.txt, Content: s the essence. They differed sharply from other servicemen in their higher sense of satisfaction with the particular jobs and tasks they performed. To a considerable degree, their mentality was occupational rather than military. They saw themselves more as technicians and professionals than as warriors, and the techniques learned in war promised social and economic mastery in peacetime.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 204 --- Slow Fall from Grace 181 It also provided a sense of mastery over self and nature, especially for pilots. Flying allowed fulfillment of a "child's dreams of omnipotence in the face of his toddling weakness." These dreams "are usually abandoned with fairy tales and toys," commented air force psychiatrists; but "this supertoy, this powerful, snorting, impatient but submissive machine, enables the man to escape the usual limitations of time and space." Flying created "a feeling of aggressive potency bordering on the unchallenged strength of a superman." When the author of God is My Co-Pilot flew over Mount Everest, "he felt that he had humbled this highest mountain and patronizingly saluted his fallen opponent." The airplane offered "the perfect prescription for those that are weak, hesitant or frustrated on earth. Give them wings, 2000 horses compressed into a radial engine, and what can stop them?"2 The cultural separation of the Air Force from the other American military services widened: Sanctioned by the air force, the contractual perception of the airman's duty strengthened the disjunction between means and ends characteristic of the air war. Duty involved the performance of technical tasks. The ethic was not a military one bound to the achievement of victory as it was for most other servicemen, but a professional one, related of course to war but both more finite than the war and transcending it because so many of the rewards were to carry over into the peace. Other men in combat performed tasks—bayoneting an enemy soldier, operating
Node: 20408, Score: -0.0209065579823084, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0168.txt, Content: wer on a doctrinal level. Almost everyone close to Arnold saw him as "in no sense a thoughtful, precise thinker but a doer." Had he been a visionary, he might never have become the air force's commanding general, and those who were mostly had fallen from the ranks. Arnold had the doctrinal flexibility to adjust to the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 153 --- 130 The Icarus Syndrome shifting strategies of the war. He owed his preeminence not to strategic imagination but to the energy with which he prepared his organization for war and lashed it into operation. In this regard, Arnold and LeMay resembled the outstanding American military figures of the war, General George C. Marshall and General Dwight Eisenhower, whose greatest talents lay in organization and diplomacy. The airmen differed from the army generals in one important way, however. Marshall and Eisenhower knew history, and by virtue of long association with military and political leaders, they understood politics. They preferred, as the deepest traditions of American civil-military relations taught them, to ground their decisions in arguments from military utility; but they comprehended Clausewitz's precepts about war as an extension of politics, and they willingly responded when civil authority altered strategy to fit political needs. Arnold and LeMay rarely thought to invoke Clausewitz—or Grant and Sherman. They had defined their service and their careers against military tradition, both doctrinal and ritualistic, and were contemptuous of standard operating procedure. LeMay disdained the conventions of military dress, acknowledgment of superiors, and close-order drill and delighted in the air force's "reputation for sloppy uniforms, slatternly salutes, and general shoddiness," practices which indeed had official sanction in air force policy. Disinterest in military tradition and in strategic doctrine went hand in hand. When LeMay and Arnold wrote their memoirs, neither said much about strategy; thei
Node: 20277, Score: -0.0199326130356228, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0037.txt, Content: y institutions, is a reflection of the American society and its values. Those are changing, not always and everywhere for the best, and some of the problems of the American society are manifested in the Air Force today in such complaints as careerism, selfishness, impatience, self-gratification over altruism,  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 45 --- 22 The Icarus Syndrome etc. They will get better or change, if and when the American society gets better or changes. I find elements of truth in these and other arguments or viewpoints. They have plausibility and they point in the direction of the obvious; they are not counterintuitive. The same can be said for the polarized arguments about air pollution in the Los Angeles air basin: For some, air pollution is a nuisance; for others it is a hazard. The pertinent question is not which argument is right—several may have truth—but what are the implica­ tions if they were right? Most of the alternative hypotheses listed above imply leaving the institution alone because there is nothing wrong with it, it can only be made worse by meddling, it is already better, it will get better on its own, or it will get better along with the American society or economy. In other words, their implications for intervention are modest, passive, or proscriptive. The premises of The Icarus Syndrome, by contrast, are that the problems of the institution are serious, unique only to the Air Force among the American military institutions, and need to be understood if they are to be wisely corrected. If accepted, they urge informed interven­ tion. Thus, what separates the Icarus premises from the alternative views is not the certainty about which premises are right or wrong, but which premises will require affirmative, informed intervention. Intervention is not necessarily to be preferred; but, if required, it needs to be planned and executed competently like surgery. This analysis is offered in that spirit—not so much to prove which diagnosis
Node: 20249, Score: -0.0154655616985833, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0009.txt, Content: r discussion and encourag­ ing me to press on, stressing how important the problem was and how much might be riding on our effort to address it. When I got off the phone and took my noontime walk, the pieces began to "click" into place, one after another. Within an hour, a hypothesis had begun to take form. Within a few days, I wrote a letter to General Ford outlining my new perception of the problem: As you indicated, air power is one piece, the profession of arms is the other. One is the heart of the Air Force, the other is its soul. The senior leadership of the Air Force is the trustee of the heart; but everyone in the Air Force is a trustee of its soul. The heart is about organizational purpose or mission—air power—and the soul is about the profession of arms—the absolute and total commitment to mission (what sets the profession of arms apart from other professions is the commitment to mission, even unto death). The problem, as I see it, is that the two—heart and soul—have failed each other: The senior leadership has failed to keep the heart—the mission of air power— alive and vibrant by keeping it at the forefront of all its actions. And without that mission, the members of the Air Force have had nothing to commit themselves to except their own careers or specialities. The leadership can't dedicate the organization to its mission just by lip service; its decisions (including promotions and rewards) must reflect that dedication, or its followers soon detect the duplicity. Given that dedication of the organization to its mission, everyone joining the organization can appreciate and elect (or not) to commit to the mission.... To be sure, not everyone who joins an organization will commit to its mission; but those persons are not professionals at arms and they are not the people that the organization should normally seek and reward. If the organization sends out mixed signals about its mission or its dedication to its mission, it can hardly complain if professional
Node: 20555, Score: -0.0127226318732242, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0315.txt, Content: nal governments and organized political bodies on both sides of the Iron Curtain acted to moderate rather than amplify the forces engendered by the information revolution. With few exceptions, national political power appears to be in retreat from events that govern­ ments either do not control or would control only at their own peril. Political leaderships appear not to have anticipated these events, but in their face, can only urge caution and moderation.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 269 --- 246 The Icarus Syndrome Are these temporary circumstances which the national political elites will soon accommodate and adapt to their traditional ends? The prevail­ ing model for the past 250 years would predict so. But if that model no longer describes the emerging world, that comfortable prediction might not hold in any enduring or widespread way. The most important form of power seems to be diffusing beyond the control of the political elites; and technology, as it has before, is showing signs of changing from their mistress to their rival. The horse has slipped the chariot's harness and has been saddled by the nomadic raider. The implications for the future nature of conflict and national security are profound. Notes 1. David Jablonsky, "Strategic Vision and Presidential Authority in the Post-Cold War Era," Parameters (Winter 1991-92): 2. 2. Richard J. Barnet, "Defining the Moment," The New Yorker, July 16, 1990, 46-60. 3. Much of the following draws upon Carl H. Builder and Steven C. Bankes, The Etiology of European Change, P-7693 (Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND, December 1990), A more complete development of these ideas can be found in Carl H. Builder, "Is It a Transition or a Revolution," Futures, vol. 25, no. 2 (March 1993): 155-168. 4. J. Bronowski, The Ascent of Man (Boston: Brown and Company, 1973), 78, 79. 5. Walter B. Wriston, "Technology and Sovereignty," Foreign Affairs, vol. 67, no. 2 (Winter 1988-89): 63-75. Wriston expands on these arguments in his The
Node: 20313, Score: -0.0125147167127975, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0073.txt, Content: rt Riley, Kansas, and served his penance."20 MitchelPs New Breed Mitchell had acted out his image of a new breed of warriors. From the beginning, the military aviators were mavericks: In August 1919 the War Department invited from all its general officers comments on the Congressional proposal to create an independent department of Aeronautics. The responses that came in echoed and re-echoed the fundamental propositions set forth by.. .Pershing.. .and the other top military brass. There were additional arguments against a separate air service; though rated as secondary points, they loomed large in the minds of the ground generals. Chief among them was the notion of discipline. One respondent wrote: No people in this war needed discipline more than the aviators and none had less. All the attention was given to handling the machines  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 78 --- The Prophets 55 and but little thought was had of discipline. The result was more or less of a mob with great loss of efficiency, as strict discipline is the foundation stone of military success.21 The aviators knew that only those who had the courage to fly could rightfully judge them. In a spirited description of the new class of military aviators, Billy Mitchell tried to establish in the minds of his readers a new community of "air-going people" that only the aviators and younger generation could fully appreciate: A new set of rules for the conduct of war will have to be devised and a whole new set of ideas of strategy learned by those charged with the conduct of war. No longer is the making of war gauged merely by land and naval forces. Both of these old, well-understood factors in conducting war are affected by air power which operates over both of them. Already we have an entirely new class of people that we may call "the air-going people" as distinguished from the "land-going people" and the "sea-going people." The air-going people have a spirit, language and customs of their own. These
Node: 20253, Score: -0.01157728687558, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0013.txt, Content: who did most of the literature searching and combing for pertinent quotes. They are Jerry Stiles, Duane Deal, Lucille Horgan, and Mike Anderson. Duane and Mike are serving Air Force officers, then assigned to RAND as research associates; Jerry is a fellow at the RAND Graduate School, and Lucille is a historian. They used the thesis of this analysis as a comb on the literature, looking for information that might illuminate, support, or refute the concept. Along the way, they contrib­ uted their own perceptions and analyses to what is found here. XX  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 22 --- Acknowledgments xxi Joan Schlimgen supported the research from the RAND library, undertaking a long and frustrating search for a particular aircraft accident report that tantalized my memory. My good friend in Britain, David A. Russell, provided valuable help on the legal aspects of aircraft accidents and on European perspectives of the World War II bombing campaigns. Jim Quinlivan freely lent me his considerable knowledge and personal library on Air Force history. I am indebted to David Ochmanek for his considerate and constructive comments and suggestions on the very first, very rough draft of this analysis. Subsequent drafts have benefited from review comments offered by Col. John E. Frisby, Lieut. Gen. Bradley Hosmer, Felix Kozaczka, Robert J. Lempert, and retired Maj. Gen. Perry McCoy Smith. Cindy Kumagawa, manager of the RAND book program, shepherded the manuscript through the many rituals and agonies of the publication process with confidence and aplomb, despite my chafing and occasional displays of impatience; she knew what she was doing, even when I didn't.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 23 --- In Praise of Theory The Air Force is the house that aviators built On a proud theory of air power, even though, for most, The affection was really, if truth be known, for the airplane. They wielded the theory as a sword to gain their independence And to claim primacy in
Node: 20391, Score: -0.0104353579894974, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0151.txt, Content: to the AAF aspirations for institutional independence, then within sight. LeMay and his operations analysts, although mostly concerned with making the new bombers more effec­ tive, may have prevented a failure involving costs and expectations that could have undone the Air Force's postwar bid for institutional independence. The Slippery Slope LeMay's bombing of Japan in 1945 was no longer distinguishable in either its means or ends from that of "Bomber" (or "Butcher") Harris' bombing of German cities. Freeman Dyson describes his personal journey on the slippery slope to city bombing and faults the flawed, but persistent, doctrine of strategic bombing: The last spring of the war was the most desolate. Even after Dresden, through March and April of 1945, the bombing of cities continued.... I began to look backward and to ask myself how it had happened that I let myself become involved in this crazy game of murder. Since the beginning of the war, I had been retreating step by step from one moral position to another, until at the end I had no moral position at all. At the beginning of the war, I believed fiercely in the brotherhood of man.. .and was morally opposed to all violence. After a year of war, I retreated, and said, Unfortunately, nonviolent resistance against Hitler is impracticable, but I am still morally opposed to bombing. A couple of years later, I said, Unfortunately, it seems that bombing is necessary in order to win the war, and so I am willing to go to work for Bomber Command, but I am still morally opposed to bombing cities indiscriminately. After I arrived at Bomber Command, I said, Unfortunately, it turns out that we are, after all, bombing cities indiscriminately, but this is morally justified, as it is helping to win the war. A year later, I said, Unfortunately, it seems that our bombing is not really helping to win the war, but at least I am morally justified in working to save the lives of the bomber crews. In the last spring of the war, I could
Node: 20248, Score: -0.0102739710435617, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0008.txt, Content: "Then let's do it." Several weeks later, General Ford noticed that the buildings were still unpainted. He called his facilities manager to say, "I thought we had agreed to paint those buildings. What happened?" The facilities manager concurred with the wing commander's recollection, but then went on to explain: When the facilities manager had called the facilities staff at the higher command headquarters, they didn't like the idea of painting the naked brick buildings and advised against it. The wing's facility manager took the higher command's staff advice as overriding since he had to deal with them as fellow professionals on facilities issues. This was an example, in General Ford's view, of how the Air Force had become "stovepiped." Specialists tended to look up the pipe of their own profession rather than the chain of operational command. As specialists, they would be evaluated by fellow specialists; and their loyalties followed their profession rather than the operational mission.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 18 --- Preface xvii General Ford's vivid examples didn't solve my orientation problem for the requested essay; but they gave me firm footholds on the kinds of problems he wanted addressed in the essay he had requested. And he provided me—although I didn't see it at the time—with two important keys when he used his whiteboard to suggest the two parts of the problem he saw, "air power" and "profession of arms," were somehow related. I flew home and spent the weekend mulling over what I had heard, but the pieces didn't come together. The problem I was being asked to address was somehow different and larger than the one I had contemplat­ ed in my terms of reference and outline for an essay. General Ford called me early the following week, upbeat about our discussion and encourag­ ing me to press on, stressing how important the problem was and how much might be riding on our effort to address it. When I got off the phone and took my noontime walk, the
Node: 20364, Score: -0.0094856669133414, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0124.txt, Content: ve of this analysis. Before I undertook this analysis, Andrews was my Air Force hero, not Arnold or Mitchell. I saw Arnold as a skilled politician and bureaucrat, 97  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 121 --- 98 The Icarus Syndrome Mitchell as a flaming evangelist; but I associated Andrews with that now- famous photograph of B-17s making their formation pass over the Italian liner REX, climaxing their daring search far out to sea in bad weather. There was a man who knew how to prove his point! No politician or evangelist there! But as my colleagues combed through the historical literature for snippets that might shed light on the thesis of this manuscript, Arnold came up again and again. Yes, he was a politician and bureaucrat, but so much more. He was an extraordinary organizer of air power in both world wars. He was a visionary of extraordinary breadth and depth. He cared deeply about people; he was an egalitarian, not an elitist about pilots. And, most importantly for the Air Force as an institution, he was utterly devoted—above all things, even his own life—to the building of an institution committed to ideals, to a vision, and to the theory of air power. Because of Arnold's stature on these important aspects, I think it appropriate to pause in this historical development of the Air Force and air power theory to examine Arnold and his thinking as a separate historical subject. As you read about Arnold's deeds and words, I would ask you to think about what he might say and do under the present circumstances. He might have been a leader for this season as well as his own. Father of the Air Force Edgar Puryear eloquently summarizes the Arnold that I have come to respect as the threads of this analysis were being pulled through the historical evolutions of air power theory and the institutional Air Force: If the Air Force were a church, Arnold would be its founder, its Saint Paul. If it were a country, Arnold would be its father, its George Washington or Simon B
Node: 20280, Score: -0.0094752880154915, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0040.txt, Content: Force officers may not be any more academically tolerant or broad as those in other services, but I have found them to be intensely intellectual about their business. I define an intellectual as one who likes to play with ideas, who is comfortable with ideas, even radical ideas. Indeed, I have previously observed that the Air Force, consistent with its reverence for technology, has always been the most comfortable of the three services with analysis. The Air Force has relied on analysts from its inception to support operational, developmental, and acquisition decision making at high levels. The airplane, the focal instrument of the theory of air power and independent air forces, was itself conceived and born by means of.. .analyses .... What separates the Air Force from its sister services is how it regards analysis. Air Force officers, as members of an institution whose faith rests on theory and technology, are accustomed to dealing with analysis on every aspect of flight and the application of air power; supporting decisions with analysis is quite natural. Most senior Air Force officers are consumers of, even participants in, the analyses that support internal decision making. Thus, analysis.. .is often regarded as the most effective medium for debate within the Air Force itself.. ..6 I am optimistic because I think this analytical culture—and the intellectual culture it fosters—gives the Air Force a medium to efficiently exchange ideas about the Air Force's institutional problems and their resolution. Whatever the nature and severity of the Air Force's institu­ tional problems may be, it is better equipped with the intellectual tools it needs to expose and resolve them than any of its sister services. Notes 1. James Lovelock, "Planetary medicine: Stewards or partners on Earth?" Times Literary Supplement, 13 September 1991, 7. 2. Anne Eisenberg, "Metaphor in the Language of Science," Scientific American, vol. 266, no. 5, May 1992, 144. 3. This research is describ
Node: 20348, Score: -0.0064199165228892, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0108.txt, Content: s repudiation of moral concerns but its role in quieting consciences anxious about the future of air war. Proponents of precision bombing believed that it would reap the long­ standing promise of air power without inflicting unreasonable harm to humanity. Of course, the promise of air power had always inhered in its capacity to bring terror. Precision bombing did not entirely divorce the two, but it pushed terror so far into the background, placed so much distance between the act and the result, that it had much the same effect. Like the strategy of economic blockade practiced by both English and Germans in World War I, it proposed to attack the enemy population indirectly, by disrupting and starving it rather than by blasting and burning. But if no quick victory came and the enemy's will remained the objective, then airmen might have to strike at it through systematic rather than selective destruction, that is, by direct attacks on the civilian population.8  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 109 --- 86 The Icarus Syndrome Where Were the Dissenting Views? Perry McCoy Smith speculates on why the American airmen were not affected by contrary evidence and arguments about the primacy of the offense and self-defended bombers: Intraservice (as opposed to interservice) rivalry and debate, which were present within the army as a whole in the twenties and thirties and which served the useful purpose of questioning the doctrine of various service arms, were largely absent with the AAF. In the 1930s intraservice rivalry did bring into serious question the efficacy of coast artillery and horse-mounted cavalry and, in turn, inspired the Coast Artillery and the Cavalry to turn to weapons systems which they could more easily justify—the anti-aircraft artillery gun and the tank. In the twenties and thirties, the infantry questioned the efficacy of the horse, the air corps questioned the value of the coast artillery gun, and neither cavalry nor coast artillery modified their wea
Node: 20252, Score: -0.0063062126748538, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0012.txt, Content: ation for Peggy Noonan's book is, What I Saw at the Revolution: A Political Life in the Reagan Era, (New York: Ivy Books, 1991), 37,38. On those pages, Peggy talks about what happened when new management at CBS News shifted the basis for its actions from journalistic professionalism to financial profitability.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 21 --- Acknowledgments It was General Phillip J. Ford, then commandant of the Air Command and Staff College at the Air University, who instigated this enterprise. He saw the need, helped me wrestle the problem to the ground, and then enlisted his colleagues and his boss in its support. He was the right person, at the right place, and at the right time, to make it happen. General Charles "Chuck" Boyd, commander of the Air University, assumed the role of project shepherd. He cleared my way both at RAND and at the Air University, ensuring that the enterprise was supported. He defined the terms of reference or specifications for the work, then counseled and encouraged me along the way. I thought of him as the "gentle intellect" that had been behind the scenes, pursuing something even bigger, even before I took up one of his several challenges. At RAND, both James Thomson, president, and George Donohue, vice president for Project Air Force, gave immediate and enthusiastic support for the project. George said, "This is something we can and should do, even without Air Force sponsorship." I am indebted to Ted Warner, the project leader, for his early detection of the match between the challenge and my interests, and to David Ochmanek, the program director, for his strong endorsement when the nature of the project shifted and expanded to its final form. In carrying out the research and writing, I am deeply indebted to four colleagues who did most of the literature searching and combing for pertinent quotes. They are Jerry Stiles, Duane Deal, Lucille Horgan, and Mike Anderson. Duane and Mike are serving Air Force officers, then ass
Node: 20463, Score: -0.0060760374471976, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0223.txt, Content: isclosed his plans. As fleshed out by his staff, Arnold's rationale for a permanent alliance of officers and scientists was both political and strategic. The strategic danger to the United States lay largely in the unfolding technological revolution: the United States would face enemies and the possibility of "global war" waged by offensive weapons of great sophistication. But the American response would be shaped by considerations of domestic politics. The United States had to reverse "the mistakes of unpreparedness  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 195 --- 172 The Icarus Syndrome prior to World War II," particularly the failure to harness civilian science to military needs. And technological development would respond to "a fundamental principle of democracy that personnel casualties are distasteful. We will continue to fight mechanical rather than manpower wars." Arnold had a certain brutal foresight into the shape of wars to come, a vision of intercontinental aerial struggle extrapolated from the lessons of Pearl Harbor and wartime technology. But the politics and strategy of future conflicts interested him less than their technological basis. "I see a manless Air Force," he, told von Karman: "I see no excuse for men in fighter planes to shoot down bombers. When you lose a bomber, it is a loss of seven thousand to forty thousand man-hours, but this crazy thing [V-2] they shoot over there takes only a thousand man- hours. ..." While other airmen might wax sentimentally about the manned bomber, Arnold asked von Karman to look into "manless remote controlled radar or television assisted precision military rockets" and imagined the day when such devices would "fly over enemy territory and look through the leaves of trees and see whether they're moving their equipment."17 Arnold was explicit about the need for dynamism considering internal and external forces on the military institutions: We must stop "shoeing dead horses." We have been doing that far too long. W
Node: 20314, Score: -0.0057807624163176, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0074.txt, Content: f people that we may call "the air-going people" as distinguished from the "land-going people" and the "sea-going people." The air-going people have a spirit, language and customs of their own. These are just as different from those on the ground as those of seamen are from those of land men. In fact, they are much more so because our sea-going and land-going communities have been with us from the inception of time and everybody knows something about them, whereas the air- going people form such a new class that only those engaged in the actual development and the younger generation appreciate what it means.22 The military aviators could set themselves apart from the "mob" on the ground that had to be prodded into action at the point of a gun. The air man's psychology of war depends on the action of the individual, he has no man at his elbow to support him; no officers in front to lead him, and no file closers behind him to shoot him if he runs away as in the case in a ground army. The whole system is entirely different from that of troops on the ground where mob psychology has to be used in directing the men in combat.23 The intrepid band of military aviators was an exclusive club: Few people outside of the air fraternity itself know or understand the dangers that these men face; the lives that they lead and how they actually act when in the air.... No one can explain these things except the airmen themselves.24 And to make the military aviator's courage explicit for those of faint heart: In the actual fighting of the aircraft, moral qualities are required that were never before demanded of men. In the first place, they are alone. No man stands at their shoulder to support them. They know that if a flaming bullet comes through their gasoline tank it immediately becomes a burning torch and they are gone. They know that if a wing is torn off there is the same result.. .that if they fall two hundred or twenty thousand feet, existence is at an end.25  File: --- builder
Node: 20553, Score: -0.0056491087616039, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0313.txt, Content: Absent the information revolution and its effects on the Western economies, it is not at all clear that the disparities between the Western and communist economies would have been so great. In only the last 20 years, the American economy has dramatically shifted to the information technologies—from an investment of about ten-percent of the total producer durables to more than 50 percent.7 The role of the information revolution in the comparative growth of the Western and communist economies is striking and undeniable. Absent the information revolution, the closing of the communist societies to protect the control of their elites might not have mattered. Indeed, the closing did not matter until the information revolution took hold as a significant world development in the 1960s with the develop­ ment of solid-state electronics, space satellites, and the jet transport. Thereafter, closed societies paid a growing price for their isolation; they denied the economic growth inherent in information technologies and their progeny—world commerce and community. The fate of the com­ munist societies provides a striking example of the importance of discerning the dominant forces shaping the future. The information revolution has breached the walls of the closed societies—both physically and politically. They were breached not by military forces, diplomacy, alliances, or economic power, but by infor-  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 268 --- A Changing World 245 mation spewing out of television sets, telephones, audio and video tapes, computers, and facsimile machines into the minds of individuals. It wasn't that the authorities couldn't prevent that flood of information— they could and did. In a few—like Cuba, China, and North Korea—they continue to a degree. But to do so is to deny themselves the benefits of the prospering societies they see all around them. Now the clock is ticking for them; probably none will continue as closed societies when their present leaderships
Node: 20356, Score: -0.0052733302390957, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0116.txt, Content: that General Hap Arnold was to be the new Air Corps Chief....21 Andrews had stood firm on the position that he had fought so hard for— getting the big strategic bombers the Army Air Corps needed to the fulfill the only mission that offered the Army airmen autonomy—and he had paid the price of the most coveted of airmen's commands. In view of his position, Andrews knew that when his tour of duty as GHQ Air Force Commander was up on March 1,1939, his tenure would not be extended. He hoped that he would be assigned to head the Training Command, and if not that, the Air Corps Tactical School. Instead, with no prior warning, he was given the Billy Mitchell treatment: reduction in rank to his permanent grade of colonel  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 114 --- The Apostles 91 and exile to Fort Sam Houston as District Air Officer. There can be no doubt that Secretary of War Woodring approved the action whether he originated it or not. The last straw for Woodring had been a public declaration by Andrews at the National Aeronautic Association convention on January 16, 1939, that the U.S. was a sixth-rate air power. This made headlines across the country, just at the time Woodring was assuring the public of the nation's aerial strength.22 However George Marshall would come to Andrews rescue, albeit at the risk or cost to his relationships with his superiors: On July 1, 1939, George Marshall became Acting Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army. His first move was a formidable one. He appointed as his new Assistant Chief of Staff for Training and Operations (G-3), Frank M. Andrews, promoting him to a brigadier general of the line. Later Marshall was to say that when he submitted his choice to Woodring, Assistant Secretary of War Louis Johnson, and outgoing Chief of Staff Malin Craig, he knew he had a fight on his hands. He added it was probably the only time in the trio's association they had ever been in full agreement on anything. Nevertheless, Marshall prevailed and the appoi
Node: 20598, Score: -0.0050187388228153, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0358.txt, Content: 5 --- 282 The Icarus Syndrome If the Air Force mission is effectively redefined so as to be rationalized with history and future trends, less chauvinistic in its claims and demands, and embracing rather than discriminating among its contribu­ tors and practitioners, then the Air Force leadership has a fair chance at creating a vibrant, committed military institution. General McPeak put it this way: We need a mission that unifies all our people, that defines what makes us special, that can inspire, can make sacrifice seem worthwhile.3 To seize that opportunity, however, the Air Force leadership will have to adopt a demanding regimen: • It must consistently attend to the alignment of the mission with a changing world of technology and military challenges. • It must be loyal to the mission above things or people. • It must associate or identify its actions and decisions with the mission. • It must promote and reward people according to the mission. If that regimen can be adopted, then the profession of arms should find a flourishing climate. Defining a profession, let alone the profession of arms, can be more frustrating than revealing. It may be sufficient to separate the profession of arms from other professions on but one aspect: on the unreserved commitment to a lawfully assigned mission, even at the risk of deliber­ ately giving and taking human life. Even those in the military whose lives are not directly at risk in hazardous or combat operations, but who support those who are at risk, should be professionals at arms, for their actions, too, ultimately may lead to the deliberate giving and taking of human lives. Given that awesome responsibility, the true professional at arms, regardless of position or specialization, regardless of proximity to the hazards, cannot be deflected from the commitment to mission above all else—if necessary, even above personal safety, career, and associations. To be sure, not all military personnel will choose to be professionals at a