Node: 20381, Score: 0.0652395089698638, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0141.txt, Content: tions could defend themselves against fighters was open to question. General Arnold blamed acceptance of bomber invulnerability on teachings of the Air Corps Tactical School, and called on Maj. Gen. Delos Emmons, Commander of the Air Combat Command (successor to the GHQ Air Force) to submit a study of the bomber- versus-fighter problem.15 General Emmons called upon Harold L. George to testify since he had been one of the architects of strategic bombardment concepts at the Air Corps Tactical School (1931-1937) and was serving, at that time, with the only bombardment group equipped with the new B-17 bombers. Harold George.. .told General Emmons: "There is no question in my mind but that American bombardment units could not today defend themselves against  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 135 --- 112 The Icarus Syndrome American pursuit units." That forthright statement must have tried him sorely; it ran counter to all he wanted to believe. But it was a courageous and honest assessment that produced favorable results. The Air Combat Command found that "aerial operations of the present European conflict confirm the results of World War I: that is that the present bombardment airplane cannot defend itself adequately against pursuit attack."16 Nevertheless, Until the spring of 1943 the assumption that B-17 and B-24 aircraft in formation could defend themselves against fighters made the doctrine of the Tactical School seem valid. Then the "battleplane" did not work out as a defensive weapon and the need for very long range escort fighters was admitted, the only substantial modification of doctrine was the incorporation of the escort fighter within the strategic mission. During the 1943-45 planning period no appreciation of the possible defensive use of guided missiles was recognized, and all comment on guided missiles reflected a belief that in the future they would contribute to the supremacy of the offensive in airpower.17 The planning failure was not an inability t
Node: 20494, Score: 0.0643583354234786, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0254.txt, Content: mber one engine, the number two generator popped its circuit breaker. Flight 226 had lost all generator power, even though two of its engines continued to provide adequate thrust for flight and hydraulic power for control. Backup battery power was available within the aircraft to power and illuminate the flight instruments and essential radios in just such an emergency; but it may have been inadvertently turned off in the hurried efforts to ensure that the power on the last generator was reduced. The battery switch was located right next to the galley power switch and while verifying that the galley power was off, the crew could have accidentally turned off the battery power. In any event, the flight recorders indicate that backup battery power was not provided for the cockpit instruments and lights. With no flight instruments and perhaps preoccupied with their futile efforts to restore electrical power from the number two generator or from the battery, the crew lost control of the aircraft and it crashed into the sea. It is apparent that many circumstances were involved in the cause of this crash; but what was the cause? Was there a single act or event that ultimately doomed this flight? Or were there many independent causes,  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 220 --- Picking Up the Pieces 197 each of which, by itself, could have caused the crash? Flying the 727 with one generator out was considered safe practice, yet it narrowed the safety margin. So did darkness and poor weather which imposed instrument flying for attitude control of the aircraft during its departure. Although the crew may not have correctly implemented the routine procedures for two- generator operation or the emergency procedures for one-generator operation, such failures would not have doomed the aircraft. Losing a second generator was not a catastrophic failure, because there was still a third adequate for normal flight loads. Even the loss of the third generator, brought about by the two
Node: 20492, Score: 0.0569233380457384, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0252.txt, Content: the cause of the crash. That single act or event may be surrounded by all sorts of contributing circumstances—such as bad weather or a radio malfunction—each of which by itself might not have caused the crash, but which compounded to narrow the margin of safety for dealing with some subsequent failure that resulted in the crash. It is the act or event, without which the crash would not have occurred, that is the object of the crash investigation. This distinction between the cause and other adverse circumstances attendant to a crash is illustrated by the crash of a United Airlines flight in 1969. Cause and Circumstance On January 18,1969, United Airlines flight 226, using a Boeing 727, departed at 6:07 pm from Los Angeles enroute to Denver. Shortly after takeoff, the flight reported they "had a fire warning on number one engine [which] we shut down [and] we'd like to come back." Thereafter, there were no further communications and the aircraft was observed to lose altitude in the departure area over the Pacific. The plane crashed into the sea about 11 miles off the coast with the loss of all 32 passengers and six crew members on board. The wreckage of the aircraft was found on the sea bottom at a depth of about 1,000 feet and was partially recovered. Both the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder were recovered with readable tapes. The report of the crash investigation was published 14 months later.5 This is what the investigation revealed. Each of the three engines of the Boeing 727 airplane has an electrical generator to supply the aircraft electrical power. Only one of those generators is sufficient to supply all of the normal electrical needs for safe operation of the aircraft in flight. Because of this redundancy—more than was available from contemporary two-engine aircraft—it was an accept­ ably safe practice to operate 727 aircraft temporarily with one generator out until it could be repaired during routine maintenance. If a second generator wen
Node: 20493, Score: 0.0558554126461382, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0253.txt, Content: ary two-engine aircraft—it was an accept­ ably safe practice to operate 727 aircraft temporarily with one generator out until it could be repaired during routine maintenance. If a second generator went out, the aircraft would have to be grounded for repairs even though one generator could provide adequate power through all phases of flight. Flight 226 was operating that night, as it had for the past  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 219 --- 196 The Icarus Syndrome 28 flights (41 flight hours), with the number three generator (on the right engine) out; and the crew was aware of that condition. Standard procedures for operation with two (instead of three) genera­ tors required that the galley (kitchen) power be turned off and that no more than one of the two air conditioners be on during takeoff, approach, and landing. This ensured that the electrical power required during low- speed flight would not exceed the allowable loads for the two remaining generators. If, in flight, a second generator were to fail, then the galley power and both air conditioners would have to be turned off to ensure the availability of sufficient electrical power during low-speed flight.6 It was assumed that the crew was operating according to the standard proce­ dures for two-generator operation. During the climb after takeoff, a fire warning came on for the number one engine, and it was shut down. Under normal conditions, the one remaining generator on the number two engine should have been sufficient for all flight operations, assuming that the procedure for one- generator operation was properly implemented. The cockpit voice re­ corder indicates that the crew was concerned about reducing the electrical load on the remaining generator; but about 45 seconds after the fire warning on the number one engine, the number two generator popped its circuit breaker. Flight 226 had lost all generator power, even though two of its engines continued to provide adequate thrust for flight and hydrau
Node: 20386, Score: 0.0552826786395915, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0146.txt, Content: rking them by fire for British attack at night. Together they would engage the German air force and cause German war weariness by round-the-clock bombing. Twenty-four hour operations would also head off the hopeless congestion in Britain's airfields and air space sure to result if both British and American bombers were squeezed into the same schedule. Arguing from operational necessity just as the British had in defending their switch to night bombing, Eaker also asserted that his bombers had to strike by day because they were built to do so and the crews were trained only in that method; to switch to the dark would halt the AAF's offensive altogether for months. Too, only the daylight bomber could engage the German fighter force, depleting it so as to facilitate further bombing as well as ground operations.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 138 --- The Test of Fire 115 There was troublesome logic here. Arguments from operational necessity allowed means to dictate ends—bombing forces, British or American, did what they could do best, not necessarily what it was best to do. Shooting down German fighters became a major achievement of the American bombers, but the initial intention had been to destroy the German air force in its factories and on its airfields. If now it was to be done substantially through the attrition of combat, the task could be grim indeed, especially without long-range fighter escort.23 Although the British may have had their doubts about the effectiveness of the American precision daylight raids, Joseph Goebbels, who was in a better position to judge, did not: [T]he day raids on Bremen by American bombers.. .were very hard indeed. The Americans drop their bombs with extraordinary precision from an altitude of eight to nine thousand meters. The population has the paralyzing feeling that there really is no protection against such daylight attacks.24 The American daylight raiders were apparently doing precisely what the British had been trying
Node: 20336, Score: 0.0549942265288466, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0096.txt, Content: s slow speed, poor maneuverability, and high vulnerability to both enemy action and natural elements offset advantages of range and carrying capacity. The lighter- than-air enthusiasts found little support from other Air Service members, from elsewhere in the Army (except in the artillery which wanted it's observation balloons), from members of Congress, or from the general public. Officers of the heavier-than-air branch occupied key positions in the air arm. And with the money, men, and materiel available for Army aviation severely limited, the tendency was toward building up the heavier-than-air branch. A number of  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 98 --- Prophesy 75 dirigible disasters, including the Navy's loss of the Shenandoah, Akron, and Macon, retarded and then halted airship programs in both the Army and the Navy. So the Army's lighter-than-air branch declined and virtually disappeared, eclipsed and consumed by heavier-than-air aviation.20 Even those Army airmen, like William E. Kepner, who started out in LTA and devoted years to their development, were likely to have much preferred duty in the heavier-than-air craft. When Kepner was first assigned to balloons rather than airplanes for flight training, "He wired an urgent message to the Army's adjutant general pleading that a mistake had been made in his assignment." Despite his subsequent record-setting accomplishments in balloons, Kepner was relieved and delighted when, "At last, he pinned on the coveted airplane pilot wings that had eluded him for some twelve years."21 It would probably be fair to say that the majority of the aviators favored winged airplanes over the dirigibles, increasingly as time and events proved the technological limits and relative vulnerabilities of both. Even today, one can find a small group of civil airmen who cling to expansive dreams of LTA ships, but the faction seems to grow smaller with time as the continuing LTA experiments founder, one after the other, on techni­ c
Node: 20444, Score: 0.0537543059901022, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0204.txt, Content: hed against Britain until the fifth year of World War II, it is interesting to think how this little Bug might have changed the whole face of history if it had been allowed to develop without interruption during the years between the two wars. It was not perfect in 1918, of course, and as new gadgets and scientific improvements came out they continued to be incorporated into the Bug until the economy wave of the mid-twenties caused it to be shelved....7 Arnold's experience with the development of the Bug was not simply a passing fancy. The idea of an unmanned bomber for strategic bombard-  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 182 --- The Technology Janus 159 ment was revived as America entered World War II. But this time, it posed a doctrinal confrontation with what had become the central ideas of the American airmen: the big self-defended bomber and precision daylight bombardment. Arnold addressed the question fearlessly: As already stated, our whole fight for an Air Force had come to center more and more around bombardment, precision bombardment by daylight, all the things summed up by the great word "B-17." I now had to decide whether the four- engine bomber, and the whole bombardment program we had worked toward for so many years, should take second place in favor of something else. This time the problem was not pressed on us from outside the Air Force. We faced it ourselves, deliberately. The reason for it was not any lack of faith in our development of precision bombardment. There was the possibility that we now had something still more useful in our air power arsenal, when and if we entered the war against Germany. The "something" was nothing less than a highly improved version of that same little pilotless Bug which we had devised in 1917-18, and had kept on developing as well as the strict attention to "Economy in Government" permitted. Recently revived trials indicated that the Bug was now ready for operational use. Its flight-tested range, in December, 1
Node: 20495, Score: 0.0529292097135419, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0255.txt, Content: the aircraft. Losing a second generator was not a catastrophic failure, because there was still a third adequate for normal flight loads. Even the loss of the third generator, brought about by the two immediately prior failures, would not have been catastrophic, for there was battery power available to power and illumi­ nate the instruments for safe, controlled flight. Ultimately, one comes to the crew who either failed or were unable to control the flight of the airplane under circumstances which were specifically anticipated in the design of the airplane and its emergency procedures. If they had been able to provide battery power to their instruments and ensure control of the aircraft in flight, the crash could reasonably have been avoided. They may have been prevented from both of those things by their efforts to restore the power from the number two generator.7 Indeed, in those efforts, they may have accidentally turned off the battery power. Their priorities should have been first to control the flight. To ensure that control, they needed battery power for their basic flight instruments. Restoring generator electrical power should have come third. Without those cockpit priorities in place, flight 226 was doomed with the loss of the last generator, but not because of it. There was a single cause of this crash, but there were many adverse circumstances that led up to it and increased its odds. As a result of this accident, several corrective actions were undertaken by the Federal Aviation Administration. One was to provide for auto­ matic switching to battery power for essential flight instruments. Another was to relocate and redesign switches so that the battery power could not be inadvertently turned off. The Icarus Incident To suggest that what has happened to the Air Force was an institutional crash is stretching the metaphor too far; however, the questions raised in the investigation of a crash are good ones to ask about the causes of  File: --- builder_icar
Node: 20387, Score: 0.0518245500204938, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0147.txt, Content: opulation has the paralyzing feeling that there really is no protection against such daylight attacks.24 The American daylight raiders were apparently doing precisely what the British had been trying to do with their night attacks—paralyzing the population. By 1944, the two air forces were positioned to cross paths. The RAF was developing techniques that gave the night bombers a precision approaching that of the AAF's Fortresses and Liberators, while the Americans were beginning to loosen their definitions of precision bombing.25 Even retrospectively, the AAF leaders saw no inconsistencies between the theory and realities, or between the British and American bombing campaigns over Europe. After the war, Spaatz was asked, "Do you feel that the faith of the Army Air Force in daylight strategic bombing was justified by the results?" He responded, "Why, certainly. We might have won the war in Europe without it, but I doubt it very much. I think it was the combination of the two bombings, the night bombing of the RAF and daylight bombing, that was largely responsible for successful conclusion of the war there. Everyone thought a year or two before the invasion that to invade the continent of Europe was an impossible undertaking, that the German air forces would smother it as they did at that first operation at Dieppe by Mountbatten. But actually, the result of the, and I say primarily, of the daylight bombing, which forced the German air force back to defend Germany, prevented any large German air force [from appearing] at the invasion. I think that there were only two or three German planes that appeared during the whole landing in Normandy."26  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 139 --- 116 The Icarus Syndrome The Anglo-American Convergence27 By the end of the war, the American implementation of strategic bombardment had come full circle and coincided with the British ideas that the Americans had so vigorously resisted. Daylight precision bombing of military targets
Node: 20389, Score: 0.051353900257297, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0149.txt, Content: osive bombs dropped from self-defended for­ mations. Of course, that is precisely how AAF initially used the airplane over Japan. The bombers formed up over the Marianas and then flew in formation to Japan where they bombed from high altitude in daylight. The Japanese defenses against such attacks were much less effective than the German defenses over Europe, partly because of the state of Japanese defensive resources at that point in the war, and partly because of the high altitude from which the attacks were made. However, the results of the bombing were disappointing too, partly because of weather (on naviga-  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 140 --- The Test of Fire 117 tion and bombing accuracy), but mostly because the bomb loads in the airplanes were being sacrificed to accommodate the weight of the fuel required to fly in formation and at high altitudes and to the weight of the bomber's defensive armament (automated gun turrets)—the very things that were designed to ensure its penetration of the Japanese defenses. After finally succeeding in acquiring the airplane that could penetrate Japanese air defenses in daylight with acceptable losses, the AAF found that it was not very effective at accomplishing its purpose: destroying Japan's capacity and will to fight. LeMay posed the problem to his small staff of operations analysts; their answers turned the B-29 bombing campaign over Japan inside out. They recommended area or carpet bombing of Japanese cities with incendiaries instead of precision bomb­ ing of the Japanese aircraft industry with high explosive bombs.30 They recommended flying the bombers independently at medium altitudes and stripping the planes of their guns instead of sacrificing bomb-carrying capacity for high-altitude and formation flying and for defensive arma­ ments. They recommended flying at night in order to reduce the effective­ ness of the Japanese air defenses.31 The flight crews considered the analysts' proposal that they simply "
Node: 20440, Score: 0.0507578069357983, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0200.txt, Content: d DH4, Chance Vought F4U Corsair, McDonnell F4 Phantom, and Boeing B-52 Stratofortress—have all had somewhat shorter useful lives, but have followed the same trend. This continuing extension of useful lifetimes implies that technolog­ ical obsolescence in aircraft is slowing. Although that might be wel­ comed by those paying the bills for aircraft, it is not by those devoted to designing and building new ones, for they have to search harder for reasons—the threat of competition or technology—to replace the exist­ ing aircraft. For the military airmen, with an expectation of the joys of a new machine rooted in a view of aviation's past, the future is likely to be more frustrating than rewarding. The Air Force has occasionally argued for its needs in terms of the number of wings of bombers or fighters needed or desired.3 But the Air Force's appetite for newer and more technologically advanced aircraft, with their accompanying higher cost, has tempered its demands when the choice came to more of the old or fewer of the new. For the Air Force, aerodynamic performance and technological quality of its aircraft have always been of higher priority than the number. Thus, in measuring the adequacy of its forces, the Air Force is likely to speak first of the kind or quality of its aircraft (speed, altitude, maneuverability, range, armament, or carrying capacity) before their quantity. This emphasis on quality over quantity is easily observed: The Air Force does not lament the size of its bomber force so much as it does the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 180 --- The Technology Janus 157 age of its B-52s. It considers the necessity of fathers and sons' flying the same bomber as a national disgrace. The trade of larger quantities of arguably less capable F-16s for F-15s was never attractive to the Air Force. When confronted with having a mix of the new B-l bomber and an even newer B-2, the Air Force favored more B-2s.4 The Air Force concern about the adequacy of its force
Node: 20328, Score: 0.0501829398845451, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0088.txt, Content: ginning of air power theory, during the 1920s and 1930s, the disdain was for all forms of air defense capabilities, whether from the ground or in the air—the self-defended bomber was sufficient for the offensive. Today, the disdain for air defenses is more discriminating: Surface-to- air defenses are not as highly regarded as enemy fighter or interceptor aircraft; and bombers may require assistance in suppressing enemy air defenses. Nevertheless, the air offense remains much more highly regarded than air defenses.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 92 --- 7 Prophesy Dcedalus set to work immediately. With great skill and artistry he fitted all together [feathers brought to him by Pasiphae, King Monos' wife], using wax to hold each feather in place. The work was delicate and needed both time and patience, but within a few days the wings had taken shape. There were four of them, like a bird's wings in every respect, but very much larger, and so beautifully made that even the gods would have envied them. Using leather straps, Dcedalus fastened one pair onto Icarus' arms and shoulders, and then he put on his own. The time to test the wings had come. Beating his arms up and down, Dcedalus rose effortlessly into the air. Icarus did the same, and his wings, too, bore him upwards. All was ready!1 Selling Air Power The airmen had a theory, but little more than that. Plausible and attractive as it might be to them, they had no evidence with which to confront their skeptics. Chief among the many factors preventing airmen from attaining the type of organization they sought was their inability to marshal convincing evidence supporting their views. Neither the World War I experience nor the existing state of technology bore out their assertions concerning air power. So the airmen based their arguments on hopes and wishes, and took their stand on conjecture as to the future capabilities of aeronautical equipment and techniques.2 Unfortunately, the audience they had to convince
Node: 20513, Score: 0.0501340049389607, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0273.txt, Content: 0s and early 1940s thought command of the air could be achieved by self-defended bombers. These would be the battleships of the sky. But others, like Claire Lee Chennault, foresaw a battle for command of the air, in which it would be necessary both to defend against the enemy's bomber attacks and to defeat the enemy's defenses against one's own bomber attacks. In the scramble for limited resources in the 1930s, the bomber and fighter factions found themselves pitted against each other. The advo­ cates of pursuit and interceptor airplanes for command of the air lost out to the advocates for seizing the offensive through daylight, precision bombardment from self-defended bomber formations. With 20-20 hind­ sight, the second axiom might have allowed for: • the need to defend one' s own essential means for war against attack from the air (as proven in 1940 over Britain and in 1943 over Germany); and  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 235 --- 212 The Icarus Syndrome • the possibility of a separate battle for command of the air prior to the decisive or most effective use of air power against the enemy's essential means for waging war (as in 1944 over Germany and in 1945 over Japan). These considerations could have been accommodated if the second axiom had been rephrased along the following lines: 2. To use air power decisively or most effectively, command of the air (i.e., air supremacy or superiority) over all vital regions in the war, one's own and the enemy's, is a prerequisite. To be sure, rephrasing the axiom—this way or any other way—would not have vouchsafed the forging of pursuit and interceptor aircraft capabil­ ities as equal partners to the bombers. The bombers could even be rationalized as defensive weapons if necessary.5 Bombers and the offen­ sive were the intellectual embodiment of air power theory from the beginning. It would have taken more than word smithing of the axioms to have changed that predilection. Air Power as Vision When air power theory ev
Node: 20372, Score: 0.0501245798692973, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0132.txt, Content: bing operations must be protected by fighter airplanes. This was proved to be essential in the Battle of Britain, and prior to that our own exercises with bombers and fighters indicated that bombers alone could not elude modern pursuit, no matter how fast the bombers traveled. 8. Our Air Force must be ready for combined operations with ground forces, and with the Navy. 9. We must maintain our research and development programs in order to have the latest equipment it was possible to get, as soon as it was possible to get it. 10. Air power is not made up of airplanes alone. Air power is a composite of airplanes, air crews, maintenance crews, air bases, air supply, and sufficient replacements in both planes and crews to maintain a constant fighting strength, regardless of what losses may be inflicted by the enemy. In addition to that, we must have the backing of a large aircraft industry in the United States to provide all kinds of equipment, and a large training establishment that can furnish the personnel when called upon.13 Arnold's equitable respect for all who served in the Air Force—in contrast to the persistent tendencies toward pilot elitism within the institution—caused him problems:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 127 --- 104 The Icarus Syndrome The over-all program for the Army Air Forces required an overwhelming air superiority over our enemies in the shortest possible time. Our global field of operations required men from all walks of life. Each had a part to play, whether he was a hotel clerk, a railroad man, a shipping man, a barber, an auto mechanic, or a painter. We had need for all of them, each one fitting into his proper place— square pegs in square holes and round pegs in round holes.... During those early days, a great many Air Corps officers had the idea that everybody in the Air Force should be a pilot, regardless of whether he was running a hotel, a bus line, taking charge of motor transportation, or planning a hydroponics garden for the
Node: 20525, Score: 0.0489660311254975, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0285.txt, Content: d have its nose under the tent flap for an expansion of its fixed wing aviation into other roles such as air defense over the battlefield, at the expense of the Air Force claim on the nation's military aircraft assets. • If the close air support role were returned to the Army, it might open up larger questions, such as the Army's control over its own airlift needs. On the other hand, some in the Air Force would also quietly concede several positive consequences: • The Air Force would be released from a role that has become vexing because: —of the subordination of air operations to the coordination and control by ground commanders; —of the susceptibility to fratricide of and by both ground and air force elements; —the aircraft requirements tend to be technically regressive (low, slow, and simple) and limiting in "mission"5 flexibility (i.e., single role); and —the Army is steadily encroaching upon the role with its own helicopter and missile forces.  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 247 --- 224 The Icarus Syndrome • The Air Force would have finally squared the circle on air power by freeing itself from the last vestige of control by surface warfare commanders and their concepts of war—one of the most basic principles or canons of the original air power theorists—leaving the Army, Navy, and Marines to shape aviation to their particular surface warfare ends while the Air Force pursued the independent ends of air power. The same kinds of arguments and counterarguments can be developed around proposals for the Air Force divestiture of the part of the airlift mission6 devoted to the lift of surface (army) forces, although they are not heard as frequently as those for the close air support mission. The divestiture of means rather than missions isn't any easier. If the Air Force had to relinquish one or more of its present means or systems, what would they be and in what order of their priority? Again, here are some that have been suggested, along with their reasons: 1
Node: 20459, Score: 0.0483160796794571, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0219.txt, Content: of the Snark cruise missile development bring Edmund Beard to suspect conspiracy: [A]ir planners consistently predicted that surface-to-air antiaircraft missiles would become available during the early 1950s and that these weapons would be particularly effective against subsonic aircraft. These same planners agreed that ballistic missiles were, within any conceivable technology, unstoppable. Yet development of these vehicles was persistently delayed. Enormous efforts were put into developing the B-52 as a follow on to the B-36. In addition, during the 1950s the Air force strongly promoted the B-70, a supersonic long-range heavy bomber designed to follow the B-52. [M]uch money was also invested in the Snark, the least efficient of the contemplated long-range missiles. The Snark and the B-52 were broadly comparable weapons, but the Snark always lacked accuracy and reliability and never developed operational capability. The suspicion remains that the Snark may have been supported in some quarters precisely because it did not constitute a real threat to the B-52 or any follow on bomber. During the same period, the Air Force hierarchy devoted significant efforts to standoff missiles, which were considered vital to the health and effectiveness of the manned bomber fleet. The cultural identification with manned airplanes and the cultural resistance to ballistic missiles seems obvious.10 Jeffrey Record argues that the prejudice against missiles was explicit: As General Thomas D. White, Air Force Chief of Staff from 1957 to 1961, once candidly conceded, "To say there is not a deeply ingrained prejudice in favor of aircraft among flyers would be a stupid statement..1 Whether the stakes did or did not motivate the actions, the actions reflected the stakes of those involved. Robert L. Perry, a perceptive analyst and sympathetic critic of the Air Force, has succinctly stated the bomber-missile issue:  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 193 --- 170 The Icarus Syndrome Without
Node: 20351, Score: 0.0477375718736269, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0111.txt, Content: eavy bombers flying in formation could penetrate enemy defenses during daylight hours in order to bomb with precision, and do so at an acceptable cost. That error in judgment extracted an extremely high price in bomber losses during the early months of U.S. participation in World War II.13 It wasn't the lack of counter-evidence; to acknowledge such evidence was to undermine what the airmen had worked to achieve in developing the bomber which would provide their ticket to autonomy. Air forces exposed to combat in the 1930s learned, as World War II showed more fully, that tactical aviation in support of surface forces "could often destroy the forces in the field before strategic bombers could have a paralyzing effect." But no doctrine except strategic air power satisfied the drive to achieve an independent air force that would bring personal status, power, and probably most important, professional respectability.14 With respect to the thesis of this analysis, the important point is not whether air power theory was right or wrong, but that the power of the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 111 --- 88 The Icarus Syndrome theory dominated—even in the face of contrary evidence. The theory provided direction and energy to the airmen as they strove toward their cherished goal of autonomy. Above all, air had a mission distinct from ground support. Autonomy equaled legitimacy for the strategic bombing mission. It was long-range bombing of the enemy's vitals that set air apart.. ,.15 Camouflaging the Bombers To get the big bombers they needed for precision bombardment, the airmen were forced to camouflage their purposes in the hostile bureau­ cratic environment they faced in the Army and the Navy. General Frank M. Andrews, the Air Corps' greatest advocate for the big bombers, must have had to lie through gritted teeth when he was forced to argue that the big bombers were intended solely for coastal defense purposes: Despite the creation in March 1935 of general Headquarte
Node: 20337, Score: 0.0476712443064295, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0097.txt, Content: d a small group of civil airmen who cling to expansive dreams of LTA ships, but the faction seems to grow smaller with time as the continuing LTA experiments founder, one after the other, on techni­ cal and fiscal rocks.22 The Battleplane Emerges The long-range, self-defended, heavy bomber—which was destined to become the centerpiece of so much controversy over the next several decades—had been described early in Douhet's concept of the "battleplane." The battleplane would have all the qualities it needed for command of the air—to carry the attack (the offensive) to the enemy and to defend itself from attack by enemy aircraft (control of the air). This type of [battle]plane should have the radius of action, speed, and armor protection as described; but should have armament sufficient both for aerial combat and for offensives against the surface.... If the Air Force were made up entirely of battleplanes, all the planes could take part in the engagement, with full freedom of action. Therefore, from all points of view it is best that the bulk of an Independent Air Force be made up entirely of battleplanes designed for aerial combat and for bombing offensives against the surface.23 The early efforts of the Air Corps to acquire battleplanes in the form of long-range bombers met heavy opposition from inside and outside of the  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 99 --- 76 The Icarus Syndrome Army. An important impediment was the offensive orientation of bombers at a time when the nation's military was supposed to be devoted to defense: "The Air Corps hoped to use the long-range reconnaissance mission to procure long-range bombers. It wanted them for strategic operations but could not say so when military policy rested on defense."24 Coastal defense was the only mission available at the time to the Army Air Corps that might justify long-range bombers. A short-lived agree­ ment between the Army and Navy chiefs (General MacArthur and Admiral Pratt) offered a "plausible jus
Node: 20445, Score: 0.0460930224199378, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0205.txt, Content: veloping as well as the strict attention to "Economy in Government" permitted. Recently revived trials indicated that the Bug was now ready for operational use. Its flight-tested range, in December, 1941, was better than 200 miles, both this and its accuracy apparently being capable of rapid improvement. It might be necessary to change the original concept. It was now controlled by radio. We could employ one of the many other modern scientific devices that would insure it a direct-reckoning course to its objective. The pilotless Bug was, in any case, already a modern military weapon in being. It would cost, per unit, between $800 and $ 1000 as compared to $200,000 for a medium, or $400,000 for a single heavy bomber, and could be produced quickly in large numbers.8 The comparative analysis that Arnold then presented is remarkable—not for its pertinence, but for its forthright consideration of possibilities so threatening to the very heart of the institutional Air Force: For the price of one B-17 with a bomb load of 6000 pounds, we could send 500 of these little Bugs over enemy territory, each carrying about 800 pounds of explosive. Much more important than any monetary factor was the possible saving in human life. It has been mentioned that some time before this we had come to the decision that the loss rate for which we must be prepared in an all- out air war would probably be around 25 percent of our combat planes and combat personnel per month. C. F. Kettering, of General Motors, the real father of the Bug, not only had an intimate knowledge of its development from the start, but in the intervening years had worked on devices to perfect it. Elmer Sperry, who had made the first controls for the full-size pilotless plane, was dead, but his Sperry Gyroscope Company was still in full stride. Orville Wright, and some of the men in the Aeolian Company who had pioneered with us in the earlier experiments, were  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 183 --- 160 The Icarus
Node: 20382, Score: 0.0455248928848165, Chunk File: builder_icarus/chunks/builder_icarus_0142.txt, Content: recognized, and all comment on guided missiles reflected a belief that in the future they would contribute to the supremacy of the offensive in airpower.17 The planning failure was not an inability to recognize the problem; it was myopia about possible solutions: It is unfair to say that... Air Force leaders completely ignored the vulnerability of long-range bombardment aircraft to defensive fighter attack, or that they were totally unaware of the lessons of the Battle of Britain regarding the technological advances in pursuit aviation. What was ignored or overlooked was the possibility of building a long-range escort fighter which would be essentially a pursuit aircraft and not a heavily armed bomber. While the Air Force leaders understood the value of the four-engine bomber.. .these same leaders almost totally ignored the advances being made in pursuit aviation—advances that were even greater than those made in bombardment aviation.... The neglect by the Air Corps leaders of technological developments in pursuit aviation, from 1935 to 1943, provides an interesting case study of the relationship between doctrine and force structure.18 The roots of the myopia went back to the 1930s birth of air power doctrine in the U.S. Army Air Corps: Ironically, the Air Corps Tactical School arguments of the 1930s about pursuit versus bomber employment had persisted, and now (in 1942) the bomber people still were very much in the doctrinal driver's seat. Bomber preeminence had not been materially affected even by the air lessons of Spain's civil war and the Battle of Britain, which clearly showed the limited effect of strategic bombing on civilian morale and the essentiality of fighter escort to keep bomber losses at an acceptable level.19  File: --- builder_icarus.pdf --- Page 136 --- The Test of Fire 113 The American strategic bombing campaign over Germany soon turned into a campaign for air superiority: In these complex and shifting aerial campaigns carried on from February t