Node: 20068, Score: 0.0276175842069621, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0024.txt, Content: defenders, the tons of explosives that rained down from the air brought about that collapse. To which critics can respond, first, that other factors including military setback on the ground played a large role and, second, while so-called precision bombing was not precise, the Allies did not have to embrace city bombing so indiscrimi-nately. I personally think that the bombing can be credited with another suc-cess: the demonstrated hopelessness of the Nazi defence had something to do with the fact that after World War II there was no real revanchist movement, no defiant nationalism. But then again, defeat without immolation might also have achieved an equal post-war success. No, the issue remains the price of success; that is always debated, and must be debated by historians as well as by those who were directly involved. The non-existent Anglo-American debate and the issue of reprisal What is striking about these debates is, I believe, first of all the fact that they did not resonate more strongly in Germany. For all the cries about the German pro-clivity to victimization, the bombing issue has hardly become a major or hotly discussed political subject. It has not stirred up public sympathy or awareness like the Hiroshima attack has done in Japan. German civic culture abandoned the tu quoque  attitude it still largely maintained throughout the 1950s. Y es, for a long while there were many stories of victimization — especially among refu-gees from East Prussia, the territories taken over by post-1945 Poland, and the Sudetenland. Friedrich’s book can be seen as a continuation of this strand of self-pitying and often right-wing apologetics, but non-Germans are in fact will-ing to listen to this narrative with a sympathy that was excluded in Germany until very recently, except on the far right. Vaclav Havel’s expression of regret at the expulsions of Germans from the Sudetenland was a conspicuous case in point. Nonetheless, Friedrich’s book and the related series of m
Node: 20052, Score: 0.018830875280261, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0008.txt, Content: and in recent decades even paramili-tary fighters have asked for similar recognition. Nonetheless, reprisal policy remains at the heart of guerrilla war because it seems to emerge from that “necessity” which, despite all the conventions, continues to be the underlying justification of violence. Guerrilla warfare, as practised by World War II partisans and perfected in post-war colonial struggles, deliberately involved the civilian base and drew on its resources. It was a war either to recruit (by conviction or coercion) civilian support for the partisan cause or to make such support too costly. The theory of guerrilla warfare, which French authorities zealously studied from Chinese and Viet Minh writings, basically urged that the distinction between the people and the army be erased. 5 It is the co-involvement of civilians that unites the issue of guerrilla or partisan warfare with that of aerial bombardment. Still, there were diff  erences. Aft er all, partisans acted with putative intent to kill or wound. Th  ey took to the fi  eld or to the forest. But what were the rights and wrongs of bombing civilians — and their families — who merely took to the factories? Bombing did not introduce this issue: bombardment had originated with shelling, and the British had made famous the idea in 1806 of “Copenhagening, ” i.e. the naval bombardment of a neutral city. By the end of World War I, however, the possibilities of bombing were recognized and doctrines for its use had to be developed. Another Hague 4  Best, op. cit . (note 2), pp. 190-200. 5  Besides Best, see Herfried Münkler (ed.), Der Partisan: Th  eorie, Strategie, Gestalt , Westdeutscher Verlag, Opladen, 1990, for a series of essays on theories of revolutionary and partisan war.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 6 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 434Conference in 1923 contributed Draft Rules for aerial bombardment that would have prohibited the bo
Node: 20071, Score: 0.0169994680238845, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0027.txt, Content: d course of action. As a British Liberal MP wrote in 1942, “I am all for the bombing of working class areas of German cities. I am Cromwellian — I believe in ‘slaying in the name of the Lord’ , because I do not believe you will ever bring home to the civil population of Germany the horrors of war until they have been tested in this way. ” 20 Of course, bombing for pedagogical purposes is not meant to imply that five-year-olds deserve that lesson. Rather it presumes that 18  See Philip Nobile (ed.), Judgment at the Smithsonian: Smithsonian Script by the Curators at the National Air and Space Museum , Marlowe & Company, New Y ork, 1995. Th  e aft  erword by Barton J. Bernstein is a valuable summary of the debates since 1945. 19  Th  omas Childers, Wings of Morning: Th  e Story of the Last American Bomber Shot down over Germany in World War II,  Addison Wesley, Reading, MA, 1995; Stephen E. Ambrose, Th e Wild Blue: Th  e Men and Boys who Flew the B-24s over Germany , Simon & Schuster, New Y ork, 2001. 20  Geoff  rey Shakespeare to Archibald Sinclair, cited in Hastings, op. cit . (note 15), p. 147  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 15 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 443German parents need to learn it by watching their innocent infants die. But even without this degree of righteous anger, we tend to accept reprisal. Potential reprisal certainly became an acceptable recourse during the Cold War, when massive retaliation rested on “mutual assured deterrence, ” and the second-strike or counter-city strategy was largely accepted until the l980s, when the consen-sus about nuclear deterrence started unravelling. Still, for most of us, such reprisal must be stochastic or actuarial. What remains unacceptable is the targeting of individual civilians. What is acceptable is reprisal with the statistical certainty that a given percentage of civilians must be killed thereby. In the final analysis, those of us who would accept the air war say that under certain conditions it m
Node: 20044, Score: 0.0137811956750353, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0000.txt, Content: File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 1 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 429The moral issues in context For many years the debates on the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki obscured debate on the “conventional” bombings during and even before the Second World War. A certain tacit consensus prevailed, namely that the German bombings of Madrid in the autumn of 1936, of Guernica, of Warsaw and of Rotterdam, the London Blitz, and the bombing of Coventry, which gut-ted St. Michael’s Cathedral and destroyed the centre of the city, were acts of Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II Charles S. Maier Charles S. Maier is Leverett Saltonstall Professor of History (Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies) at the Harvard University, Cambrigde, MA, USA Abstract The article goes back to the early discussions of the morality of city bombing which took place before and during World War II and attempts to analyze both the moral argumentation and i ts historical cont ext from the 1940s until today. The development of the doctrine of “collateral damage” which recognized that attacking enemy factories was permissible even if it cost the lives and homes of civilians was soon widened beyond its original notion. After the war, the dropping of the atomic bombs became an issue in its own right, to be considered separately from the earlier recourse to conventional bombing — even when conventional bombing achieved equally destructive results. Twin inhibitions have reigned in the issue of what force against civilians was justified: the reluctance of German commentators to seem apologetic for the Third Reich, and the difficulty in the U.S. of seeming to cast any aspersions on those who fought “the good war. ” : : : : : : :  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 2 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 430wanton terror designed primarily to terrorize populations, whereas the subse-
Node: 20061, Score: 0.0131390713346317, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0017.txt, Content: ncluded in his On the Natural History of Destruction , transl. Anthea Bell, Random House, New Y ork, 2003; Günter Grass, Im Krebsgang , Steidl, Göttingen, 2002.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 10 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 438German-Jewish refugees and their inability to work through the impact of per- secution in their later lives. Obviously all were moved by the numbers (half a million killed in the air war; 9,000 on the ill-fated ship) and needed to let the dead finally speak out. Friedrich’s book is an attempt to describe the aerial war from the viewpoint of those bombed, which it does in unsparing detail. It has broken through what was a virtual taboo about open discussion of the approximately half a million German civilian deaths in the Anglo-American air raids of l940-45 and the destruction of cities and cultural treasures. Let us separate the book from the problem or problems it raises. At the emotional core of his account Friedrich stresses the horrors of incendiary bombing: death by burning in melting asphalt, by incineration in cellars, by asphyxiation through carbon monoxide and deprivation of oxygen. There is no shortage of accounts of large explosive bombs and of bomb-blast effects on the human body; he also gives due credit to guidance systems and the marking of targets by flares. But the incendiary bomb, dropped in thousands, remains the real technological protagonist, burning its way through the roofs of Gothic and Renaissance landmarks as well as private housing. He describes the shrivelled or carbonized remnants of victims being brought in baskets for burial, the destruction of families, the efforts at civil defence and the dispersal of children (a measure which the population hated). He points out that as much destruction followed during the final year of the war as in all the previous years before: devastating raids not only on railroads or in return visits to towns smas
Node: 20051, Score: 0.0105412870209327, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0007.txt, Content: in Danger and Survival: Choices about the Bomb in the First Fift  y Years , Random House, New Y ork, 1988.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 5 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 433No earlier dilemma had required the same splitting of hairs. In the Peninsular War of the early nineteenth century and the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71, the issue of non-uniformed guerrillas had arisen. The Prussian mili-tary insisted that such guerrillas or “franc-tireurs” lost any protection to which captured combatants were entitled as prisoners of war, and could be executed out of hand. Subsequent conferences in Geneva and The Hague attempted not to shield the irregular soldier as such, but to establish guidelines for differenti-ating legitimate militia forces from the “franc-tireur, ” essentially by insisting on some visible insignia and the open, not concealed, carrying of weapons. 4 The “franc-tireurs” were not civilians; they were more akin to spies, who also did not announce their presence and thus could rightfully be executed on discov-ery. Not surprisingly, hard-bitten commanders in such wars often took action without undue precision. And in 1914 the fear of “franc-tireurs” led to massive German atrocities in Belgium. In World War II, however, a guerrilla fighter became a partisan, deserving of recognition as a combatant in the eyes of his British or American allies, but meriting execution in the eyes of the occupying force. Since some German commanders resorted to civilian reprisals as well as executions of captured partisans (Field Marshall Kesselring in Italy was a nota-ble example of such action on a western front), this issue soon eclipsed even the fate of partisans. After World War II, new guidelines drafted in 1949 extended similar protection to resistance fighters, and in recent decades even paramili-tary fighters have asked for similar recognition. Nonetheless, reprisal policy remains at the heart of guerrilla war because it seems to emerge from that “necessit
Node: 20057, Score: 0.0097860593143218, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0013.txt, Content: er – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 436insisted. Intuitively, it does seem incredible to think that the massive and con- tinuous attacks on a densely populated country did not cut into transport and production as well as wearing down industrial workers whose nights were spent taking whatever shelter was provided. It was a costly strategy: airmen were not easily replaced and 140,000 British and Americans died in the attacks, while 21,000 planes were lost. It had costs in the Pacific theatre, too, though less in terms of bombers succumbing to defending fighters, for Japan was largely denuded of defence, than in terms of the lives and efforts needed to capture the outlying island bases from which the planes could reach the home islands. Even so, with less tonnage bombing took its terrible toll, even before the Americans used their two nuclear weapons. Perhaps it is useful to separate the arguments for bombing used before D-Day from those afterward. Between 1940 and 1942, Britain was unable to bring any counterforce to bear outside North Africa except by air. Military “necessity” usually remains a highly sub jective factor. But Churchill believed, in my opinion correctly, that it was important for the UK to inflict damage on the foe at a time when his country had been forced out of the continent, its troops in Africa remained hard pressed and it stood, until June 1941, without a major ally. Once Russia entered the war, bombing enabled the British to claim that they, too, were making a positive contribution to the defeat of Hitler. As Overy points out, however, Churchill’s turn to bombing in 1942 was provoked by Stalin’s taunts about Allied inaction with respect to a second front, and it came at a point when it seemed a wasteful diversion of airpower from a better use. 9 Dresden, too, was probably attacked largely because the Soviets complained that Britain and the US were not contributing their fair share in the winter
Node: 20072, Score: 0.0088923309644032, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0028.txt, Content: risal with the statistical certainty that a given percentage of civilians must be killed thereby. In the final analysis, those of us who would accept the air war say that under certain conditions it may be necessary to burn babies. Even if we are not explicitly targeting babies, we are all familiar enough with statistics to know that our historically mediated choice will kill those whom no theory of a society at war can plausibly claim to have opted for war. Vengeance is mine, supposedly sayeth the Lord. Vengeance, though, is also ours — including civil-ian deaths as long as the victims are not personally selected. This remains curi-ous. Why is it more acceptable that, say, five per cent of a city of half a million will be killed (25,000) so long as we do not specify which five per cent, whereas shooting 50 hostages out of hand is unacceptable? Nonetheless, it is. The issue is not quite that of randomness, for the terrorist does not know which teen–agers will for instance be discoing in the Jerusalem café, or who will already be at work in the World Trade Centre. He or she inflicts death as in a lottery. Is distance the issue? Is whoever kills close up deemed more responsible than he who slays from far away? No matter what the source of these scruples, and whether due to bombing, blockade, radiation or the like, the unspecified death is more acceptable than the specified death. But is it more ethically acceptable to treat life and death as a lottery than to inflict death on specified groups of people. And why is it more acceptable to condone, as a means of warfare, the heavy bombing of cities and towns with the statistical certainty of innocent victims, but to condemn the terrorism that purposely kills innocent civilians as a pawn in a political response. There are two possible answers, and neither is very satisfactory. Terrorism is specifically intended to kill innocents; in city bombing their death is merely accepted. The historian, of course, is not an ethicist.
Node: 20066, Score: 0.0084259638214934, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0022.txt, Content: hich each and every death inflicted was intentional. Some Germans, I believe, were silent not merely because they could not reconcile themselves to the deaths, but because they really did understand where the chain of murderous warfare began. “[As young survivors, we took] no oaths of revenge against the Allied bombers. In a certain sense we felt a solidarity with them; they would destroy that system that we ourselves […] had erected but which we did not have the strength to over-throw, ” Peter Wapnewski writes. 16 Even Friedrich, who is outraged by the suf- fering inflicted, states: “The destruction of the cities helped the cause of elimi-nating Himmler and his adherents, who had taken hostage these places, this history and this humanity, all Germany and all Europe. ” But it was Germany, too, which had taken these hostages, “...whether through violence, approval, or anger, out of equanimity or impotence. A different Germany was nothing but hypothetical — a would- or might-have-been. ” He goes on to say, however, that it is also hypothetical to ask whether the confl  agration might have been unneces- sary: “Did Hildesheim have to be destroyed for its railroad station? Was this the reason, was there really any reason? Did those who set the fires intentionally and in anger want to win at any price, or was this the price that had to be paid for their victory? Certainly this was their effort. If this represents no tragedy as part of the Allies’ history, was their total success the same for the history of the Germans?” 17 Critical historians, have simply labelled the book demagogic and flawed. In effect, this is a strategy of compartmentalization, which I do not share. Friedrich raises serious issues that we cannot seriously deal with if we merely object to inflammatory language or lack of balance. Friedrich does understand that after the 1940 defeat in the West, there seemed no choice for the British but to strike at the enemy with whatever weapons were available if the
Node: 20059, Score: 0.0080674834188094, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0015.txt, Content: ars ago. Dresden, for all the implicit reproach in the discussion about it, never became a Hiroshima. Of course, the fatali-ties, despite propagandistic inflation, were lower: 35,000, not 70,000-100,000. 10 The reasons for this reticence are not hard to find: West Germany remained dependent on the British and Americans for its post-war security against the Warsaw Pact alliance. Also, to raise the subject of German suffering seemed, for many “good” post-war Germans, to be tainted by neo-Nazi politics; it might be acceptable for the Japanese to play the role of unique victims because of the atom bomb, but that had indeed been a new and terrible weapon. And even the Japanese did not harp on the equally destructive conventional air raid on Tokyo in April 1945. Still, debate was renewed a few years ago and along two separate tracks. First of all, the issue of German victims re-emerged, most sensationally in a book by Jörg Friedrich, “Der Brand: Deutschland im Bombenkrieg 1940-1945” (The Fire: Germany in the Bombing Campaign). The Friedrich book, appeared at a moment many writers were opening issues of German suffering in the war and asking whether post-war German culture had “repressed” any sustained discussions of Germans’ status as victims. as was claimed most notably by the late literary scholar and novelist W . G. Sebald in his Zurich lectures, pub-lished under the title “ Air War and Literature. ” In the same connection Günter Grass published his novel “Im Krebsgang” (Crabwalk), which gradually circled around and then told the story of the sinking of a German liner in the Baltic that was evacuating 9,000 refugees fleeing the Soviet invasion. 11 None of these authors could be suspected of neo-Nazi tendencies: Friedrich had written about German war crimes; Grass was a maveri ck leftist whose subject was the maim- ing or survival of ordinary people caught up in a German history they perhaps should have earlier resisted but didn’t; Sebald had written melancholy tales of
Node: 20062, Score: 0.007319872885297, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0018.txt, Content: hated). He points out that as much destruction followed during the final year of the war as in all the previous years before: devastating raids not only on railroads or in return visits to towns smashed repeatedly before, but also on cities ranging from Dresden to Würzburg and Potsdam whose destruction seemed called for mainly because they had until then been spared. Although the book focuses primarily on British bombing, American readers will recall the devastating accounts of the Tokyo raid of 9/10 March 1945 and the toll as our B-29s roamed virtually unopposed over Japanese cit-ies as from November 1944, dropping incendiary weapons on wooden housing with sometimes even greater human costs. Billy Mitchell, the American pioneer of naval bombing, had recognized this as early as the 1920s, when he described the Japanese cities as “the greatest aerial targets the world has ever seen… ” 12 The Friedrich book offended many Germans (and a fortiori  Anglo- American readers) by its inflammatory language which borrowed the rhetoric used for the “final solution, ” including the terminology of the Holocaust. 13 But I 12  Cited in: Richard Rhodes, Downfall: Th  e End of the Imperial Japanese Empire , Random House, New Y ork, 1999, p. 48. 13  See the excellent reviews submitted to the H-German network by Joerg Arnold, 3 November 2003, and Douglas Pfeifer, 4 November 2003, which appropriately address, I believe, the strengths and weaknesses of this work — Pfeiff  er’s with more emphasis on the military and political issues, Arnold’s with greater emphasis on the moral and conceptual problems. Others have also indicated the defi  ciencies of the book as a scholarly source. See for instance Horst Boogs’ summary list of errors in his contribution to Ein Volk von Opfern? Die neue Debatte um den Bombenkrieg 1940-45 , Rowohlt, Berlin, 2003. Obviously many issues are contentious in this debate. Th  e most parochial issues are those that concern historians as such. To what extent can th
Node: 20058, Score: 0.0072199605003664, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0014.txt, Content: eful diversion of airpower from a better use. 9 Dresden, too, was probably attacked largely because the Soviets complained that Britain and the US were not contributing their fair share in the winter of l945 to the forthcoming land battles within Germany. In the early days, however, the arguments for bombing were not offi- cially developed in terms of morale and retaliation. They followed the more tortuous course of reasoning about the scale of civilian casualties permissible to set back Germany’s war industry. Although Harris and others thought ter-ror as such was permissible because it must surely weaken the enemy’s will, the Allies did not officially accept such  a justification. Nonetheless, the earlier notions of collateral damage themselves proved sufficiently elastic — any indus-trial or transport capacity contributed to the German and Japanese war effort. How much devastation was permissible? In targeting Sodom and Gomorrah for incendiary attacks, even God was willing to allow innocent victims. Once the tide had turned, violence was ingrained and the capacity to infl  ict damage — but largely indiscriminate damage — had been vastly enhanced. Only Hitler and Goebbels were frank enough to declare that the V-1 and V-2 attacks in the latter stages of the war were indeed designed to wreak terror, hence their V designa-tion for “ Vergeltung , ” meaning reprisal or retaliation. But they could not win that battle. 9  Overy, op. cit . (note 8), pp. 103-04.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 9 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 437The German debate and the issue of taboos In retrospect, what has been striking about the post-war German discussion of these issues is the relative absence of political reproach except in extreme right-wing circles, at least until a few years ago. Dresden, for all the implicit reproach in the discussion about it, never became a Hiroshima. Of course, the fatali-ties, despite propagandistic inflation, were lower: 35,000, not 70,000-100,0
Node: 20073, Score: 0.0071324096577016, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0029.txt, Content: possible answers, and neither is very satisfactory. Terrorism is specifically intended to kill innocents; in city bombing their death is merely accepted. The historian, of course, is not an ethicist. But how robust a distinction does this really amount to? The second is that evil regimes hold their own citizens hostage and are as responsible for the death of “innocents” as are those who seek to defeat them. The Germans started the war, or their Führer did. Well, this sounds good, but it doesn’t diminish the complicity of the bombers. At what age did one become a Nazi or even a supporter? Surely not younger than 4 or 5 or 6 or…or…or. Readers expect historians (legiti-mately, I think) to take a surrogate responsibility for approval or disapproval of their protagonists’ hard choices. To say that Friedrich’s “Fire” is flawed by lack of balance or inflammatory language cannot get us off the hook. As good liber-als, we might plausibly argue that our statesmen and pilots could have killed fewer babies or non-combatants, and probably that is where most of us are  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 16 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 444left after reading his book. Y et at the end I am nevertheless forced to confront inconsistencies and beliefs that I would rather avoid. Jus in bello  remains at best an asymptotic guideline, never fully to be achieved, often to be hypocriti-cally violated. But what other choice do we have?
Node: 20067, Score: 0.0061327616707643, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0023.txt, Content: uage or lack of balance. Friedrich does understand that after the 1940 defeat in the West, there seemed no choice for the British but to strike at the enemy with whatever weapons were available if they were not to come to terms. Did not morale, as Churchill sensed, require inflicting some damage on an enemy that threatened to invade and was lay-ing waste to London? Could any democratic statesman set on resistance not have followed this strategy? Y et was there not a point at which it changed — as Arthur Harris said it should — from a purposeful pursuit of targets, whether railroads or industry, to moral bombing? Nor is this change surprising. As Friedrich understands, the air war became one of Vergeltung  or retribution in which the British went far beyond the level of destruction they themselves had suffered (just as the American Vergeltung  against Japan vastly exceeded the toll taken at Pearl Harbour that was so often cited as justification). Retribution fuelled the air war as much as did strategy. Peter Wapnewski’s recollection not-withstanding, many Germans impatiently awaited the retaliatory “V” weapons that Goebbels promised. 16 In Lothar Kettenacker (ed.), Ein Volk von Opfern: Die neue Debatte um den Bombenkrieg 1940-45 , Rowolt, Berlin, 2003, p. 122 (author’s translation). 17  Friedrich, op. cit . (note 11), pp. 217-18 (authors translation).  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 13 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 441The contentious issue is not military success alone. As mentioned above, the American Strategic Bombing Survey’s critique of the efficacy of bombing, no longer seems tenable. By the summer and autumn of l944, the war machine was largely incapacitated. Air defences were faltering, produc- tion began to fall sharply. Surely, argue their historian defenders, the tons of explosives that rained down from the air brought about that collapse. To which critics can respond, first, that other factors including military setback on the ground played a
Node: 20060, Score: 0.0060116012675829, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0016.txt, Content: eri ck leftist whose subject was the maim- ing or survival of ordinary people caught up in a German history they perhaps should have earlier resisted but didn’t; Sebald had written melancholy tales of 10  Th  e death toll in Dresden quickly became a politicized estimate. For a while it was rounded off   to 100,000, then totals of 135,000, gradually rising to a quarter million, were given credence by David Irving in Th e Destruction of Dresden  (1963), who fi  nally seemed to settle for a hundred thousand. It suited the Communist regime to accept such an approximate tally, but more careful estimates revised the number downward. At the entrance to the restored Zwinger, one of Dresden’s architectural treasures, the East German plaque still stands with its take on the history of the Second World War: “destruction of the inner city of Dresden, ” by Anglo-American air forces in February 1945, “liberation” of Dresden from the fascists by the armies of the Soviet Union in May 1945, and reconstruction of the Baroque masterpiece by the German workers’ and peasant State. For the fi  rst scholarly re-evaluation of the death toll see Götz Bergander, Der Luft  krieg in Dresden  (1977), who estimated it at 40,000, and for the most recent evaluation (between 25 and 40,000) see Frederick Taylor, Dresden: Tuesday, February 13, 1945  (Harper Collins, New Y ork, 2004) with its discussion of how casualty fi  gures became infl  ated, pp. 443-48. On Hamburg, see Martin Caidin’s graphic account, Th e Night Hamburg Died , Ballantine, New Y ork, 1960. 11 Jörg Friedrich, Der Brand: Deutschland im Bombenkrieg  1940-1945, Propyläen Verlag, Munich, 2002, forthcoming shortly in English from Columbia University Press; W . G. Sebald, “ Air War and Literature” (“Luft  krieg und Literatur” , 2001), now included in his On the Natural History of Destruction , transl. Anthea Bell, Random House, New Y ork, 2003; Günter Grass, Im Krebsgang , Steidl, Göttingen, 2002.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 10 -
Node: 20056, Score: 0.0050428461735164, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0012.txt, Content: rale was not seriously impaired. The Survey’s minimizing judgments were long accepted and cited by domes-tic opponents of President Johnson’s and Nixon’s resort to heavy bombing of North Vietnam. More recent assessmen ts such as Richard Overy’s view, how- ever, have challenged the Survey’s early dismissal of air-war effi   cacy. According to Overy, the Allied attacks produced a downward spiral of industrial collapse for the Th  ird Reich, above all when bombing concentrated on strategic industrial targets. Germany relied on synthetic oil from hydrogenation for three-quarters of her consumption, and the “oil offensive” cost Germany 90 per cent of her syn-thetic production between May and September 1944. 8 Destroying railway lines precluded adequate fuel transportation and thus limited use of German fighter defences, which rendered Allied bombing all the more effective, thus destroy-ing more fuel supplies, etc. We cannot test the counter-hypothesis, namely what would German production have achieved without the bombing? German pro-duction declined only from the second half of l944, and part of the downturn admittedly followed after Romanian oil sources were finally overrun by Soviet troops and the Reich was fighting huge battles on two fronts. Still, one can agree that to think of bombing as counter-productive (which some of its critics tended to claim) seems as simplistic a conclusion as to believe that it alone could have defeated the Third Reich, as Bomber Harris 8  Th  e various reports of the US Strategic Bombing Survey became available as from October 1945; see John K. Galbraith, A Life in Our Times: Memoirs , Houghton Miffl   in, Boston, 1981; Richard Overy, Why the Allies Won , Norton, New Y ork, 1995, pp. 230-232.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 8 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 436insisted. Intuitively, it does seem incredible to think that the massive and con- tinuous attacks on a densely
Node: 20045, Score: 0.0041131167532645, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0001.txt, Content: ity.pdf --- Page 2 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 430wanton terror designed primarily to terrorize populations, whereas the subse- quent more destructive Allied attacks on Italian, German, and then Japanese urban centres (including the massive 1945 assault on Tokyo that may have taken 100,000-125,000 lives), waged with hundreds of planes that could carry far heavier bomb loads, were legitimate military actions (with Dresden perhaps an exception). The heavy attacks on northern French cities and towns in 1944, far more destructive than the German air raids in 1940, have also been largely accepted as a legitimate part of the war effort. To be sure, the German attacks were condemned, because even if the German war eff  ort might be deemed legitimate (though usually considered such only by Germans!), the Luft  waff  e’s bombings oft  en seemed gratuitous and exces- sive, designed just to terrorize and demoralize civilian populations. Th  e attack on the Basque city served little military purpose, and victory was already at hand when Warsaw and Rotterdam were bombed. But what about the Allied air raids? Even if they were possibly as violent as the German attacks, they were oft  en defended as a necessary means to a worthy end. In short, for a long time most post-war debate about the means used was subordinated to consideration of the ends to be attained: Allied victory was a worthy end that justifi  ed the very means condemned when used in the service of an Axis victory — an unworthy end. What has happened, of course, is that the said debate, which has seemed to be quiescent for so long, has now resurfaced. This article is concerned with both the context of the debate and the issues involved. By the very nature of the subject, it must include an analysis of moral questions as well as an historical account. Actually the discussion about means is a two-fold debate though often a rather muddled one. War is
Node: 20053, Score: 0.0032975731612631, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0009.txt, Content: - C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 434Conference in 1923 contributed Draft Rules for aerial bombardment that would have prohibited the bombardment of civilian populations “not in the immediate neighbourhood (…) of land forces. ” They incurred objections and were never ratified, although clearly on the table as guidelines whose rejection had to be argued for. Neville Chamberlain in 1938 and American air force generals through much of the war seemed to express sympathy with a sense of restraint (although by 1944 American practice seemed as ruthless as that of the British). British advocates of the new weapon, however, did not want to be trammelled. Air Marshall Hugh Trenchard’s championing of the new war aim, and finally Arthur (“Bomber”) Harris’s conviction that precisely the bombing of civilian centres could win the war for Britain prevailed over earlier hesitations. In 1928, Trenchard argued that one might seek to “terrorise munitions workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work” but that the indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terrorizing the civilian population was “illegitimate. ” 6 This distinction proved far too tenuous to retain as a maxim of strategy. Early in the war, the British moved on to define, along Trenchard’s lines, the idea of collateral damage. Bu t collateral damage was the up-to-date version of what the medieval just-war doctrine of Scholasticism had sanctioned as “double effect. ” If despite care to minimize civilian casualties — and such care was necessary to render the procedure acceptable — civilians were still injured or killed in order to secure a legitimate military end (there was no dissent that wiping out enemy industrial capacity was a legitimate objective), this was acceptable within the more general injunction to observe proportionality. 7 Proportionality, it should be stressed, remained a criterion that had to be met to justify both th
Node: 20048, Score: -0.0035358684817001, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0004.txt, Content: even beasts of burden. (…) in particular they attacked a boys’ school, the largest that there was in the place, into which the children had just gone, and massacred them all. ” 1 Tacitus’ Annals are fi lled with such accounts, and slaughter aft  er overcoming a besieged city remained commonplace way into the Th  irty Y ears War of the seventeenth century. Still, it was generally recognized as wrong in some fundamental way, and that recognition lay at the basis of what was claimed to be “natural law” or developed as “international law. ” Eighteenth-century theory and practice in Europe attempted to re-impose the fi rewall between civilians and combatants, though not without some military men complaining that this just increased the likelihood of war. Th e issue has become more diffi   cult in modern times, however, in that modern weapons technology has once again tended to erase the distinction between civilians and soldiers. But the blurring has occurred, so to speak, on both sides. On the one hand, the new weaponry has made it harder to limit casualties and destruction. Th  e use of submarines and torpedoes in World War I presented this argument in particularly cogent form. For a submarine to give notice of attack would render it highly vulnerable and far less eff  ective. In this situation the Allies did not contest the fact that it would be impractical for a sub-marine to surface, ask the passengers or crew of a vessel to take to the lifeboats, and only then destroy or capture it; they simply said that attacks without 1  Th  ucydides, Th e Peloponnesian Wars , Vol. XXI, p. 29.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 4 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 432warning on ships carrying civilians were unlawful. On the other, there is the German retort that the Allied block ade — formally contrary to the rules of war, which allowed a close blockade at a harbour entrance but not the interdiction of distant ship
Node: 20055, Score: -0.0040559020022346, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0011.txt, Content: ars: A Moral Argument with Historical Illustrations , Basic Books, New Y ork, 1977.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 7 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 435bombing of Japan in 1944–45, American military doctrine did not argue that civilian bombing as such might produce a rapid end to the conflict. The US clung to shrouding large-scale bombing with particular industrial or strategic objectives. Nonetheless, American bombers did participate in the Dresden raids and continued bombing targets until almost the last weeks of the war, when it was clear that they could play little strategic role. In theory, disruption of rail communication could justify almost any attack, but in fact the prevailing emotion seems to have been that no target should remain unspared. The argument was an implicit one of potential resistance. It no longer claimed that civilian morale would collapse. It simply  postulated that the more destruction there was, the sooner the collapse would come. Americans, too, studied how to achieve the felicitous result of firestorms of the kind that ravaged Hamburg. And Americans, of course, pursued an air war on Japan that was directed against cities as targetable units. The US chose weapons — incendiary bombs — designed to start widespread devastation of urban areas, aware that both civilians and artistic monuments must fall victim to this destruction. The issue of efficacy was raised by the famous results of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, whose members — especially John Kenneth Galbraith — argued that bombing had achieved far less of an impact then had been claimed. The report pointed out Germany’s industrial production con-tinued to increase until the autumn of l944, that railroads and even factory buildings were quickly repaired, and that morale was not seriously impaired. The Survey’s minimizing judgments were long accepted and cited by domes-tic opponents of President Johnson’s and Nixon’s resort to heavy bombing of North Vietnam. More