Node: 20070, Score: -0.0348859368102703, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0026.txt, Content: ians, the slavery, lynching and segregation of African-Americans, and the internment of West-Coast Japanese-Americans during World War II. But the “good war” is still too fresh in their memory or too necessary a perception to be subjected to the same emotional scrutiny. The fierce controversy over the Enola Gay exhibition in 1995, however flawed the explanatory material might have been, revealed the great resistance to this sort of scrutiny. 18 In fact, Hiroshima and Nagasaki can be questioned and discussed, but the conventional air war remains beyond widespread popular re-evaluation. The recent histories of America’s bombers, especially Stephen Ambrose’s history of B-24 Liberator raids, are cast in the heroic mould. Thomas Childers’ moving study, which evidently inspired Ambrose (though he never acknowledged it), of his uncle’s B-24 war, Wings of Morning , likewise did not seek to question the rationale for bombing raids up to and including April 1945. 19 Childers, however, was explicitly writing a book about subjective experience — the very dangerous one that ordinary Americans undertook on orders — and he has promised a counterpart volume on experience of the war from the ground. But no one has suggested that if American soldiers are supposed to resist immoral orders or commanders are punishable for giving them, any aspect of the air war should come within that moral category. What the air-war discussions — German, British and American alike — reveal is that much of the discussion about the legitimacy or “just war” justifica-tion of massive aerial bombardment was beside the point. In large-scale national wars, even in cases where societies were under totalitarian control and citizens were not thought to have any influence over their rulers, reprisal became an accepted course of action. As a British Liberal MP wrote in 1942, “I am all for the bombing of working class areas of German cities. I am Cromwellian — I believe in ‘slaying in the name of the Lord’ , becaus
Node: 20069, Score: -0.025818762245535, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0025.txt, Content: xcept on the far right. Vaclav Havel’s expression of regret at the expulsions of Germans from the Sudetenland was a conspicuous case in point. Nonetheless, Friedrich’s book and the related series of memoirs and com-mentaries in the press did not unleash any widespread attempts to claim a moral equivalence of German war crimes and Allied bombing. I believe this reticence is due to a deep-seated recognition that one cannot indulge in a sort of moral bookkeeping that offsets one series of atrocities against what might be consid-ered another. The recent VE Day celebration on 8 May 2005 demonstrates even more clearly that the Germans are willing to forswear any political exploitation of the air-war issue. A few years ago, they often tended to say that their country could not celebrate 8 May as a day of liberation since it simultaneously marked a catastrophic national defeat. At this most recent commemoration, in Moscow and elsewhere, this reserved stance had completely changed: Germans partici-pated as Germans who could welcome unreservedly the results of 8 May 1945.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 14 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 442The political culture that allows conventional national feeling to be overcome in this way is not one that will sustain the undercurrents generated by Jörg Friedrich. Jürgen Habermas could be proud: constitutional patriotism has pre-vailed even in the united Germany. But equally striking, to my mind, is the absence of discussion in the United States, if not in Great Britain. American political culture allows, I think, far less tolerant examination of earlier failings in World War II — or at least not yet. True, Americans have engaged in national expiation with regard to Indians, the slavery, lynching and segregation of African-Americans, and the internment of West-Coast Japanese-Americans during World War II. But the “good war” is still too fresh in their memory or too
Node: 20064, Score: -0.0223993527637142, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0020.txt, Content: tre for mili-tary history. 15 But such works rarely dwell on the experience of being bombed. Commentators have also raised the question why non-neo-Nazi Germans could not write this history so graphically before or let themselves discuss it more openly. The answer put forward by Hans Ulrich Wehler and others is that they If a particular vocabulary becomes associated with what is agreed to be the most abominable atrocity (such as the antiseptic language used by the Nazis in carrying out the “fi  nal solution”) is it illegitimate to use that language for other situations? Is “tasteless” a category that makes sense for historical writing? Saul Friedlaender sought to take up this issue from the other side when he questioned Nazi kitsch – the deliberate eff  ort to evoke the aesthetic dimensions of fascism and Nazism. See Refl ections of Nazism: An Essay on Kitsch and Death , Harper & Row, New Y ork, 1984. We know the phenomenon from fi  lms (Hans-Jürgen Syberberg’s Hitler: Ein Film aus Deutschland , 1977, and Liliana Cavani’s Th e Night Porter , 1974), novels (Michel Tournier, Le Roi des aulnes , 1970; US title, Th e Ogre ), Friedrich’s book suggests that the historian cannot rest content with a history of lived experience, no matter how important it may be to convey that experience. Television, cinema and the preoccupation of society with the testimony of victims have suggested to us that history is sterile without the evocation of experience, but history cannot be merely the excavation of experience — old pictures, sad songs, diary extracts, and the like. To rely on these is our version of a pathetic fallacy. It is appropriate and indeed, I think, oft  en a duty to convey testimony. But doing justice to the witness is not the same as writing history. It may be the beginning or the end of historical refl  ection, but it is a diff  erent sort of exercise. Th  ere can be no history perhaps without memory, but neither can there be history that does not discipline memory.
Node: 20063, Score: -0.0158824015406227, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0019.txt, Content: e um den Bombenkrieg 1940-45 , Rowohlt, Berlin, 2003. Obviously many issues are contentious in this debate. Th  e most parochial issues are those that concern historians as such. To what extent can the historian merely report or dissect the diff  ering positions without engaging his own sense of moral judgment. Second, what sort of rhetoric is legitimate in an historical account?  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 11 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 439wonder whether we Anglo-American readers, for whom the Second World War remains above all the most righteous military cause, do not seek to evade the questioning the book provokes by pointing to the admittedly charged language. (And so, too, may those German readers who fear the apologetics implicit in the work.) Y es Friedrich resorts to the images  we usually associate with Holocaust literature… but children and adults did end up incinerated. Discursive fastidi- ousness should not serve as a defence mechanism to draw too much comfort from the flaws that are documented. Sebald’s thesis of literary repression is also flawed. In the early post-war period, as Volker Hage’s collection shows, German accounts of bombing and urban destruction did appear. 14 But they were not backed up in major essays or novels. No German dialogue on those issues came into being, such as that generated by Germans themselves on their own war crimes and genocide. As Pfeiffer rightly notes, there was in fact extensive though often specialized lit-erature on the latter subjects. Rather than an outright taboo, there has been an inhibition against producing or citing material about German suffering as such. Y es, we have had surveys of the air war — the ones written by the victors and the important scholarly work carried out at the Freiburg centre for mili-tary history. 15 But such works rarely dwell on the experience of being bombed. Commentators have also raised the question why non-neo-Nazi Germans could not write this history so graphic
Node: 20050, Score: -0.0086486076927185, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0006.txt, Content: rfare. The growing dependence of warfare on society as a whole — especially the role of labour in arming a nation — rendered the civilian-combatant distinction ques-tionable. Modern warfare was so dependent upon war production at sites far away from the fighting that the concept of a front line tended to seem irrel-evant. Surely a belligerent nation was entitled to destroy the industrial capacity of its adversary, since that seemed such an integral part of the military effort. But was it entitled to attack the civilians who worked in such production facili-ties? As is well-known, the doctrine of “collateral damage” was first put forward among British air strategists to cope with th is issue. Civilian casualties had to be accepted as a by-product of attacks on a physical plant used for war production or even related civilian production. 2  Geoff  rey Best, Humanity in Warfare: Th  e Modern History of the International Law of Armed Confl  icts, Methuen, London, 1983. 3  Barton J. Bernstein has sorted out much of the argumentation in many essays. Of course, quantitative issues then intrude. How many lives would have had to be saved? Th  e Stimson-Bundy claim was that the atomic bomb was believed to forestall an invasion of Honshu, planned for 1946, and which might have cost “a million lives. ” Th  e argument was refi  ned, for the fi  rst invasion planned for the autumn of 1945 would probably have taken place in Kyushu, a smaller island, with a smaller estimated number of casualties. On the other hand, when those objecting to the bomb have suggested that no invasion was really necessary, defenders of the bomb’s use suggest that a blockade of Japan would probably have cost more Japanese lives than did the bomb itself. See McGeorge Bundy’s refl  ective weighing of the issues in Danger and Survival: Choices about the Bomb in the First Fift  y Years , Random House, New Y ork, 1988.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 5 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 433No earlier d
Node: 20047, Score: -0.0073492790093807, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0003.txt, Content: 31aggrieved State should not go to war lightly and, once engaged in war, it should not employ a level of violence disproportionate to the provocation. Conversely many military men, such as General Sherman, have cogently argued that harsh measures used in waging war make war more unlikely. However, many measures in war also ran foul of the other underlying moral priority laid down for the conduct of war: the distinction to be made between combatants and civilians and by extension the distinction between combatants not yet disarmed, and those rendered harmless by capture or injury. In brief: do not kill civilians and do not murder prisoners of war or the wounded. The question of killing soldiers clearly bent on mass retreat is more of a grey zone. (The American air attacks on the disabled and fleeing columns of the Iraqi army in the 1991 Gulf War caused some qualms here, but not such as to become a major theme of discussion in the United States. Americans do not really believe themselves capable of war crimes. When they do occur, they remain the exception that proves the rule.) Intentional destruction of civilian property has also been condemned, but far less intensely. Although the distinction between civilian and combatant has oft  en been erased, it has been recognized since Antiquity. Th  ucydides narrates how the morality of the Greek armies degenerated in the Peloponnesian War. Th  e Melian Dialogue and the repression of Mitylene suggest that male civilians were deemed to be at least potential soldiers; but remember, too, how shocking the Th  racian attack on Mycalessus appeared, where soldiers “sacked the houses and temples and butchered the inhabitants, sparing neither youth nor age, but killing all they fell in with, one aft  er the other, children and women, and even beasts of burden. (…) in particular they attacked a boys’ school, the largest that there was in the place, into which the children had just gone, and massacred them all. ” 1 Tacitus’ Annals are
Node: 20049, Score: -0.0067678829829861, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0005.txt, Content: n the other, there is the German retort that the Allied block ade — formally contrary to the rules of war, which allowed a close blockade at a harbour entrance but not the interdiction of distant shipping routes — also killed civilians never had quite the same force, since the eff  ects were indirect and hard to visualize as an immediate consequence. 2 (Th e same disjunction of cause and eff  ect has also attended the debate on economic sanctions against Iraq or other off  ending governments: are sanctions that aff  ect a population as a whole justifi  ed against dictatorial regimes that supposedly keep their populations in thrall?) By 1918, moreover, it was evident from the emerging implications of aerial warfare, especially with the Zepellin raids over London, that the question of harm to civilians had to be considered. In view of the issues raised by aerial bombing in general, debate has often centred not on the degree to which military necessity might justify harm done to civilians, but on the question whether military necessity really came into play. In other words, even if the issue of taking civilian casualties in one’s stride were suspended, might not victory be possible without such cruelties. Debate on use of the Hiroshima bomb, and even more so the Nagasaki bomb, has usually focused on the question of their necessity to end the war. Was either needed to compel the Japanese to surrender? At least, did those advocating the use of the bomb believe it was needed to bring about their surrender without a great loss of American lives? 3 Was the second bomb equally necessary? Might a greater interval between them have been allowed? But a major reason that civilians have become (or became) a target is of course that modern technology makes civilians instrumental in warfare. The growing dependence of warfare on society as a whole — especially the role of labour in arming a nation — rendered the civilian-combatant distinction ques-tionable. Modern warfare was so dep
Node: 20065, Score: -0.0051542457368521, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0021.txt, Content: ng or the end of historical refl  ection, but it is a diff  erent sort of exercise. Th  ere can be no history perhaps without memory, but neither can there be history that does not discipline memory. 14  Volker Hage, Zeugen der Zerstoerung: Die Literaten und der Luft  krieg , S. Fischer, Frankfurt, 2003. Such accounts include: Gerd Ledig, Vergeltung  (1956), in English as Payback , translation by Shaun Whiteside, Granta, London, 2003 — review at H-German (see note 13 above), 5 November 2003, by Julia Torrie; and Hans Erich Nossak, Der Untergang  (originally published in 1948, reissued by Suhrkamp, Frankfurt/M, 1976); also an extensive essay on Nossak by Scott Denham, likewise at H-German, 7 November 2003. 15  Klaus Maier and Horst Boog in Militärgeschichtliches Forschungsamt (ed.), Das Deutsche Reich und der Zweite Weltkrieg , Vol. 7, H. Boog et al., Das Deutsche Reich in der Defensive , Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, Stuttgart, 2001; Olaf Groehler’s Bombenkrieg gegen Deutschland,  Akademie Verlag, Berlin, 1990, from the German viewpoint. From the Allied viewpoint, Charles Webster and Noble Frankland, Th e Strategic Air Off  ensive against Germany, 1939-1945 , 4 vols., Her Majesty’s Stationery Offi   ce, London, 1961; Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea Cate, eds., Th e Army Air Forces in World War II , 7 vols., Chicago, 1951; also among others Denis Richards, RAF Bomber Command in the Second World War , Penguin, London, 1994; and Max Hastings, Bomber Command , Pan Books, London and Sydney, 1981.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 12 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 440were acutely aware that their regime bore the responsibility for the war and had killed on an even larger scale, committing outright murder in which each and every death inflicted was intentional. Some Germans, I believe, were silent not merely because they could not reconcile themselves to the deaths, but because they really did understand w
Node: 20054, Score: -0.0048400280975596, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0010.txt, Content: mate objective), this was acceptable within the more general injunction to observe proportionality. 7 Proportionality, it should be stressed, remained a criterion that had to be met to justify both the recourse to war and the conduct of war. It linked jus ad bellum  and  jus in bello . But what guidance did it actually provide, especially when the results were not so clearly decisive as proponents such as Harris or Lord Cherwell promised. There is no scope here for a survey of the statements and the strategies of the air wars. It is general knowledge that by 1945 Churchill himself had some doubts, and that until a few years ago Arthur Harris was deprived of the honours bestowed on the air warriors themselves. Long before, however, two judgments became commonly accepted: first, that the Americans somehow had clung to precision bombing as a strategy and were less morally obtuse than the British, at least in Europe; second, that the bombing was not really effective in achieving its goals. Both these statements can be contested, however. It is true that with the important exception of General Hap Arnold and his junior officer Curtis (“Bomb them back to the Stone Age”) LeMay, transferred to oversee the 6  Best, op. cit.  (note 2), p. 274; Charles Webster and Noble Frankland, Th e Strategic Air Off  ensive against Germany , 1939-1945 , 4 vols., Her Majesty’s Stationery Offi   ce, London, 1961, Vol. IV , pp. 71-76. 7  Stephen A. Garrett, Ethics and Airpower in World War II: Th  e British Bombing of German Cities , St. Martin’s, New Y ork, 1993, pp. 142-144; Tami Davis Biddle, Rhetoric and Reality in Air Warfare: Th  e Evolution of British and American Ideas about Strategic Bombing , 1914-1945 , Princeton University Press, Princeton, 2002; also Michael Walzer, Just and Unjust Wars: A Moral Argument with Historical Illustrations , Basic Books, New Y ork, 1977.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 7 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 435bombing of Japan in 1944–45, America
Node: 20046, Score: -0.0046030947238322, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0002.txt, Content: ure of the subject, it must include an analysis of moral questions as well as an historical account. Actually the discussion about means is a two-fold debate though often a rather muddled one. War is an evil and is recognized as such, but there are lesser and greater evils, and there has been general agreement in the West that the evil of war should be kept to a minimum. This imposes limitations on recourse to war ( jus ad bellum ) and on the waging of a war once it is deemed necessary (jus in bello ). The concept of “necessity” is usually the licence for resorting to war and employing means in warfare that are harmful — but necessity remains a subjective standard. And even necessity has in some cases been ruled out by international agreement as an excuse for bringing harm to civilians, although such agreements are often not honoured. War involves a means-end calculation in several ways. Just war doctrine suggests both that recourse to war, and the conduct of a war already decided upon, must meet certain criteria. Waging war cleanly will nevertheless cause death and destruction and so recourse to war — codified as  jus ad bellum  — must be a last resort, undertaken only if the good achieved can outweigh the harm that will ensue. In the second sphere, war is limited by imposing constraints on the conduct of hostilities, that is, by observing jus in bello . At the heart of these constraints are two major moral priorities: first, preservation of the distinction between civilians and military combatants; second — and again, as in the case of recourse to war — the invocation of proportionality as a standard to be met: the harm done should not be disproportionate to the good supposedly achieved. An  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 3 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 431aggrieved State should not go to war lightly and, once engaged in war, it should not employ a level of violence disproportionate to the provocation. Conversely many military men, such as General She
Node: 20055, Score: -0.0040559020022346, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0011.txt, Content: ars: A Moral Argument with Historical Illustrations , Basic Books, New Y ork, 1977.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 7 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 435bombing of Japan in 1944–45, American military doctrine did not argue that civilian bombing as such might produce a rapid end to the conflict. The US clung to shrouding large-scale bombing with particular industrial or strategic objectives. Nonetheless, American bombers did participate in the Dresden raids and continued bombing targets until almost the last weeks of the war, when it was clear that they could play little strategic role. In theory, disruption of rail communication could justify almost any attack, but in fact the prevailing emotion seems to have been that no target should remain unspared. The argument was an implicit one of potential resistance. It no longer claimed that civilian morale would collapse. It simply  postulated that the more destruction there was, the sooner the collapse would come. Americans, too, studied how to achieve the felicitous result of firestorms of the kind that ravaged Hamburg. And Americans, of course, pursued an air war on Japan that was directed against cities as targetable units. The US chose weapons — incendiary bombs — designed to start widespread devastation of urban areas, aware that both civilians and artistic monuments must fall victim to this destruction. The issue of efficacy was raised by the famous results of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, whose members — especially John Kenneth Galbraith — argued that bombing had achieved far less of an impact then had been claimed. The report pointed out Germany’s industrial production con-tinued to increase until the autumn of l944, that railroads and even factory buildings were quickly repaired, and that morale was not seriously impaired. The Survey’s minimizing judgments were long accepted and cited by domes-tic opponents of President Johnson’s and Nixon’s resort to heavy bombing of North Vietnam. More
Node: 20048, Score: -0.0035358684817001, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0004.txt, Content: even beasts of burden. (…) in particular they attacked a boys’ school, the largest that there was in the place, into which the children had just gone, and massacred them all. ” 1 Tacitus’ Annals are fi lled with such accounts, and slaughter aft  er overcoming a besieged city remained commonplace way into the Th  irty Y ears War of the seventeenth century. Still, it was generally recognized as wrong in some fundamental way, and that recognition lay at the basis of what was claimed to be “natural law” or developed as “international law. ” Eighteenth-century theory and practice in Europe attempted to re-impose the fi rewall between civilians and combatants, though not without some military men complaining that this just increased the likelihood of war. Th e issue has become more diffi   cult in modern times, however, in that modern weapons technology has once again tended to erase the distinction between civilians and soldiers. But the blurring has occurred, so to speak, on both sides. On the one hand, the new weaponry has made it harder to limit casualties and destruction. Th  e use of submarines and torpedoes in World War I presented this argument in particularly cogent form. For a submarine to give notice of attack would render it highly vulnerable and far less eff  ective. In this situation the Allies did not contest the fact that it would be impractical for a sub-marine to surface, ask the passengers or crew of a vessel to take to the lifeboats, and only then destroy or capture it; they simply said that attacks without 1  Th  ucydides, Th e Peloponnesian Wars , Vol. XXI, p. 29.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 4 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 432warning on ships carrying civilians were unlawful. On the other, there is the German retort that the Allied block ade — formally contrary to the rules of war, which allowed a close blockade at a harbour entrance but not the interdiction of distant ship
Node: 20053, Score: 0.0032975731612631, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0009.txt, Content: - C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 434Conference in 1923 contributed Draft Rules for aerial bombardment that would have prohibited the bombardment of civilian populations “not in the immediate neighbourhood (…) of land forces. ” They incurred objections and were never ratified, although clearly on the table as guidelines whose rejection had to be argued for. Neville Chamberlain in 1938 and American air force generals through much of the war seemed to express sympathy with a sense of restraint (although by 1944 American practice seemed as ruthless as that of the British). British advocates of the new weapon, however, did not want to be trammelled. Air Marshall Hugh Trenchard’s championing of the new war aim, and finally Arthur (“Bomber”) Harris’s conviction that precisely the bombing of civilian centres could win the war for Britain prevailed over earlier hesitations. In 1928, Trenchard argued that one might seek to “terrorise munitions workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work” but that the indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terrorizing the civilian population was “illegitimate. ” 6 This distinction proved far too tenuous to retain as a maxim of strategy. Early in the war, the British moved on to define, along Trenchard’s lines, the idea of collateral damage. Bu t collateral damage was the up-to-date version of what the medieval just-war doctrine of Scholasticism had sanctioned as “double effect. ” If despite care to minimize civilian casualties — and such care was necessary to render the procedure acceptable — civilians were still injured or killed in order to secure a legitimate military end (there was no dissent that wiping out enemy industrial capacity was a legitimate objective), this was acceptable within the more general injunction to observe proportionality. 7 Proportionality, it should be stressed, remained a criterion that had to be met to justify both th
Node: 20045, Score: 0.0041131167532645, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0001.txt, Content: ity.pdf --- Page 2 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 430wanton terror designed primarily to terrorize populations, whereas the subse- quent more destructive Allied attacks on Italian, German, and then Japanese urban centres (including the massive 1945 assault on Tokyo that may have taken 100,000-125,000 lives), waged with hundreds of planes that could carry far heavier bomb loads, were legitimate military actions (with Dresden perhaps an exception). The heavy attacks on northern French cities and towns in 1944, far more destructive than the German air raids in 1940, have also been largely accepted as a legitimate part of the war effort. To be sure, the German attacks were condemned, because even if the German war eff  ort might be deemed legitimate (though usually considered such only by Germans!), the Luft  waff  e’s bombings oft  en seemed gratuitous and exces- sive, designed just to terrorize and demoralize civilian populations. Th  e attack on the Basque city served little military purpose, and victory was already at hand when Warsaw and Rotterdam were bombed. But what about the Allied air raids? Even if they were possibly as violent as the German attacks, they were oft  en defended as a necessary means to a worthy end. In short, for a long time most post-war debate about the means used was subordinated to consideration of the ends to be attained: Allied victory was a worthy end that justifi  ed the very means condemned when used in the service of an Axis victory — an unworthy end. What has happened, of course, is that the said debate, which has seemed to be quiescent for so long, has now resurfaced. This article is concerned with both the context of the debate and the issues involved. By the very nature of the subject, it must include an analysis of moral questions as well as an historical account. Actually the discussion about means is a two-fold debate though often a rather muddled one. War is
Node: 20056, Score: 0.0050428461735164, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0012.txt, Content: rale was not seriously impaired. The Survey’s minimizing judgments were long accepted and cited by domes-tic opponents of President Johnson’s and Nixon’s resort to heavy bombing of North Vietnam. More recent assessmen ts such as Richard Overy’s view, how- ever, have challenged the Survey’s early dismissal of air-war effi   cacy. According to Overy, the Allied attacks produced a downward spiral of industrial collapse for the Th  ird Reich, above all when bombing concentrated on strategic industrial targets. Germany relied on synthetic oil from hydrogenation for three-quarters of her consumption, and the “oil offensive” cost Germany 90 per cent of her syn-thetic production between May and September 1944. 8 Destroying railway lines precluded adequate fuel transportation and thus limited use of German fighter defences, which rendered Allied bombing all the more effective, thus destroy-ing more fuel supplies, etc. We cannot test the counter-hypothesis, namely what would German production have achieved without the bombing? German pro-duction declined only from the second half of l944, and part of the downturn admittedly followed after Romanian oil sources were finally overrun by Soviet troops and the Reich was fighting huge battles on two fronts. Still, one can agree that to think of bombing as counter-productive (which some of its critics tended to claim) seems as simplistic a conclusion as to believe that it alone could have defeated the Third Reich, as Bomber Harris 8  Th  e various reports of the US Strategic Bombing Survey became available as from October 1945; see John K. Galbraith, A Life in Our Times: Memoirs , Houghton Miffl   in, Boston, 1981; Richard Overy, Why the Allies Won , Norton, New Y ork, 1995, pp. 230-232.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 8 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 436insisted. Intuitively, it does seem incredible to think that the massive and con- tinuous attacks on a densely
Node: 20060, Score: 0.0060116012675829, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0016.txt, Content: eri ck leftist whose subject was the maim- ing or survival of ordinary people caught up in a German history they perhaps should have earlier resisted but didn’t; Sebald had written melancholy tales of 10  Th  e death toll in Dresden quickly became a politicized estimate. For a while it was rounded off   to 100,000, then totals of 135,000, gradually rising to a quarter million, were given credence by David Irving in Th e Destruction of Dresden  (1963), who fi  nally seemed to settle for a hundred thousand. It suited the Communist regime to accept such an approximate tally, but more careful estimates revised the number downward. At the entrance to the restored Zwinger, one of Dresden’s architectural treasures, the East German plaque still stands with its take on the history of the Second World War: “destruction of the inner city of Dresden, ” by Anglo-American air forces in February 1945, “liberation” of Dresden from the fascists by the armies of the Soviet Union in May 1945, and reconstruction of the Baroque masterpiece by the German workers’ and peasant State. For the fi  rst scholarly re-evaluation of the death toll see Götz Bergander, Der Luft  krieg in Dresden  (1977), who estimated it at 40,000, and for the most recent evaluation (between 25 and 40,000) see Frederick Taylor, Dresden: Tuesday, February 13, 1945  (Harper Collins, New Y ork, 2004) with its discussion of how casualty fi  gures became infl  ated, pp. 443-48. On Hamburg, see Martin Caidin’s graphic account, Th e Night Hamburg Died , Ballantine, New Y ork, 1960. 11 Jörg Friedrich, Der Brand: Deutschland im Bombenkrieg  1940-1945, Propyläen Verlag, Munich, 2002, forthcoming shortly in English from Columbia University Press; W . G. Sebald, “ Air War and Literature” (“Luft  krieg und Literatur” , 2001), now included in his On the Natural History of Destruction , transl. Anthea Bell, Random House, New Y ork, 2003; Günter Grass, Im Krebsgang , Steidl, Göttingen, 2002.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 10 -
Node: 20067, Score: 0.0061327616707643, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0023.txt, Content: uage or lack of balance. Friedrich does understand that after the 1940 defeat in the West, there seemed no choice for the British but to strike at the enemy with whatever weapons were available if they were not to come to terms. Did not morale, as Churchill sensed, require inflicting some damage on an enemy that threatened to invade and was lay-ing waste to London? Could any democratic statesman set on resistance not have followed this strategy? Y et was there not a point at which it changed — as Arthur Harris said it should — from a purposeful pursuit of targets, whether railroads or industry, to moral bombing? Nor is this change surprising. As Friedrich understands, the air war became one of Vergeltung  or retribution in which the British went far beyond the level of destruction they themselves had suffered (just as the American Vergeltung  against Japan vastly exceeded the toll taken at Pearl Harbour that was so often cited as justification). Retribution fuelled the air war as much as did strategy. Peter Wapnewski’s recollection not-withstanding, many Germans impatiently awaited the retaliatory “V” weapons that Goebbels promised. 16 In Lothar Kettenacker (ed.), Ein Volk von Opfern: Die neue Debatte um den Bombenkrieg 1940-45 , Rowolt, Berlin, 2003, p. 122 (author’s translation). 17  Friedrich, op. cit . (note 11), pp. 217-18 (authors translation).  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 13 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 441The contentious issue is not military success alone. As mentioned above, the American Strategic Bombing Survey’s critique of the efficacy of bombing, no longer seems tenable. By the summer and autumn of l944, the war machine was largely incapacitated. Air defences were faltering, produc- tion began to fall sharply. Surely, argue their historian defenders, the tons of explosives that rained down from the air brought about that collapse. To which critics can respond, first, that other factors including military setback on the ground played a
Node: 20073, Score: 0.0071324096577016, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0029.txt, Content: possible answers, and neither is very satisfactory. Terrorism is specifically intended to kill innocents; in city bombing their death is merely accepted. The historian, of course, is not an ethicist. But how robust a distinction does this really amount to? The second is that evil regimes hold their own citizens hostage and are as responsible for the death of “innocents” as are those who seek to defeat them. The Germans started the war, or their Führer did. Well, this sounds good, but it doesn’t diminish the complicity of the bombers. At what age did one become a Nazi or even a supporter? Surely not younger than 4 or 5 or 6 or…or…or. Readers expect historians (legiti-mately, I think) to take a surrogate responsibility for approval or disapproval of their protagonists’ hard choices. To say that Friedrich’s “Fire” is flawed by lack of balance or inflammatory language cannot get us off the hook. As good liber-als, we might plausibly argue that our statesmen and pilots could have killed fewer babies or non-combatants, and probably that is where most of us are  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 16 --- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 444left after reading his book. Y et at the end I am nevertheless forced to confront inconsistencies and beliefs that I would rather avoid. Jus in bello  remains at best an asymptotic guideline, never fully to be achieved, often to be hypocriti-cally violated. But what other choice do we have?
Node: 20058, Score: 0.0072199605003664, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0014.txt, Content: eful diversion of airpower from a better use. 9 Dresden, too, was probably attacked largely because the Soviets complained that Britain and the US were not contributing their fair share in the winter of l945 to the forthcoming land battles within Germany. In the early days, however, the arguments for bombing were not offi- cially developed in terms of morale and retaliation. They followed the more tortuous course of reasoning about the scale of civilian casualties permissible to set back Germany’s war industry. Although Harris and others thought ter-ror as such was permissible because it must surely weaken the enemy’s will, the Allies did not officially accept such  a justification. Nonetheless, the earlier notions of collateral damage themselves proved sufficiently elastic — any indus-trial or transport capacity contributed to the German and Japanese war effort. How much devastation was permissible? In targeting Sodom and Gomorrah for incendiary attacks, even God was willing to allow innocent victims. Once the tide had turned, violence was ingrained and the capacity to infl  ict damage — but largely indiscriminate damage — had been vastly enhanced. Only Hitler and Goebbels were frank enough to declare that the V-1 and V-2 attacks in the latter stages of the war were indeed designed to wreak terror, hence their V designa-tion for “ Vergeltung , ” meaning reprisal or retaliation. But they could not win that battle. 9  Overy, op. cit . (note 8), pp. 103-04.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 9 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 437The German debate and the issue of taboos In retrospect, what has been striking about the post-war German discussion of these issues is the relative absence of political reproach except in extreme right-wing circles, at least until a few years ago. Dresden, for all the implicit reproach in the discussion about it, never became a Hiroshima. Of course, the fatali-ties, despite propagandistic inflation, were lower: 35,000, not 70,000-100,0
Node: 20062, Score: 0.007319872885297, Chunk File: maier_city/chunks/maier_city_0018.txt, Content: hated). He points out that as much destruction followed during the final year of the war as in all the previous years before: devastating raids not only on railroads or in return visits to towns smashed repeatedly before, but also on cities ranging from Dresden to Würzburg and Potsdam whose destruction seemed called for mainly because they had until then been spared. Although the book focuses primarily on British bombing, American readers will recall the devastating accounts of the Tokyo raid of 9/10 March 1945 and the toll as our B-29s roamed virtually unopposed over Japanese cit-ies as from November 1944, dropping incendiary weapons on wooden housing with sometimes even greater human costs. Billy Mitchell, the American pioneer of naval bombing, had recognized this as early as the 1920s, when he described the Japanese cities as “the greatest aerial targets the world has ever seen… ” 12 The Friedrich book offended many Germans (and a fortiori  Anglo- American readers) by its inflammatory language which borrowed the rhetoric used for the “final solution, ” including the terminology of the Holocaust. 13 But I 12  Cited in: Richard Rhodes, Downfall: Th  e End of the Imperial Japanese Empire , Random House, New Y ork, 1999, p. 48. 13  See the excellent reviews submitted to the H-German network by Joerg Arnold, 3 November 2003, and Douglas Pfeifer, 4 November 2003, which appropriately address, I believe, the strengths and weaknesses of this work — Pfeiff  er’s with more emphasis on the military and political issues, Arnold’s with greater emphasis on the moral and conceptual problems. Others have also indicated the defi  ciencies of the book as a scholarly source. See for instance Horst Boogs’ summary list of errors in his contribution to Ein Volk von Opfern? Die neue Debatte um den Bombenkrieg 1940-45 , Rowohlt, Berlin, 2003. Obviously many issues are contentious in this debate. Th  e most parochial issues are those that concern historians as such. To what extent can th