Node: 11815, Score: 0.0835327350846006, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0754.txt, Content: would not be able to rejoin it. His plane was about to fall out from under him just when he needed it most. Even though great clusters of American bombers had gone down, greater clusters were still com- ing. Despite the heroic efforts of more German fighters than had ever before accepted an enemy challenge, the air was still full of For- tresses, and he could do nothing about it. He and his comrades had failed to stop them. Schweinfurt would soon be punished again for this failure.  Lt. David Williams, lead-plane navigator to Schweinfurt in Au- gust and lead-plane navigator again today, proved that his precision had not been accidental on that earlier occasion by bringing the First Division, or what was left of it, to its predetermined Initial Point west  304  of Wiirzburg exactly on schedule at 2:34 p.m. Colonel Milton, being new in the 91st Group, didn’t know Williams very well, but he now developed a deep appreciation of the slender young man who had been named Group Navigator only five weeks earlier. Despite the heaviest fighter attacks any American task force had ever suffered, attacks that had already knocked more than thirty bombers out of the First Division formations, Williams had brought the division to the starting point of its bomb run on the appointed minute. The ball- bearing factories at Schweinfurt lay open to them in the hazy sun- shine, fifteen miles ahead.  The rest of the way, however, would not be easy. The defenders of Schweinfurt, the crews manning the town’s three hundred 88-mm. antiaircraft batteries, were no doubt ready. Worse than that, the German fighters were still pressing their attacks even though their pilots had to be aware that they were now entering their own flak zone.  On Milton’s left, the 305th Group was pushing bravely forward under command of Major Normand though twelve of its fifteen planes had already fallen and only three remained in formation. After looking at this pitiful remnant, Milton picked up his microphone and ask
Node: 11226, Score: 0.082097338100103, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0165.txt, Content: chweinfurt was under attack.25 Because the railway station and yards had been demolished, his train stopped about a mile north of the city. He ran from there to his large, elegant home in the northern suburbs. After finding his family still in their shelter and making certain they were safe, he hurried to his factory, expecting the worst. Schafer had feared for some time that his and the other ball-bearing plants would be attacked. One evening early in the war, he and his family were listening to the radio when German newscaster Hans Fritsche said, ‘‘Last night our planes bombed the British ball-bearing center at Chelmsford.’’ Leaping to his feet, Schafer had shouted to the radio, ‘‘Shut up, you fool! Don’t talk about it!’’ He had feared the British would get ideas from the Chelmsford raid. His fears had been well grounded. Apparently the British or the Americans or both had remembered Chelmsford all too well.  When Schafer reached his bombed factory, he took one short tour of inspection. It looked even worse than he had expected. Going into the bomb shelter below his battered office, he sat down in utter dejection. He was convinced that all his sensitive machinery had been ruined, that his plant was just a pile of rubble, that the company his father had begun and he himself had built into a huge industry was beyond redemption.  61  All but three of the B-17s in Gen. Robert Williams’s Schweinfurt fleet enjoyed a short respite after turning for home. These three succumbed to flak wounds inflicted over the target, bringing the armada’s casualties so far to a horrendous total of twenty-five. For the others, the skies ahead looked clear, and some of the more hopeful crew members were beginning to wonder if the German fighters had finally exhausted themselves. They soon found out.  At 3:15 p.M., the first task force under Colonel Gross circled over Meiningen to reassemble and tighten its formations before heading westward. Ten minutes later the second task force under Co
Node: 11887, Score: 0.0805720257016158, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0826.txt, Content: failed? Which side had been the real winner October 14? If, as Arnold suggested, a security leak had enabled the Germans to predict and counter an 8th Air Force opera- tion, what was being done about it? And how did anyone know for certain that the B-17s had done as much damage at Schweinfurt as Eaker had claimed? Unfortunately for Eaker, there was no absolute proof. Subsequent reconnaissance photos had confirmed the great damage to the factory buildings, but pictures taken from high altitude could not show how much vital machinery had been destroyed, how much the German war effort had been hurt. Only the Germans knew. On October 23, at a German airbase near Deelen, Holland, Her-  336  mann Goering assembled the day-fighter pilots of the Third Division in the auditorium for a lecture.4 Standing before them, tightly corset- ted into his carefully tailored uniform, the fat, hard-faced Reichsmarshal looked stern. He wanted to talk to them again, he said, about the failure of Germany’s day fighters. They had failed because “‘they were not clear about certain things and because they were also tired and somewhat cowardly.’’ He wanted these men to know he was not pleased. He had thought that after he had brought the majority of Germany’s fighers back from the fronts to use in home defense, the day attacks of the enemy would soon be ended. He had thought his fighters would have a feast shooting down enemy bombers, but he had been wrong.  ‘*The German people have suffered immensely under the terror of enemy bombers, day and night,’’ he said. ‘The people can under- stand that it is difficult to fight at night. But they cannot understand why, in the daytime, our fighters do not fight as they should.*’  He had received many letters from German people describing the activities of the fighters during the attack on Schweinfurt, and these people did not find them aggressive enough. ‘‘In a word, the popula- tion is very embittered about the action of the day fighters, and they are
Node: 11812, Score: 0.0795680833367329, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0751.txt, Content: rauihalwalt’ twice, in the fuselage and in one wing. He was out of ammunition ini:a'nt Yq d low on fuel. Forced to land, he did so with a heavy heart because xittkiengrihit was leaving what had to be the fiercest air battle of all time and he tximeuleniv’tkti :uld not be able to rejoin it. His plane was about to fall out from t der him just when he needed it most. Even though great clusters of avukeiardiif nerican bombers had gone down, greater clusters were still com- iil hukalttibi ». Despite the heroic efforts of more German fighters than had ever icaitkati fore accepted an enemy challenge, the air was still full of For- aici, sses, and he could do nothing about it. He and his comrades had ‘wht; i led to stop them. Schweinfurt would soon be punished again for its failure. tt Lt. David Williams, lead-plane navigator to Schweinfurt in Au- itt st and lead-plane navigator again today, proved that his precision } nitrite d not been accidental on that earlier occasion by bringing the First vaigeintesiohl vision, or what was left of it, to its predetermined Initial Point west  304  firing and moved closer to take better aim. Until now he had seen no gunfire from his bomber, and as he pulled within 150 feet of it he could see why. The tail guns were hanging downward uselessly and there was a large hole in the tail assembly. His aim had not been so wild after all. He must have hit the rear gunner. But if so, he asked himself, ‘‘Why the hell doesn’t the bird react?’’  Slipping to the left, he fired again at the wing section between the two engines. He was so close it was ‘‘impossible to miss.’’ The wing exploded; the plane rolled left and disappeared straight down.  In his elation, Stedtfeld shouted to himself, ‘‘I made it! I made it!’’ But he now found himself flying between two other American bomb- ers. In his haste to get himself ‘out of this mess,”’ he rolled leftward and became aware for the first time of heavy gunfire coming at him from all directions. He heard a dru
Node: 11708, Score: 0.0789573490706139, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0647.txt, Content: ine shop and a large group of office buildings and stores received hits. At the Fichtel & Sachs plant at least two bombs burst directly on a single-story machine shop, with three more on adjoining build- ings. Direct hits were scored on two machine shops of the Works IT plant of the V.K.F., and other buildings received blast damage. At Works I of the V.K.F., part of the manufacturing buildings were destroyed  This report and the aerial photos were, however, inconclusive. The organization of ball-bearing factories was complicated, and the de-  260  By the time General Eaker got back to England August 23 after assessing the damage to Colonel LeMay’s Fourth Bombardment Wing in Africa, he had a fairly full picture of how much the Schwein- furt-Regensburg mission had cost the 8th Air Force. On the Schwein- furt operation alone, 36 Flying Fortresses were shot down and 27 so badly mauled they would never fly again, constituting an actual loss of 63 aircraft. Another 95 were damaged to some degree. On the Regensburg operation the toll would be much higher than he had realized because maintenance facilities were lacking in North Africa. For LeMay’s mission against Bordeaux en route home to England (August 24), he had only 60 airworthy planes. He had to leave another 60 in Africa because he couldn’t get them repaired. Though some of these might later be salvaged, they must now be considered lost, bringing the Regensburg toll to 84 aircraft (plus 3 more on the Bordeaux raid). This raised the aircraft toll for the entire Schwein- furt-Regensburg mission to 147. And more than 550 of the crewmen in those planes were either killed or captured.  The pressing questions were whether the results at Schweinfurt and Regensburg justified this great expense, and whether such enormous  259  losses could be sustained even if the results were excellent. Recon- naissance photos showed that the Regensburg results were perhaps even better than excellent. The British were astonished by the bomb-
Node: 11201, Score: 0.0775615536824766, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0140.txt, Content: did not expect it to fly much farther. Yet they continued firing at the onrushing Germans. The radio operator-gunner, Sgt Delmar Kaech, who was on his fifth mission since transferring in June from the Canadian to the U.S. Air Force, had brought a double supply of ammunition aboard this morning when he learned that the day’s target was Schweinfurt.'3 He now had plenty of time to use it because the plane’s entire communications system had been shot out,  leaving him no radio to operate. He was firing his gun when he noticed that Sgt. H. K. Michaud, the ball-turret gunner, had been killed. As Kaech was trying to get Michaud’s body out of the turret, word came back from Arcaro that the plane was no longer fliable. By the time Kaech groped his way back to the radio compartment where he had left his parachute, the plane was in a dive. He put on the chute as best he could, went ont the hatch, and pulled his rip-cord as soon as he had fallen clear of the plunging bomber. Unfortunately, he’d had only enough time to get one leg into the harness, part of which was also still unhooked. When the chute opened, the jolt twisted and dislocated one of his vertebrae, sending him to earth with his back in pain, but he had little time to think about that. He was holding on for dear life to his unfastened harness  When Lt. Hans Langer and his comrades in 2 Gruppe Jagdge- schwader 51 caught up to the Fortresses, the bombers were already east of Frankfurt. Langer’s group, after taking off from Neubiberg near Munich, had been vectored toward Frankfurt, which German Homeland Defense officials considered the probable target right up to the moment the bombers began passing it. They now expected Schweinfurt to be the target.  Langer, like most German pilots, knew enough about the Schwein- furt plants to realize their importance; and when he saw the masses of American bombers heading eastward, he felt certain they were going there. He and his group, deciding on a twelve o’clock attack, sped aro
Node: 11287, Score: 0.0775502113619986, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0226.txt, Content: town. While he had no way of knowing how perilously severe Germany’s production chief, Albert Speer, considered this damage to be, Eaker had no doubt that Schweinfurt had been hard hit. And according to indications from LeMay, the Messerschmitt plant at Regensburg had been almost destroyed. It was fair to assume that the raids had been highly successful in damaging the German war effort. But that conviction could only partially comfort Eaker. He was now living painfully with the knowledge that he had lost a total of sixty B-17s in the two attacks—a prohibitive 16 percent of those dis- patched. In addition, early reports indicated that twenty-seven of the Schweinfurt planes had been so badly damaged they might never fly again, and ninety-five of the surviving planes had sustained lesser damage.  Eaker did not yet know how many of LeMay’s planes would have to be junked as a result of the Regensburg raid. This was one of the unpleasant facts he would discover when he reached Telergma  86  Bombardment Wing’s shuttle from Regensburg to Africa. The sergeant said, ‘‘This is different, Captain. This is some kind of a special mission. You'd better get dressed and go see the colonel.’  Ten minutes later, Smith was in the office of the 351st Group commander, Col. William A. Hatcher, Jr., who said to him, *‘Read that twix from 8th Air Force headquarters.”’  The telegram said: ‘‘Please select a highly qualified crew to come down to Bovingdon [a base near London] and stand by for General Eaker and party to proceed to Africa.”’  “*That’s you,’’ Colonel Hatcher said to Smith.  “‘But as I recall,’’ Smith said, ‘‘our only airplane still usable last night was Spare-ball.””  This B-17 had earned its name because it was used only as a spare. Nobody wanted it. One of its engines habitually spewed oil onto the wing, and the mechanics couldn’t figure out what was wrong. No one had flown it to Schweinfurt. The group was just able to supply the quota without it.  “*That’s the plane you've g
Node: 11216, Score: 0.0774052996468452, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0155.txt, Content: ounded by flak, these clusters of bombs would have fallen two or three minutes earlier, upon factories rather than houses.  As the last American planes turned west for home, explosions rocked the entire Schweinfurt area and fires were spreading in all directions. Despite the fierce and heroic resistance of 300 German fighters, General Williams’s armada had reached its target and 182 Fortresses had dropped about 420 tons of bombs—235 1,000-pound and 719 500-pound high explosives plus more than 1,000 British- made 250-pound incendiaries. An umbrella of smoke covered the city  A half-hour earlier, Schweinfurt had been one of Germany’s most comfortable, peaceful, and attractive towns, an admirable example of how an age-old community, steeped in medieval tradition, could be modernized and industrialized without losing its beauty, style, or architectural integrity. At least eleven centuries old, it had been a free and independent city from the 13th to the 19th century, when it was incorporated into Bavaria. Its town hall had been built in 1570; several buildings around it dated from the 17th and 18th centuries. In 1883, a Schweinfurt mechanic named Friedrich Fischer invented the bal nder, a machine that facilitated for the first time the mass production of ball bearings, previously made only by hand. Fischer founded a company that was bought a few years later by another ball-bearing manufacturer, Georg Schafer, who merged it with his own firm to create Kugelfischer & Co. The growth of this company, now Germany’s largest ball-bearing producer, had encouraged three competitors to settle in Schweinfurt, making it Europe’s most impor- tant ball-bearing center. One company, a Swedish-owned firm named Vereingte Kugellager Fabrik (VKF), had two factories here, one just east of Kugelfischer, the other just south of it. Adjoining the south VKF Werke, near the railway yards, were the Fichtel & Sachs Werke and the Deutsche Star Kugelhalter Werke  Kugelfischer and VKF each employed a
Node: 11814, Score: 0.0766343423029928, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0753.txt, Content: ached  303  the day’s battle with some knowledge of what to expect since he had been a combat pilot for a year and a half and had shot down two B-17s in the August 17 defense of Schweinfurt.3 When his squadron came upon the B-17s October 14, he was convinced they were again on their way to Schweinfurt. He was somewhat surprised, however, because he knew how many bombers the Americans had lost in August. He had been pleasantly aware of the 8th Air Force hiatus since then, and he was certain it had been caused by the heavy losses that day. It seemed to him that he and his comrades on August 17 had proven their control of the air over Germany. The Americans could hardly afford to repeat such losses. Yet here they were again, so they would have to be dealt with again.  Langer and his companions, unlike Stedtfeld’s squadron, attacked from the front, one plane after another in a line astern, because they had discovered the dangers of a frontal attack from a line abreast formation. If two fighters flying parallel routes happened to zero in on the same bomber, they might converge and hit each other. They might also bank into each other in their last-second roll or dive to avoid collision. Langer’s squadron therefore met the bombers one after another as the American armada approached its Initial Point near Wiirzburg. But after several passes, Langer could still not claim a kill. While he was convinced he had inflicted damage, none of the Fortresses at which he fired had gone down, or even slowed down. It was as if he hadn’t scored a hit. Meanwhile, his own plane had been hit twice, in the fuselage and in one wing. He was out of ammunition and low on fuel. Forced to land, he did so with a heavy heart because he was leaving what had to be the fiercest air battle of all time and he would not be able to rejoin it. His plane was about to fall out from under him just when he needed it most. Even though great clusters of American bombers had gone down, greater clusters were still c
Node: 11191, Score: 0.0764039040291659, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0130.txt, Content: e seemed doomed, the tail section snapped off, throwing several of them free. Reports differed on whether four or five more chutes opened.  At 2:45, between Koblenz and Frankfurt, the group lost its eighth Fortress. This one had salvoed its bombs and its No. 2 engine was smoking when it dropped out of formation. The 381st had taken off with twenty-six planes. Now, with only eighteen left, and most of them badly battered, the stricken group had still to go the rest of the way to the target, then all the way back to England.  Just as the 381st Group was losing its eighth plane, the 92nd Group, several miles to the rear near Aachen, was losing its first. Two of its B-17s, those piloted by Capt. Roland Sargeant and Lt. J. D. Stewart, had been struggling to stay in formation since they sustained rocket damage near the Dutch coast. Both pilots had done well to keep their planes in the air, but Stewart’s luck now ran out. His Fortress began falling. He gave the bail-out order and the whole crew escaped. Ten chutes opened before the plane crashed.  Near Koblenz, Lt. Philip Algar, pilot of the last plane in the 384th Group’s low squadron, heard his left waist gunner, S. Sgt. John Schimenek, call out a warning that a German fighter was on their tail, firing his 20-mm. cannon. (Schimenek was now dividing his time between his own machine gun and that of the wounded right waist gunner, S. Sgt. L. Corwin Miller, who needed frequent attention.) A moment after hearing Schimenek’s warning, Algar looked out his side window in time to see a string of cannon shells from the rear, flying past his face at a distance of less than six feet. These shells, set  48  It had seem he wished th of an assaul once, was : formation gi flying suit a: tactics. Tim of shrapnel } intercom an minutes pas Fortresses ei thrived on b Several g battle, launc of these was radio operat approached in awe at the fill the sky. FW-190s. 1 different tac with its four tions from 1 rockets, thei escape the thrusts, t
Node: 11869, Score: 0.0759339534513927, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0808.txt, Content: himself what had happened at Schweinfurt. In the two months since the August attack Speer had not succeeded in doing very much to ward off the dangers of further attacks. The factory dispersal plan had remained nothing more than a plan. Despite numerous discussions, the only accomplishment had been to order more new machines and to start building a few small component factories in towns around Schweinfurt. While the afflicted factories were being patched up, he had been forced to call on the German Army and Air Force to relinquish for war-production uses all the ball bearings they had in storage. These reserves had lasted until early September, long before the factories at Schweinfurt had returned to anything approximating full-scale production. At that time, output was still so sparse that ball bearings were delivered each day, as soon as they came off the line, from the factories to the waiting assembly plants. Sometimes the desperate assembly plants sent men with knapsacks to pick up how- ever many bearings the factories had ready. Attempts were made to increase the ball-bearing purchases from Sweden and Switzerland, but these countries, which were already sending Germany more bearings than they pretended, were willing to increase the volume only minimally, even under extreme German pressure, because they feared they might lose their neutral status in the eyes of the Allies. During those days, Speer and his associates anxiously wondered “‘how soon the enemy would realize that he could paralyze the production of thousands of armament plants merely by destroying five or six relatively small targets.”’  Speer did not know that Gen. Ira Eaker at 8th Air Force headquar- ters in England was of the same mind but had been able to do nothing about it until he had restored the crew and aircraft losses he had suffered at Schweinfurt in August. In late September and early October, as new planes and men were strengthening the American force, the bombed-out Schweinfurt factor
Node: 11870, Score: 0.0757103946409526, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0809.txt, Content: e crew and aircraft losses he had suffered at Schweinfurt in August. In late September and early October, as new planes and men were strengthening the American force, the bombed-out Schweinfurt factories were also gradually returning to approximately full production. The bearing crisis ended The days passed and the Americans failed to renew their attack. Speer was reinforced in his original hunch that the August attack had been  328  *  At the hospital near Frank and hand wounds had been « cognac with which the doc sufficiently from the exciterr call his unit headquarters ai what had happened to him.  To the men around his bec volunteered to make the call happy to learn that Stedtfeld the controller wa him. His success in shooting and he had received credit fo parachute jump had also bee been an exciting day, althou; that of the sixty ME-109s tha only one had returned undan down, but many had landed ; yet know exactly how many apparently a significant nun rades, like himself, had rep the airplane losses, the con elation because none of the had received credit for sho The feeling among the pilot tory  As for Stedtfeld himself, bed, return to Neubiberg, ar was actually in the war, he w who had treated him promis soon as he was in shape to  Albert Speer and several Adolf Hitler at his Rastenbu Julius Schaub, entered the 1  “The Reichsmarshal [Goce Schaub said to Hitler. ‘“Thi  Hitler left the room to tal could see he was *‘in good s| daylight attack on Schweinft  an isolate  incident, that it was not part of a concerted American  program to destroy the German ball-bearing industry, Just as he had  suspected,  tance of Sc  it again. Under 1 about ball  the Americans apparently didn’t realize the vital impor-  1S. ASSUI  hweinfurt and therefore might not have any plans toattack  imption, Speer gradually laid aside his concern  bearings as other pressing problems demanded his atten-  tion. On October 11, for instance, three days before the second attack, he and his staff
Node: 11520, Score: 0.0752392854148167, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0459.txt, Content: Fortress in same formation against background of clouds and flak. View is through opening for waist gun. U.S. Air Force Photo  Not nearly so familiar a sight as B-17 crews would have preferred were flights of P-51 Mustang fighters. Early decisions to downplay production of P-51’s caused them to be in short supply when critically needed as B-17 escorts. U.S Air Force Photo  Wing camera of B-17 in which Edwin Millson flew as navigator took this phot during an early stage of second Schweinfurt raid, October 14, 1943. Phot  Courtesy of Colonel Edwin Millson  On the ground at Schweinfurt, fires continue to blaze furiously after B-17’s had  turned homeward to face once again the onslaught of German fighter planes. A familiar  Fortress ing through op?”  After the Flying Fortresses have passed, leaving fires and bomb damage in their wake at Schweinfurt on October 14 raid, workers emerge from Kugelfischer  plant to see what can be done.  Not nearly of P-51 M caused ther Air Force F  View Photographed by another plane later in the October 14 raid shows the Aerease in smoke as fires spread through factory area of Schweinfurt. U.S. fir Force Photo  On the ground at Schweinfurt, fires continue to blaze furiously after B-17’s  in the onslaught of German fighter planes.  es have passed, leaving fires and bomb damage in their wake at Schweinfurt on October 14 raid, workers emerge from Kugelfischer plant to see what can be dor  hed by another plane later in the October 14 raid shows the Acrease in smoke as fires spread through factory area of Schweinfurt. U.S. tir Force Photo  View photographed b nerease in smok tir Force Photo  another plane later in the  s fires  spread through factory  Octot  Pilot and co-pilot inspect damage in which tail-gunner’s compart- ment in which gunner was riding was sheared off shortly after bombs were dropped. U.S. Air Force Photo  Wounded airman is removed from B- fter safe landing at base in England.  raids shows hits on machine shops (A and B) and
Node: 11150, Score: 0.0749615928907168, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0089.txt, Content: in their planes. At 10:45 the battery booster cart was plugged into the lead plane of the 9ist, to be flown by the group commander, Lt. Col. Clemens L. Wurzbach; a minute later the B-17’s first four-bladed propeller began to turn slowly, its engine sputtered, coughed, blew a puff of smoke to the rear, then burst into a roar. A smooth roar, loud but not deafening. Even with all four engines running, the Flying Fortress was not an ear-splitting aircraft. The Air Force had several planes that made much more noise, including even one small training plane, the BT-13, whose single engine could drown out the big bomber’s four.  As Wurzbach taxied out to the runway, Col. William M. Gross, air commander of the first two combat wings, settled into the copilot’s seat beside him, studying the revised schedule for the rendezvous of the 91st with his five other groups.  Gross and Wurzbach were off the ground at 11:20. Col. Howard 32  word from the tower. Several times, operations officers came out in jeeps with status reports. This crew had a special interest in the Schweinfurt mission because they had received special preparation for it, and had been waiting two months for it to happen. Once in June and three times since then, each heavy-bombardment group had sent a select crew to General Williams’s headquarters for secret briefings about the ball-bearing factories. Preston had taken this crew to represent the 379th, so they knew better than most of the others what they had to anticipate.  Lt. Philip Algar, a University of California graduate from Mo- desto, was one of the eighteen pilots of the 384th Group waiting to take off from Grafton-Underwood, but he knew very little about the target of the day.!° His crew had received no special training for the Schweinfurt project, and until the aborted mission a week earlier, he had scarcely been awate that Schweinfurt was a ball-bearing center What had impressed him at this morning’s briefing was the distance they were expected to fly
Node: 11354, Score: 0.0744943869625556, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0293.txt, Content: others. He had told General Arnold in Washington that the B-17’s hand-held guns would not do in combat. The plane would have to be equipped with turrets, and it would also need fighter escorts. Even then, he had insisted, daylight bombing with it would be ‘‘very sticky.””  n addition, the plane carried too small a bomb load. The ten machine guns plus ammunition needed for daytime combat would add so much weight that the pay load would be limited to about a ton. The bomb-bay doors were too small, Harris told Eaker, and so were the bombs the Americans planned to drop.  Harris was even more emphatic in warning Eaker about climatic factors. The areas in the United States where American fliers trained, mostly California and Texas, were quite different from the areas they would be bombing in Europe. ‘‘How many days,”’ he asked rhetori- cally, ‘will you be able to see the ground in Europe from 20,000 feet? Damned few.”’  Eaker had too much faith in the B-17 and in the skill of American pilots to accept these arguments. He knew the plane would need certain modifications, and the crews would need extra transition training when they arrived. But he was convinced that when they got into battle they would do as well in the daytime as the British were doing at night. While the bomb load would be smaller, each bomb dropped on a specific military or industrial target would damage the German war effort much more than a larger bomb dropped at night on the house of one or two German workers. The ten B-17 machine guns were heavy, of course, but if they could hold off German fighters so that the bomber could reach an important target in full daylight when the bombardier could see it, they would be worth their weight. The 8th Air Force B-17s, unlike those the British had tried, would have the remarkable Norden bomb-sight, which would enable them to  112  daytime operations? It would be a waste of all that armament and all that extra equipment to use the plane at night.  On the subject o
Node: 11581, Score: 0.0743052493829539, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0520.txt, Content: r Force could knock out 89 percent of the submarine construction; 43 percent of the German fighter and 65 percent of its bomber production; 76 percent of its ball-bearing manufacture; and 50 percent of its synthetic-rubber capacity. Its oil supplies could be disrupted and its military vehicle supplies seriously depleted.  The plan carefully stated, however, that unless the 8th Air Force could achieve daytime air superiority in the skies over Germany, none of those goals could be accomplished. Eaker himself inserted a strong warning when he wrote: ‘‘If the growth of the German fighter strength is not arrested quickly, it may become literally impossible to carry out the destruction planned.’”  Eaker had been confident in September 1942, after a few missions, that the B-17 could defend itself in the skies over Germany. But soon thereafter he had begun to realize that fighter protection would be urgently needed to hold down losses, and that the farther the fighters could go with the bombers, the smaller the losses would be. It was this realization that had prompted him in October 1942, and again in January 1943, to explore the possibility of having auxiliary fuel tanks made in England for the newly arriving P-47s. In February, having received no satisfactory answer from the British Ministry of Aircraft Production, he had ordered sixty thousand tanks of 200-gallon capac- ity from the United States.  In his January 16 paper, ‘‘Why Have U.S. Bombers Not Bombed Germany?’’ Eaker had pointed out that ‘‘we have no fighters with sufficient range to accompany our bombers into Germany. We have  207  had three groups equipped with such long-range fighters, but before they were trained they were taken from us, assigned to the 12th Air Force, and dispatched to Africa.’’  In a February 26 letter to Arnold he said: ‘‘I believe there is no question that our bomber losses will be greatly reduced when our fighters are ready to accompany us. . . . The early receipt of any adequate quantit
Node: 11356, Score: 0.073946056327172, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0295.txt, Content: ated November 1 which listed the faults the British had found in these early-model Fortresses.  The plane was so ‘‘dependent on suitable weather conditions,’’ this memo stated, that there was a ‘‘severe limit’’ on the frequency with which it could operate. ‘‘Even when clear conditions exist, the formation of condensation trails [from its engines] still further limits the occasions when the aircraft can penetrate to their targets without risk of interception.’” The bomb load was ‘‘uneconomical in relation to the crew and technical maintenance required.’’ The armor was inadequate. ‘‘An armoured bulkhead is now being fitted but the additional weight will tend still further to reduce the operational height.”’ To fire the plane’s heavy waist guns ‘‘the large blisters must  111  be openet  order of minus 50 degrees centigrade.”” The plane admittedly had “‘a ceiling considerably in excess of any other bomber in service," but, the memo contended, “prolonged flights at heights above 30,000 feet impose very considerable physical and mental strain on the crew, with the result that they are incapable of making the fullest use oftheir equipment.”  Since Saundby was now Harris's chief deputy at Bomber mand, the air marshal knew all these arguments and could supply a  few other  escorts,  be “very n ad machine  add so much weight that the pay load wor  The bom  aris factors,  would be  B-17’s hand-held guns would not do in combat, The plane woul have to be equipped with turrets, and it would also need fighter  the bombs the Americans planned to drop.  cd, with the result that internal temperatures lower to the  =  Com-  1s. He had told General Amold in Washington that the  Even then, he had insisted, daylight bombing with it woul sticky.” ition, the plane carried too small a bomb load. The ten  guns plus ammunition needed for daytime combat woul ld be limited to about a ton -bay doors were too small, Harris told Eaker, and so were.  was even more emphatic in warning Eaker about cl
Node: 11876, Score: 0.0736752280816946, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0815.txt, Content: d, had been hard hit. The oil baths had caused serious fires in the machine shops. The damage was **‘far worse than after the first attack.’’  329  ii)  at  chithirs)  ila  wala  neta.) tu  praisals until he had much more es but he was oppressed by the compelling fact that of 291 Flying Fortresses dispatched to Germany, 60 had failed to return. This loss rate—19 percent—was one that no air force could afford. Such a loss demanded immediate explanation.  If the Germans had actually lost 99 fighters out of 300, as Eaker and Anderson believed after making adjustments for duplicate claims, that would be a 33 percent loss, which would be much more expensive to the Luftwaffe than the 60-plane loss was to the 8th Air Force. The Germans were no longer able to replace aircraft at the same rate as the Americans. (On the 14th, the day of the Schweinfurt mission, 93 new American crews arrived in England. During Oc- tober, Eaker was expecting 250 to 300 replacement aircraft plus crews.) And if the attack had actually damaged the ball-bearing factories as extensively as the photos indicated, then the loss of 60 Fortresses, though awesome, was not too high a price to pay. But since none of these assumptions could be proved, would other people believe them? Already the U.S. newspapers would be announcing in huge headlines that 60 Flying Fortresses had been lost at Schwein- furt, a little German town which meant nothing to most Americans. In the early hours of the morning General Arnold had sent Eaker a personal cable indicating some alarm in Washington at such a heavy loss  “‘It appears from my viewpoint,’’ Arnold wrote, *‘that the German Air Force is on the verge of collapse. . . . We must not (repeat) not miss any symptoms of impending German air collapse. . . . Can you add any substantiated evidence of collapse?’*  In light of the performance of the German Air Force on the previous day, this cable looked like nothing more than a frantic plea from Arnold for Eaker to send him all
Node: 11198, Score: 0.0735776179400781, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0137.txt, Content: on his right; too this composite hig not possibly give high group was n in tighter, but he cluded six planes such heavy losses was determined t planes go downn high group remai  Preston’s fears high squadron of from the rear. Th when it hit the gi  Five minutes I:  By this time, Eagle’s Wrath was shredded with holes and its crew members did not expect it to fly much farther. Yet they continued iring at the onrushing Germans. The radio operator-gunner, Sgt.  elmar Kaech, who was on his fifth mission since transferring in  June from the Canadian to the U.S. Air Force, had brought a double supply of ammunition aboard this morning when he learned that the day's target was Schweinfurt.!3 He now had plenty of time to use it ecause the plane's entire communications system had been shot out, leaving him no radio to operate. He was firing his gun when he noticed that Sgt. H. K. Michaud, the ball-turret gunner, had been killed. As Kaech was trying to get Michaud’s body out of the turret, word came back from Arcaro that the plane was no longer fliable. By the time Kaech groped his way back to the radio compartment where ad left his parachute, the plane was in a dive. He put on the chute as best he could, went ont the hatch, and pulled his rip-cord as soon as e had fallen clear of the plunging bomber. Unfortunately, he’d had only enough time to get one leg into the harness, part of which was also still unhooked. When the chute opened, the jolt twisted and dislocated one of his vertebrae, sending him to earth with his back in ain, but he had little time to think about that. He was holding on for dear life to his unfastened harness  When Lt. Hans Langer and his comrades in 2 Gruppe Jagdge- schwader 51 caught up to the Fortresses, the bombers were already east of Frankfurt. Langer’s group, after taking off from Neubiberg near Munich, had been vectored toward Frankfurt, which German Homeland Defense officials considered the probable target right up to the moment the bombers began p
Node: 11784, Score: 0.0735556560543715, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0723.txt, Content: orce began crossing the English coast, the Germans already knew its size and direction. The one thing they didn’t yet know was its final destination. By 12:50, when the First Division crossed the Dutch coast, German planes from such bases as Antwerp and Abbeville were in the air to meet them.  Over the Walcheren Islands, twenty of these planes, all ME-109s, attacked, at 32,000 feet, the fifty P-47s of the U.S. 353rd Fighter Group under the command of Maj. Glenn E. Duncan. The second battle of Schweinfurt had now begun. These first German planes ignored the American bombers and concentrated on the fighters in an apparent attempt to break up the escort and send it home immediately rather than wait until its short range forced it to go home. This attempt failed. After a series of dogfights above the bombers, the ME-109s had managed to knock down only one P-47. The American pilots claimed ten Germans. Many of these were undoubtedly duplicates, but the Thunderbolts had proven that they would not be driven away until they ran short of gas.  Some of the early German pilots in the air were not so quick to attack. Lt. Heinz Knoke and his eleven ME-109s of the Fifth Squad- ron, 11 Gruppe Jagdgeschwader 2, out of Jever, approached the First Division over Antwerp. But because the Fortresses were still accom- panied by fighters and because Knoke’s planes were carrying wing rockets that restricted their speed, he merely followed the American armada without getting too close.!7 He could afford to be patient. He knew the fighter escort would have to turn back near Aachen.  As the big bombers cruised across Belgium at 150 miles an hour with the protective fighters overhead, there were so few German  292  no further than the Aachen area, which was exactly where the B-17s had lost their escorts on the August 17 mission.  At General Eaker’s 8th Air Force headquarters in Bushy Park, he could do nothing but sit stewing in his office as his bombers invaded Germany.!5 Once again he had fou