Node: 11066, Score: -0.0166345548999042, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0005.txt, Content: of people who took part in the events the book describes, and who patiently submitted to long interview sessions reviewing those events. The author extends his deep appreciation to the following:  In England: J. H. Adams, Mrs. Joan Billett, Quentin Bland, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Chenery, Squadron Leader Edwin R. Cuff, Ret., Jeffrey Ede, Norman Evans, Dr. Noble Frankland, Roger Freeman, Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Arthur T. Harris, Group Capt. E. B. Haslam, Ms. Elizabeth Hook, Mrs. Jeannette Hutchins, Edward Inman, David Irving, Mrs. Harry Klein, Mrs. Anna Knowles, A. W. Mabbs, Kyffin Owen, Mark Phillips, Mrs. Daphne Redgrave, Philip Reed, Basel Thomas Rodwell, Group Capt. Dudley Saward, Col. David Smith, Mr. and Mrs. David Spoll, and Mrs. Frances Thom- son. Imperial War Museum, British Museum, London Library, Pub- lic Record Office, and R.A.F. Air Historical Branch.  In Germany: Robert C. Ellner, Gen. Adolf Galland, Franz Goger, Dr. Adolf Lauerbach, Dr. Gunther Rubell, Dipl. Ing. Georg Schafer, Jr., Bruce Siemon, Frau Hedwig Singer, Albert Speer, Dr. Med Gunther Stedtfeld, Wilhelm Stenger, and Leo Wehner. Bundes Ar- chiv, Koblenz; Militair Archiv, Freiburg; City Archive, Schwein- furt; Jagerblatt Magazine, Lutjenburg, and editor Rolf Ole Lehmann (for help in locating German Air Force veterans)  In the United States: Luther E. Adair, Jr., Philip M. Algar, William D. Allen, Maj. Shirley J. Bach, Albert F. Berlin, Arthur H Blohm, Col. Ray L. Bowers, Hans L. Bringmann, Robert Brooks, Anthony Cave Brown, Lt. Col. Joseph Brown, Ret., Bruce Callan- der, Col. R. T. Carrington, Jr., Ret., Mrs. Frank A. Celentano, Mrs. Robert Howden Clapp, Dr. Gale Cleven, Col. Bart Cobey, Ret., Lt Col. William M. Collins, Jr., Ret., Charles Cooney, John Huie de Russy, Gen. Jacob Devers, Ret., William E. Dolan, Edward F Downs, Lt. Gen. Ira C. Eaker, Ret., Lt. Col. Gerald B. Eakle, Ret., Chet Fish, Robert Fitzgerald, Ellwood H. Ford, James G. Forrest, Douglas Gibson, Mrs. Starr Gregory, Maj.
Node: 11316, Score: -0.0111853682864558, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0255.txt, Content: ted. In the minds of most of the British and Americans, whether military or civilian, Adolf Hitler had reduced the ethical considerations of the war to simple terms. It might be argued that Germany had been treated too harshly by the Versailles Treaty after World War I. But all the privations visited upon Germany, even if totally unjustified, could not excuse or mitigate the ghastly captivity and brutality Hitler’s men were now imposing upon all of Europe. The two hundred million people Hitler had enslaved, and the souls of the other millions he had eliminated, were crying out for someone to stop him by any possible means. The only morality the Allies could now afford to recognize was the ethical imperative of eliminating the evils Hitler represented.  Some possible methods might be too extreme, but the bombing of cities did not seem so after Germany instituted the practice on a vast scale in Poland, Belgium, Holland, Russia, and England. If the destruction of German cities and industrial centers could foreclose Hitler’s ability to make war, that seemed to constitute justification enough, especially since it was evident that Hitler himself recognized no moral restraint in his methods. What would the enslaved people of Europe say if anyone told them they would have to accept their enslavement because it would be inhuman to bomb Germans?  The desperate need to defeat the Nazi machine was accepted by almost everyone in Great Britain and America and by all British and American leaders, including both Eaker and Harris. They were passionately dedicated to the defeat of Hitler, and bombing Germany was the only means at their disposal. For two years to come, bombing would be the only direct offensive action the Allies could launch against Germany proper.  That afternoon, Eaker and his small group took a two-hour drive through London’s bombed-out areas, mostly in the East End around the dock and factory districts but also around St. Paul’s Cathedral, where scarcely a buildin
Node: 11688, Score: -0.0099027954153713, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0627.txt, Content: l had a shop wherehe not onlysold 1g the British that wooded countryside, had very little social activity. Most of them had icycles; he also repaired them.'4 And since most of the Americans >dicated to fighting lost their boyfriends to the services. Miss Howden’s fiancé had been idn’t take good care of their bikes, his services were in great week, thought the killed. Her first contact with the Yanks did not seem promising lemand. He soon found such favor with the men of the 95ththatthey 2h trivial occasions When they arrived at the base, many of them had suffered food would sneak him onto the base and into the line at the mess hal hile the impatient poisoning on the ship that brought them, and she was assigned to One night Rodwell had a momentary scare. While he was eating  ” the English were nurse a forty-bed ward full of them. They were not sick enough to with his new friends in the mess hall, some officerscameintomakea ling a little life in resist commenting on her charms and suggesting several things they surprise inspection. The men around Rodwell quickly locked him in the war would still would like to have her do with them. It seemed to her also that most of the ice-cream refrigerator. When the inspection was finished and they them had unpronounceable names, and those who had pronounceable hurried to the refrigerator to let him out before he began to freeze, | roup where casual- names were pronouncing them wrong. The peculiarity of American they found to their surprise that he was in no hurry tocome out.  ght-hearted as the names and their pronunciation soon became a source of amusement to Rodwell loved ice cream. the tension increas- all the nurses at Fairfield. There was never a shortage of girls around the American bases. _le girls and stopped Miss Howden and her friends quickly decided, nevertheless, that Rodwell was astonished at the number of girls who showed up in 2m were becoming these American men were like ‘‘a gift from God,”’ not only because Horham
Node: 11315, Score: -0.0083376262828438, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0254.txt, Content: enforce them. Unlike Ira Eaker, he had never been described as a tactful, diplomatic man.  These two generals had met a few times when Harris visited the United States on R.A.F. missions to buy airplanes and materiel, but they were not well acquainted. Eaker, knowing Harris by reputation, could hardly guess what to expect of him. He was aware that like most R.A.F. experts, Harris had a low opinion of America’s best bomber, the B-17, which would have to be the mainstay of the 8th Air Force. He also knew Harris was skeptical of the possibilities of daylight precision bombing. Eaker was therefore ready to defend the American position in arguments about these important mat- ters.  But today no arguments developed. Harris was the very model of British cordiality as they walked to church together. Did Eaker need any help in selecting a site for his headquarters or in procuring necessary equipment? Indeed he did. His little staff of six had arrived without so much as a typewriter. Harris would gladly take care of all that. Would Eaker like to inspect the R.A.F. Bomber Command setup and attend operational conferences? He would be welcome anytime. Would he need some office help until his own personnel began to arrive? Harris was shorthanded himself, but he would loan Eaker as many people as he could spare. By the time the two men reached church, Eaker was much more confident about the fulfill-  97  ment of his mission and more relaxed about his relations with the British.  The irony of these two generals walking to church as they dis- cussed plans to drop bombs on thousands of Germans probably did not occur to either man. The moral justification for World War II had already been defined so clearly by 1942, and accepted so universally outside Germany, that people took it for granted. In the minds of most of the British and Americans, whether military or civilian, Adolf Hitler had reduced the ethical considerations of the war to simple terms. It might be argued that Germany ha
Node: 11395, Score: -0.0079363419464718, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0334.txt, Content: der had already spoken to the European Theater  A  commander, General Chaney, about the matter. With a wry smile, Amold said to Baker, ‘Chaney won't have any WACs in this theater He thinks it will create a morals problem.”  Eaker said, ‘General, i  f I were you, I'd get some anyway.”  This incident may have helped settle some questions already in  129  Arnold’s mind about Chaney. Late that same night in his hotel room, he discussed with General Eisenhower and Major General Mark Clark, who had also accompanied him, ‘‘the need for a theater commander who could meet the British senior officers on even terms.’’ Eisenhower and Clark both agreed that a change was advis- able. When Eisenhower left, Arnold and Clark agreed that Eisenhower would be the ideal man for the job. Arnold decided he would speak to General Marshall about it when he returned to Washington.  After Arnold’s departure, Eaker and his men settled down once more to the painstaking task of getting ready for the arrival of their first bomb groups. They had been in England for more than three months now trying to bring about the birth of a bombing force, but they hadn’t yet dropped a bomb. They didn’t even have an airplane. It seemed at times as if the planes would never arrive; yet mountains of work still had to be done in preparation for them.  In the midst of this frantic preparation, Eaker received a phone call from the mayor of the neighboring town of High Wycombe, who wanted the general to attend a dinner, June 5, with him and the town council.  Eaker, swamped with work, begged to be excused.  A short time later, the mayor called again to press the invitation. “It won't take long,’’ he said, ‘‘because we don’t have much food. You'll be able to get away very shortly and return to your work. But I think since we’re your neighbors, it would help both sides if you came over and met my council and had dinner with us.””  Eaker finally said, ‘*All right, but with the understanding there'll be no speeches.  As
Node: 11068, Score: -0.0077342842953024, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0007.txt, Content: on, D.C. ; Library of Congress, Manuscript Division; National Archives, National Records Center, Suitland, Md.; New York Public Library; and Office of Air Force History, Washington, D.C  Viii  Germany, and the United States. Especially helpful were the scores of people who took part in the events the book describes, and who patiently submitted to long interview sessions reviewing those events. The author extends his deep appreciation to the following:  In England: J. H. Adams, Mrs. Joan Billett, Quentin Bland, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Chenery, Squadron Leader Edwin R. Cuff, Ret., Jeffrey Ede, Norman Evans, Dr. Noble Frankland, Roger Freeman, Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Arthur T. Harris, Group Capt. E. B. Haslam, Ms. Elizabeth Hook, Mrs. Jeannette Hutchins, Edward Inman, David Irving, Mrs. Harry Klein, Mrs. Anna Knowles, A. W. Mabbs, Kyffin Owen, Mark Phillips, Mrs. Daphne Redgrave, Philip Reed, Basel Thomas Rodwell, Group Capt. Dudley Saward, Col. David Smith, Mr. and Mrs. David Spoll, and Mrs. Frances Thom- son. Imperial War Museum, British Museum, London Library, Pub- lic Record Office, and R.A.F. Air Historical Branch  In Germany: Robert C. Ellner, Gen. Adolf Galland, Franz Goger, Dr. Adolf Lauerbach, Dr. Gunther Rubell, Dipl. Ing. Georg Schafer, Jr., Bruce Siemon, Frau Hedwig Singer, Albert Speer, Dr. Med Gunther Stedtfeld, Wilhelm Stenger, and Leo Wehner. Bundes Ar- chiv, Koblenz; Militair Archiv, Freiburg; City Archive, Schwein- furt; Jagerblatt Magazine, Lutjenburg, and editor Rolf Ole Lehmann (for help in locating German Air Force veterans)  In the United States: Luther E. Adair, Jr., Philip M. Algar, William D. Allen, Maj. Shirley J. Bach, Albert F. Berlin, Arthur H Blohm, Col. Ray L. Bowers, Hans L. Bringmann, Robert Brooks, Anthony Cave Brown, Lt. Col. Joseph Brown, Ret., Bruce Callan- der, Col. R. T. Carrington, Jr., Ret., Mrs. Frank A. Celentano, Mrs. Robert Howden Clapp, Dr. Gale Cleven, Col. Bart Cobey, Ret., Lt Col. William M. Collins, Jr., Ret., Ch
Node: 11401, Score: -0.0069547831652146, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0340.txt, Content: right, but with the understanding there'll ’ to greet his immediate people are right out of Bert Harris’s hide, and he’d like to get them be no speeches.”” Air Force commander, on back. I think you ought to ask Hobby [Col. Oveta Culp Hobby, As the mayor had promised, the dinner took only an hour. Butafter_ had remained in the States commander of the U.S. Women’s Army Corps] to get us a company it was finished he said to Baker, “‘It just happens that alot of our © arrange and expedite the of our own WACs.”’ serving men and women are having a dance across the street. The  lantic, was now ready to  That evening, when Eaker joined Arnold in London for dinner, the member of Parliament from this district will be there, so I think we © —code-named Widewing Air Force commander had already spoken to the European Theater ought to go over.” da ‘“‘hello’’ press confer- commander, General Chaney, about the matter. With a wry smile, Baker, taking a poor view of this development, said, “I hope 1 once more the American Arnold said to Eaker, ‘“Chaney won’t have any WACs in this theater. you're aware, that’s breaking our agreement.” But he did accom- aytime.  He thinks it will create a morals problem.’ pany the mayor, and when they entered the huge community hall om he felt he could always Eaker said, *‘General, if I were you, I’d get some anyway.”’7 across the street, he was faced with a crowd of two thousand British losest friends, the two men This incident may have helped settle some questions already in service men and women in uniform. During an intermission in the © *, as a first lieutenant, was  dancing, the mayor got up on a platform and spoke for fifteen ,0. Major Spaatz was the  129  130  minutes, welcoming the first increment of American airmen to arrive in England. When he ended his speech by introducing Eaker, the general could not, in good grace, refuse to open his mouth. But if he had to speak, he decided he would make it short  “‘We won’t do much talking,’’ he said t
Node: 11686, Score: -0.0047934941589803, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0625.txt, Content: ith his new friends in the mess hall, some officers came in to make a surprise inspection. The men around Rodwell quickly locked him in the ice-cream refrigerator. When the inspection was finished and they hurried to the refrigerator to let him out before he began to freeze, they found to their surprise that he was in no hurry to come out. Rodwell loved ice cream.  There was never a shortage of girls around the American bases. Rodwell was astonished at the number of girls who showed up in Horham after the Yanks arrived. On Sundays, or on the nights when the men staged dances in one of the hangars, young women came from miles around.  The same was true at Thorpe Abbots, five miles north of Horham, where the new 100th Group had arrived June 9.15 Harry Chenery, a ferret keeper there, gazed with wonder upon the parade of girls, with  252  letters, 13 ea.;—on a yellow pad, later to be typed in septuplicate and Fairfield nurses began organizing dances and sending blanket invita- | m for being able to  sent with the man’s belongings to a special depot, pending confirma- tions to Bassingbourn. The boys came by the truckload with canned © d for flying poorly tion of his death or of his capture by the Germans. The final disposi- goods and chocolate and great expectations. lich the Americans tion of the letters and photographs was a matter requiring tact and The more attractive girls, like Miss Howden, soon had aselection © vy Fortresses. The discretion. A man’s widow might not want to receive, among his of eager men inviting them to pubs or to ‘‘dinner houses” like the  iks for invading the effects, nude pin-up pictures or letters from other women. Green Lantern in Baldock. Her first date was with a major who took so easily find and Air Force policy was to remove a man’s property from his barracks her to London, but before long she realized officers were not neces- the same day he was declared missing so that his buddies wouldn’t sarily the best boyfriends. The G.I.s had akna
Node: 11319, Score: -0.0038224929926274, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0258.txt, Content: llies coud now aff imperative of eliminating the evils  Some posible methods might be cities did not se  struction of German cites and in Hitler's ability to make war, that se enough, especially since it was evier moral restraint in his methods, WI  m0 after Germany instituted the practic scale in Poland, Belgium, Holland,  sans of  War I, But ll the  vised upon Geman, event totally unjustified, could not excuse or  0 hundred milion pec  ord to recognize was itler represente loo extreme, but the bo  sia, and Englan util centers coul emed t0 constitute us nt that Hil himself at would the enslave  Europe say if anyone told them enslavement because it woud be in  ‘The desperate need to defeat the almost everyone in Great Britain an American leaders, including both  passionately dedicated tothe defeat of iter, and bombing Germany ‘orto years ocome, bombing action the Ales could launc  Was the only means at thei disposal wou! be the only direct offensive against Germany proper  That afternoon, Eaker an his smal group cook a two-hour drive  through Londons bombed-ou areas,  the dock and factory districts but also around St, Paul's Cathedral  man to bomb Germ  Baker and Hart,  5 osly in the Bast  where scarcely a building remain  the watt simple  utality Hitler's men were now  ey would have to acept their  az machine was accepted by America and by all British an  rations  le Hitler iminated,  ethical  mmbing of on avast the oveclose tication cognie plea  as?  y were  aroun  intact, Iwasa tour  al ma  them realize immediately what kind of war they wereentrng, They  8  en sat down at Cranmer Court that night, ag even the small portions put before  England, Eaker’s most delicate job was to ch as possible, and as subtly as possible, vadquarters. He had an amicable meeting iff in which they seemed to accept most of he development of his unit.7 But the next It meeting with Chaney’s quartermaster, h plan of feeding standard English rations \ousing them in tents without heat. Eake
Node: 11067, Score: -0.002814645336775, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0006.txt, Content: William E. Dolan, Edward F Downs, Lt. Gen. Ira C. Eaker, Ret., Lt. Col. Gerald B. Eakle, Ret., Chet Fish, Robert Fitzgerald, Ellwood H. Ford, James G. Forrest, Douglas Gibson, Mrs. Starr Gregory, Maj. Rob Gruchy, William Wister Haines, Ms. Janet Hargett, Dr. Paul Heffner, Jack Hickerson, Gladwin Hill, Charles S. Hudson, Brig. Gen. Harris Hull, Ret., Edward J. Huntzinger, Maj. Glenn B. Infield, Ret., Edward Jablon- ski, Delmar Kaech, David Kahn, Frank T. Keneley, Paul Ketelson, Richard E. Kono, Hans J. Langer, Col. Beirne Lay, Jr., Ret., Bruce Lee, Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, Ret., Ben Lyon, Lt. Col. Charles J.  vii  McClain, Ret., Lt. Col. Miles McFann, Ret., T/Sgt. Leroy D. McFarland, Ret., Capt. Marvin W. McFarland, Bruce D. Moore, L. Corwin Miller, Col. Edwin H. Millson, Ret., Gen. Theodore R. Milton, Ret., Col. John R. Mitchell, Ret., Rev. Henry J. Nagorka, Gen. Joseph J. Nazzaro, Ret., Harold Nelson, Ralph H. Nutter, Robert E. O’Hearn, Lt. Gen. Archie Old, Jr., Ret., M/Sgt. George W. Parks, Ret., James Parton, Col. Budd Peaslee, Ret., Horst Petzschler, Gen. Maurice A. Preston, Ret., Leo Rand, Ms. Madeline Rhodes, Max Rosenberg, John F. Schimenek, David Schoem, Col. William R. Smith, Ret., Col. Kermit D. Stevens, Ret., Carlos P Stewart, Gunther Stuhlmann, Phillip R. Taylor, Alan Tucker, Dominic Ventre, James O. Wade, Frank B. Walls, Ernest E. War- saw, Ms. Gloria Wheeler, Col. David M. Williams, Ret., Maj. Gen. Robert B. Williams, Ret., Maj. Edward P. Winslow, Ret., Maj Gen. Stanley Wray, Ret., Robert Wolfe, Ms. Mary Wolfskill, Lt Col. John H. Woolnough, Ret., and Col. Clemens L. Wurzbach, Ret  Air University, U.S. Air Force, Maxwell Field, Alabama; Colum- bia University Oral History Research Office, New York City; Dept. of the Air Force, Office of the Secretary, Washington, D.C. ; Library of Congress, Manuscript Division; National Archives, National Records Center, Suitland, Md.; New York Public Library; and Office of Air Force History, Washington, D.C  Viii  Germany
Node: 11914, Score: -0.0011664166717612, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0853.txt, Content: his new assignment. Who was Colonel Holt? Eaker had never heard of him, but after talking to Sir Charles Portal, he decided he would stop and see the man on his way to the Mediterranean  More than two hundred people came to the R.A.F.’s farewell dinner at the headquarters in Bushy Park. Portal and Harris were the hosts. The senior members of the 8th Air Force staff had also been invited. At least fifteen people made brief talks. The next day, Air Chief Marshal Harris and Lady Harris, Eaker’s first firm friends in England, came to see him off at the Bovingdon Air Base. Harris, still uncertain why the American general was being transferred, felt some concern that Eaker might think their differences of opinion about bombing policy were a factor in his removal.!° He did not mention this to Eaker, however, when they said goodbye in one of the hangars. An R.A.F. guard of honor was standing at attention as he boarded his plane—a Flying Fortress that had been fitted out for him  Capt. William Smith, now his pilot, had the engines running Smith, who had fallen in love with a beautiful Red Cross girl in England, was no less reluctant than Eaker to go to Africa. As the plane took off, Eaker sat silently among the staff members accom- panying him. Alone with his thoughts, he said very little to anyone on the entire trip. Still bitterly disappointed by his transfer, he could not overcome his feeling that the Mediterranean was a secondary theater and that he was taking over a secondary command  When his plane landed in Casablanca, Eaker went immediately to see ‘‘Colonel Holt.’’ He found himself entering a familiar villa, the one he had visited the previous January during the Casablanca confer- ence.!! **Colonel Holt’’ was the secret pseudonym for Winston Churchill when he traveled. He was in Africa now recovering from a bout of pneumonia. Eaker found him in the same two-story living room where they had argued about the American daylight-bombing  347  ss na hi  rough  py hsp  ter
Node: 11347, Score: 0.0012952282499592, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0286.txt, Content: e to the trouble of becoming a highly accomplished chef, invited Eaker to his home for a dinner featuring a Virginia ham he had brought back from his latest trip to Washington. Thereafter, Eaker’s dinners with the Harrises were frequent.  One day, the Harrises suggested that until the Wycombe Abbey facility was secured and ready for occupation, Eaker should move with them into a new home the R.A.F. was providing for them, a pleasant, three-bedroom country house with stables and garden, three miles from his headquarters.  Lady Harris, to assure Eaker that the invitation had been serious, renewed it one evening. It would give them all a chance to get better acquainted, she explained, but there would also be a practical consid- eration. Despite her husband’s high military rank, she had to do her marketing with the same ration cards as any other British housewife. The more ration cards she had, the more food she could buy, and the better they would be able to dine. She and her husband both made it sound, very graciously, as if Eaker would be doing them a favor by moving in with them.  He was so charmed he happily agreed to do so, even though he knew there might be another motive involved in the offer. Despite the growing personal warmth between Harris and Eaker and despite the generous help Harris had provided, the arguments between the two men about bombing policies and strategies continued, as it did also at lower levels among their staff members. The R.A.F. had not aban- doned its desire to remake the American Air Force in its own image.  After Eaker moved into the Harris home April 5, he found himself spending evenings in what the air marshal called his ‘‘conversion room,’’ a study where he had set up a stereopticon machine that showed three-dimension aerial photographs of the German cities the R.A.F. had bombed. These were specially processed pictures taken  109  by British reconnaissance planes as soon as the smoke cleared the day after a raid. In some, there were
Node: 11396, Score: 0.0025988794086052, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0335.txt, Content: we’re your neighbors, it would help both sides if you came over and met my council and had dinner with us.””  Eaker finally said, ‘*All right, but with the understanding there'll be no speeches.  As the mayor had promised, the dinner took only an hour. But after it was finished he said to Eaker, ‘‘It just happens that a lot of our serving men and women are having a dance across the street. The member of Parliament from this district will be there, so I think we ought to go over.”’  Eaker, taking a poor view of this development, said, ‘‘I hope you’re aware, that’s breaking our agreement.’’ But he did accom- pany the mayor, and when they entered the huge community hall across the street, he was faced with a crowd of two thousand British service men and women in uniform. During an intermission in the dancing, the mayor got up on a platform and spoke for fifteen  130  the Prime Minister’s official country residence thirty miles northwest of London. Also present were Portal and Harris. Tonight Harris, who had already subjected Arnold to a session in his ‘‘conversion room,’” was staging something even more persuasive—the R.A.F.’s first 1,000-plane mission against Germany. In the largest raid ever launched, 1,046 aircraft (376 of them snatched temporarily from operational training units) were taking off to drop 1,455 tons of bombs on Cologne as Churchill and his guests sat down to dinner. Since Churchill’s social evenings always lasted far into the following morning, Harris was able to announce before the guests retired that the raid had been smashingly successful.  Though the details were fragmentary, Arnold was indeed im- pressed. However, he was not converted. On the issue of day versus night bombing, the evening was a standoff. As Arnold later wrote, ““Of all the moments in history when I might have tried to sell Mr Churchill and his R.A.F. advisers on the future of American preci- sion bombardment by daylight, I had picked the night when they were selling their own k
Node: 11324, Score: 0.0031448288984948, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0263.txt, Content: nd it, bottle, three times what Ame 1942. Canned food was equall: was down to its last stocks, an it.  By the time Eaker and his tour, London’s short winter di the frigid, rather austere apart Sloane Street) to which they ha heavy darkness had introduce phenomenon—the blackout. ' dimmed house lights added no windows were covered with b  Marshal Harris, acting upon the earlier conversation with Eaker, had already set aside for them not only a temporary office within his own headquarters but also a nearby house large enough to accommodate  all of them unti well-appointed  senior officer, and the invading Americans were delighted to get it But they would soon find that, because it was heated by only 1! standard British fuel ration, it was almost too cold for Americans to  consider habitat  be incentive enough to hasten their search for quarters of their own. e in the afternoon,  La home of one of  young woman  by telling the C  old and gray  aker, who ather formal Ei  staff were there, as was Lady Jill Harris, an arrestingly beautiful  (Shortly after his marriage, when Harris was expecting to be posted to an active overseas command but was assigned instead to a dull desk job in the Ministry, he had talked himsel  tropical.) General Eaker found Lady Harris as friendly and concerned 8 she was attractive. The conversation with her, as with her husband, tuck to general topics—the English weather, which was especially  London; and mutual friends in Washington, where the Harrises had become well acquainted during their several visits  they could make permanent arrangements, It was a jouse, probably built by the R.A.F. for the use of a  le, The temperatures in its big, drafty rooms would  arris invited the Americans to tea at the is aides, Several members of the Bomber Command  ¢ bomber commander had married four years earlier.  f back into the overseas post ief of Air Staff that his bride's trousseau was entirely  that day; wartime food shortages; the blackout in  iad been i
Node: 11314, Score: 0.0036748401507313, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0253.txt, Content: n, to Rhodesia, where he became, among other things, a coach driver, gold miner, and farmer. It took World War I to fulfil  Army that he went instead, at the  his father’s fondest ambition for him.5 After enlisting in the First  %  y possible means. The ognize was the ethical resented. 1e, but the bombing of i the practice on a vast and England. If the enters could foreclose constitute justification ler himself recognized the enslaved people of i have to accept their bomb Germans? shine was accepted by vand by all British and d Harris. They were and bombing Germany ears to come, bombing e Allies could launch  took a two-hour drive in the East End around | St. Paul’s Cathedral, was a tour that made y were entering. They  Rhodesian Infantry Regiment, he eventually went to England and got into the Royal Flying Corps (forerunner of the R.A.F.) as a second lieutenant on probation. This began a career that was now reaching its zenith as Harris took command of the R.A.F.’s bombing campaign against German cities, the only military offensive Britain had yet been able to take against Germany during two and a half years of war.  Churchill had every reason to believe that Harris would add punch to the bomber offensive because Harris was dedicated to it as some- thing that, by itself, could destroy Hitler and end the war. He had already won Churchill’s heart by talking about his dream of sending a thousand bombers a night against Germany. Harris’s determination to repay the Germans for their destruction of British cities, and in the process prove the irresistible power of aerial bombardment, had earned for him a reputation as the toughest, most hard-headed, most committed man in the R.A.F. Positive in his convictions, he was quick to assert them and uncompromising in his resolve to enforce them. Unlike Ira Eaker, he had never been described as a tactful, diplomatic man.  These two generals had met a few times when Harris visited the United States on R.A.F. missions to buy airpla
Node: 11398, Score: 0.0042634311293152, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0337.txt, Content: nd Clark agreed that Eisenhower would be the ideal man for the job. Arnold decided he would speak to General Marshall about it when he returned to Washington.  After Arnold’s departure, Eaker and his men settled down once more to the painstaking task of getting ready for the arrival of their first bomb groups. They had been in England for more than three months now trying to bring about the birth of a bombing force, but they hadn’t yet dropped a bomb. They didn’t even have an airplane. It seemed at times as if the planes would never arrive; yet mountains of work still had to be done in preparation for them.  In the midst of this frantic preparation, Eaker received a phone call from the mayor of the neighboring town of High Wycombe, who wanted the general to attend a dinner, June 5, with him and the town council.  Eaker, swamped with work, begged to be excused.  A short time later, the mayor called again to press the invitation. “It won’t take long,’’ he said, ‘“‘because we don’t have much food. You'll be able to get away very shortly and return to your work. But I think since we’re your neighbors, it would help both sides if you came over and met my council and had dinner with us.””  Eaker finally said, ‘‘All right, but with the understanding there’ll be no speeches.”’  As the mayor had promised, the dinner took only an hour. But after it was finished he said to Eaker, ‘‘It just happens that a lot of our serving men and women are having a dance across the street. The member of Parliament from this district will be there, so I think we ought to go over.”’  Eaker, taking a poor view of this development, said, ‘‘I hope you’re aware, that’s breaking our agreement.’’ But he did accom- pany the mayor, and when they entered the huge community hall across the street, he was faced with a crowd of two thousand British service men and women in uniform. During an intermission in the dancing, the mayor got up on a platform and spoke for fifteen  130  the Prime Minister’s officia
Node: 11523, Score: 0.0045200357473307, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0462.txt, Content: h better for them to work in Africa.  The Air Ministry was now so alarmed about what Churchill might or might not be planning to do that General Eaker was invited the next day (January 1 1) to visit Sir Archibald Sinclair.!3 They had a pleasant talk in which Sinclair solicited Eaker’s arguments supporting Ameri- can policy. Sinclair ‘got the impression that Eaker was ‘“‘straining at the leash,’’ but that the loss of so many airplanes to TORCH had frustrated him as much as had the weather. Nevertheless, Eaker assured the British Air Minister that he was ready right now to bomb certain targets in Germany, which he named, and that he could do so with fewer losses than he was sustaining against the submarine bases in the Bay of Biscay.  Eaker was not told how much trouble Sinclair and Portal were having with Churchill over American air policy, but he was shown one of the papers the Air Ministry had prepared in defense of the 8th Air Force.!4 This was enough to make Eaker suspect that something untoward was in the air.  On Wednesday, January 13, Eaker received a cable directing him to report as soon as possible to General Arnold in Casablanca. Casablanca! What was Armold doing there? Eaker had written to him in Washington just two days earlier. Eaker had received no inkling of the Churchill-Roosevelt conference, which was to begin in Africa January 14.'5  The British weather, plus the German fighter patrols from France that forced Africa-bound planes to fly a roundabout route into the Atlantic, delayed Eaker’s arrival in Africa until late in the evening of the 15th. The next morning, General Arnold’s aide, Col. Eugene Beebe, took him to the villa where the U.S. Air Force commander  183  was staying, within the Anfa Hotel compound just outside Casa- blanca. Arnold was in the bathroom shaving, but he didn’t allow that to delay his meeting with Eaker. He still had lather on his face when the two men greeted each other—not enough lather, however, to conceal the grimness of h
Node: 11294, Score: 0.0046057409213395, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0233.txt, Content: nything organically wrong with it, they simply filled it with oil and wished him luck. Less than three hours after landing at Marrakesh, Spare- ball took off again, east across the top of the Sahara  Several times as the plane droned through the sunny sky , Smith felt himself on the verge of falling asleep at the controls. The desert air was so warm, especially for men accustomed to England’s chilly climate, that Eaker opened the waist-gun windows to catch the breeze. When they landed near Tunis, at the end of another eight- hour flight, Elliott Roosevelt, the President’s son, who had become a brigadier general in command of a reconnaissance unit, was on hand to meet them. In two staff cars, Roosevelt took Eaker and his aides to the headquarters of General Spaatz, Eaker’s old friend and one-time 8th Air Force superior, with whom he now wanted to confer. At last, it looked as if Smith and his crew would have time to eat and sleep. But the mess hall at this desert base was closed. A sympathetic sergeant finally took them to a tent where they found a gallon can of marmalade, several loaves of bread, and some fruit juice.  They were still spreading marmalade on big chunks of bread when someone drove up from the flight line and shouted, *‘Hey, you guys, get back to your plane. They want you to take them to Telergma.””  It was well into dusk when Smith and his crew returned to their plane to find General Eaker awaiting them with a sizable party. In addition to his own aides, he had with him General Spaatz, General James Doolittle (commander of the Twelfth Air Force), General Roosevelt, and Colonel Lauris Norstad. As Captain Smith warmed up his engines, carefully testing his bad one, he came to the chilling realization that if this plane failed to hold up for another hundred  87  1 Pes’ on wer ilk cari thm all aly othe Colonel LeMay was walt 10  uae in a et, Hee the ener nd thar freed oc  fe. Fake’ fist question to Lea  ”y  i  ay assured in,  fit time, Eker armed the convi
Node: 11397, Score: 0.0046205836750199, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0336.txt, Content: in history when I might have tried to sell Mr Churchill and his R.A.F. advisers on the future of American preci- sion bombardment by daylight, I had picked the night when they were selling their own kind of bombardment to the world.”’  During his London stay, Arnold also visited Eaker’s stately new headquarters at Wycombe Abbey, where he found most of the staff playing touch football on the lawn. When Eaker showed him through the building, Arnold noticed some of the British WAAFs who were doing the typing, telegraphing and general office work, and even keeping the ‘‘Secret’’ files. Eaker explained that Harris had very generously loaned these girls to him.  “*How are you getting along with them?’’ Arnold wanted to know.  ““No problem at all,’’ Eaker assured him, ‘‘but you know, these people are right out of Bert Harris’s hide, and he’d like to get them back. I think you ought to ask Hobby [Col. Oveta Culp Hobby, commander of the U.S. Women’s Army Corps] to get us a company of our own WACs.”’  That evening, when Eaker joined Arnold in London for dinner, the Air Force commander had already spoken to the European Theater commander, General Chaney, about the matter. With a wry smile, Arnold said to Eaker, ‘“‘Chaney won’t have any WACSs in this theater. He thinks it will create a morals problem.”’  Eaker said, ‘*General, if I were you, I’d get some anyway.”’7  This incident may have helped settle some questions already in  129  Arnold’s mind about Chaney. Late that same night in his hotel room, he discussed with General Eisenhower and Major General Mark Clark, who had also accompanied him, ‘‘the need for a theater commander who could meet the British senior officers on even terms.’’ Eisenhower and Clark both agreed that a change was advis- able. When Eisenhower left, Arnold and Clark agreed that Eisenhower would be the ideal man for the job. Arnold decided he would speak to General Marshall about it when he returned to Washington.  After Arnold’s departure, Eaker and his
Node: 11237, Score: 0.004943075280885, Chunk File: coffey_schweinfurt/chunks/coffey_schweinfurt_0176.txt, Content: came down hard. His right leg hit one of these beets and twisted sideways with such force he could hear bones snap.  Before he had time even to try standing, a farmer near the haywa- gon ran over to him. Looking up, Winslow asked, ‘‘Belgian?”’  *‘Oui, oui,’’ the man said. ‘‘Et vous?”  ““American.’”  Motioning for him to stay down, the man warned, ‘‘Cachez! Cachez!”’  67  Understanding enough French to realize he had been told to hide, Winslow hid by gathering bits of foliage around him while the man went away, presumably to get help. A few minutes later a German patrol party passed by, probably looking for the fallen Americans, but Winslow was now sufficiently hidden. Shortly after the Germans disappeared, the Belgian returned with a tan civilian suit and helped Winslow put it on. Several other Belgians gathered around, some of them asking for souvenirs. He gave them his parachute and harness, his Mae West (inflatable vest), and whatever else he didn’t think he would need. Suffering the pain of a broken leg (it proved to be fractured in three places), he asked for a doctor, but no one under- stood him. A small boy gave him cognac, and then the farmer carried him piggy-back to a shed behind his barn  When Winslow asked about a toilet, someone, understanding only the French meaning of the word, and supposing he wanted to wash himself, went into the house and brought him a face cloth with a basin of water. He finally managed to convey his actual need and they carried him to a pile of straw outside the shed. Then they took him back inside and laid him down on a bed of straw. His rescuer and several other people began to question him in French, but since he could understand little of what they were asking, communication remained minimal  Again he asked for a doctor. They brought him a country priest who wanted to know whether he was a Catholic or a Protestant  Winslow, grasping this question, said he was a Protestant.  The priest stayed only a short time before bidding h