Node: 18672, Score: 0.0638731481176805, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0128.txt, Content: 0–14. 2. The German navy lost 53 of 73 airships built during the war, and the army lost 26 of 52. Approximately 49 percent of all aircrews assigned to airships were lost during the war—the worst casualty rate of any branch, including infantry. Peter Fritzsche, A Nation of Fliers: German Aviation and the Popular Imagination  (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1992), 50. 3. Lt Gen Jan C. Smuts, “The Second Report of the Prime Minister’s Committee on Air Organisation and Home Defence against Air Raids,” 17 August 1917, as quoted in Eugene M. Emme, ed., The Impact of Air Power (Princeton, N.J.: Van Nostrand, 1959), 35. 4. There are many accounts of these squabbles, and none of the principals emerge looking either statesmanlike or dignified. See especially H. Montgomery Hyde, British Air Policy between the Wars, 1918–1939 (London: Heinemann, 1976); Andrew Boyle, Trenchard: Man of Vision (London: Collins, 1962); and Frederick Sykes, From Many Angles  (London: George Harrap, 1942). 5. “Future Policy in the Air,” 22 September 1916, Trenchard Papers, RAF Hendon, England, file CI/14. This memo was later published as a Royal Flying Corps pamphlet titled “Offence versus Defence in the Air,” October 1917; a copy is located in Brooke-Popham Papers, Liddell Hart Archives, King’s College, London, file IX/5/4. 6. Ibid. 7. Brig Gen Sefton Brancker, the deputy director of military aeronautics, made an astounding comment in this regard in a letter to Trenchard in September 1916: “I rather enjoy hearing of our casualties as I am perfectly certain in my own mind that the Germans lose at least half as much again as we do.” Malcolm Cooper, The Birth of Independent Air Power (London: Allen & Unwin, 1986), 75. 8. “A Review of the Principles Adopted by the Royal Flying Corps since the Battle of the Somme,” RFC pamphlet, 23 August 1917, Brooke-Popham Papers, Liddell Hart Archives, King’s College, London, file IX/3/2. 9. “Long Distance Bombing,” 28 November 1917, Trenchard Papers, RAF
Node: 18904, Score: 0.0607981600795803, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0360.txt, Content: .13 The P-35 featured two other unusual characteristics. First, it was extremely fast; a civilian version of it won the Bendix Air Race in 1937, 1938, and 1939. 14 Considering the fact that contemporary fighter  planes could barely keep pace with new bombers such as the B-17 , this was quite a feat. Second, it was specifically designed for long range (it could fly from coast to coast with only two refuelings), unlike other fighter  aircraft of the day, which were suitable only for point defense. Remembering his war experiences, de Seversky  recognized the need for fighter  aircraft with the range to escort bombers .15 One solution was the air refueling  device he had already patented, but extensive use of this system would have to wait another two decades. During the Vietnam War , tactical fighters  became strategic bombers  as a result of air refueling . In the late 1930s, however, people considered such an expedient too inefficient and costly. Designers, therefore, had to devise a method to extend the range of aircraft without air refueling .MEILINGER 243  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 270 --- Most of them thought that building a long-range escort  fighter was technically impossible, reasoning that any plane with the necessary range would have to be quite large in order to carry the requisite fuel. A large aircraft needed more than one engine and might require additional crew members, which, in turn, meant even larger size, more weight, more fuel, and so forth. In short, escorts  soon looked like the bombers  they were designed to protect and thus would become easy prey for enemy fighters. De Seversky , virtually alone among designers, was convinced that one could build a long-range escort  by using internal fuel tanks, which would not sacrifice the attributes characteristic of a successful fighter . At the same time, de Seversky  called for increased armament on fighter  planes. Whereas standard equipment generally consisted of two .30-caliber machi
Node: 18739, Score: 0.0590800313610394, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0195.txt, Content: r developing the means of recovering such catapulted aircraft without stopping the ship—clearly suicidal in the presence of enemy surface ships or submarines .27 On the other hand, if one accepted the assumption that the decision in war would come through use of the battleship fleet’s guns, then the provision of aerial spotting  throughMETS 121  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 150 --- aircraft carriers , which could recover their “birds” while under way, would introduce another whole class of ships to the Navy line. This would come at a time when funding and manning were insufficient to take care of the requirements that already existed. Flying boats , featuring long range and a developed technology , could provide both scouting and spotting  without that new line of ships (and one could greatly expand their areas of coverage by the use of tenders easily converted from ships already in the Navy ). The flying boats , in fact, had just achieved enormous prestige by crossing the Atlantic in 1919. They did not inhibit the execution of the primary mission of the battleships  and did not compete for funds and people nearly as much as carrier  planes and their required ships. Numerous aviators would support that reasoning. Bellinger , one of the most prominent, clearly was not skeptical of the value of shipboard aviation . He did not see much of a future for kite balloons  or nonrigid airships , but he saw great value in shipboard aircraft  supporting the battle line once air forces had achieved command of the air. Still, in 1924, he perceived enormous potential in the development of long-range flying boats .28 Moreover, notwithstanding the great promise and glamour of the initial operations of the Saratoga  and Lexington , those operations involved many difficulties, and their security with the fleet posed constraints on the offensive preferences of the commanders. 29 Many people made similar arguments in favor of airships . Thus, the thinking of the gun club w
Node: 18903, Score: 0.0586121693367958, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0359.txt, Content: ansfer fuel from one aircraft to another in flight. Combat had taught him that bombardment aircraft were vulnerable to enemy fighter planes; thus, one needed escort  fighters to provide protection to the bombers . However, the smaller fighters  did not have the range to escort bombers  all the way to the target and back. Air refueling  offered a solution. Although his wartime superiors would not allow him to experiment with such a device at theTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 242  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 269 --- time, de Seversky  revisited the idea when he worked with the Air Service , producing an innovative air refueling  device used on the “Question Mark” flight of 1929, when an Air Corps aircraft remained aloft for seven days. 11 In 1927 de Seversky became a naturalized US citizen and received his commission as a major in the Air Corps Reserve . He was always quite proud of regaining military rank and for the rest of his life preferred to be called “major.” In 1931 he founded Seversky Aircraft Corporation  and over the next decade perfected a host of patents and designs, including split flaps, metal monocoque construction, a fire-control unit for aircraft guns, retractable landing gear and pontoons, and specialized aircraft flight instruments. 12 He had obvious talent for design, his innovative SEV-3  amphibian setting world speed records in 1933 and 1935. Derivations of this model became the BT-8  (the first all-metal monoplane trainer built in the United States ) and the noted P-35 . The P-35  was the first all-metal monoplane fighter mass-produced in the United States , incorporating such innovations as an enclosed cockpit, retractable landing gear, and cantilever wings. The Air Corps  purchased 137 P-35s,  the direct ancestor of the famed P-47 Thunderbolt .13 The P-35 featured two other unusual characteristics. First, it was extremely fast; a civilian version of it won the Bendix Air Race in 1937, 1938, and 1939. 14 Considering the fact that contempor
Node: 18700, Score: 0.0579101265717378, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0156.txt, Content: r attack . Because only aircraft could defeat other aircraft, the defensive solution was self-evident. “Airplane carriers ,” as he called them, were the means to provide a moveable cloak of air superiority over the fleet. Once carrier aircraft  won “command of the air,” they could then be used to attack enemy vessels. He speculated that this climactic air battle  would occur as much as two hundred miles from the floating bases, “where hostile gun fire would play no part whatsoever, and where [our] own navy would run no risk.” 42 Mitchell  maintained this stance for several years, even arguing at his court-martial in 1925 that the Navy  should build carriers  that were large enough to carry one hundred bombers  or one hundred pursuit aircraft . His published articles reiterated this suggestion, even hailing the building of the carriers  Lexington  and Saratoga  as a step forward for naval aviation. 43 This attitude soon changed. By 1928 Mitchell  had completely turned his back on airplane carriers , now seeing them as little more than expensive floating targets, “so vulnerable that even a small bomb will put them out of business.” In fact, the carrier  was not only helpless, it was actually harmful because it gave an illusion of progress where none actually existed: “The Naval Airplane Carrier is merely an EXPENSIVE AND USELESS LUXURY used principally as propaganda by the Naval Services to cover up the fact that they have NO adequate defense against aircraft” (emphasis in original), he argued in 1928. 44 Two years later, Mitchell  derided the carriers  as merely a “delusion” of the “Navyists” who were attempting to save their service with outmoded schemes. 45 Why the change of heart? In part, Mitchell had decided that the solution to the air defense  of the fleet rested with airships . With an optimism that was totally unfounded, he envisionedCLODFELTER 93  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 122 --- dirigibles  as capable of traveling thousands of miles, in a
Node: 18892, Score: 0.0557529757130099, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0348.txt, Content: (at least 10 MPH faster than contemporary fighters), climb up to 21,000 feet, and carry five machine guns. Its other novel features included an enclosed cockpit, cowling over the engines, and cantilevered wings. Such developments encouraged new experimentation, and in September 1934, Boeing introduced the XB-17. This all-metal, midwing monoplane could do the work of four B-10s. It could also travel at 250 MPH, carry an internal bomb load of twenty-five hundred pounds for twenty-six hundred miles, and operate up to 30,000 feet. Here for the first time in history, Hap Arnold observed, was airpower “you could put your hands on.” When fighter technology improved in the late 1930s, it was too late from a doctrinal standpoint. The Air Corps’s prewar commitment to four-engined bombers and long-range operations was irreversible. See Thomas H. Greer, The Development of Air Doctrine in the Army Air Arm, 1917–1941,  USAF Historical Study 89 (1955; reprint, Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1985), 46–47.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 234  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 261 --- 90. “Testimony of General M. M. Patrick,” 71. 91. Ibid., 53. 92. Bullard, 21. 93. “[Coast Defense,] the Army Viewpoint,” n.d., 2, AFHRA, file no. 211.33. Internal evidence in the statement suggests that it appeared in the 1930s. 94. See Hanson Baldwin, to Haywood Hansell, letter, ca. 16 May 1939, 2, AFHRA, file no. 168.7148. Baldwin was the military and naval correspondent for the New York Times . He was also a Naval Academy graduate, which may partially explain the venom in his statement. See also “Statement of Brigadier General H. A. Drum,” 2. 95. “Relation of Air Corps Expenditures to Total War Department (Military) Expenditures,” 1, AFHRA, file no. 167.6-5. 96. 1st Lt William A. R. Robertson, “Progress in Military Aviation,” n.d., 11, AFHRA, file no. 248.211-61Y (1898–1937 folder); see also “Statement of Brigadier General H. A. Drum,” 7. 97. Hugh Knerr, microfilm A1878, 109, AFHRA, file
Node: 18913, Score: 0.0549238009747901, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0369.txt, Content: other campaigns gave different lessons: Norway  and Crete  demonstrated the superiority of airpower over naval forces . In both instances the Royal Navy , reputedly the finest in the world, had been decisively repulsed—not by German or Italian sea power , which the British had quickly disposed of—but by the Luftwaffe . The British fleet  lay helpless before an enemy that controlled the air. 36 At Crete , for example, the Luftwaffe  sank four British cruisers and six destroyers, while severely damaging an aircraft carrier  and three battleships . Because of such staggering losses—the worst defeat of the war for the Royal Navy —the fleet could not hold the island. Later, the sinking of the British dreadnoughts Prince of Wales  and Repulse  off the Malayan coast by Japanese land-based aircraft served to heighten de Seversky ’s scorn for the capital ship . De Seversky  also argued that the rescue of the British army from Dunkirk  was possible only because the RAF  controlled the air above the beaches. Air superiority  permitted the Royal Navy  to move in and evacuate over three hundred thousand troops. 37 Had the Luftwaffe  owned the skies, the British would not have attempted such an operation; if they had, the results would have resembled those at Norway  and Crete . Airpower had saved the remnants of the British army . The Battle of Britain  was also compelling insofar as it demonstrated how improperly structured and poo rly led airpower could squander a numerical advantage. Inte rest- ingly, although de Seversky had predicted a British victory, another famous American aviator, Charles Lindbergh , argued that nothing could stand up to the Luftwaffe ’s might.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 250  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 277 --- Moreover, he believed that because Britain was doomed, the United States  should cut ties with that country and build up its own air strength. 38 De Seversky  countered that airpower had shrunk the globe to such an extent that US isolation
Node: 19366, Score: 0.0525094077540041, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0822.txt, Content: raft designer whose P-35  fighter represented a great stride forward in its day; it proved especially noteworthy for its influence on the mighty “Jug”—the P-47  of World War II . But de Seversky ’s brilliance extended beyond designing aircraft. He was certainly on the right track when he patented a scheme for air-to-air refueling  and formulated big plans for internal tankage to extend the range of fighter  aircraft. To be sure, a patent on air-to-air refueling  is not the same thing as a fully perfected system in actual use after much trial and error. Of interest here is the brush-off he received from Air Corps officials when he proffered these ideas. Airpower theory is not just a matter of defining the various roles and missions  of air weapons. Such theory requires the conceptualization of ways to implement it. De Seversky  saw the need for bomber  escorts  to accompany strategic bombers , which would require long-range capabilities. He turned to increased internal tankage and the notion of air-to-air refueling . At the time, neither possibility may have been an entirely satisfactory solution to the problem, but he was thinking toward a solution, whereas Air Corps  leaders were not. The ultimate solution to the escort  fighter was, of course, the drop tank . Here, too, Air Corps  leaders were so narrowly committed to the mission of fighters  in their fighter-versus- fighter role that they refused to visualize them functionin g as escorts . Long after the need to extend fighter  range was manifest, no less an individual than Carl Spaatz recom-mended against the adoption of drop tanks . CuriousHOLLEY 589  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 613 --- about the seeming blindness on the part of an unquestionably able officer, this writer sought out the staff correspondence on this issue. Sure enough, Spaatz  signed the document, but it was drafted by one of his subordinates—Hoyt Vandenberg . Is it not ironic that the two men who later became the first and second
Node: 18905, Score: 0.0516131544414233, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0361.txt, Content: ibutes characteristic of a successful fighter . At the same time, de Seversky  called for increased armament on fighter  planes. Whereas standard equipment generally consisted of two .30-caliber machine guns, he advocated the inclusion of six to eight .50-caliber guns.16 However, when de Seversky  suggested this, as well as increasing range by adding more wing fuel tanks, the Air Corps  turned him down, deeming such innovations not “sufficiently attractive to pursue.” 17 This clash of opinion was doctrinal at least as much as it was technological. American tactical airmen such as Claire Chennault  eschewed the concept of fighter escort . Although acknowledging the vulnerability of bomber  aircraft, they did not relish an escort mission that would put fighter aircraft  in what they saw as an inherently defensive and passive position. Most Air Corps fighter pilots at the time shared this rather peculiar notion. Not until 1944 did American airmen, because of operational necessity, embrace the mission of fighter escort, reconciling need with the imperative to maintain an offensive and aggressive character. 18 In any event, this doctri nal disagree- ment had serious consequences for the relationship between de Seversky  and the Air Corps , already strained by his emotional and flamboyant personality. His heroic exploits in the war were well known, as was his prowess as a stunt pilot. His wife, the beautiful Evelyn Olliphant, was the daughter of a prominent New Orleans doctor, and she also became a well-known figure. After their marriage in 1925, she met many of the famous aviation figures of the day. Too often, however, she felt at a loss whenTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 244  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 271 --- the men congregated in corners to discuss flying. She therefore decided to take flying lessons and surprise her husband; after she won her wings in 1934, her first passenger was Jimmy Doolittle . Evelyn  became a noted aviatrix in her own right, logging seve
Node: 18701, Score: 0.0500866506328485, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0157.txt, Content: with airships . With an optimism that was totally unfounded, he envisionedCLODFELTER 93  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 122 --- dirigibles  as capable of traveling thousands of miles, in all kinds of weather, while also serving as airborne platforms for pursuit aircraft . Although some airships  had launched and recovered pursuit  planes, the idea was a technological dead end. Both the Army  and Navy  were out of the airship  business by the mid-1930s. Perhaps Mitchell  hoped that Congress  would establish a unified air force including both Army  and Navy  air. He had called for such an organization since 1919. The model for this scheme existed in Britain , where the Royal Air Force  maintained control of naval aviation , even that deployed at sea on aircraft carriers . In an article written in 1920, Mitchell  called for “floating airdromes” under air force control , which would protect the American coast. This development would make airpower the first line of American defense rather than naval power. 46 As time passed, Mitchell  realized that an independent air force  would not appear quickly and that the creation of big carriers  like the Lexington  and Saratoga  posed a threat to unification. The Navy  was becoming self-sufficient in airpower. Hence, he felt the need to denigrate carriers , portraying them as expensive, vulnerable, and ineffective. His efforts were futile and, paradoxically, gave a healthy boost to naval aviation  by alerting the admiralty to the need for air superiority  over the fleet. General Menoher ’s comment at the time of the Ostfriesland  sinking—“I guess maybe the navy will get its airplane carriers  now”—had become an ironic prophecy. 47 Although Mitchell ’s foreign visits expanded his airpower ideas, the trips failed to curb his penchant for seeking public support for his notions. He was certain that the Army  leadership would never endorse his desire for air force  autonomy because his beliefs clashed with the Army ’s trad
Node: 18838, Score: 0.0464915590697241, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0294.txt, Content: suit aircraft ; and a rapid, devastating aerial attack against hostile fleets, in which battleships  would be as helpless as “the armored knight when the firearm was brought against him.” (In the last case, Menoher  pointed out that for the price of one battleship , the Air Service  could field one thousand bombers  to crush a seaborne attack.) 54 Building on this logic, Milling  argued further that the Air Service  (and Air Corps ) was America ’s true line of defense against sea-based invasions. If Mitchell  were wrong (i.e., if the Navy  had any preventive role to play at all), the sea service would function merely as an advanced point or spearhead. 55 As the interwar period evolved, the challenge to the Navy ’s offshore defense mission only intensified. If America ’s security primarily depended on long-range air defenses , as Air Corps theorists  argued, the Navy  would never perform the mission. The aircraft of forward-deployed aircraft carriers , for example, would not concentrate on the air defense  of the nation but on meeting the strategic and tactical needs of the fleet. In other words, the Navy  would relegate national air defense  to a secondary role. The true focus of carrier aviation  would be to defeat the enemy fleet or help preserve US forces. 56 Any focus on land targets, bomber zealot Robert Webster  observed, would be “entirely a secondary consideration.” 57 Such alleged parochialism , however, was not the Navy ’s only problem. A second problem was that modern warships cost too much. If the Air Corps  could defend and control SLOCs  just as effectively as any naval action, its boosters asked, why spendTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 196  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 223 --- huge sums of money on unneeded battleships  and aircraft carriers ? Third, advocates of land-based aviation  openly doubted that naval commanders would risk their carriers  in raids against land objectives, especially in the name of “defensive” operations. Commanders would ha
Node: 18938, Score: 0.0463704625786278, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0394.txt, Content: chnical obstacles to building large aircraft. His trumpeting of the Douglas B-19 and Martin flying boat  proved premature. He designed a “superclipper” in the late 1930s, but it never got off the drawing board due to technical difficulties. Although the B-29THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 268  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 295 --- constituted a significant advance over the B-17  and B-24 , it did not approach the capabilities de Seversky  called for in an interhemispheric bomber . Even the massive B-36 —not a viable weapon until 1950—fell short of his predictions. In sum, building large aircraft differed significantly from designing fighter  planes. He did not foresee that precisely because total war — especially in the nuclear age—was “unprofitable,” warfare would be limited or driven down to the unconventional level; such wars dissipated airpower’s advantages. De Seversky argued passionately against America ’s involvement in limited wars  such as those in Korea  and Vietnam . He assumed this stance partly for cogent strategic reasons: if the Soviet threat to Europe  represented the major concern, then one should not become distracted by relatively minor conflicts in Asia . On the other hand, his admission of strategic airpower ’s effectiveness against modern industrialized nations amounted to a tacit admission of its ineffectiveness against poor agrarian societies. And admitting the limited, “low intensity ” nature of future wars amounted to admitting that airpower had clear limitations. That was unacceptable. Finally, to an illogical and unreasonable degree, he denigrated the importance of armies and navies. Even in the total wars  he predicted, surface forces  would have played a greater role than merely serving as airfield gate guards and bomb transporters. One of the distressing traits of airpower theorists  is their tendency to claim too much for their chosen weapon. Airpower does not have to win wars alone  in order to be decisive , any more than does an ar
Node: 18592, Score: 0.0455547347357581, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0048.txt, Content: his ideas, Douhet  called for an independent air force (IAF) . Airpower divorced from army and navy control was essential because it could not be the “Cinderella of the family,” dependent on the generosity of older sisters, 35 but must see to its own needs. Even the most conservative soldier and sailor recognized how essential aircraft had become to their operations. Although denying that airpower could be a decisive factor in war, they realized that victory was unlikely without it. To Douhet , this realization was dangerous if it meant that surface commanders could demand airpower, under their control, to support tactical operations. In this circumstance, the aviation defense budget  would suffer a fatal split between independent and auxiliary airpower —a situation that would help no one. The IAF would consist largely of “bombardment units” and “combat units,” the former comprising long-range, heavy- load-carrying aircraft of moderate speed. Although Douhet considered interception of a bomber  force unlikely, he admitted the possibility of such an eventuality and therefore called for “combat units” or escort aircraft . With approximately the same performance characteristics as the bombers , these escorts  would carry machine guns to ward off enemy interceptors. Notably, because he did not anticipate the actual occurrence of an air battle , he claimed that one would not really require such defensive armaments, but he included them as a comfort to aircrew morale. 36 The only other aircraft Douhet  thought necessary was a fast, long-range reconnaissance  plane to fly over enemy territory, photographing potential targets. One needed reconnaissance  for effective targeting , not only to pinpoint objectives but also to determine the effectiveness of air attacks on those objectives. In the revised edition of The Command of the Air , Douhet  combined the functions of bombardment and escort into one aircraft—the battle plane , which he envisioned flying en masse towards an
Node: 19129, Score: 0.0447741217670377, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0585.txt, Content: Desert Shield . The origin of the A-10  goes back to the late 1960s, when Air Force planners , based on requirements evident in the Vietnam War , developed preliminary specifications for an ideal CAS platform. Criteria included the ability to operate from short, unimproved airstrips; high reliability and ease of maintenance; capacity to carry large amounts of tank-killing ordnance; long loiter time; 350-knot speed with high maneuverability; survivability for both pilot and plane in the face of heavy air defenses ; and low cost.25 But how could one kill tanks with air-delivered munitions? The A-10  answered that question with its 20-feet-long, four-thousand-pound, seven-barrel Gatling gun that fired three to four thousand rounds of 30 mm armor-piercing ammunition per minute. 26 Two quiet, reliable General Electric turbofan engines canted upwards near the rear of the fuselage enhanced the plane’s survivability. A titanium “bathtub” that shrouded the cockpit enhanced the pilot’s survivability. Although slightly underpowered and ungainly, the “Warthog” was a ground-attack pilot’s dream. From the Army ’s point of view, fielding the A-10  not only underscored the Air Force ’s commitment to the CAS  mission, it also created a corpus of pilots whose whole professional being centered around providing that support.WINTON 409  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 434 --- The Air Force ’s analytical focus began to shift toward the problems of a European war in the mid-1970s. In late 1974, RAND  produced a study that examined the implications of air-and ground-delivered precision-guided munitions (PGM) for the defense of NATO .27 The report concluded that PGMs might “add to the ‘glue’ of NATO  and create problems for Pact strategists.” 28 In late 1975, RAND  completed a study that examined the relative merits of additional manned aircraft, remotely piloted vehicles , and standoff munitions  for improving air-ground capability in NATO .29 The study concluded that for an in
Node: 18586, Score: 0.0447593659578551, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0042.txt, Content: ve power. Writing before the advent of radar, he argued that a defender’s inability to know the exact time and location of an attack gave an enormous advantage to the offense, virtually assuring tactical surprise. On the other hand, defense required a huge air fleet because each protected point needed an air contingent at least the size of the attacking enemy. This situation was precisely the opposite of the one on the ground, because it meant that successful air defense  required the preponderance of force, leading Douhet  to term the airplane “the offensive weapon par excellence .”23 Just as Douhet  discounted the possibility of aerial interception, so too did he dismiss ground-based air defenses . Further, he deemed antiaircraft guns wasteful because they seldom hit anything. Douhet  sarcastically conceded that ground fire might down some aircraft, much like muskets shot in the air might occasionally hit a swallow, but it was not aMEILINGER 9  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 38 --- serious deterrent to air attack . People who believed that artillery was an effective counter to the airplane “had confused aircraft with snails.” Douhet  stated flatly, “I am against air defense because it detracts means from the Air Force . . . I am against it because I am absolutely convinced that . . . it cannot achieve its aim.” 24 Thus, in Douhet ’s eyes, the best defense—indeed, the only defense—was a good offense. For the same reason, he eschewed an air reserve . All aircraft were committed; holding forces in reserve exemplified the outdated and defensive thinking of surface commanders. The speed and range of aircraft created their own reserve because they were able to react quickly and engage in different locations long before surface forces could move there. These beliefs regarding the nature of modern war and the inherent characteristics of the airplane led Douhet  to a theory of war based on the dominance of airpower. His most fundamental precept 25 was that an a
Node: 18585, Score: 0.0446058204230951, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0041.txt, Content: haustible supply. What made the attritional war  of 1914–18 more horrifying was advancing technology —specifically the machine gun— that gave an overwhelming advantage to the defender. Defense behind prepared positions had always possessed inherent benefits, so an attacker required a preponderance of force to ensure success—usually at least a three-to-one advantage.THE PATHS OF HEAVEN 8  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 37 --- The world war proved to Douhet  that new technology  required greater superiority for an attack to succeed (surely a misnomer if it meant the slaughter of thousands). Although convinced that technology  had granted the defense a permanent ascendancy in land warfare , he argued, paradoxically, that although technology  had caused the trench stalemate, technology —in the form of the airplane— would end it. Only aircraft could overcome the fundamental problem of a prolonged war of attrition caused by mass armies equipped with modern weapons. Douhet  argued that airpower was revolutionary because it operated in the third dimension, unhampered by geography. Indeed, the weapon was not so revolutionary as the medium of the air itself, which granted flexibility  and initiative. Aircraft could fly over surface forces, which then became of secondary importance. If one no longer needed to control the ground, then the forces used to control it diminished in significance. Contrary to conditions on the surface, Douhet  continued, the aerial offense was stronger than the aerial defense because the vastness of the sky made defense against the airplane virtually impossible. In Douhet ’s formulation, the speed of aircraft relative to ground forces plus the ubiquity of aircraft— the ability to be in so many places in a short period of time— equaled offensive power. Writing before the advent of radar, he argued that a defender’s inability to know the exact time and location of an attack gave an enormous advantage to the offense, virtually assuring tacti
Node: 18812, Score: 0.0440641834830042, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0268.txt, Content: acterize German interwar airpower theory  as comprehensive, practical, and well adapted to German strategy and technology . The greatest failings in translating airpower theory  into doctrine  for an effective air force  came from a senior leadership imposed by the Nazi system. The loss of General Wever  in 1936 was a blow from which the Luftwaffe  never fully recovered. Wever  had enough prestige within the armed forces to successfully challenge the ideas of Hermann Göring  and Udet . With the loss of Wever , however, subsequent commanders of the Luftwaffe , although knowledgeable men, did not possess the authority required to prevent mistakes such as the appointment of Udet  to the Office of Technical Development . The tenure of Hans Jeschonneck , an intelligent but flawed young officer appointed as Luftwaffe  chief of staff in 1939, proved disastrous for German air theory  and doctrine  as the war progressed. Infatuated with the concepts of dive-bombing , Jeschonneck ignored other vital missions of the air force  and gave only minimal priority to important programs such as the buildup of transport aviation  and the strategic bomber  program. 93 Conclusion During the interwar period, each major Continental air power experienced a debate between two basic airpowerCORUM 175  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 203 --- theories : (1) that the primary role of air forces envisioned an independent force  carrying out a strategic air campaign against the enemy homeland and (2) that the primary role of airpower envisioned a support arm for land and naval forces. The combination of air/land/naval forces would create a new synergy on the battlefield. For the most part, advocates of aviation  in the support role won this debate, although the German position on airpower fell halfway between the two positions. Generally, the most important participants in the debate were within the armed forces. Douhet ’s influence waned quickly after he left the Air Ministry  in the ea
Node: 18839, Score: 0.043653982745588, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0295.txt, Content: dvocates of land-based aviation  openly doubted that naval commanders would risk their carriers  in raids against land objectives, especially in the name of “defensive” operations. Commanders would have to make a difficult choice between operating range and vulnerability to land- based airpower  and thus limit the carriers ’ performance in either case. Finally, airmen believed that naval operations  would be further impaired by international agreements, the growing scope (and importance) of coalition warfare , the division of total naval forces  into unreinforceable halves (the Pacific  and Atlantic fleets  tenuously connected by the vulnerable Panama Canal ), and the inability of naval forces  to patrol and reach all access points in a timely manner. 58 The Navy  fought mightily against the fear mongering of the Air Corps , and from the standpoint of War Department  (i.e., Joint Board ) directives, it largely succeeded. Throughout the interwar years, the board’s directives remained helpfully vague when dealing with areas of overlapping responsibility. But the Navy  was fighting against an eroding tide. 59 Air-minded civilian leaders often supported the Air Service ’s/Air Corps ’s intrusion on Navy  prerogatives. Calvin Coolidge , for example, decided relatively early in the roles and missions  debate that “our national defense  must be supplemented, if not dominated, by aviation.” 60 In turn, Lt Gen Robert Lee Bullard , president of the National Security League  and former commander of AEF ’s Second Army , argued that the Navy  was rapidly becoming a mere “escort” to land-based aviation , which would sweep over land and sea with impunity. 61 Woven into such sentiments was the assumption that the US Navy  would be “inadequate and impotent” in keeping our sea lanes open and in denying them to potential enemies. As a result, enemy states or coalitions could place air bases and carrier-based aviation  close enough to America ’s borders to destroy the great industrial t
Node: 18960, Score: 0.0436226206231273, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0416.txt, Content: ates  did not quickly adopt, was the basing of bombers  far from the enemy’s bases in order to maximize warning times in the event of an enemy attack. Perhaps the greatest direct impact that civilian strategists ever had on American nuclear policy  came in the 1950s, when Albert Wohlstetter  and others at RAND  explained to the Air Force  that the US bomber  force could be vulnerable to a surprise nuclear attack  at its forward bases around the Soviet periphery. 20 The appearance of ballistic missiles  complicated this problem considerably, further encouraging the dispersal of bomber  forces to secondary airfields in the event of a crisis and the maintenance of some US bombers on constant airborne alert. The deployment of SLBMs , with their shorter flight times, made the problem worse, but one could still reasonably expect successful launch of at least a portion of an alert bomber  force before its bases came under attack. Advances in surveillance satellites ’ ability to detect enemy missile launches reinforced this expectation. The problem of ICBM  survivability proved more challenging, since the missiles had to stay on the ground until authorities made a final decision to launch. One could not launch early ICBMs  on short notice, due to the need to fuel them, and an enemy could easily destroy their above-ground launch sites. During the 1960s, the advent of storable liquid (later solid) rocket propellants, the deployment of ICBMs  in hardened underground silos, and the development of SLBMs  carried by nuclear-powered submarines  addressed these problems. 21 Because one could reliably destroy hardened silos—relatively resistant to blast effects—only by the explosion of a warheadTHE PATHS OF HEAVEN 286  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 312 --- in close proximity, an enemy would have to attack each silo separately and would need to use only fairly accurate weapons against them. Thus, SLBMs  would not prove useful for attacking ICBMs . Further, if two states
Node: 18746, Score: 0.0435480810200087, Chunk File: meilinger_evolution/chunks/meilinger_evolution_0202.txt, Content: he effectiveness of the battle fleet  through conducting reconnaissance , spotting the fall of shot, and defending against the enemy’s carrier airpower  (usually through sinking or disabling enemy carriers .)48 Sometimes, aircraft might attack battleships , but usually they sought to slow them down so that the plodding American battleships could catch up with the speedier Japanese dreadnoughts to administer decisive blows with their guns. 49 Not long before his death, Admiral Moffett  spoke of using offensive carrier aircraft  in exactly that way to facilitate the great sea battle .50 Even up to the eve of World War II , aviators who delivered lectures at the Naval War College  on the uses of airpower were clearly reluctant to claim too much for airplanes versus battleships .51 To a large degree, students of the intellectual history of any military force must grapple with an eternal problem: was the glass half full or half empty? Much of the final judgment necessarily resides in the eye of the beholder. Charles Melhorn and Curtis Utz  have demonstrated that declared policy and doctrine  do not always match the undeclared worldview of the decision makers  of any organization. 52 To some extent, the articulation of official doctrine  inevitably lags. Sometimes, acquisition policies indicate the difference between declared doctrine  and the undeclared vision of the future. They both show that the Navy  did make progress in aviation between the armistice  and Pearl Harbor —in fact, there were almost as many carriers  as battleships  under construction on 7 December 1941. Those “flattops” under construction were close to double the size of the USS  Ranger —the first American carrier  designed as such from the keel up. The task force  idea developed well before the onset of war, having its genesis even before the initial “fleet problems” of the late 1920s, in which the Saratoga  and Lexington  participated. 53METS 127  File: --- meilinger_evolution.pdf --- Page 156 --- In