Node: 6229, Score: 0.0751780424439009, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0058.txt, Content: egensburg force could not delay and headed for the target. Brigadier General Frederick Anderson, commander of VIII Bomber Command, decided to hold the Schweinfurt force for three and a half hours, to allow the weather to clear over their airfields and the escort fighters to regroup. However, that respite also allowed Luftwaffe fighters to rearm and reorganize. Further, the Allied Spitfires and Thunderbolts did not have the range to cover the bombers all the way to their targets. Consequently, both bomber forces had to face well-prepared German fighters over their objec- tives without the cover of their own “little friends.” Still, bombing results, especially at Regensburg, were very good. At Schweinfurt, bombing was less accurate, and the bombs used were too small to destroy important machine tools on factory floors—a common problem with US Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF) operations throughout the war. However, there was enough dam- age to spur German efforts to find other sources of ball bearings and to better disperse production facilities.12 Losses were horrendous. LeMay lost twenty-four of his 146 bombers over Germany, and after scrounging repair parts, fuel, and bombs in North Af- rica, he got about eighty of the remainder to fly back to the United King- dom. Typical of the feisty LeMay, he insisted on bombing Bordeaux on the way back with fifty-seven of them. However, at least half of the planes he took to Regensburg never flew again. The Schweinfurt force also took a beating, losing thirty-six planes on the mission. Such casualties were unsustainable, and everyone knew it.13  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 56 --- 38  CHAPTER  THREE The Eighth Air Force spent most of the next three months bombing eas- ier coastal and French targets before mounting a sustained effort against industrial targets within Germany and Poland during the second week in October. From 8 to 10 October, eighty-eight bombers were lost in attacks on Bremen, Vegesack, Gdynia, Danzig, Marien
Node: 6237, Score: 0.0701498107146652, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0066.txt, Content: onth of February the Luftwaffe lost more than one third of its single-engine fighters and almost a fifth of its pilots.22 Although USSTAF quickly made up its losses in men and matériel, this was not possible for the German air force. Big Week did not destroy it or even make it ineffective, but those operations started a long decline from which the Luftwaffe fighter force never recovered. Pilots especially were ir- replaceable. Over the next three months of bloody air attrition, as Spaatz struck targets he knew the Germans had to defend, they lost a total of twenty- eight of their best leaders and aces, responsible for destroying over 2,000 en- emy aircraft. Replacements never showed up in enough numbers, and they did not have the fuel or time to train properly. This created a vicious cycle where inexperienced pilots had to be thrown into combat against an Amer- ican force increasing in numbers and capability every day, and losses then forced the employment of even more hastily trained replacements. Many of them died in accidents. The most dangerous occupation of World War II was being a German fighter pilot. They had no twenty-five-mission rotation policy; they flew until they were killed or maimed. Between January and May 1944, their loss rate in the West was 99 percent. By July, the bulk of available pilots to confront USSTAF had between eight and thirty days’ experience. Less than 10 percent of German fighter pilots survived the war.23 Although USSTAF still suffered losses after Big Week, including sixty- nine bombers attacking Berlin in March and another sixty-three there on a raid in April, it was soon apparent that the AAF’s opportunity to truly prove the efficacy of precision bombing by destroying enemy capacity had arrived. That reality would make the debates over the best way to support the coming invasion with strategic air forces even more acrimonious. TRANSPORTATION  VERSUS  OIL As the German air force declined in capability and withdrew back into the Re
Node: 6230, Score: 0.0698812517800842, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0059.txt, Content: fort against industrial targets within Germany and Poland during the second week in October. From 8 to 10 October, eighty-eight bombers were lost in attacks on Bremen, Vegesack, Gdynia, Danzig, Marienberg, Anklam, and Munster. Several hundred more aircraft were damaged. Then Mission 115 was set for 14 October, a return to Schweinfurt. Again the frictions of war were evident. Longer-range P-38 fighters had arrived, but they were not ready to fly until the next day. Weather at the air bases was again a problem, and B-24s from the Second Bombardment Division never could get assembled to carry out their part of the operation. The weather also interfered with the ability of escort fighters to link up with returning bombers. The Luftwaffe used new weapons and tactics, firing rockets into the bomber formations, mauling them severely. Two hundred twenty-eight of the 291 dispatched B-17s suc- ceeded in bombing their target, achieving the most damage of any of the sixteen raids on Schweinfurt during the war. However, the cost of damag- ing 10 percent of the key machinery was sixty bombers lost on the mission (with ten-man crews), seventeen more damaged beyond repair, and 121 B-17s with damage that could be fixed. Reich Minister of Armaments and War Production Albert Speer reported that he was told the raid cost 67 percent of production. He was able to substitute slide bearings to make up for some shortages, but he was out of reserves. He was saved by the cessation of the attacks until February. When they did restart, he claimed that he faced an- other crisis, but again the Allies furnished a reprieve by abandoning attacks on ball-bearing facilities in April 1944. He agreed with the Committee of Operation Analysts opinion about the vulnerability of that target system, claiming that adequate decentralization never did occur. He thought the Allies threw away a great opportunity to bring German military industrial capacity to the brink of collapse.14 Allied intelligence initially
Node: 6297, Score: 0.0639329345612536, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0126.txt, Content: Despite such reac- tions, B-29 crews carried out more incendiary raids because the airmen were convinced that such attacks were the only way to destroy strategic objectives and end the war quickly. Although airmen did not face the constant exposure to danger experi- enced by frontline infantrymen, air combat was particularly intense, espe- cially in Europe. On missions an aircrew was more concerned with survival than with technique; they fought many enemies. Aerial combat has been  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 105 --- ATTITUDES  AND  PERCEPTIONS  OF AMERICAN  AIRMEN   8 7 called “the most frightening warfare of all” because in the “unnatural habi- tat” of the air, one is “marooned aloft in an aluminum capsule” and cannot run or hide. Enemy fighters closed in to attack at speeds of up to ten miles per minute to deliver cannon fire, rockets, or bomblets. On the most widely used B-17, the G model, almost everyone except the pilots also served as machine gunners. In addition to enemy fighters, antiaircraft fire (flak) was a deadly threat; on deep-penetration missions it could last up to four hours.7 During May and June 1944 almost 8,000 American aircraft were damaged and 300 more destroyed by flak alone. Crewmen who operated in a sitting position usually sat on one protective flak suit and draped another over their lap, “for the ultimate in physical and psychological protection.” Not surprisingly, flak was a greater source of aircrew anxiety than enemy fighters, which could be shot down or outmaneuvered.8 Weather and the elements also had to be endured. At bombing height, temperatures in B-17s and B-24s sometimes reached fifty degrees below zero, and even for airmen wearing heated cloth- ing, severe frostbite claimed many casualties. Oxygen masks could freeze up as well. One bombardier wrote to his parents about his concerns regarding Flak hits could be catastrophic. This unlucky B-17 had its nose shot off just after completing its bomb run on a target near Budap
Node: 6298, Score: 0.0618224509191707, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0127.txt, Content: ell. One bombardier wrote to his parents about his concerns regarding Flak hits could be catastrophic. This unlucky B-17 had its nose shot off just after completing its bomb run on a target near Budapest, Hungary. Accompanying aircraft watched helplessly as it crashed and counted only ﬁve parachutes from its ten-man crew.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 106 --- 88  CHAPTER  FIVE being wounded at high altitudes: “The pressure inside your body is so much greater than outside that you bleed profusely.” Crewmen also worried about mechanical failures of their aircraft or human failures from fatigue.9 These factors affected bombing accuracy, focusing the airmen’s attention on the airspace around them and not necessarily on the target. Commanders found, however, that the best way to bolster morale when the crew returned to base after the mission was to produce immediate photographic results of their attack to show the worth of the hell they had just been through. Per- sonnel reporting to the Eighth Air Force in spring 1943 were told that B-17 and B-24 aircrews completed only an average of five and a half missions. A study done for Spaatz in early 1944 indicated that of 1,000 airmen assigned to the Eighth Air Force, only 216 could be expected to finish twenty-five mis- sions. This figure may have been optimistic; data from the Office of the Air Surgeon for the European theater during the first half of 1944 revealed that AAF battle-casualty rates for heavy-bomber crews were 712 killed or missing and 175 wounded out of each 1,000 men who served for six months. This 89 percent casualty figure matches the finding of William Fili, a B-24 crewman in Europe, that only twenty-seven of the 250 men in his July 1943 gunnery class completed their quota of missions. The average airman’s prayers con- sisted of a simple, constant repetition of the words, “Please God, I don’t want to die.”10 Because of the high casualty rate, American airmen in the European the- ater were critical of m
Node: 6300, Score: 0.0604024096829711, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0129.txt, Content: guns to allow a heavier bomb load. By that time the Japanese air force was no longer a threat, and antiaircraft fire over Japan never reached European intensities. Moreover, most of the long flight from bases in the Marianas to Japan, sometimes as long as eight hours one way, was over undefended waters. The B-29 also had a pressurized and heated interior lacking on other bombers, considerably increasing the crew’s comfort. On the other hand, the plane had been rushed into action before it was fully perfected, resulting in many technical problems, especially engine fires. The accident rate for the very heavy bombers was much higher than the AAF average. One pilot mused, “Sometimes we wondered whether the battle was with the Japanese or the B-29.” As another result of the rush to get the bomb- ers into combat, too few planes were available for training. Crews often did not get enough time flying the aircraft in the United States before deploying overseas and thus had to finish training on combat missions. An additional problem on the long flights to Japan was fatigue. A mission from initial briefing to final debriefing usually lasted twenty-four hours. Despite the lib- eral use of coffee and even amphetamines, some aircraft actually crashed be- cause exhausted crews fell asleep. With fewer distractions from enemies and harsh cold and with much longer missions, airmen in the Pacific could have considered themselves as technicians more than as warriors, focusing on the mechanical problems of flying their aircraft and delivering their bomb load.13 Though they witnessed the nightly conflagrations they caused, they might not have sensed what bombing cities really entailed; unlike airmen in England they could not go on pass and observe the results of the Blitz or of V-weapons firsthand or talk to air-raid victims.14 Unfortunately, few diaries or memoirs to verify these impressions were left behind by the crews who carried out the fire raids. Many reasons are possible for t
Node: 6228, Score: 0.0581047540842164, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0057.txt, Content: exactly one year after the first American heavy bomber operation from the United King- Submarine pens such as these in Hamburg were generally invulnerable to any bombs except some especially large RAF ordnance. Though land–water contrast made them good targets for radar-directed bombing, American airmen experienced much frustration trying to cause any meaningful damage. (44th Bomb Group Collection, USAMHI, USAHEC) [128.59.222.107]   Project MUSE (2024-10-07 01:45 GMT)  Columbia University Libraries  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 55 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   3 7 dom. The attacking force of 376 B-17s was the largest ever dispatched by the Eighth Air Force. (The British had already executed a 1,000-bomber raid on Cologne as early as May 1942.) The ball-bearing plants at Schweinfurt and Messerschmitt aircraft complex at Regensburg were the most important tar- gets on the bombing priority list; they also required the deepest penetration into Germany to date. Eaker thought his force had been pushed into the dangerous mission before it was really ready. The plan called for Colonel Curtis LeMay’s Third Bombardment Division, with long-range tanks, to at- tack Regensburg and then fly to North Africa. The First Bombardment Divi- sion would hit Schweinfurt, following ten minutes behind. German fighters would have to choose which force to engage, and where. After a couple weeks of delays, weather forecasts on 16 August finally predicted good flying con- ditions over Germany and North Africa, and the mission was scheduled for the next day. Unfortunately, but not atypically, English bases were socked in by clouds the next morning. LeMay had trained his crews to take off in such conditions; he got his force airborne, but the other air division remained on the ground. The Regensburg force could not delay and headed for the target. Brigadier General Frederick Anderson, commander of VIII Bomber Command, decided to hold the Schweinfurt force for three and a half hours, to
Node: 6305, Score: 0.0576137361592845, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0134.txt, Content: f vertigo could quickly interfere with the ability to coordinate controls properly. Most British bombers did not have copilots after 1942, increasing the psychological stress on their pilots even more.21 Copilots lacked the overall command duties of pilots, but they felt responsible for their aircraft and could be especially frustrated if forced just to ride along while everyone else kept busy. Perhaps the best account of a copilot is found in Serenade to the Big Bird by Bert Stiles, who was killed in 1944 after transferring to fighters when he had completed thirty-five bomber missions in Europe. After his first bombing mission, he could think only about how fatigued he was, how lousy his flying had been, and how close he was to his crew, concerns that dominate his writings. Once he did muse about the “senseless ugliness” of bombing Berlin through over- cast, questioning why the AAF wanted “to knock hell out of some city with the vague hope that some day that city will be rebuilt for some people we can get along with,” but in general he seemed not to care about specific targets. After the D-day landings, his primary focus was to win the war “and win in a way so there is never another one.”22 The most self-centered and individualistic aircrew officers seem to have been navigators. They plotted courses and kept a log of events; someone else flew the plane and dropped the bombs. The memoirs of Elmer Bendiner, a navigator on the Schweinfurt raids, differ from the accounts of pilots or bombardiers and resemble the image of the technician in combat. Bend- iner writes less about the rest of the crew and more about his own experi- ences, noting that while planes fell all around him in combat he remained detached, “scribbling in the log the time, place and altitude of flak, of rocket bursts, of kills and fallen comrades, of headings and checkpoints.” Surviving to complete “the magic number of twenty-five” missions was his primary goal. More cynical than most airmen, he belie
Node: 6253, Score: 0.0575616278009868, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0082.txt, Content: contrast to the previous week, seventeen aircraft sustained significant battle damage on this raid, mostly from flak. The group finally lost an aircraft in combat on 19 March. Thirty-three bombers led the Second Bombardment Division to hit the aircraft assembly plant at Neuburg. They ducked 1,500 feet to get under haze at the target but then mounted an excellent visual attack. On the way home one B-24 lost two engines and headed for France, never to be heard from again. On the 20th one squadron sent out eleven planes as part of a Fourteenth Wing mission  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 73 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   5 5 against the oil refinery at Hemmingstadt. The lead bombardier adjusted im- properly for smoke obscuring the target, and all the bombs went past it. By this time in the war enemy fighters appeared reluctant to engage the large bomber formations surrounded by hungry Mustangs, so on the 21st the group mounted two missions to blast airfield installations to clear the way for strafing runs by USSTAF fighters, who were also hunting for jets. Again gremlins rode along with the 44th Group. Thirty-five bombers hit Achmer airfield in the morning, but only one squadron had excellent results because the others bombed out of sequence. Twelve more aircraft headed out in the afternoon for the airfield at Essen. Late in the bomb run, a flak hit severed the lead aircraft’s electrical circuits for the autopilot and bombsight. Before the bombardier could adjust, all bombs were away, landing about 4,000 feet east of the target. The next day an attack by thirty-two bombers on Schwa- bisch Hall airfield went much better, with superb results, though one aircraft was lost when it crashed on takeoff. Weather was finally improving, allowing much more visual bombing. Thirty bombers pummeled the Rheine marshaling yard on the 23rd. The next day again featured two missions. Twenty-seven group B-24s led the Fourteenth Wing on a critical supply drop for ground forces that
Node: 6412, Score: 0.0549450924167801, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0241.txt, Content: ought to be too small to fight its way through Japanese defenses in daylight. Because the first elements of XXI Bomber Command had originally been scheduled to go to China as well, crews were supposedly prepared to bomb primarily at night by radar, but operators had received inadequate training in the United States “due to a shortage of equipment and early commitment dates.” Most  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 189 --- TORCHING  JAPAN   1 7 1 of the strategic targets in Japan assigned to XXI Bomber Command were not suitable for radar-directed bombing anyway because of terrain that provided poor scope contrast. Hansell planned to get around this shortcoming by bombing visually by day in accordance with precision doctrine and Arnold’s directives, but the shift in tactics necessitated that all crews be retrained. And no amount of training could prepare the crews for the weather over Japan, which made high-altitude precision bombing almost impossible.27 Towering cloud fronts off the Japanese coast broke up formations and increased their vulnerability to fighters. Even if planes arrived safely over the target, wind speeds exceeding 230 knots at bombing altitude created condi- tions that surpassed the capabilities of bombardiers and bombsights. Bomb- ing tables were not designed for the 550-knot ground speeds that tailwinds produced, and B-29s fighting headwinds were sitting ducks for antiaircraft fire. Wind speeds were highest from December to February but still excessive in other months, and during those periods with the lowest incidence of high winds, the cloud cover increased.28 As 1945 began, bombing results of XXI Bomber Command remained dismal and abort rates high. B-29 crews were losing faith in their planes and their tactics. Their precision attacks had little effect on Japanese industry be- cause of the dispersion of cottage industries as well as the woeful inaccuracy of high-explosive bombs dropped from high altitude. Hansell seemed unable to produce timely
Node: 6246, Score: 0.0533247934539701, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0075.txt, Content: adron dropping its bombs four miles short because the leader launched his load prematurely as a result of battle damage to his bomb racks. Though bombing results were reported to be excellent, thirty-five B-24s were sent back the next day. Thirty-three successfully dropped their bombs through overcast using Gee-H guidance, but their impact on the bridge was unobserved. Bad weather also affected the 3 January mission against a tactical target of road and rail junc- tions at Landau, as all twenty-three aircraft had to use Gee-H again to bomb through “10/10ths”—that is total overcast—with unobserved results.33 Weather continued to play havoc with the following mission schedule. On 5 January twenty-two aircraft were sent to bomb transportation objectives at Oberstein, but as a result of weather and mechanical failures only eleven dropped their loads, and then in a visual attack on the marshaling yard at the secondary target of Neunkirchen. After a weather scrub, the group returned to Landau on 7 January. Of thirty-three B-24s, four turned back from mechanical failures and one lost the formation in bad weather. The remaining twenty-eight again dropped their bombs using Gee-H through 10/10ths overcast with unobserved results. Twenty-two planes sent to hit the railroad junction at Burg Reuland the next day bombed the same way. The same happened for the next mission, when twenty-three aircraft attacked the marshaling yard at Kaiserslautern on 13 January. All missions so far in  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 68 --- 50  CHAPTER  THREE the month had featured meager flak and few enemy fighters, though Ship- dham had some extra excitement when a damaged Liberator from the 466th Bomb Group crashed there after returning from the 8 January mission. Then objectives got more ambitious as the new targeting directive took effect. On 14 January the 44th dispatched thirty-two bombers to lead their combat wing in an assault on the oil refinery at Hemmingstadt. Two squad- rons had exc
Node: 6326, Score: 0.0527138901143628, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0155.txt, Content: the radar pictures needed more detail, Spaatz asked for new radar equipment; Doolittle and Spaatz would continue such pleas until the end of the war. The new Eighth Air Force commander had little faith in radar bombing and waited for good weather instead of using nonvisual methods during his Big Week attacks in February that began the process of breaking the back of the Luftwaffe.14 After six months of nonvisual raids, problems were apparent with both personnel and equipment. Daily USSTAF intelligence summaries reveal that the results of most nonvisual raids remained unobserved; the same poor weather that limited accuracy and visibility also limited damage assessment. When results were readily available, they were sometimes embarrassing. On 1 April 1944 the Second Bombardment Division mistakenly bombed Schaff- hausen, Switzerland, in “particularly unfavorable” weather conditions. An investigation revealed that “the advent of GEE and H2X had caused a let- down in the standard of dead-reckoning navigation because of a miscon- ception that these aids to navigation constituted in themselves a means of navigation.” After completing his training course on these radar aids, nav- igator Earle Cheek wrote, “There is very little error with this equipment and it makes no difference to the navigator whether the ground is visible or not.” The Schaffhausen incident proved that judgment wrong. Classes were instituted throughout the Eighth Air Force to highlight each crew member’s specific tasks with radar and to prevent any more decline in visual bombing skills.15 Meanwhile, coverage of radar bombing in Impact emphasized that the new methods allowed the Eighth Bomber Command to drop a record ton- nage of bombs in November 1943, ordinarily a month of bad weather an d few missions, and showed pictures of damage to Wilhelmshaven. Articles pointed out to airmen that the cloud cover also improved the crew’s safety by providing protection from flak and fighters. The Official Guide to t
Node: 6259, Score: 0.0519822020852006, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0088.txt, Content: y overcast. Considering the directive about not bringing bombs back from the Reich, it must be assumed the aircraft turned back before reaching their objective in southern Germany, or else they just ignored those instructions. On the 25th, twenty-eight Vultures participated in a successful attack on the marshaling yard at Linz, Austria. The month ended roughly for the 455th. On the 27th, twenty-eight B-24s headed for the marshaling yards at Augsburg, Germany. Despite H2X problems shared with two other bomb groups on the mission, twenty-one bombers did achieve marginal results there, while six others hit alternate targets. Flak was intense, and effective. The group thought this increasingly dangerous antiaircraft fire was a result of the enemy “circling the wagons” to defend the homeland for the final stages of the war. Three aircraft had to land in Switzerland, while nineteen others returned with noticeable damage, four severe. The next day, thirty-five Vultures attacked the railroad bridge at Isarco–Albes, Italy, in two waves, part of a larger attack force of 226 Fif- teenth Air Force B-24s. The first bombed poorly and lost another plane to flak. The second put 60 percent of its bombs within 1,000 feet of the aiming point. The bridge’s center span was cut, abutments were damaged, and all approaches were blocked. It is worth noting that modern airmen would have taken out the same target with a few precision-guided munitions dropped from a single aircraft. March would feature better weather eventually, a primary focus on trans- portation targets, and the continued absence of the Luftwaffe. Heavy over- cast still interfered with missions during the first half of the month. Being able to fly between fronts did not provide much relief. Four of the twenty-six May missions would have to be completely aborted, while many others were partially affected by the poor weather. Sometimes just a half hour could make a difference. To open the month, eighteen B-24s launched against
Node: 6358, Score: 0.0509502068635048, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0187.txt, Content: in 1944 because it was not expected to be available before the end of the war, and the money would be more useful expended on a more promising enterprise called the MANHATTAN  Project.41 Despite CWS efforts and British successes such as the fire storm at Ham- burg in July 1943, American strategic air forces in Europe never embraced the incendiary as a replacement for high-explosive (HE) bombs. Airmen complained about wasted space in bomb bays that reduced the destructive power they could carry and about the difficulty of aiming the new bombs. Ballistic problems plagued the lighter munitions. Incendiaries also proved vulnerable to damage in shipment. The CWS solved these problems with aimable clusters and improved packaging procedures by 1944, even claiming in official histories that the AAF in Europe “began to scream for incendiar- ies,” an assertion not borne out by the record, however. Colonel Kellogg did persuade Curtis LeMay to use them in quantity and the British continued to push for increased use, but the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces dropped HE bombs predominantly, 87 percent and 98 percent of their total tonnage, respectively. In Europe, incendiaries remained supplements to HE bombs that could at times increase damage and presented a different threat to en- emy efforts to protect strategic precision targets. Even in raids on the center of Berlin, the AAF chiefly used HE bomb loads. The full effect of new devel- opments in incendiaries would become evident only when they were used in mass-area attacks on Japanese cities. Approximately two-thirds of the bomb tonnage dropped by the Twentieth Air Force in the Pacific would be incendi-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 150 --- 132  CHAPTER  SEVEN aries. Although Feiser mourned the demise of Project X-RAY in his memoirs, imagining that the winged warriors would have panicked and devastated To- kyo, he conceded that the M-69 incendiary gel bombs he helped develop did the job just as effectively.42 The fire rai
Node: 6223, Score: 0.0501990999365044, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0052.txt, Content: Marshall got a chance to see their copy. Fearing the wrath of the Army chief of staff, Hansell asked Gen- eral Arnold to get him back to England immediately, and within an hour, the planner was airborne. As it turned out, AWPD-42 was never accepted by the Navy and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, though it did influence production priorities.5 Nevertheless, its vision of strategic bombing was furthered by an almost simultaneous directive from the AAF and RAF in the United Kingdom, which announced a combined offensive of American day and British night bombing. The “Joint American/British Directif on Day Bomber Operations Involving Fighter Co-operation” was the result of negotiations with the RAF to arrange fighter support for Eaker’s Bomber Command. The document indicated that the British would support the American attempt to execute its daylight precision-bombing doctrine and foreshadowed the agreement that would be reached in January 1943 at the Casablanca Conference. There an adept presentation from Eaker, now commanding Eighth Air Force with Spaatz taking over the Northwest African air forces for Operation TORCH , convinced Winston Churchill and others not to force the Americans to join the RAF’s night bombing campaign and instead to exploit the many ways that day and night raids complemented each other. Executing both reduced airspace congestion and put twenty-four-hour pressure on the Luftwaffe; fur- ther, fires from daylight attacks could act as markers in the dark. Eaker also explained the difficulties in transforming the Eighth to conduct night opera- tions and argued that because of better visibility and better bombsights, day bombers could hit smaller targets and were five times more accurate than the best night bombing. Therefore, the same installation could be destroyed with a force only one-fifth as large. In response to questions about the perfor- mance of his bombers up to now, especially their small numbers and lack of any attacks on Germany, Eaker projec
Node: 6355, Score: 0.0491052284301124, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0184.txt, Content: l war in World War II, and its effects would come to fruition in the Pacific: the development and use of incendi- ary bombs for American strategic bombing. Ironically, the impetus for this new bomb can be traced to Colonel Crawford Kellogg, head of the Eighth Air Force chemical section, who was initially responsible for ensuring that his units had sufficient protection against German gas attacks. Once this mission was completed in summer 1942 he turned his attention to expand- ing the role of the Chemical Warfare Service (CWS) in the impending Amer- ican air campaign against the Axis. Considering the US position on the use of gas, he realized that the only hope for any CWS contribution would be through the use of incendiary bombs controlled and developed by the chem- ical branch.38 After ensuring that the CWS supply division at Edgewood Arsenal had enough incendiaries to supply his expected needs, Kellogg enlisted the help of the British to persuade American airmen in England to use these bombs. The British were enthusiastic and provided demonstrations in England and reports for distribution to the War Department in Washington. Initially Arnold and his staff were not convinced of the usefulness of incendiaries,  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 148 --- 130  CHAPTER  SEVEN agreeing with the views of most American airmen that demolition bombs were more effective for precision bombing, especially when resources were limited. Incendiaries worked well for mass-area raids of 1,000 aircraft but not for pinpoint bombardment with smaller numbers of planes.39 By April 1943 Arnold saw three uses for Eighth Air Force incendiary raids: to burn down precise industrial objectives that could not be damaged as effectively with an equivalent tonnage of high-explosive bombs, to start fires to act as night beacons for the RAF, and to burn down cities “when the occasion warrants.” He directed his staff to determine the effectiveness of incendiaries on industrial targets, and they prov
Node: 6236, Score: 0.0488881960225768, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0065.txt, Content: ow had the force to execute the plan. All it needed was a period of good weather.20 Major General Fred Anderson, now deputy commander for operations, persuaded Spaatz to launch ARGUMENT  on 20 February. So-called Big Week actually started on the night of the 19th with an RAF area raid on Leipzig, home of key fighter plants, but the American would do most of the damage.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 60 --- 42  CHAPTER  THREE A series of daylight attacks featuring over 800 bombers struck designated tar- gets throughout Germany and Austria, supplemented by Bomber Command at night. Losses were heavy: 158 bombers from the Eighth, eighty-nine more from the Fifteenth, and 157 from the British. Forty-two USSTAF fighters went down. About 5,000 airmen were killed or became prisoners of war. The Eighth Air Force lost a fifth of its bomber force during the month of February.21 However, results were significant. Some fighter plants were shut down for weeks. Speer was told that his March fighter production would be reduced by 70 percent. In response to the assault he directed increased dispersion of This target photo of key aircraft plants in Leipzig on 20 February 1944 shows that the Big Week attacks also achieved some excellent bombing results on the ground while luring the Luftwaffe into deadly air battles above. (44th Bomb Group Collection, USAMHI, USAHEC)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 61 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   4 3 aircraft factories, which saved the industry but lost the efficiencies of mass production and created new vulnerabilities through transportation choke points. By the time production output could be restored, shortages in avi- ation fuel and chaos in the rail system would keep planes undelivered or grounded. For more immediate impact, during the month of February the Luftwaffe lost more than one third of its single-engine fighters and almost a fifth of its pilots.22 Although USSTAF quickly made up its losses in men and matériel, this was not p
Node: 6225, Score: 0.0483660112524311, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0054.txt, Content: itical or military significance, such as French submarine pens in the Bay of Biscay, Berlin, and targets to assist amphibious operations in the Mediterranean or Northwest Europe. The day bomber force was ordered to “take every opportunity to attack Germany by day, to destroy objectives that are unsuitable for night attack, to sustain continuous pressure on German morale, to impose heavy losses on the German day fighter force and to con- tain German fighter strength away from the Russian and Mediterranean the- atres of war.” In a caveat that would cause much friction later, the directive required that anyone attacking objectives in occupied countries had to con- form to “such instructions as may be issued from time to time for political reasons by His Majesty’s Government through the British Chiefs of Staff,” who also would consult with representatives from exiled governments. It was assumed that the need for timely decisions on such matters could not be met if such matters had to be referred to the CCS in Washington. Though there were no clear instructions included about who was in command of the CBO, the CCS decided to let the British have oversight initially, so the chief of the British Air Staff, Sir Charles Portal, acted as the CCS agent in 1943.7 Eaker had successfully sold his precision-bombing campaign to Allied leadership, now he had to prove it would work. During the rest of the year  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 53 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   3 5 he would be foiled by determined enemy defenses and countermeasures, a lack of resources, inadequate intelligence, typical weather patterns, and bad assumptions. Among the latter was the faith that unescorted bombers could get through to heavily defended targets in Germany without unacceptable losses, that bombing accuracy and available munitions would destroy critical targets quickly and permanently, and that intelligence could properly select those vital objectives. It took until 1944 for American in
Node: 6309, Score: 0.0483599408726438, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0138.txt, Content: ix and match. The result was to increase the number of psy- choneurotic casualties from stress. Flyers in the Fifteenth retained the pecu- liar burdens and attitudes of their positions on the crew without being able to rely on the strong bonds of comradeship existing among the members of a well-established combat team. Many Eighth Air Force airmen identified so much with their crew that they suffered more fear and tension “when they are on the ground and their crew is flying without them on a combat mission than when they are flying.”26 AAF leaders became especially concerned about the morale of Eighth Air Force bomber crews after Doolittle’s decision to release his fighters from strict escort duties and losses forced Spaatz to extend combat tours and even bring some crews back who had completed their quota. The battle for air su- premacy between January and May 1944 cost USSTAF 2,351 heavy bombers in combat, and another 254 from accidents and unrepairable battle damage. In the summer of 1944 the number of crews and aircraft interned because of landing in neutral counties more than doubled over previous months, with eighteen in May, thirty-eight in June, and forty-one in July. B-24s from the 2nd Bombardment Division, most likely to be assigned deep missions because of their longer range than the B-17s, were most prone to get in-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 114 --- 96  CHAPTER  FIVE terned. Those statistics alarmed Arnold, as did the results of interviews with crews in Sweden conducted by US diplomatic personnel. Spaatz defended his airman in a heated exchange of messages with the AAF Commanding General, who eventually sent Lieutenant Colonel James W. Wilson to the United Kingdom to investigate the situation in August. He had instructions to determine if there was truly a “deterioration of combat crew morale.” His report in September, based on over a thousand interviews with crew mem- bers, and the findings of a group of carefully selected USSTAF officers sen
Node: 6247, Score: 0.0481979474037194, Chunk File: crane_bombs/chunks/crane_bombs_0076.txt, Content: us as the new targeting directive took effect. On 14 January the 44th dispatched thirty-two bombers to lead their combat wing in an assault on the oil refinery at Hemmingstadt. Two squad- rons had excellent results in visual conditions, but the third bombed poorly because it was crowded off course during the bomb run by another group. It was much harder to get a large number of bombers over a target in day- light formations than with nighttime bomber streams. The next day’s mission against the aircraft component factory at Bounheim was scrubbed, but on the 16th, thirty-three B-24s of the group led the whole Second Bombardment Division in an attack of the synthetic oil plant at Ruhland. There were plenty of jinxing gremlins flying with them that day. Just after crossing the German Although the danger posed by Luftwaffe ﬁghters was much reduced for USSTAF bombers in 1945, ﬂak, weather, and accidents still took their toll. This B-24 Liberator from the 466th Bomb Group crashed while trying to make an emergency landing at Shipdham on 8 January. All crewmen survived, though some were injured. (44th Bomb Group Collection, USAMHI, USAHEC)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 69 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   5 1 border, the lead plane had a malfunction of its H2X radar set, so the deputy had to take over to guide the formation to the target. When they arrived, it was obscured by a smoke screen and low clouds, so the aircraft had to shift to the secondary objective of the marshaling yards at Dresden. One squadron bombed over the target because of a rack malfunction of the leader. Another bombed short because the lead bombardier’s viewing panel was frosted up. The third missed right because it was again forced off its run by another group. One damaged plane was abandoned in flight (the first combat loss of the month), sixteen landed in France, four more landed at other airdromes, and another ran out of fuel before it could find anywhere to land. Even after such a debacle, t