Node: 26678, Score: -0.0028893796546398, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0233.txt, Content: apanese allocated their remaining fuel, equipment and manpower reserves for a final kamikaze onslaught of 5,000 aircraft, many of them unsuitable second- line training or communications types, which were to be flown by pilots with the bare minimum of training necessary for their one solo flight. Against this desperate situation, something devastating and final was needed, and it existed, in the form of the atomic bomb. This had been developed during the war years under the name of 'the Manhattan Project'; tests had shown it to be of tremendous power, so much so that some at least of the scientists working on the project feared to use it. The new American President, Truman, was briefed about the bomb and accepted the advice of his military advisers that it should be used. When the Japanese rejected the demand for unconditional surrender from the United States and the United Kingdom at the Potsdam Conference, Truman and the American Secretary for War, Stimson, decided to use the atomic bomb. The point of controversy at this stage lay in the extent to which the Soviet dictator, Joseph Stalin, was involved. The Soviet Union had signed a treaty of neutrality with Japan but was demanding a right in the post-war occupation of that country and territorial concessions and was preparing to declare war on Japan. Stalin was involved with elements of the Japanese leadership which had put out unofficial peace-feelers, hoping that the USSR would act as a mediator. The Japanese government  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 154 8 included war and anti-war factions at that time, and it is open to question whether the latter would have prevailed even if Stalin had acted honourably. A special unit had been formed specifically to handle nuclear weapons, in the form of the 509th Composite Group, USAAF, in September 1944, at a time when it was just possible that nuclear weapons might be used against Germany. As German defeat became inevitable and Japanese resistance continued, the 509th was moved to T
Node: 26684, Score: -0.0002644933891449, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0239.txt, Content: in mind not only the Soviet alliance with the West in the war against Germany but its subsequent declaration of war on Japan. The Soviet Union had a long history of disputes with Japan, yet delayed making war until the conflict was all but over, in time only to make territorial gains. It should also be remembered that the USSR was at the time in receipt of substantial material aid from both the United States and the United Kingdom, in spite of the latter still suffering occasional air raids in addition to the V-1 missiles. Before long, the former Allies had divided into two major alliances. There were others, including the Baghdad Pact, or Central Treaty Organization as it subsequently became, and the South-East Asia Treaty Organization, but only two, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact, have been enduring. The original members of the Warsaw Pact were the USSR itself, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Romania and Yugo- slavia, with the last-mentioned withdrawing early in the Pact's existence, while Albania never joined and Romania eventually managed to secure the removal of Soviet forces from the country. NATO originally included both the United States and the United Kingdom, as well as Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Iceland, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal and Turkey; West Germany joined dur-  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 158 159 DECLINE AND FALL ing the mid-1950s and was followed by Spain many years later; France withdrew from the command structure of NATO during the late 1960s but remained a member. The growing tension between East and West was to result in what has been aptly termed a 'cold war', with many hot spots between opposing ideologies, especially in the so-called 'brush-fire wars', but with direct conflict between the two sides avoided by a policy of deterrence and what has also become known as Mutual Assured Destruction (MAD), based on the availability of nuclear weapons. MAD became the pol
Node: 26567, Score: 0.0027195340413579, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0122.txt, Content: from bombing civilian targets, the United Kingdom agreed immediately and the French followed within twenty-four hours; it took several days further before Germany also complied - or at least claimed to do so. Roosevelt's request was wildly unrealistic, but a feature of the first winter of war was to be the restraint applied by the RAF, even at considerable cost to British aircraft and, more important, their crews. Perhaps the greatest criticism of the pressure to, in effect, 'behave decently' was that it probably contributed to the overall bloodshed of World War II, through enabling the Germans to persist in the belief that the British had no stomach for an all-out war with Germany. Others, perhaps realizing that war would be costly, refused to accept that the British and the Germans could fight another war, and believed that peace would soon come. While even a remote chance of peace remained during that first winter, the Germans were themselves insulated from the true effects of war, hearing of victory through Nazi propaganda and being denied the reality of heavy air raids. During 1939 and for much of 1940, German industry was able to continue production with little disturbance from air raids, from mobilization of its workforce for the armed forces, or from disruption to transport and supplies. Few Luftwaffe aircraft were destroyed on the ground by the enemy, and the service was still living off the accumulated reservoir of trained aircrew created during the final years of peace; even amongst those men already serving with their operational units, the net effect was one of a growing volume of experi- enced aircrew. The training system was not under strain from heavy losses, nor from the disruption of its programme by the heavy air- transport efforts which were to become a feature of the German war effort, especially in 1940 and 1941. The truth was that, in some cases almost through to mid-1941, much of Germany and most of the popu- lation were still living in near
Node: 26503, Score: 0.0028426822128369, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0058.txt, Content: rms as the tempo of war had risen and the conflict on the ground had become bogged down in a bloody stalemate. It had become hard to cling to the belief that air raids were barbaric when thousands of men were dying by the hour as troops were ordered out of their trenches and expected to attack over barbed wire and through minefields in the face of intense artillery fire and devastating machine-gun fire which scythed through the advancing troops. Concern over the morality of attacking civilians wilted in the realization that it was civilians who were putting the tools of war into the hands of an opponent. It was becoming difficult to decide just who were the civilians. Merchant seamen were civilians, yet U-boat commanders had no qualms about sinking supply ships in an attempt to starve the British Isles into defeat. Workers in naval dockyards were civilians, yet these were amongst the first legitimate targets as strategic air power evolved and attacks by aircraft moved away from the immediate vicinity of the battlefield. In a sense, there was a rough justice about this. In a bout of jingoism unknown in the democracies during World War II, civilians on both sides reacted to the prospect of war with as much enthusiasm and fervour as their leaders, and perhaps far more than the fighting men who had witnessed the carnage of a new kind of war at first hand. There was little doubt about it. After four years of war, and just fifteen years after the first tentative aeroplane flights, air power had become a significant element in warfare, and bombing was an inescapable feature of any major conflict.  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 48 LIVING WITH AIR POWER Doubts there may have been, and controversy there certainly was. Just how effective was the bomber? Did it justify a complete re-casting of the military structure so that, instead of being tied to the army and navy, air power could be deployed, with fighters and bombers waging a war of their own in an autonomous air force? If commande
Node: 26448, Score: 0.0049592120723495, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0003.txt, Content: able, option. This is that economic sanctions can be an effective and humane substitute for military action. Sanctions either work or they do not, just as the bomber either succeeds or fails. If they do not work, what is the point? If they do work, then the nation affected by the sanctions will not be able to afford the food to feed its people properly nor the medicines and medical equipment with which to treat them. The very young, the very old and the chroni-  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 14 PREFACE cally infirm will be the most seriously affected. Is this more humane than the more obvious bomber campaign? Then there is the question about the cost-effectiveness of the bomber. The bomber was born out of necessity, from the understandable, even logical desire to attack enemy airfields and war industry. The shortcomings of the available technology led to the concept of area bombing, in which civilians were part of the target. The question which arises is simply whether all civilians are innocent. The man who puts the weapons of war into the hands of the soldier is an accomplice before the fact, and so too is he, or she, who incites others to join up while in a secure and sheltered job at home. War fever is an ugly thing, but few countries have been immune to it. The factory worker not only puts weapons into the hands of the military man; he is usually better paid for his task and is not separated from family and friends. In this context whether weapons are offensive or defensive does not depend on whether one is talking about bombers or fighters but on which side one stands. It may be misguided, and certainly bombing seldom broke civilian morale, but there was logic in the assumption that a dose of frontline punishment might make civilians think twice about warfare. In this book I have tried to show the strengths and the failings of the bomber offensives, coming as close to the present as one can. Several points seem to me to stand out. Firstly, the bomber was born out of ne
Node: 26447, Score: 0.006049254086159, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0002.txt, Content: entre around the effectiveness of the bomber and of bomber campaigns, while others debate the morality and the wisdom of the concept. Debate has not been confined to the United Kingdom and the United States but has also extended to those European countries which have come to know, by virtue of bitter experience, that even traditional warfare does not spare innocent civilians, of any age. This is not surprising, for while the civilian casualties inflicted by the bomber are nothing new to those who have experienced the horrors of war in their country, with fighting in their streets, there has always been something terrible about death and destruction from the air which has made it worse even than artillery fire, and unable to bear comparison with the bullet or the sword. Added to this has been the myth which persists to this day that somehow World War I corrupted the innocence of the early aeroplane. This is hardly fair, since the idea of attack from the air preceded the aeroplane and the airship by many centuries. Those who thought, as did the Wright brothers, that the aeroplane would bring an end to wars, did so not because they could not see a role for the aeroplane with the military but because they foresaw flight being so fundamental to future warfare that it would be the ultimate deterrent. No army could move without being observed, no one would dare start a conflict for fear of the destruction which it would bring. It took not the bomber but an awful advance in what may be inadequately described as munitions technology to bring widespread conflict to an end with the advent of first the A-bomb and then the H-bomb, the latter more usually in the form of missile warheads than bombs as such. There is another myth favoured by those seeking a soft, and politically acceptable, option. This is that economic sanctions can be an effective and humane substitute for military action. Sanctions either work or they do not, just as the bomber either succeeds or fails. If they
Node: 26685, Score: 0.0062691307410326, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0240.txt, Content: ct conflict between the two sides avoided by a policy of deterrence and what has also become known as Mutual Assured Destruction (MAD), based on the availability of nuclear weapons. MAD became the policy by which neither side dared start a conflict for fear of rapid escalation into a nuclear exchange, which would result in both sides being wiped out. In delivering the warheads, first the bomber and then the missile became the key. The ability to deploy such weapons, the ability to ensure their delivery, and the determination to use these if necessary became known as 'the policy of deterrence' An element within deterrence became known as 'the second strike capability', meaning that the nation on the receiving end of a nuclear attack could retaliate, denying its opponent victory. For this, submarine- launched missiles became increasingly important, displacing the bomber because of their ability to survive a first strike. Such distinctions became important as deterrence showed that it worked - and worked to the extent that neither side dared contemplate being first to use such awful destructive power. In spite of differences and international incidents far more serious than anything preceding the outbreak of either World War I or World War II, peace prevailed between the major alliances, even at the cost of many smaller and often bloody wars and of leaving the Soviet Union with its post-World War II subjugation of many European nations. The power of the atomic bomb was such that the United States sought to keep the new device to itself, not because of any desire for world domination but to maintain a counter to any future attempt at war. The discovery was not even shared with the British or the French Nevertheless, both these countries and the Soviet Union soon acquired the ability to produce nuclear weapons, with the latter obtaining the information through espionage. The first British atomic bomb was tested on 11 October 1956 at Maralinga in Australia, by which time
Node: 26508, Score: 0.006544515170517, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0063.txt, Content: ame into being on 2 July 1926. To what extent Mitchell helped towards the enhancement of military aviation's standing in the US Army, and to what extent his actions had the opposite effect by forcing politicians into a situation in which they could not admit that he was right, and implement the Lampert Committee's recommen- dations, is something which cannot be fairly assessed. Mitchell had like-minded contemporaries outside the United States apart from Trenchard in the United Kingdom, who as 'the father of the Royal Air Force', obviously believed in the concept of strategic air power within an autonomous air arm. The Italian General Giulio Douhet was also court-martialled for his criticism of Italian Government policy on military aviation. His book Command of the Air insisted that bomb- ing alone could win a future war. Douhet's ideas were not without an audience, impressing the future German Luftwaffe High Com- mand, just as the leaders of the future Germany Army also absorbed the writings of the Frenchman Charles de Gaulle. Douhet was more fortunate than Mitchell: after Mussolini came to power in 1923, he was recalled to head the new, autonomous Italian Air Force, the Regia Aero- nautica. While the Americans and their former allies still retained their air arms after the end of World War I, the Treaty of Versailles, which took effect on 10 January 1920, disbanded the German Military Air Service and the German Naval Air Service. Both the Germany Army and Navy were much reduced in size, but these services did, nevertheless, survive, subjected to certain restrictions and inspection by the Allied Control Commission. The Chief of the German Army Staff, General von Seeckt, was defiant, with his order disbanding the Military Air Service actually 51 declaring the hope of eventually seeing the flying corps come back to life again at a future date. Within the Defence Ministry, the Reichswehr Ministerium, several officers were allocated tasks which enabled them to keep in t
Node: 26720, Score: 0.0088198786640548, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0275.txt, Content: in preventing escalation of such a conflict and concentrating instead on effective counter-measures and avoiding leniency in punishment. In spite of the problems created by Libya for her Arab neighbours, the reaction of the other Arab nations was to support Libya and denounce the role of the USA and the UK. The only logical result which could reasonably have been expected from a bombing attack would be all-out warfare, but this would have been politically unacceptable given the Libyan practice of attempting to play the Atlantic Alliance and the Warsaw Pact countries off against one another. MAK  9 181 THE BOMBER TODAY The Bomber Today The history of the bomber has been marked by a search for two attributes: the ability to strike effectively and accurately at a specific target, such as a bridge, a power station or a ship, and the capability of inflicting wholly unacceptable damage on a large area. In many ways, the failure of the bomber to achieve the first broke the patience of the politicians and military leaders and led inevitably to the abandoning of good intentions and the adoption of the second course. In devising the means of achieving both these ends, there has been created the paradox that the bomber is missing from all but a few of the world's largest air forces. If an entire city needs to be wiped out, this can be achieved through using missiles, and those with a nuclear war- head can inflict damage far in excess of anything at Hiroshima or Nagasaki, or any of the German and Japanese cities which suffered intensive conventional bombing. The pinpoint accuracy of interdiction bombing requires the delivery of a small warhead accurately, with modern conventional explosives far more effective than their World War II counterparts in terms of damage-for-weight, while air-to-surface missiles or 'smart bombs' can be carried by a fighter-bomber, fighter, ground-attack aircraft or even helicopters. The use of such weapons and the end of massive bombing raids has mea
Node: 26719, Score: 0.0120318057453012, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0274.txt, Content: with the USAF forma- tion. One F-111B flew into the sea during the low-altitude run-in to Tripoli. The aircraft used anti-radar Shrike and Warm missiles to destroy Libyan radar, as well as laser-guided smart bombs, able to identify their target a hundred miles or so away. There were also conventional 500-1b bombs. A technical fault or an incorrect target-selection led to some bombs or missiles hitting civilian housing instead of a Libyan security barracks, with civilian casualties including about one hundred injured and a substantial number of dead. Other casualties were caused by SAM-5 missiles falling to earth after failing to make contact with a target. Generally, Libyan anti-aircraft fire was inaccurate, and the firing of anti-aircraft guns and missiles the following night following a false alarm suggests that training and co-ordination were poor. base. The bombers showed their traditional strengths and weaknesses dur- ing the operations against Libya, and against Libyan naval craft. The acid test of any such retaliatory measure must lie in its success in curbing terrorism, but the bomber is a poor weapon for this role. The problem with terrorism is that there are few military targets associated with terrorists which can be attacked with any real benefit, unlike a conven- tional open war, in which military bases and communications centres can be destroyed. Terrorism does not need a sophisticated industrial base or lines of communication but infiltrates itself into the communications systems of its host nation, in much the same way as a deadly disease might travel through the bloodstream of its host to attack vital organs. This means that prevention takes place close to the target, depending on efficient police work and timely intelligence. There is something to gain in preventing escalation of such a conflict and concentrating instead on effective counter-measures and avoiding leniency in punishment. In spite of the problems created by Libya for her Arab neighbo
Node: 26701, Score: 0.0143886545333026, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0256.txt, Content: e last-mentioned were few, and mining of harbours and ports, to closely co-ordinated saturation bombing of enemy troops as they closed in around American or South Vietnamese forces, in effect using the USAF as a form of flying artillery to break a superior force of North Vietnamese Army regulars. The war in Vietnam was at one and the same time an example of severe restraint by the United States and of overkill. The restraint lay in the constant and continuing reluctance to escalate the war, leaving first North Vietnamese cities and then ports, including Hanoi and Haiphong, free from bombing, even though the military situation in the South was crumbling. The overkill came in the use of massive quantities of bombs (especially of napalm, a jellified petroleum) against soft targets, including  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 168 169 DECLINE AND FALL villages suspected of harbouring North Vietnamese troops but which were often abandoned by the North Vietnamese, their guerrilla sup- porters and other able-bodied persons. The failure lay in the ability to fight a real jungle counter-insurgency campaign on the ground and in the inability to win the 'hearts and minds' of the people, both techniques having been used successfully by the British in Malaya during the early 1950s and then again in the newly independent state of Malaysia when facing confrontation by Indonesia during the early 1960s. An early indication of the intensity of the war came as early as 1965, with more than 12,000 sorties over North Vietnam and 60,000 over South Vietnam by the USAF and the South Vietnamese Air Force, dropping 81,000 tons of bombs, while another 6,000 sorties were conducted by USN and USMC aircraft. The giant Boeing B-52 Superfortresses started to bomb targets in Vietnam, flying 2,500 miles from Guam, while later other B-52s flew from bases in Thailand and Okinawa. These heavy raids were often ineffectual but could on other occasions disperse heavy concentrations of enemy troops, as at Khe Sanh in l
Node: 26703, Score: 0.0153871294926212, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0258.txt, Content: id by the A-6s on the Lang Chi power station also used five 'smart' bombs. After another attempt at negotiations and another ceasefire in late 1972, the raids were resumed, this time with the General Dynamics F-111 variable-geometry supersonic bomber augment- ing the B-52 effort in eleven days of intensive round-the-clock bombing of North Vietnam, destroying all centres of communication, oil tanks, power stations, electricity supply lines and ammunition dumps, and facing more than 1,200 SAM-7 guided missiles. It was not until early in 1972 that the first attacks on Haiphong, the port for Hanoi, were sanctioned, with the port being sealed off within a short time by magnetic and acoustic mines, which were extremely diffi- cult and dangerous to sweep. More than six million tons of high-explosive bombs were dropped during the Vietnam War, several times the amount used against Germany during World War II. To some extent it seemed to work, with a ceasefire being agreed in early 1973, under which the Americans and the Russians agreed to refuse to replenish the stocks of armaments held by the two opposing sides. Unfortunately, while the United States stood by the agreement, rapidly reducing the American presence in Vietnam, the Soviets continued to maintain supplies to the North Vietnamese. De- feat followed defeat for the South, and by April 1975 it was all but over, leaving the United States Navy to evacuate their own nation- als and many South Vietnamese as the month, and the war, drew to a close. Many more Vietnamese voted with their feet, braving the weather and pirates to flee to the West in small boats during the years that followed. Had the United States cut off the supply of military material to the North Vietnamese by mining the harbours earlier in the war, as well as keeping the infrastructure under steady and accurate aerial bombard- ment, it could have been impossible for the North Vietnamese to have gathered the strength necessary to bring the war to a success
Node: 26710, Score: 0.015579662386887, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0265.txt, Content: Stratotankers. Ironically, the PLO had moved to Tunis in 1982 to be outside the range of IDF/AF attack, although the Israelis had acquired elderly, but still effective, tanker aircraft well before this. In the raid on Tunis, the IDF/ AF used 1,000-lb bombs and 'smart' bombs, laser-guided air-to-ground missiles similar to those used so successfully by the USAF in Vietnam, killing or injuring more than 150 people. Border disputes as well as a long-running animosity resulted in many air battles between India and Pakistan during the 1960s, usually with ground-attack aircraft supporting their respective armies, especially in fighting over Kashmir and the Rann of Kutch in the mid-1960s. Pakistan had been divided into two parts on independence, with Indian territory in between. Apart from the obvious problems of division, the East Pakistanis felt that the nation's wealth was concentrated in the West and that they were, by contrast, treated almost as a colony. Disorder broke out in the East after the Awami League obtained all but twelve of the 310 seats in the regional assembly, and a majority of seats in the national assembly, forcing the postponement of the re-opening of the assembly in 1970. A year of disorder led to refugees flooding into India. Rising tension between India and Pakistan, and the risk of the Chinese taking advantage of the situation to attempt seizure of Indian territory, led to plans being laid for an offensive to begin in November 1971, after the monsoons and while the winter snow made a Chinese attack across the Himalayas unlikely. War broke out on the borders of East and West Pakistan on 3 December 1971. Most of the fighting on the ground was in the East, and a pre- emptive strike by Pakistan Air Force aircraft late on Friday 3 December, against Indian Air Force bases close to the border with West Pakistan, achieved little. Too few Indian Air Force bases were attacked, and in insufficient strength, with most of the PAF being held back from the confli
Node: 26679, Score: 0.0167999532465622, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0234.txt, Content: n September 1944, at a time when it was just possible that nuclear weapons might be used against Germany. As German defeat became inevitable and Japanese resistance continued, the 509th was moved to Tinian Airfield in the Marianas in May 1945 and was ready to use nuclear weapons by 1 August. Few members of the Group knew the duty which lay ahead for it. On 6 August, at 02.45, the Group's Commanding Officer, Colonel Paul Tibbets, took off in his Boeing B-29 Superfortress, named Enola Gay, followed by two observation aircraft. On taking off, Tibbets did not know which of three Japanese cities was to be his target, and it was not until shortly after 07.00 that he was directed to Hiroshima, the city with the best weather that summer morning. At 08.15, at 31,600 feet, the U-235 atomic bomb known as Little Boy was released, exploding at 1,000 feet. The first use of an atomic bomb killed 78,000 people within seconds. injured another 51,000 and made 176,000 homeless, while more than 70,000 buildings were destroyed. Three days later, on 9 August, a second Boeing B-29, named Bock's Car after its captain, dropped another atomic bomb, while Japan's leaders debated Truman's call of 6 August to surrender or face a rain of ruin. The bomb dropped on Nagasaki was more powerful than that used at Hiroshima and was known as Fat Man, due to its shape which resulting from a different fission technique. It killed some 50,000 people, and injured some 10,000 more, a lower figure than for Hiroshima since Nagasaki's terrain afforded protection for many buildings in valleys whose steep slopes shielded them from the burst. The British had an observer in Bock's Car: Group Captain Leonard Cheshire VC, the former commander of 617 squadron. Preceded by a pillar of purple fire 10,000 feet high, with perfect symmetry, unlike a conventional explosive fireball, seemed to say to Cheshire, 'Against me, you cannot fight.' Japan accepted the American surrender terms on 20 August, but the formal date for su
Node: 26717, Score: 0.0171864030060686, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0272.txt, Content: mbers. Libya had for some years posed a threat to many of its neighbours, especially Egypt, the Sudan and Chad, as well as perpetrating a series of terrorist attacks aimed initially at the political opponents of the Libyan leader, Colonel Gadaffi, and subsequently at Europeans and Americans. Added to this, Libyan territorial claims extended beyond the African continent, ignoring the general international acceptance of a twelve-mile territorial limit, even though some countries, such as the United King- dom, still accepted three miles. Libya insisted that all the waters of the Gulf of Sirte should be regarded as Libyan territorial waters, joining the Soviet Bloc in a refusal to accept the 'right of innocent passage', by which even warships are allowed to transit through the waters of another nation in time of peace. A line, at latitude 32.30 North, was declared by Gadaffi to be a 'line of death' for any ship or aircraft venturing across it Concerned to some extent to protect the right of innocent passage and for the right to operate in the Mediterranean but due mainly to a general unwillingness to be dictated to by the Libyan leader, the United States Navy sent its Sixth Fleet across the 'line of death' at noon on 24 March 1986, with the force led by the attack-carriers uss Saratoga and America and the cruiser uss Yorktown. Within two hours, Soviet-built SA-5 Gammon surface-to-air missiles were fired at Grumman F-14 Tomcat fighters on combat air patrol above the Sixth Fleet. The missiles were deflected by electronic counter-measures applied by the uss Yorktown. An hour or so afterwards, Libyan Air Force Mikoyan MiG-25 fighters flew towards the US ships but turned back more than a hundred miles short of the fleet, rather than engage the American fighters. At 18.45 further surface-to-air missiles were fired at the Tomcats, without success. At 20.25 A-7 Corsair IIs from the uss Saratoga and America attacked and sank a Libyan missile- carrying patrol boat, and forty minu
Node: 26742, Score: 0.0174102856659866, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0297.txt, Content: ionaria, 78 Aviatik, 41 Aviation Militaire, 38, 44-5, 51-3, 55 Avro, 504, 32; Lancaster, 73, 119, 120, Advanced Air Striking Force (AASF), 88, 90-2 Aerodrome A, 21-2 Aeronautical Division, US Army Signals Corps, 23 Aéronavalé, 170 Aeroplane, 31, 64 Aerosiluranti, 105 Africa, HMS, 26 Afrika Korps, 106, 111 AFVG- Anglo French Variable Geometry Aircraft, 33 Air Battalion, British Army, 27 Air Department, Admiralty, 33 Air Ministry, 64, 70-4, 83, 121 Air-to-Surface Missiles, ALARM, 180; ASMP, 180, 186; Blue Steel, 164; Bullpup, 164; Exocet, 17718, 188-9; HARM, 180; Kelt, 164; Kennel, 164; Kipper, 164; Kitchen, 164; Martel, 164; Maverick, 188-9; Rascal, 164; Skybolt, 164 Airco, 4, 49, 52; DH4, 44, 49, 52; DH9, 44, 53, 55, 61 Akagi, 113, 149, 150 Albert Canal, 92 Alcock, Captain John, 54 America, uss, 90, 177-8 Amiot, 352 124, 126, 130-3, 135, 145-6, 181; Lincoln, 147, 153, 156; Manchester, 118-19, 126, 131; Vulcan, 160-1, 175, 183, 187 Baby, 24 Bader, Group Captain Douglas, RAF, 99 Baghdad Pact, 157 Bahrain, 104 Baldwin, Stanley, 52, 68 Balkan War, 27, 29 Balkans, 107 Balloon Section, British Army, 24 Balzer, Stephen M, 21 Barcelona, 78 Basrah, 54 Bat, 163 Battle of, Berlin, 138 Amphibian, HMS, 26 Ansaldo, 133 Anschluss, 82 Antelope, HMS, 176 Antonov, Oleg, 61 Antonov, ANT-4, 61; ANT-6, 61; G-2,
Node: 26445, Score: 0.0177171407026978, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0000.txt, Content: By the same author Helicopters at War Boats of the Air World's Air Fleets World's Air Forces A Dictionary of Aviation Flight before Flying Speed in the Air Flight with Power Wings Over The Sea Airlift The Offensive Weapon The Strategy of Bombing by DAVID WRAGG ROBERT HALE · LONDON  579357 Jeps3/10/87 David Wragg 1986 First published in Great Britain 1986 Robert Hale Limited Clerkenwell House Clerkenwell Green London EC1R OHT British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data Wragg, David W. The offensive weapon: the strategy of bombing. 1. Bombing, Aerial - History I. Title 358.4'2'0904 UG632 ISBN 0-7090-2787-7 UG 700 W7 Photoset in Palatino by Rowland Phototypesetting Limited, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk Printed in Great Britain by St Edmundsbury Press Limited Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk Bound by Hunter & Foulis Limited Contents List of Illustrations 7 Acknowledgements Preface 1. Prophecy of Destruction 9 17 3. Living with Air Power 29 47 2. The Bloody Paralyser! 13 4. Ready for Battle 63 6. The Bomber Offensive 115 5. Blitzkrieg 83 7. Retribution 148 8. Decline and Fall 155 9. The Bomber Today 190 180 10. A Tomorrow? 194 Bibliography Index 195  List of Illustrations Between pages 64 and 65 Igor Sikorsky's Bolshoi or 'Grand' 2 Airco D.H.9 3 St John's Ambulance Hospital at Etaples in France during 1918 4 The Handley Page 0/100 5 The V/1500 6 Oleg Antonov ANT-6, or TB-3 7 The Douglas B-18 8 The Junker Ju.52/3m Stuka dive-bomber 9 Fairey Battle light bombers 10 The Bristol Blenheim 11 The Armstrong Whitworth Whitley 12 The Amiot 143 with an AASF Fairey Battle 13 The Handley Page Halifax heavy bomber 14 The Pe-2 medium bomber 15 The Russian TB-7 heavy bomber 16 The Handley Page Hampden medium bomber 17 The RAF's heaviest bomber in 1939, the Vickers Wellington 18 The Heinkel He. 177 Between pages 128 and 129 19 The Heinkel He.111 20 The Italian CRDA Cant. Z.1007 21 The Lancaster 22 The Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress 23 The Martin B-26 Marauder medium-bomber 24 The de Havilland Mosq
Node: 26676, Score: 0.0178493249354594, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0231.txt, Content: aided Tokyo, with a firestorm rapidly starting and being whipped by a gale along the wooden buildings of the residential and commercial areas. destroying forty per cent of the city and killing some 80,000 people while another 100,000 were injured. About fifteen square miles were devastated. Before this, in January and February, Nagoya and Kobe had also been attacked. Not all the B-29 raids were against cities, and naturally enough many of the early raids had been against the kamikaze base on the island of Kyushu. Other raids, against fuel supplies, already severely curtailed after Japan had been cut off from fuel supplies in the Dutch East Indies. so affected the JNAF and JAAF ability to mount adequate fighter defences that many B-29s were stripped of their defensive guns to enable still heavier warloads to be lifted. The raid on Tokyo was followed by a similar raid on Nagoya the following night, and the night after that, 13-14 March, Osaka burned, then Kobe and Nagoya again, before the USAAF ran out of incendiaries! In all, sixty major raids between June and August 1945 destroyed sixty square miles of Japanese cities, with raids concentrating on the sixty-five towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants. In total, the USAAF dropped 154,000 tons of bombs on Japanese towns and cities. The heavy rate of bombing Japanese cities, and the serious reverses as first one island or group of islands fell, appeared to have little impact on the military leadership which effectively controlled the government. Japan was in many ways a weaker target than Germany. Japanese expansion and the bombing of Pearl Harbor had been a make-or-break effort to secure supplies of raw materials and, most important of all, oil, especially that to be found in the Dutch East Indies at Palembang. An island nation, Japan had been vulnerable to the Americans' increasingly effective use of the submarine and had failed to utilize this weapon efficiently in return. Japanese industrial might had nev
Node: 26706, Score: 0.0182113769962926, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0261.txt, Content: tries being supported by the Soviet Union while the United States supported Israel. In effect. the situation almost amounted to a state of war by proxy, with neither of the major alliances able to contemplate a direct conflict. The small state of Israel lacked the depth in which to fight a major war and was not only numerically inferior to the Arab states but as time progressed was in danger of being outgunned as well, as the level of equipment in the Arab armed forces and the standard of training and combat-readiness of the Arabs also improved. The Israeli Defence Force/Air Force had also developed during this time, with some 350 aircraft, mainly French-built Dassault Mystère and Ouragan fighter-bombers, as well as a number of 171 Super Mystère interceptors and the then new Mirage III fighters. Part of the Air Force and most of the Army depended on the mobilization of reservists to match the Arab forces, but this also took time, which Israel did not possess for the entire country might be quickly overrun in a lightning strike. Nor could reservists be mobilized for long, if the Israeli economy was not to collapse. Rising tension in the Middle East during May 1967 convinced the Israeli Government that an Arab attack was likely, with Arab armies gathering close to the borders of Israel, and Egypt demanding the withdrawal of the United Nations Emergency Force in Sinai, after which Egyptian troops advanced into the largely desert area. In desperation, the Israeli Government ordered a surprise attack on the Arab states starting on 5 June, initially attacking Egypt and Jordan and then, in spite of a United Nations ceasefire resolution being passed in the General Assembly on 7 June, attacking Syria on 9 June. The key to success had to be a pre-emptive strike by the Israeli Defence Force/Air Force's 350 aircraft against the Arab airfields, gaining aerial superiority before supporting troops on the ground. Israel's small but well-educated and skilled population favoured the
Node: 26667, Score: 0.01836514199223, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0222.txt, Content: he frontier with Czechoslovakia and, in February 1945, not far from the advancing Soviet armies. The fear of the Russians had packed the city with refugees, not least because it was a focal point for road, rail and river communications through which essential war supplies and refugees alike had to pass. While propaganda about the Russians was issued to stiffen German resistance during the closing months of the war, it often had to be softened rather than exaggerated, such were the atrocities visited upon Germans, civilians and uniformed alike by the avenging Soviets. The RAF mounted a major raid against Dresden on the night of 13-14 February, attacking in two waves, the first of 244 Lancasters and the second of 530 heavy bombers, mainly Lancasters and Halifaxes, but with some Liberators, dropping a total of 2,500 tons of high explosives and tens of thousands of small but lethal incendiaries. The second wave caught many who had survived the first raid and believed that bombing was over for the night, in the open, while the incendiaries created a fearful firestorm. 14th February saw the 15th USAAF mount a heavy follow-up raid, with a further raid the following day. Estimates over the true casualty figures vary enormously, ranging as high as 135,000 people killed; although the Chief of Police has since been recorded as giving a figure of 25,000 killed and 35,000 missing, presumed dead, no reliable estimates can be given due to the number of displaced persons in the area. The lower estimate certainly matches that of Ham- burg on 27-28 July 1943, but the Baltic city was unlikely to have had its population swollen by refugees. The argument over the bombing of Dresden is unlikely ever to be settled ever. Was it unnecessary, an attempt to show the Soviets just what the RAF could achieve, or an essential attempt to finally cripple the German war effort and bring the fighting to an earlier end? Even those involved at the time cannot agree. After February 1945 the bomber offen