Node: 2606, Score: 0.0668800559637951, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0053.txt, Content: suing air battles, sixty of the bombers were shot down—a loss of 16 percent of those despatched and 19 percent of those attacking. Worse was to come.  During the second week of October the Eighth launched four major efforts against targets deep inside Germany. On the last of these, on 14 October against Schweinfurt, the force penetrated into Germany well beyond the range of the then available escort fighters. Here was the test of a theory; even the selection of the target reflected the long held hope of destroying a particular element of industry whose loss would result in a ‘‘bottleneck”’ in production. The Luftwaffe rose in defense and of the 291 bombers despatched, sixty failed to return, seventeen suffered major damage, and 121 sustained reparable damage. Although the attack got through to the target and caused considerable damage, such a rate of loss by the attacking force could not be consistently borne. Clearly, until the German : aan were driven from the skies, a new technique was necessary.4  From November 1943 through the third week in February 1944, the principal ally of the German Air Force—foul weather—became the dominating factor in the air war. Throughout the entire period there were less than half a dozen days on which the weather permitted visual bombing over Germany. 2 In the interim, experiments were begun with radar-aided bombing techniques (to make it possible to bomb through cloud cover) and a thorough reorganization of the strategic air forces was accomplished. On 1 November 1943 the Fifteenth Air Force was established under Major General Nathan F. Twining, and by December it had moved into place with its headquarters at Bari, Italy, and most of its bombers in a complex of bases around Foggia. Early in January Lieutenant General Ira C. Eaker, who had com- manded the Eighth’s bomber forces in England, went to Italy to take command of the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces (MAAF), head- quarters at Caserta. (Eaker was replaced at Eighth Air Force b
Node: 2565, Score: 0.0611694245713597, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0012.txt, Content: dred miles to their base. Behind them they would leave a badly crippled, if not devastated industry (actually only one factory, perhaps, but so chosen that its destruction must inevitably cripple an entire industry). The question of whether such attacks would take place at night or in daylight was decided for the latter on the basis of the improved accuracy to be expected. The question whether the bomber fleet should be escorted to the target by fighter aircraft was decided in the negative primarily for the reason that no such aircraft of sufficient range existed.  . Such, in rough and perhaps ungenerous outline, was the theory of  daylight, high altitude, precision bombardment of selected targets” that the Army Air Forces brought with them into World War II. As Mr. D Olier and his associates were to discover—indeed, as its very Progenitors were to discover—this theory, constructed without conscious precedents in the peacetime vacuum, contained some ee failed to prove out. Some of these were discussed in be roel Major General Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., who had been a  mbardment instructor at the Tactical School. The fanatical belief of the bombers in their own defensive fire  Power was not so much a choice and election to operate unescorted as it was a conclusion that fighters could not be built  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 7 --- 10 | ‘ Strategic Bombing in World War II  with sufficient range to accompany them. The Pursuit Section, on the other hand, wanted no part of the escorting problem. They just as fanatically contended that fighters should be built purely and solely for operation in anti-aircraft defense. . . . We had a tendency to build our doctrine around the drawing board designs and the expected performance of aircraft still in the design stage. On this basis we unquestionably magnified our expected capabilities and minimized our limitations. ... Our doctrine held that bombers in proper formation could conduct a running fire fight and preserve th
Node: 2596, Score: 0.0588180618527484, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0043.txt, Content: ng to get above enemy antiaircraft guns and defensive fighters) for several hundred miles, and arrive over a carefully chosen enemy target. There, grouped together in a large formation (to multiply both the amount of force delivered on the target and the detensive firepower, if needed, of the bombers’ guns), they would carefully “sight in’’ the target (with the new bombsights), trigger their bomb loads, and then return several hundred miles to their base. Behind them they would leave a badly crippled, if not devastated, industry (actually only one factory, perhaps, but so chosen that its destruction must inevitably cripple an entire industry). The question ot whether such attacks would take place at night or in daylight was decided for the latter on the basis of the improved accuracy to be expected. The question whether the bomber fleet should be escorted to the target by fighter aircraft was decided in the negative primarily for the reason that no such aircraft of sufficient range existed.  Such, in rough and perhaps ungenerous outline, was the theory of “daylight, high altitude, precision bombardment of selected targets” that the Army Air Forces brought with them into World War II. As Mr. D’Olier and his associates were to discover—indeed, as its very progenitors were to discover—this theory, constructed without conscious precedents in the peacetime vacuum, contained some assumptions that failed to prove out. Some of these were discussed in 1951 by Major General Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., who had been a bombardment instructor at the Tactical School.  The fanatical belief of the bombers in their own defensive fire  power was not so much a choice and election to operate unescorted as it was a conclusion that fighters could not be built  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 24 --- 10 Strategic Bombing in World War II  with sufficient range to accompany them. The Pursuit Section, on the other hand, wanted no part of the escorting problem. They just as fanatically con
Node: 2608, Score: 0.0558347823795301, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0055.txt, Content: efore such aircraft began to arrive in England.44 The eventual answer to the problem was the P-S1 “Mustang,” but improvements on the P-47 “Thunderbolt” late in 1943—essentially the addition of jettisonable fuel tanks—gave promise of greatly increased range. When first employed, however the effectiveness of the new escort fighters was hampered by the tactical decision that they should do exactly what their name implied; that is, they were to escort, convoy one might say, the bombers to the target, operating offensively only to drive off attacking enemy air- craft. This pleased the harried bomber pilots no end—the sight of friendly fighters flying alongside over enemy territory was an agreeable novelty—but it frustrated the fighter pilots. They argued that they could be far more effective if most of them were allowed to break loose from the bomber formations and go over to the attack the instant that enemy fighters were sighted in any quadrant—indeed, if a fair proportion of them were allowed to precede the bomber forma- tions in a coordinated series of fighter sweeps. As events were to show,  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 28 --- 18 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  the fighter pilots were correct, and before the next large-scale bombing efforts were launched_into Germany they were given the freedom they had long sought.45 General Spaatz had determined to force the battle in the air; that decision spelt the death knell of the uftwajfe. 7 vat Sing last,” says the official history, on 19 February 1944 the weather opened up over Germany and a concerted attack against the German aircraft industry was launched. Running daily through 25 February, the series of attacks involved over 3,300 bombers of the Eighth and more than S00 of the Fifteenth. Almost 10,000 tons of bombs were dropped, a scale of attack roughly equal to that of the Eighth Air Force during its entire first year of operations.” Enor- mously encouraged by the success of “Big Week, the air com- mand
Node: 2576, Score: 0.0546435874503494, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0023.txt, Content: ned United States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF), was made responsible for the overall direction of the American strate- gic air effort in Europe. While these changes were taking place the bomber force, in effect, stood down, waiting for the weather to break and for the arrival in mass of the long-awaited long range escort fighters. During this same period, RAF Bomber Command launched its ill-fated night bombing offensive against Berlin,43 an offensive in which the loss rates paralleled those of the Americans in the months  leading up to October 1943. As 1943 turned into 1944 it had become:  abundantly clear that success over the Luftwaffe in the battle of the air was the necessary prerequisite for the success of any bombing offensive, however conceived and executed. For the Allied bombing effort, the moment of crisis had arrived.  Despite the assumptions of the Air Corps Tactical School in the thirties that long range escort was probably not feasible, the authors of AWPD-1 had urged its development as at least an insurance factor. And although work was intensified on the problem at Wright Field (Dayton, Ohio) in 1942, it was late in 1943 before such aircraft began to arrive in England.44 The eventual answer to the problem was the P-S1 “Mustang,” but improvements on the P-47 “Thunderbolt” late in 1943—essentially the addition of jettisonable fuel tanks—gave promise of greatly increased range. When first employed, however the effectiveness of the new escort fighters was hampered by the tactical decision that they should do exactly what their name implied; that is, they were to escort, convoy one might say, the bombers to the target, operating offensively only to drive off attacking enemy air- “aca This pleased the harried bomber pilots no end—the sight of eeniily fighters flying alongside over enemy territory was an Meroe novelty—but it frustrated the fighter pilots. They argued bresk ey could be far more effective if most of them were allowed to —. ne from the bomber
Node: 2723, Score: 0.0539058975402949, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0170.txt, Content: s—encoun- tered at 25,000-30,000 feet, the normal pre-planned bombing alti- tudes. Trying to fly in tight, self-defending formations in such winds  proved almost impossible; worse, if the formation succeeded in reaching the target,  . drift was difficult to correct and bomb runs had to be charted directly upwind or downwind. Attacking Japan’s best-defended cities directly in the teeth of a 200-knot wind was unthinkable; going downwind the B-29’s reached ground speeds in excess of 500 miles per hour, in which case neither bombsights nor bombardiers could function properly. Moreover, the high winds made it impossible for crews to make a second pass if the run-in failed; if a navigational error brought a plang in downwind from target it might not be able to attack at all.  Arn¢ A : . / Early in January, impatient over the results thus far achieved From the beginning, operations from the China bases proved / , : : ya difficult. The main problem was that of logistics, since it took ten oe Pee Sethi Ge ere a cur  gallons of aviation gasoline to deliver one gallon over ‘the Hump” European allen whose XX Bomber Commnvel (China) was closing  from India to the Chengtu airfields. Those missions that were flown down operations. Despite Hansell’s close association with high level  had indecisive effects and were valuable primarily for training crews lanning throughout the war, he had made th atic . ;  and breaking in aircraft. It was not really until November 1944, from Lae recognizing that a basic chan sae atttesin er rare aaa a  bases hurriedly constructed in the Marianas, that the campaign Washington. This change reflowed a growing ioe, jeceanills  a sad fo cotumua of ts Wanien Comma in the Marianas among airmen, that some way might be found to bring sufficient  -d in " - pressure to bear to force a Japanese surrender, if possible before the  was Brigadier General Haywood S. “Possum” Hansell, one of the planned invasion ’  ones poms air emia pea pi tenting The comparative cen
Node: 2574, Score: 0.0465804388736428, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0021.txt, Content: ed as the “‘principal objectives,” one Overriding “intermediate objective” was stipulated; this was the German Air Force, particularly its fighter strength.  lf the growth of the German fighter strength is not arrested quickly, it may become literally impossible to carry out the destruction planned and thus to create the conditions necessary  for ultimate decisive action by our combined forces on the Continent.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 10 --- 16 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  The worst fears of the planners materialized during the summer and autumn of 1943. Growing in strength, the Eighth Air Force launched a series of attacks, many of them in formations numbering upwards of two hundred aircraft each, against targets specified in the C.B.O. Plan. But once beyond the range of their fighter escorts, and this meant whenever they penetrated German air space, the bombers suffered severe losses. In August a double mission was launched against the ball bearing plants at Schweinfurt and the Messerschmidt aircraft complex at Regensburg. Of 376 B-17s despatched, 315 found their targets and attacked; but in the ensuing air battles, sixty of the bombers were shot down—a loss of 16 percent of those despatched and 19 percent of those attacking. Worse was to come.  During the second week of October the Eighth launched four major efforts against targets deep inside Germany. On the last of these, on 14 October against Schweinfurt, the force penetrated into Germany well beyond the range of the then available escort fighters. Here was the test of a theory; even the selection of the target reflected the long held hope of destroying a particular element of industry whose loss would result in a ‘‘bottleneck’”’ in production. The Luftwaffe rose in defense and of the 291 bombers despatched, sixty failed to return, seventeen suffered major damage, and 121 sustained reparable damage. Although the attack got through to the target and caused considerable damage, such a rat
Node: 2566, Score: 0.043471154740542, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0013.txt, Content: his basis we unquestionably magnified our expected capabilities and minimized our limitations. ... Our doctrine held that bombers in proper formation could conduct a running fire fight and preserve themselves against fighter attacks. Unquestionably this was based on hope and not on existing fact. ... Inthe period before the war our lack of experience led us to be far too optimistic in gauging the number of bombs and the number of trials it would take to destroy a target.”  Reflecting the absence of an outside umpire, someone who might have been able to identify and prevent such errors, the bombardment theory evolved at the Tactical School contained shortcomings that will be brought out in later chapters. For the moment, however, it is necessary to consider how this theory, evolving into a doctrine, came to be incorporated in America’s basic war strategy, and how it fared in its initial test.  Strategy Finds a Place for Air  With the outbreak of war in Europe in 1939, the military and naval staffs in Washington began to prepare for the possibility of the United States’ becoming involved. Numbers of Air Corps officers, drawn from various specialties, were sent over to Great Britain to spend months observing and studying the Royal Air Force. Into Washington from outlying billets came many of the brightest, most energetic officers of each service. Ranking officers of long and faithful (if often pedestrian) service were cut from the ranks with what, to some of them, appeared all but ruthless abandon. The fledgling Army Air Corps, still looked upon by the War Department General Staff (WDGS) as a vexing, presumptuous stepchild overly fond of going outside the family for sympathy and assistance, soon found that it had important friends in high places.  Whether they intended it or not, the two men who did most to assure a significant role for air forces in the approaching war were President Franklin D. Roosevelt and General George C. Marshall, the Army chief of staff.25 Work
Node: 2684, Score: 0.0409487383525585, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0131.txt, Content: merican Eighth Air Force upon several fuel plants in central and eastern Germany, a new era in the air war began. It meant the end of German armaments production.  On 28 and 29 May, General Doolittle’s Eighth Air Force conducted successful raids against synthetic oil plants deep in central Germany. General Twining’s Fifteenth Air Force had been conducting similar attacks since April against oil targets around Ploesti and Vienna. Each of these raids proved costly in both crews and aircraft, but Spaatz’s main contention proved out—the German Air Force rose with fury to repel, unsuccessfully, these attacks. The full extent of the German pilot losses was revealed to Reichsmarschal Goering in late  The Survey at Work 77  May when he was informed that the losses were critically in excess of the Luftwaffe's programmed replacement capacity. Like the attacks in February against aircraft production, the attacks in May against aviation fuel production seriously crippled, but did not destroy, a critical industry. Taken together, however, and far more important in view of the upcoming invasion, they did destroy the Lu/ftwaffe's capability either to defend Germany or oppose the invasion.  On D-Day the German Air Force did not contest the landings at Normandy. The mission of the strategic air offensive, as defined at Casablanca and in the C.B.O. Plan, had been so to weaken Germany “as to permit initiation of combined operations on the Continent.” This had been accomplished; the strategic air offensive, when measured against its assignment, had proved an unqualified success. All this is not to say that the transportation attacks during April and May were without effect in limiting the Wehrmacht's capability to redeploy forces in opposition to the landings at Normandy, an undeniably important consideration. What it does say, however, is that exclusive concentration on the transportation attacks would not have allowed successtul achievement of the air forces mission— assured air supe
Node: 2602, Score: 0.0407088223271664, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0049.txt, Content: the conclusions that had been drawn. There must be a way, they felt, to apply force more selectively. One thing was certain, and that was that they were going to try, at least, to proceed according to their own theory of daylight, precision bombing. If circumstances should prove them wrong, they felt, change could always be introduced; but the idea of changing before they had even begun was anathema to the American commanders.  On 17 August 1942 twelve B-17s of the newly created Eighth Air Force launched the daylight bombing experiment. By late November some twenty-three attack missions had been flown, most of them against targets in France and Holland and in formations numbering less than thirty aircraft. Although encouraged at first by negligible air opposition from the German Air Force, the Operations Staff at Eighth Air Force soon felt the pangs of discouragement. Most of their crews had been sent overseas before their training had been com- pleted in the States, the idea being to complete their training in England. But the autumn weather over England was less than cooperative and in the event most “training” had to be accomplished on actual bombing missions.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 26 --- 14 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  Perhaps most galling to those with high hopes for early success was the series of diversions, so-called, from the basic plan for the air attack on Germany, diversions demanded by the grand strategy es- tablished by the Combined Chiefs of Staff (CCS).* The first of these was a bombing directive of 20 October 1942 naming as first priority for attack the submarine staging bases on the coast of France. This decision reflected the growing concern of the CCS over the outcome of the Battle of the Atlantic as well as a desire to offer additional protec- tion for the shipping requirements needed to support the November landings in North Africa (Operation TORCH). Soon thereafter the two most proficient Bomb Groups of the Eighth Air
Node: 2575, Score: 0.0401719167690034, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0022.txt, Content: ombers despatched, sixty failed to return, seventeen suffered major damage, and 121 sustained reparable damage. Although the attack got through to the target and caused considerable damage, such a rate of loss by the attacking force could not be consistently borne. Clearly, until the German | were driven from the skies, a new technique was necessary.4  From November 1943 through the third week in February 1944, the principal ally of the German Air Force—foul weather—became the dominating factor in the air war. Throughout the entire period there were less than half a dozen days on which the weather permitted visual bombing over Germany.*~ In the interim, experiments were begun with radar-aided bombing techniques (to make it possible to bomb through cloud cover) and a thorough reorganization of the strategic air forces was accomplished. On 1 November 1943 the Fifteenth Air Force was established under Major General Nathan F. Twining, and by December it had moved into place with its headquarters at Bari, Italy, and most of its bombers in a complex of bases around Foggia. Early in January Lieutenant General Ira C. Eaker, who had com- manded the Eighth’s bomber forces in England, went to Italy to take command of the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces (MAAF), head-  quarters at Caserta. (Eaker was replaced at Eighth Air Force by  Sar Rock: REGS Bie  =. All the Winds of Doctrine -  Major General James E. Doolittle.) Among Eaker’s new responsibili- ties was general supervision of the activities of the new Fifteenth Air Force. But to coordinate the operations of the Eighth and the Fifteenth, a new headquarters was established in London, the command being given to Lieutenant General Carl A. Spaatz, who had been General Eisenhower's air deputy in North Africa. The new command, christened United States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF), was made responsible for the overall direction of the American strate- gic air effort in Europe. While these changes were taking place the bomber force
Node: 2605, Score: 0.0389564832212913, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0052.txt, Content: his plan reflected the efforts of the Committee of Operations Analysts (COA) and General Arnold’s Advisory Council, both in Washington,3” and the RAF, the British Ministry of Economic Warfare, and Eighth Air Force leaders in England. Based on the most thorough analysis yet made of vul- nerable targets in Germany, it identified six systems comprising seventy-six precision targets. The six systems were: (1) submarine construction yards and bases,38 (2) the German aircraft industry, (3) ball bearing manufacture,39 (4) oil production, (S) synthetic rubber and tires, and (6) military transport vehicle production. However, while these six systems were listed as the ‘principal objectives,”’ one overriding ‘intermediate objective” was stipulated; this was the German Air Force, particularly its fighter strength. .  If the growth of the German fighter strength is not arrested quickly, it may become literally impossible to carry out the destruction planned and thus to create the conditions necessary for ultimate decisive action by our combined forces on the Continent.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 27 --- 16 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  The worst fears of the planners materialized during the summer and autumn of 1943. Growing in strength, the Eighth Air Force launched a series of attacks, many of them in formations numbering upwards of two hundred aircraft each, against targets specified in the C.B.O. Plan. But once beyond the range of their fighter escorts, and this meant whenever they penetrated German air space, the bombers suffered severe losses. In August a double mission was launched against the ball bearing plants at Schweinfurt and the Messerschmidt aircraft complex at Regensburg. Of 376 B-17s despatched, 315 found their targets and attacked; but in the ensuing air battles, sixty of the bombers were shot down—a loss of 16 percent of those despatched and 19 percent of those attacking. Worse was to come.  During the second week of October the Eighth laun
Node: 2607, Score: 0.038801563069202, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0054.txt, Content: had com- manded the Eighth’s bomber forces in England, went to Italy to take command of the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces (MAAF), head- quarters at Caserta. (Eaker was replaced at Eighth Air Force by  OO ee  All the Winds of Doctrine 17  Major General James E. Doolittle.) Among Eaker’s new responsibili- ties was general supervision of the activities of the new Fifteenth Air Force. But to coordinate the operations of the Eighth and the Fifteenth, a new headquarters was established in London, the command being given to Lieutenant General Carl A. Spaatz, who had been General Eisenhower's air deputy in North-Africa. The new command, christened United States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF), was made responsible for the overall direction of the American strate- gic air effort in Europe. While these changes were taking place the bomber force, in effect, stood down, waiting for the weather to break and for the arrival in mass of the long-awaited long range escort fighters. During this same period, RAF Bomber Command launched its ill-fated night bombing offensive against Berlin,43 an offensive in which the loss rates paralleled those of the Americans in the months leading up to October 1943. As 1943 turned into 1944 it had become abundantly clear that success over the Luftwaffe in the battle of the air was the necessary prerequisite for the success of any bombing offensive, however conceived and executed. For the Allied bombing effort, the moment of crisis had arrived.  Despite the assumptions of the Air Corps Tactical School in the thirties that long range escort was probably not feasible, the authors of AWPD-1 had urged its development as at least an insurance factor. And although work was intensified on the problem at Wright Field (Dayton, Ohio) in 1942, it was late in 1943 before such aircraft began to arrive in England.44 The eventual answer to the problem was the P-S1 “Mustang,” but improvements on the P-47 “Thunderbolt” late in 1943—essentially the addition of jettiso
Node: 2569, Score: 0.0359086320054653, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0016.txt, Content: g capability that an invasion, if necessary, could be accomplished. To do so would require an immediate start, the creation of 239 combat groups, and the provision of 63,467 aircraft and 2,164,916 men. Given such emphasis and resources, reasoned the planners, such an air offensive could reach full strength by April 1944. The plan recom- mended that the primary target objectives be Germany’s electrical power grid, transportation network, and petroleum industry.  A Brief Sketch of Operations Over Europe Through Spring 1944  Less than three months after the presentation of AWPD-1 the United States found itself at war with Germany. In the hectic months that followed, the AAF worked night and day to organize, train, and equip a strategic bombing force that could begin operations from bases literally thrown together in England.3 From the outset the American commanders were beseeched by their Royal Air Force counterparts to set aside, as unworkable, their theory of daylight bombing. The British had started out with a theory of employment remarkably similar to that derived at the Air Corps Tactical School. They had quickly found, however, that once their bombers ventured beyond the range of fighter escort the rate of loss inflicted by the Luftwaffe rose to unacceptable levels. Worse yet, the British experience with so-called precision bombing had failed miserably, many crews having missed their intended targets by distances up to five miles and more. In an effort to reduce losses to the Luftwaffe, RAE Bomber Command had switched over from day to night operations. This changeoever only further compounded the diffi- culties associated with finding and hitting precise targets. So, as a  Allthe Winds of Doctrine 13  result, Bomber Command had adopted the technique of aiming at target areas, principally cities geared to war production, hoping to maximize the effects—whatever effects—that their bombs might have. By mid-1942 it is fair to say that the operational goal of Bomber Co
Node: 2816, Score: 0.0346212071718384, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0263.txt, Content: also known variously as the Transportation Plan, the Tedder Plan, the Zuckerman Plan, the Leigh-Mallory Plan) have convinced me that no matter was more fiercely contested in the field of air strategy than this one. Accounts left by participants on either side of the issue have colored virtually all subsequent accounts. With the notable exception of Webster and Frankland (3, 22-24), for example, most British accounts fail to treat General Spaatz’s position either adequately or fairly. Two prominent examples of uninformed accounts may be found in: John Ehrman, Grand Strategy, Vol. S (London: H. M. S. O., 1956), pp. 286-304; and R. W. Thompson, The Price of Victory (London: Constable, 1960), pp. 123-38. By the same token, itis probably fair to assume that General Spaatz was more concerned with the number of German aircraft that might show up on D-Day than he was with the  Notes to Pages 19-20 175  number of German railway trains that might put in an appearance. In a letter to the author (2Jul69), General (USAF, Ret.) C. P. Cabell recalledahat “the oil attacks, as contrasted to the rail attacks, would serve two purposes: (1) Germany proper would be on the receiving end, and (2) the oil attacks would affect not only the German Air Force, but the economy as a whole and its ability to support the German surface forces." When I pointed out to General Cabell that this argument, if read in a particular light, could be taken to parallel Air Marshal Harris's idea that the bombers simply should not be diverted from targets in Germany, for any reason, | almost lost a riend.  mae. The author is indebted to the late General (USAF, Ret.) C. P. Cabell for help with the preceding paragraphs. As senior member of General Arnold's Advisory Council, General (then Colonel) Cabell had helped write the C.B.O. Plan. Later, from December 1943 to February 1944, he commanded the Forty-fifth Heavy Bombard- ment Wing. From February to July 1944 he was on the staff at USSTAF where he became Directo
Node: 2685, Score: 0.0328519541421074, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0132.txt, Content: ortant consideration. What it does say, however, is that exclusive concentration on the transportation attacks would not have allowed successtul achievement of the air forces mission— assured air superiority over the intended point of assault.  In Eisenhower's eyes General Spaatz’s stature, always high, rose even higher. Two days after D-Day the supreme commander agreed that oil was now the number one priority. For the next three months Spaatz’s bombers flew missions against oil targets whenever the weather permitted. Yet even as before the majority of sorties during the third quarter of 1944 were flown against targets less palatable to the air planners.  From June through August there were almost daily requests for bombing missions in direct support of the ground forces trying to break out from the lodgement at Normandy. Then V-1Is started hitting London beginning on 12 June, followed by V-2s beginning in September, leading to urgently repeated requests to attack the launching sites. (The British, understandably, wanted the launching sites destroyed; but Air Marshal Harris of RAF Bomber Command, citing the greater accuracy of the American forces, insisted that the Eighth Air Force should take on such missions. General Spaatz, also understandably, was not pleased to have his arguments on accuracy thus turned back on him.)  It was Spaatz’s fate throughout 1944 to have to contend with an almost limitless variety of ideas on how to use the bombers under his  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 58 --- (78 Strategic Bombing in World War Two command. As was his way, however, he was careful to keep his most phlegmatic comments to himself in an informal diary maintained in his office. At one point in June, after a conference at SHAEF, he wrote despairingly of Eisenhower's suggestion about using B-17s to drop supplies to partisans in southern France, and of “Leigh- Mallory and Monty, who visualize the best use of our tremendous air potential as plowing up several square
Node: 2683, Score: 0.0325221636960956, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0130.txt, Content: eat majority of missions flown during April, May, and June were directed against transportation centers and military concentrations behind the German lines in France, the Low Coun- tries, and Germany west of the Rhine. For idealists of the theory of strategic bombing aimed at the enemy's sustaining war economy, these were dark days. Whatever progress had been made, they felt, was now being jeopardized, the Germans being given an opportunity to recuperate. Generals Eisenhower and Spaatz, much to their credit, held to a middle position between extremists of both sides, between those who would abandon, if they could, tactical support missions and those who urged that the entire air effort be used in direct support of the Ground Forces.  For Spaatz the only real question was how best to assure air superiority over the assault beaches. Patiently, and with imposing tact, he worked to convince Eisenhower that the answer lay in the destruction of the Luftwaffe in the battle in the air, and that the surest way to flush the German fighters out of hiding to face combat in the sky was to concentrate on the Luftwaffe's fuel supply. Late in April, Eisenhower gave Spaatz verbal permission to strike at German oil refineries when the weather over Germany was such as to promise good results from daylight visual bombing. The first such raid took place on 12 May, against targets located near Zwickau, Merseburg- Leuna, Briix, Ltitzkendorf, Bohlen, and other cities. “I shall never forget the date May 12,” Albert Speer would later write.  On that day the technological war was decided. Until then we had managed to produce approximately as many weapons as the armed forces needed, in spite of their considerable losses. But with the attack of nine hundred and thirty-five daylight bombers of the American Eighth Air Force upon several fuel plants in central and eastern Germany, a new era in the air war began. It meant the end of German armaments production.  On 28 and 29 May, General Doolittle’
Node: 2663, Score: 0.0324116517972065, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0110.txt, Content: e the heavy bombers had flown both types of mis- sions—D’Olier and Fickel made their essential division along geo- graphical lines: (1) the Survey would operate alone in Germany proper; (2) in France and Belgium, such studies as the Evaluation Board had begun, regardless of their nature, they would finish, but there would be agreement before other studies were initiated; (3) all matters of flying tactics and techniques would be the business of the Evaluation Board exclusively. Or, as General Arnold had announced in a meeting on 14 October in Washington, “If Dr. Sproul is inter- ested in tactics and technique, give him a copy of Jake’s report.”’ 6  The same group that had gone to WIDEWING attended a confer- ence at PINETREE (Hq, Eighth Air Force) with General Doolittle and his Deputy for Operations, Major General Orvil A. Anderson, on Monday, 13 November.+’ At this meeting they were given a thor- ough briefing on the day-to-day operations of Eighth Air Force and its subordinate units. On 16 November, leaving Nitze in charge in London, D’Olier, Alexander, Perera, and Koenig set out to meet the top commanders on the continent.  The Survey Is Organized 61  The first stop was at General Spaatz’s forward headquarters at St. Germain-en-laye near Paris. During a two-day stopover there, Gen- eral Spaatz took D’Olier and Alexander to meet General Eisenhower at SHAEF Headquarters nearby. The group then flew to Naples where they met with Generals Eaker, Cabell, and Currie in the Royal Palace at Caserta.28 Two days later they flew to Fifteenth Air Force Headquarters at Bari where they met Major General Nathan F. Twining and his staff. Returning to Naples, they next headed for Rome (taking time out for an aerial tour of devastated Monte Cas- sino) where they spent Thanksgiving Day, returning to Paris on the 24th and to London on the 25th.  In the absence of D’Olier and Alexander, Mr. Nitze struggled with the problems of the Economic Section, meeting again with Mr. Pin- cus on the
Node: 2837, Score: 0.0321184943626086, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0284.txt, Content: ter to Spaatz, 1SOct44, Spaatz Collection, Box 16.  27. Memo by Perera, 14Nov44, “Conference at PINETREE,” in NA, 243, 1, 71, 337. Eighth Air Force Headquarters were located at High Wycombe.  28. The account of D’Olier’s travels on the continent is drawn from: (1) Itr, Alexander to Lovett, 27Nov44, NA, 243, 1, 63, 319.9; (2) Beveridge, Vol. 1, pp. 111-12; and (3) Itr, D’Olier to Spaatz, 2SNov44, Spaatz Collection, Box 16. Major General Currie was president of the AAF Evaluation Board for the MTO.  29. Memo by Nitze, 21Nov44, in NA, 243, 1, 2, OOL.  30. Nitze’s memo, 23Nov44, and the two short papers by Castle, ‘Air Power in This War and the Following Peace,” are in NA, 243, 1, 37, 300.6-GG. The Castle papers were published after the war in U. S. Air Services (Sep1945), pp. 21-23, 54; (Oct1945),  pp. 24, 27-28, 36; the issue for Apr1946, pp. 14-15, contains a brief biography of Castle. Interestingly enough, the theme of Noble Frankland’s Lees Knowles Lectures at Trinity College nineteen years later concerned the persisting ‘severe underestimate of the tactical and operational limitations to which aircraft were subject in the Second World War.” See his Bombing Offensive Against Germany, pp. 95-97.  31. This and the following paragraph drawn from: (1) ltr, Alexander to General F. L. Anderson, 1Dec44, replies by Anderson on 9 and 16Dec, and further reply by  Notes to Pages 62-64 191  Alexander on 20Dec44, all in Spaatz Collection, Box 225; (2) ltr, Alexander to Cabell, 1Dec44, NA, 243, 1, 67, 322, and Cabell’s reply of 19Dec. NA, 243, 17 76, 384.3: (3) Itr, Spaatz to Arnold, 9Dec44, Spaatz Collection, Box 16; and (4) ltr, Alexander to Lovett, 27Nov44, NA, 243, 1, 63, 319.9.  32. Ltr, adjutant general, War Department General Staff, to chairman, USSBS 25Nov44, in NA, 243, 1, 63, 319.9.  33. Ltr, cited above, Alexander to Lovett, 27Nov44; ltr, Nitze to Alexander, 10Dec44, and reply thereto, same date, in NA, 243, 1, 14, 210.31; and ltr, cited above, Alexander to F. L. Ande
Node: 2562, Score: 0.0318611178488972, Chunk File: macissac_bombing/chunks/macissac_bombing_0009.txt, Content: impossibility of building a pursuit aircraft!® that could match in speed, range, or altitude the multi-engined bomber. With the addition of a means, the B-17, to a goal, independent operations, there remained to be worked out a precise.‘‘theory of employment” by which the goal might be attained. As frequently happens in an era of rapid technological change, both the innovators and the apparent trend in technology emphasized the need to concentrate on offensive capabilities.  By 1939 a theory of employment had been derived.!7 In brief it may be described as follows: the most efficient way to defeat an enemy is to destroy,’ by means of bombardment from the air, his war-making capacity; the means to this end is to identify by scientific analysis those particular elements of his war potential the elimination of which will cripple either his war machine or his will to continue the conflict; these elements having been identified, they should be attacked by large masses of bombardment aircraft flying in formation, at high altitude, in daylight, and equipped with precision bombsights that will make possible the positive identification and destruction of “pin- point” targets; finally, such bombing missions having been carried out. the enemy, regardless of his strength in armies and navies, will ack the means to support continued military action. Unhappily for  ere  4 ;  q 2 ;  4  ;  1)  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 6 --- 3 , Strategic Bombing in World War II  / the historian this theory of war strategy cannot be attributed to any one person or eyen any single group of persons, nor to any one nation or any single decade. Yet while the complexity of its evolution may befuddle the most earnest researcher, some of the highlights, at least, must be mentioned.  Building upon the experience of World War I, the Italian General Giulio Douhet published his Command of the Air in 1921.19 Unlike Mitchell, whose aim was to stimulate the development of all aspects of the milita