Node: 26570, Score: 0.078769623779067, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0125.txt, Content: tleship Admiral von Scheer. In poor visibility, many of the aircraft did not find the target. Those that did were forced to make their bombing runs so low that the eleven-second fuses on their 500-lb bombs failed to detonate, with the bombs bouncing off the armoured plating of the larger warships. The only real damage of the entire raid followed the crash of a Blenheim onto the cruiser Emden, and even this failed to put the ship out of action. An alarming aspect of the raid was the loss of seven aircraft, two Wellingtons and five Blenheims. (It was not until the end of the war, in April 1945, that the von Scheer was sunk in a heavy air raid.) Before the end of September, a force of eleven Handley Page  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 88 BLITZKRIEG Hampdens attacking two German destroyers was bounced by a forma- tion of Messerschmitt Bf.109Es, with the loss of five of the bombers. However, not all the early raids were unsuccessful, and by the end of March 1940 the RAF had managed to sink U-31 in Schillig Roads, and, a little later, a German minesweeper. Overall, during the first six months of war the RAF dropped sixty-one tons of bombs for the loss of forty-one aircraft. Ten Luftwaffe fighters were shot down by RAF bombers during these early operations over Germany. At a very early stage it became clear that Bomber Command, with its twenty-three squadrons of Blenheims, Hampdens, Whitleys and Wellingtons, could not sustain the heavy losses of the first air raids. The original concept of bombing German naval targets by day and dropping leaflets by night overlooked the elementary truths about the difficulties and dangers of daylight raids against heavily defended targets or of night navigation over long distances and often in poor winter weather. The aircraft lacked the speed, altitude and bombloads essential to suc- cess. In many ways, it was fortunate that the severe winter of 1939-40 and perhaps the lack of urgency of the phoney war, meant that there were far fewer bombing raid
Node: 26586, Score: 0.074951974297387, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0141.txt, Content: ust, when the Luftwaffe flew 1,485 sorties, losing forty-six aircraft, and claimed that eighty-eight RAF aircraft had been destroyed, when the true loss was thirteen RAF aircraft, with three pilots killed and another five wounded. The following day, during a less intensive series of raids, the Luftwaffe lost nineteen aircraft and the RAF eight fighters. On 15 August, in an attempt to drag RAF fighters away from the south, Luftwaffe aircraft from Norway attacked, but Chain Home pro- vided almost an hour's notice of the attack, and the Luftwaffe suffered twenty per cent losses from the RAF on this operation; on this day, 'Black Thursday' to the Luftwaffe, on almost 2,000 Luftwaffe sorties seventy-five Luftwaffe aircraft were destroyed, and although the Luft- waffe claimed 101 RAF fighters, the true figure was thirty-four. Even so, between mid-August and mid-September, twenty-five per cent of the RAF's fighter pilots were killed or seriously wounded in action. Goering, meanwhile, was so concerned over the Luftwaffe's own losses that he restricted the air force to no more than one commissioned airman per aircraft The RAF came closest to defeat on 4 September, and on that day there were so many hostile radar returns that the Fighter Command Operations Room at Bentley Priory became saturated. Four airfields were bombed, as was the Vickers factory at Weybridge in Surrey, the main Wellington bomber production unit, with eighty-eight workers killed and another  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 98 99 BLITZKRIEG 600 injured, production ceasing for four days. The following day, oil- storage tanks at Thameshaven were set alight and burned throughout the night. The Luftwaffe was to claim that its raid on London during the night of 24-25 August had been a mistake, with aircraft intending to raid oil installations dropping their bombs on the East End of London by acci- dent, although other Luftwaffe personnel subsequently accused the RAF of bending the Knicklebein beams and causing the error.
Node: 26583, Score: 0.0671896182376777, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0138.txt, Content: four fighter escorts apiece. The 2nd Air Fleet under von Kesselring in the Low Countries and northern France lacked the co-ordination necessary for a major campaign, as did Spearle's units in north-western France. What the Germans did possess was an overwhelming strength, both numerically and in terms of combat experience, which at this early stage of the war was still greater than that of their opponent. Although only 130 of the aircraft in Norway were long-range bombers capable of reaching Britain, west of Brussels and Paris the Luftwaffe had 1,130 longer-range bombers and 320 dive- bombers, as well as more than a thousand single- and twin-engined fighters, mainly Messerschmitt Bf.109s and Me.110s. The bombers in- cluded the Junkers Ju.88, which lacked the range to attack targets in the furthermost parts of the United Kingdom, and the Heinkel He.111 and the Dornier Do.17, as well as the Junkers Ju.87 Stuka. Against the overwhelming fighter strength of the Luftwaffe, the RAF had just 446 single-engined fighters on 4 June, although by 4 August this had risen  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 96 97 BLITZKRIEG to 704 fighters, with the June figure including 331 of the modern Hawker Hurricane and Supermarine Spitfire fighters, which together accounted for 620 of the August total. The RAF was expanding and modernizing fast, while there had been a ruthless pruning of the number of aircraft types in production, which was reduced to seven major combat aircraft, the Supermarine Spitfire and Hawker Hurricane fighters, the Short Sunderland flying-boat and the Bristol Blenheim, Armstrong-Whitworth Whitley Mk. V, Handley Page Hampden and Vickers Wellington bombers, during the period immediately before Dunkirk. Other types were not neglected for long, but the greater flexibility of the British system and ability to appreciate just what type of aeroplane was most needed at any particular stage of the war played no small part in enabling the RAF to receive 476 fighters during August 1940, aga
Node: 26661, Score: 0.0663422906681453, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0216.txt, Content: the Luftwaffe fighter squadrons until November. Plans for 500 Me.262s per month by December 1944 failed. with just 564 aircraft built during the entire year, although before produc- tion finally collapsed in March 1945 another 740 were built. All of the aircraft had to be able to carry bombs in an emergency. Proof of the Me.262's neglected potential came when, in early 1945, one squadron. with just six of the aircraft serviceable, managed to shoot down forty-five Allied aircraft. Unusually for a jet aircraft, the early versions of the Me. 262 used a tailwheel landing-gear. The insistence on using the Me.262 as a bomber, with the consequent delay in aircraft reaching the fighter squadrons, with little attempt at serious bomber operations, is all the more difficult to understand because alone of all the combatants, the Luftwaffe had a light jet bomber available 143 to it. A high-wing aircraft with the twin jet engines slung under the wings, the Arado Ar.234 had been developed since 1941. The huge fuel-consumption meant that on the early development versions a retract- able under-carriage could not be fitted, and it was decided to use a trolley-and-skid system similar to that used for the Me.163. How- ever, before entering production the aircraft was re-designed to take a retractable under-carriage. Carrying up to 3,000 lbs of bombs externally, twin Junkers Jumo jet engines of 2,000-lbs thrust provided a maximum speed of 470 mph and an altitude of up to 30,000 feet. The aircraft was most successful as a reconnaissance aircraft, enter- ing service in September 1944. It was of limited use as a bomber, due largely to severe range limitations with a full warload, but as the Allies drew in around Germany, the aircraft was used, usually with single 2,205-lb bombs, against important communications targets such as the Remagen Bridge over the Rhine in March 1945. Shortages were such by the end of the war that just over 200 of these aircraft were completed. By the closing stage
Node: 26622, Score: 0.0652020580209622, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0177.txt, Content: rcraft were issued to the only RAF squadron to operate this mark, No. 90. The USAAF believed that the aircraft could fly at 30,800 feet, and that service suffered its first casualty of World War II when an adviser helping with the training of RAF aircrew was lost after the Fortress I in which he was flying lost control and broke up due to severe icing. The operational début of the RAF's Fortress Mk.Is was a disaster when, in July 1941, daylight raids on Wilhelmshaven, Brest and Emden drew attention again to problems of icing and many mechanical problems besides. The much-vaunted Norden bombsight, so successful on trials over the New Mexico Desert, was disappointing in the haze of northern Europe, in spite of qualified USAAF personnel flying against the rules of neutrality on these early flights, the best that could be achieved on a raid over Bremen was for a bomb to be dropped some three miles from its target. Not surprisingly, before long the Fortress Mk.I was withdrawn from Bomber Command, with the surviving nine aircraft being sent to the Middle East or transferred to Coastal Command. The main rival for the B-17 from the United States was the B-24 Liberator, produced by Consolidated Aircraft. This four-engined bomber saw service with the RAF as well as with USAAF bomber squadrons over Europe, although once again in RAF service the Liberator was frequently regarded as a maritime-reconnaissance type. However, there were other problems with the so-called American 'heavies', apart from their early lack of armament. Their size and range compared with those of their British counterparts were indeed impress- ive, although the range was seldom fully utilized in the European theatre. The additional armament necessary to give these aircraft some chance of survival over enemy-occupied territory soon resulted in a much reduced warload, as little as 4,000 lbs on the B-17, and 8,000 lbs on the B-24, compared with 14,000 lbs on their British rivals, which, in the case of the La
Node: 26660, Score: 0.064962036649023, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0215.txt, Content: RAF's fast low-level light-bomber raids. Less fortunate was the Messerschmitt Me.262 jet fighter, an aircraft which was denied its true role due to Hitler's own intervention. German jet-fighter development, under the leadership of Pabst von Ohain, had been ahead of that of the British, who had tended to neglect the work of Whittle. The experimental Heinkel He.178 was test-flown in August 1939 and led to development of the Me.262. The shortage of strategic materials and confidence over success early in the war led to the project's neglect, but the fighter ace Adolf Galland was able to fly the aircraft in April and May 1943. Galland reported to Goering that the aircraft should be put into production as a fighter and that the new Me.209 be abandoned to allow this. It was suggested that, of the 4,000 fighters planned by Milch for 1944 1,000 should be Me.262s and most of the remainder Focke-Wulf Fw. 1905 or night fighters. Production was refused until Hitler saw the aircraft demonstrated, on 2 November 1943, when he insisted that the aircraft be developed as a bomber. Messerschmitt had planned a fighter-bomber variant of the basic airframe, capable of carrying a single 1,000-lb bomb or two 550-lb bombs, but the under-fuselage and under-wing bomb racks had not been designed, and in any case Messerschmitt were unable to meet their production targets for conventional fighter aircraft by this time. The twin Junkers Jumo turbojets could give the aircraft a speed of more than 500 mph, although range was limited on this, and on other early jet aircraft such as the Gloster Meteor. Attempts to get the bomber version into service in time for the Allied invasion failed, and eventually the aircraft was ordered into production as a fighter in August 1944. although the first did not join the Luftwaffe fighter squadrons until November. Plans for 500 Me.262s per month by December 1944 failed. with just 564 aircraft built during the entire year, although before produc- tion finally coll
Node: 26581, Score: 0.0637862716891066, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0136.txt, Content: nd of Sylt: attacking in good weather, five aircraft failed to find the target. The aircraft which did make it dropped fifteen tons of bombs but caused only slight damage. Of course, such operations were not one-sided; the previous October had seen the Luftwaffe raid the Home Fleet's northern base at Scapa Flow with a force of Junkers Ju.88 bombers which failed to cause real damage yet suffered heavy casualties. Luck also played an important part in the RAF's success, as during March 1940, when RAF night fighters shot down a Heinkel He.111 of KG.26. Interrogation of the crew yielded information on the German radio navigation system known as 'Knicklebein' to the Germans. Further investigations and work by the RAF's Air Intelligence Branch pointed to German work on a night navigation system for bombers, indicating that plans were being laid for a major night offensive against British cities. The initial German radar navigation system was found to be a long-range version of the Lorenz blind-landing system. Further informa- tion became available to the British when an aircraft on an electronic reconnaissance flight over Huntingdon on the night of 21-22 June 1940 discovered beams pointing to the Rolls-Royce factory at Derby. No raid resulted, but clearly the Germans were testing the equipment over the British Isles rather than selecting a target in their own extensive occupied territories. This laxity gave the British warning of what was to come. A lull followed the invasion of France and the defeat of the British and French armed forces. The Luftwaffe had to occupy its new bases and make good its losses in the assault on the west. These reasons were far more important than the prospect of a peace with Britain after the collapse of France in explaining the delay in mounting full-scale raids on targets in Britain. In a continuation of the Blitzkrieg philosophy, the initial air raids on Britain were also connected with plans for an invasion, rather than as an assault on th
Node: 26523, Score: 0.0636822961377419, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0078.txt, Content: the fast, light bomber. The initial attraction was the result of a designer following his own inclinations in a way which would not be possible today, and this was followed by an Air Force officer acting on his own initiative in turn - again, something which could not happen today, in any air force! On a visit to the United States, Sir Richard Fairey, owner of the aircraft company which bore his name, was impressed by the new Curtiss D-12 engine, the equal to the Bristol Jupiter engine in terms of capacity and power output but its superior in drag reduction. Fairey set about designing an aeroplane around the D-12, for which he obtained a pro- duction licence, producing a prototype light day bomber biplane, which he called the Fox. The aircraft could manage a maximum 156 mph at sea-level, and 150 mph at 10,000 feet with a 460-lb bombload. It was not only faster than the Fairey Fawn fighter-bomber but could outclimb and fly faster than the RAF's fighters. After a first flight in January 1925, the aircraft was demonstrated to Trenchard, who promptly ordered a squadron on the spot, upsetting the Air Ministry civil servants by abruptly bypassing the normal evaluation and procurement procedures. Although almost thirty were built for the RAF, only one squadron was formed, due to financial stringency, and a fighter design, the Firefly, which was intended to use the D-12 engine for a maximum speed of 188 mph, never got off the drawing-board. In the end, Fairey never built the D-12 under licence, instead buying engines from Curtiss because of the limited production run, which made the investment in production facilities uneconomic. The single Fox squadron, No. 12, incorporated a Fox into its squadron badge. On the annual air exercises in August 1928 a determined effort by RAF fighters to intercept the Fox light bombers failed because of the high speed of these aircraft.  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 60 LIVING WITH AIR POWER The poor drag characteristics of the radial engine, such as
Node: 26573, Score: 0.0632874865384902, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0128.txt, Content: ons attacked German naval units at Kristiansand, but with the loss of six aircraft for little effective damage. The Fleet Air Arm was in a better position than the RAF to aid Norwegian resistance, since range limitations kept the RAF's fighter squadrons away and poor weather kept the bombers grounded in the UK for part of the time. On 10 April sixteen Blackburn Sea Skuas of Nos. 800 and 803 squadrons, Fleet Air Arm, each carrying a single 500-lb bomb, took off from their base in the Orkney Islands, north of Scotland, to attack the light cruiser Königsberg, moored alongside the Skoltegrund Mole after being hit by a six-inch shell. Flying the 300 miles to Bergen, the Skuas dived onto the light cruiser from 8,000 feet, securing complete surprise and delivering their warload with the accuracy for which the dive-bomber was famed. Three bombs scored direct hits, five more struck the mole, and two fell between the mole and the ship, so that within minutes the ship was ablaze from stem to stern, before eventually rolling over, after which her magazines detonated. The raid was also one of the most successful in terms of British losses, with only one of the Royal Navy's aircraft lost to enemy action. Encouraged by this success, a second raid was planned by the Fleet Air Arm against the  90 THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 91 BLITZKRIEG Scharnhorst at Trondheim. Appreciating that the Germans would be on their guard against another dive-bombing raid, the RAF mounted a diversionary raid against the Luftwaffe airfield at Vaernes, but unfortu- nately this occurred too soon, alerting rather than pre-occupying the Luftwaffe, and after flying across some forty miles of enemy territory to Trondheim, the Sea Skuas of 821 and 823 squadrons found a hot welcome waiting. Eight aircraft were shot down, while another seven failed to make their way back to base. The single bomb which hit the target failed to explode. The start of the Luftwaffe campaign in the west found the French Armée de l'Air singular
Node: 26546, Score: 0.063022185850348, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0101.txt, Content: a small crew together in the forward part of their aircraft, which was good for morale and communication but meant that the tail was left unguarded, and it was soon clear that the dorsal turret would never provide satisfactory rear protection because of the blindspots created by the fuselage, and the danger of shooting off parts of one's own tailplane. The position of the rear gunner was unenviable, often cold, and there was a real risk of his becoming trapped in a crippled aircraft. Also communications inside the aircraft could suffer if flak or fighter machine- gun damage was too serious. Yet rear gunners kept British and, eventu- ally, American bomber casualties lower than they would otherwise have been. The British had some preconceived ideas, but they were also capable of ditching a concept which had outlived its usefulness. When a develop- ment of the Wellington, the Warwick, was produced, with two 1,850-hp Pratt & Whitney Double Wasps, it was soon realized that the advent of the heavy bomber, the Stirling, Halifax and Lancaster, had meant that the future for bomber development lay with large four-engined aircraft. Thus the Warwick was abandoned after a few aircraft had been built, with these being diverted to carrying airborne lifeboats and operating on search-and-rescue missions. Other sizeable British twin-engined bombers were less successful. Armstrong-Whitworth produced the Whitley, but this aircraft was soon relegated to glider-towing and paratroop-dropping duties, and before long for these too it was superseded by the Stirling and then the Halifax. During the last five years of peace, the RAF's front-line strength rose from fewer than 800 aircraft to almost 2,000, while that of the Luftwaffe rose from 400 to almost 4,000. The Luftwaffe grew to a force of 1.5 million officers and men on the outbreak of war, in addition to the paratroops and anti-aircraft artillery, both of which were Army responsibilities in the British armed forces. In 1939 the RAF had
Node: 26544, Score: 0.0623558302387349, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0099.txt, Content: ed of 228 mph at 19,500 feet, or a ceiling of 33,000 feet, while a 2,000-lb internal bombload could be carried over 1,100 miles. The observer had a hand-trained machine-gun to fire, while another fixed machine-gun could be fired by the pilot through the propeller  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 72 73 READY FOR BATTLE blades. The aircraft became best remembered for a flight in November 1938, by three specially modified Wellesleys from Ismailia in Egypt to Darwin in Australia, flying non-stop over the 7,162 miles in forty-eight hours. While the Wellesley offered many advances in performance, some- thing far larger was required by the RAF, the Wellington medium bomber, with a weight of 18,556 lbs against the Wellesley's 6,369 lbs. Originally intended to meet the Air Ministry Specification B9/32, the Wellington started development as a high-wing monoplane with a fixed under-carriage and two Bristol Mercury engines, but in 1933 the specification changed to a mid-wing aircraft with retractable under- carriage and two Rolls-Royce Goshawk engines. The revised design was designated the Vickers Type 271, and a single prototype was ordered in 1933, although, as the Goshawk engine's evaporative cooling proved troublesome, Bristol Pegasus radial engines of 850 hp each were substi- tuted. The first flight of the Wellington was on 15 June 1936, and the aircraft was ready for the Hendon Air Display of that year. Unusually for a bomber aircraft, most versions of the Wellington had windows down the side of the fuselage, which revealed the structure, so for the appearance at Hendon, the fuselage was covered in fabric to conceal details of the structure from prying eyes. The Air Ministry ordered 180 Wellingtons, the first of 11,460 production aircraft built between 1937 and October 1945, revising the specification to incorporate power- operated gun turrets in the nose and tail, although an idea for a dorsal turret was dropped. The Wellington, known as the 'Wimpey' to RAF Bomber and Coastal Comma
Node: 26736, Score: 0.0622036571976347, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0291.txt, Content: erational. There have been some indications that Chinese-built Shenyang F-6, or MiG-19, fighter-bombers have been obtained by Iran, possibly from Pakistan, but it is not clear whether these aircraft have been used. Certainly they would appear to be vulnerable to what would then definitely be superior Iraqi air power.  10 A TOMORROW? A Tomorrow? Looking ahead in most areas of aerospace can be difficult. The long production and service life of aircraft in recent years can force forecasts to look twenty or more years ahead, if any real change is to be seen. In many areas of activity, ten years is a long time. No one could have foretold during the early 1940s that more than forty years later Boeing B-29 Superfortresses would still be in service as Tupolev Tu-4 'Bulls' in the People's Republic of China. This is exceptional and in many ways an exaggeration. As far as the bomber is concerned, there is no equivalent of the Douglas DC-3 or C-47, for which the lifespan in production and service is still more impressive, while the numbers of aircraft and of operators are even more so. Combat aircraft types age more quickly and are retired sooner than their commercial counterparts but can still enjoy a long service life, especially the most numerous and successful types, such as the Douglas A-1 Skyraider and the Hawker Hunter. The future for the bomber is distinctly limited. Missiles not only offer a better chance of hitting the target; they are also far superior in terms of use of manpower. For almost twenty years, the British independent nuclear deterrent has been carried by just four submarines, although there should originally have been five; each submarine has two crews, a port and a starboard, to increase their availability on station. This is a far lower manpower requirement than that needed by 180 'V' bombers when the Royal Air Force had responsibility for the nuclear deterrent The smaller crew of the bomber is not the whole picture, since it took almost one hundred men
Node: 26606, Score: 0.0618722162878788, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0161.txt, Content: ell as five air-transport groups with just 150 aircraft, and a number of liaison and long-range reconnais- sance operations. Another 700 aircraft were manned by the Luftwaffe but under Army control, mainly on reconnaissance and liaison duties. This deployment meant that the 3rd Air Fleet in the West was left with just 660 aircraft, of which twelve were bomber groups, with another five bomber and three dive-bomber groups in the Mediterranean with the X Air Corps in Sicily and the Air Commander, Africa, and just two bomber groups with the 5th Air Fleet in Norway. Perhaps the most significant indication of the extent of this stretching of Luftwaffe strength lay in the allocation of 190 aircraft, in six fighter groups, for the defence of Ger- many, with three-quarters of these being twin-engined fighters. The Luftwaffe had, before 'Barbarossa', concentrated on short cam- paigns which enabled the logistics and training weaknesses to be ig- nored, and even in the Battle of Britain and the Blitz of British cities the duration had been short enough, and the number of occasions on which a maximum effort was required sufficiently few, for the service to hold its own. Most important, the Luftwaffe had been accustomed to easy success and was ill prepared for a long struggle, having never been put completely on the defensive. 'Operation Barbarossa' commenced early on 22 June 1941, with high  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 110 111 BLITZKRIEG hopes. The campaign started well. By 30 June the Luftwaffe had been completely successful against the Red Air Force, with the Russians losing almost 5,000 aircraft, the crippling of Soviet air power leaving Russian cities almost defenceless because of poor anti-aircraft forces, both in quality and in quantity, which ensured that the early Luftwaffe raids were highly successful. Yet, as more than one commentator has pointed out in the past, for the most part the Luftwaffe fought Russian aircraft, not the Russian aircraft industry. Time and again the Luf
Node: 26475, Score: 0.0616551774595355, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0030.txt, Content: against these sheds in November. Encouraged by this early success, other raids were planned. Certainly it was cost-effective to use a handful or so of small biplanes against what were in effect major German air stations, with the destruction of what would then have been a significant proportion of their bombing capa- bility, and it compared favourably with many later raids in both wars, with larger aircraft, bigger and more effective bombs and better tech- nology. A flight of four Avro 504 biplanes, which were later to be relegated by the RNAS to training duties, were fitted out in the UK with one of the earliest mechanical bomb releases, each capable of holding four 20-lb bombs. The aircraft were then, in the interests of secrecy, and perhaps to make sure they arrived safely at their destination, dismantled and transported by road and sea to Belfort in the east of France, close to the border with Germany. On 17 November 1914 these aircraft flew more than 200 miles from their base to Friedrichshafen, on Lake Constance, where they destroyed Zeppelin L-7 of the German Naval Air Service in its shed and also several workshops as well as a hydrogen-generating plant, so disrupting production at the Zeppelin works. The real long-term value to the Allied war effort lay not so much in the damage done (although again this was considerable for the forces deployed, and the loss of a single airship was still painful to Germany at this early stage) but in the resultant move of 4,000 German troops and artillery to provide anti-aircraft cover for the Zeppelin works. Yet these successes in the air did not prevent the Allies losing ground to the German advance, and by the end of 1914 the RNAS had to move out of its Belgian bases, leaving just a small part of that tiny country unoccupied by the Germans. The RNAS established a new forward base at Dunkirk in northern France, while the victorious Germans established a chain of seaplane bases which stretched from Ostend to the Frisian Isl
Node: 26576, Score: 0.0610463893107673, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0131.txt, Content: , and at 16.00 the centre of Rotterdam was bombed so heavily and completely that it was gutted (20,000 build- ings destroyed) and almost a thousand of its citizens lost their lives. The Germans initially blamed the RAF for the raid but later claimed that it had been an accident. At 17.00 General Winkelman surrendered the Dutch Army, although Dutch troops continued to fight alongside the French in Zeeland until French surrender. The Germans did not have the victory in the Low Countries and in France without heavy cost. The RAF Hawker Hurricane fighters of the Advanced Air Striking Force which did become airborne gave a good account of themselves, making as many as six sorties daily and operating without the help of radar or an effective fighter control system. The ten squadrons of Fairey Battles and Bristol Blenheims of the AASF, which left Bomber Command in the UK with just sixteen squadrons, mainly of Wellingtons, Whitleys and Hampdens, were also hard at work, attacking Luftwaffe supply lines and on aerial reconnaissance. There was conflict between British and French tactics, the RAF favouring a strategic bomb- ing campaign to cripple German heavy industry, some sixty per cent of which was located in the Ruhr, while the French felt that this would take too long and instead pressed for tactical operations in support of the increasingly hard-pressed ground forces. When the RAF's AASF did deploy its Battles against German forces advancing through Luxem- bourg, attacking from 250 feet during the second morning of Fall Gelbe, three out of the eight aircraft deployed were lost to anti-aircraft fire and Luftwaffe fighters. The benefit of this raid, against a target chosen by the French, was of no significance to the outcome. The loss of three obsolete Fairey  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 92 93 BLITZKRIEG Battles in themselves mattered little; the cost to the relatives of the air- crew and the loss of experienced men to the RAF was certainly not worth it. That afternoon thirty-two
Node: 26559, Score: 0.0607837958691629, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0114.txt, Content: their aircrew in such costly operations as the invasion of Crete. In desperation at a still early stage in the war, Deichmann, now Chief of Staff to the Chief of Training, suggested that the Ju.52/3ms be permanently transferred to a specialized air transport fleet, while the Ju.86 parts be assembled and used as bomber-trainers, a role for which they would have been well suited, given replacement engines, additional fuel tankage and dual controls, since the aircraft conformed to the configuration of a bomber and handled well in the air. The idea was rejected by Goering and his 81 deputy, Milch, for no apparent reason, except perhaps the need to devote aero-engines coming off the production line to combat aircraft. The rejection of the idea did mean, however, that the Luftwaffe was to be burdened by the inadequate training of both its bomber aircrew and its transport aircrew, who were never able to specialize in this role, with its own difficulties. The Dornier Do.17 and Heinkel He.111 were far more successful. The Do.17 had been developed as an airliner for Deutsche Luft Hansa, but its long and cramped fuselage made it uncomfortable for passengers to board and leave, and to sit in, and the aircraft truly deserved its nickname Fliegende Bleistift - 'Flying Pencil', awarded by the Press. The aircraft first came into prominence in July 1937, when it was entered for the Zurich International Military Aircraft Competition, taking part in the circuit of the Alps, although a special version of the aircraft was used for this, with a maximum speed some 50 mph faster than the standard Do.17E-1. First flown as a six-passenger transport in autumn 1934, with a performance profile similar to the Bristol 135's, the production Do. 17E-1 first appeared late in 1936, using two 750-hp BMW engines for a maximum speed of 220 mph with a 1,750-lb bombload, which it could carry for 990 miles. Altogether the most elegant of this trio of German medium bombers, the Heinkel He.111 was designed t
Node: 26577, Score: 0.0603965873071624, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0132.txt, Content: APON 92 93 BLITZKRIEG Battles in themselves mattered little; the cost to the relatives of the air- crew and the loss of experienced men to the RAF was certainly not worth it. That afternoon thirty-two Battles attacked the advancing Germans, and thirteen were lost. After nightfall, thirty-two Armstrong-Whitworth Whitleys attacked the railways and roads around München-Gladbach, on the German-Dutch border, operating from the UK. Again this was in deference to French wishes, and again there was no noticeable impact on the German advance. The losses of the first couple of days did not lessen as the short campaign continued. Only one out of six Bristol Blenheims of 600 squad- ron survived after these aircraft were pounced on by Messerschmitt Me.110s during a raid on the German-held airfield at Waulhaven in the Netherlands. Many more Blenheims were caught on the ground or shot down during daring single-aircraft reconnaissance missions. Having lost the Vroenhaven and Veldwezelt bridges over the Albert Canal, near Maastricht, to the Germans, who had seized them in the same airborne assault which took Eben Emael, the AASF decided that the bridges should be destroyed. It was logical, but the bridges were already well defended by 12 May, the day of the mission, and the only aircraft available were the totally inadequate Fairey Battles. The task fell to No. 12 squadron, and the commanding officer called for six volunteer crews for the aircraft assigned to the mission; the normal crews of the aircraft all volunteered. All six aircraft were shot down, with their crews. Only Veldwezelt Bridge was hit, by an aircraft flown by Flying Officer P. E. Garland, who, with his observer, Sergeant T. Gray, received a posthu- mous Victoria Cross, the highest British decoration for gallantry and the first won by a member of the RAF. (Nothing was awarded to the aircraft's wireless operator, Leading Aircraftsman L. R. Reynolds, who shared the same risks and who also died.) The bridges over the Ri
Node: 26484, Score: 0.0602970951079657, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0039.txt, Content: less effective against the Zeppelins than fighter attack, even though the airships were large and slow-moving targets. Possibly World War II standard anti-aircraft guns and gunners would have found the airship easy prey, but in World War I anti-aircraft protection was by definition based on machine-gun fire and adapted light field artillery. The following morning the RNAS mounted the successful raid against the Zeppelin bases at Evere and Berchem St-Agathe, near Bruges, with aircraft of No. 1 squadron operating from Dunkirk. 7 June was to be an eventful day for the RNAS and for their opponents. Three German Army airships had taken off from their base early in the day to bomb London, but all three craft, LZ-37, LZ-38 and LZ-39, were forced by engine trouble to return to their base near Bruges. LZ-37 was sighted over Ostend by Flight Sub-Lieutenant Reginald Warneford RNAS, flying a Morane-Saulnier Type L monoplane, which carried six 20-lb bombs. Approaching the Zeppelin at some 2,000 feet above the airship, Warneford was spotted by the machine-gunners aboard LZ-37 as he dived to attack, and he pulled away to maintain his height advan- tage, for fear that the airship might try to outclimb him. Instead of climbing, the airship's commander decided to run for his base, a fatal mistake as the craft started to descend. Warneford dived through machine-gun fire and dropped his six bombs over the airship. One struck the envelope and exploded, with the airship quickly becoming one large fireball. As the burning airship broke up, the crew, lacking parachutes, were either burnt to death or fell. The one survivor was the helmsman, who fell through the roof of a convent, one of the very few buildings in the area, onto a bed, which was, presumably, unoccupied. This was the  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 36 THE BLOODY PARALYSER! first successful shooting-down of an airship by a fighter aircraft, and Warneford became the first member of the RNAS to receive the Victoria Cross, Britain's highest
Node: 26714, Score: 0.0594532171007732, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0269.txt, Content: s limited for a time after the first raid by poor weather, while intensive Argentinian raids against the task force, especially after it landed the invading British troops at San Carlos Water, also meant that the RAF and Fleet Air Arm aircraft found their role primarily that of air defence, rather than ground attack. Although the Argentine Navy's sole aircraft-carrier, the Veinticino de Majo, was confined to port during the campaign, some believe with boiler trouble, others that it was decided to protect the ship after the loss to a British submarine of the cruiser General Belgrano, the Argentinian Navy's Fleet Air Arm was operational. The Argentinians had just received the first deliveries of Dassault Super Etendard attack aircraft, equipped to launch Exocet air-to-surface guided missiles. Usually such attacks would be launched with three aircraft, one flying ahead to 'illuminate' the target with its radar, while another two, each carrying a single Exocet, would launch the strike. On 4 May a Super Etendard launched a successful attack against the British Type 42 guided missile destroyer, HMS Sheffield. Although the sea-skimming missile struck the warship six feet above the waterline, it failed to explode, but its burning fuel and the impact of the missile knocked out the warship's control systems and started fires which rendered the ship incapable of fighting within two minutes. After five hours of fighting the blaze, with assistance from other Royal Navy  THE OFFENSIVE WEAPON 176 177 DECLINE AND FALL ships, the decision was taken to abandon the Sheffield, largely because she was no longer able to fight and was also a distraction to the other ships of the task force, which were vulnerable as ships stood by HMS Sheffield. The crippled destroyer did not sink immediately, however, and it was decided to tow her back to Britain for possible repair and examination, but once under tow she eventually sank in a heavy gale. Further attacks by the Fleet Air Arm on the Falklan
Node: 26574, Score: 0.0594203986746592, Chunk File: wragg_offensive/chunks/wragg_offensive_0129.txt, Content: le another seven failed to make their way back to base. The single bomb which hit the target failed to explode. The start of the Luftwaffe campaign in the west found the French Armée de l'Air singularly ill prepared. The output of the French aircraft industry had been seriously affected by confusion which had followed nationalization, and economies during the 1930s had seen the service fall from its peak strength during the 1920s, when it had been the world's largest and most powerful air arm. Elderly Potez 54 bombers were being replaced by Potez 693s, while other new aircraft were also being introduced, including the LeO 451 and Amiot 352, and the American Martin 167 and Douglas DB-7, but the whole process was far too slow to offer any real hope of being able to match up to the Luftwaffe. By contrast, the Luftwaffe had some 3,000 combat aircraft ready for the invasion of France, Fall Gelbe (Case Yellow), including 1,300 medium bombers and 400 dive-bombers. The drive west marked a combination of Douhet's and Liddell Hart's theories. The initial strike was intended to wipe out French and British airpower, while Stuka dive-bombers provided support for the rapidly advancing ground forces, coming close behind the armoured spearhead of the Panzer divisions. The invasion of France and the Low Countries started with a dawn attack on 10 May 1940, and within three days the German armies had crossed the River Meuse, rolling back the Allied forces and denying them any real opportunity of building a defensive position. German glider-landed troops took the Belgian fort of Eben Emael, while para- troops, backed by air-landed troops, seized vital objectives in the Netherlands. Instead of attacking across the French Maginot line, the Germans simply raced round it through Belgium. As on the ground, so it was in the air. The initial attack saw seventy British and French airfields in France bombed, although the RAF fared better in this attack than did the Armée de l'Air, simply becaus