Node: 15445, Score: 0.0386070337142714, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0125.txt, Content: est o f 1969 were quite successful. The lAF swept aside Egypt’s air defense system, destroying or neutralizing the SAMs and hounding the Egyptian Air Force from the air. By December, Israel had complete air superiority over most of Egypt. The lAF also administered a terrific pounding to Egyptian army positions along the Canal. Egyptian casualties mounted and the damage to equipment was severe.®' One estimate pegged the number of Egyptian casualties as 30,000 from June 1967 to January 1970, with many coming in the latter half of 1969.®’ A sharp decrease in the number o f Egyptian artillery attacks during the fall o f 1969 indicated the lA F’s success.®® Moreover, the number of Israeli casualties decreased from a high of 106 in July to 30 in December.®" While the Israeli population was deeply concerned with the number of casualties, the declining rate was encouraging. Thus, 131  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 144 --- Israel had little motivation to withdraw from the Sinai on its terms, let alone Egypt’s terms. Meanwhile, Israeli ground forces registered some speetaeular triumphs. On 9 September, Israeli troops were ferried across the Gulf o f Suez and riding aboard previously captured Egyptian armored vehicles traveled 30 miles to shoot up some very surprised Egyptian units.® ®  The following day a shocked Nasser suffered a heart attack.®® Less than ten days later, he dismissed the military Chief o f Staff, the Commander o f the Navy, and over 50 senior officers.®’ The raid was a vivid example o f the seeming helplessness of the Egyptian military in the hands of the Israeli armed forces. By the end of 1969, Egypt had lost the initiative to the overwhelming Israeli eoimteroffensive and was losing the war. Its strategy for the War o f Attrition had been shattered and the cross-Canal assault was postponed indefinitely. Therefore, Egypt shifted from a tactic o f attrition as a prelude to the cross-Canal assault to a strategy of eontinual attrition.®* Egypt’s pr
Node: 15343, Score: 0.0379912135938466, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0023.txt, Content: ory is lacking. In 1992, Harold Winton, a professor o f Military History and Theory in the School of Advanced Airpower Studies (SAAS) at the United States Air Force Air University, wrote that he, "...became painfully aware in his efforts to construct a course in the military theory for the newly formed SAAS at the Air University: there simply does not exist any body of codified, systematic thought that can purport to be called a comprehensive theory o f air power."’ A comprehensive theory of air power would cover numerous topics ranging from the grand strategic to tactical level, from air superiority to power projection and including circumstances such as nuclear warfare and operations short o f war."* This dissertation will not be that comprehensive theory because it will focus solely on strategic bombing as a political instrument. Nonetheless, this dissertation was prompted in part by a lack o f a comprehensive air power theory.® ®  Admittedly, I do not address the debate over whether it is even possible to construct such a theory. 21  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 34 --- The development o f air power theory regarding strategic bombing has mirrored the ups and downs of such bombing over the last eighty years. Much of the work was done before or during World War II. Two sources of theory emerged during this time, operational commanders who generated theory "on-the-job" during both the First and Second World Wars, and more formal theorists working during the inter-war years. During and after World War I, there was hope that the air plane was a deliverance from the horrors of trench warfare. The limited results of World War I aviation were offset by a marked progression of airplane technology and increasing knowledge and skills concerning airplane employment. The first generation of theorists, exemplified by William Mitchell, Sir Hugh Trenchard, Guilo Douhet, Alexander De Seversky, were all vehement proponents of air power; so much so that they are often
Node: 15598, Score: 0.0355099783559916, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0278.txt, Content: traffic with 10 miles of Hanoi, the transportation hub of North Vietnam.'®" However, the rail system was not critical to North Vietnam. Linebacker I had already severely disrupted the rail system throughout the coimtry, forcing North Vietnam to switch most of its transportation 294  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 307 --- requirements to trucks and the road system.'®® In addition, the bombing decreased electrical power production by 75 percent and petroleum reserves by at least one fourth as it destroyed 3 million gallons o f POL.'®® But North Vietnam had suffered this amount o f damage before and had survived. The other major counterforce damage was to North Vietnam’s air defense system. During Linebacker II, North Vietnam became increasingly vulnerable due to a rapidly declining supply of SAMs and neutralization o f its MiG force. While North Vietnam initially had some successes, especially against the lumbering B-52s, an effective U.S. counter-response and a dwindling supply o f SAMs soon diminished North Vietnam’s defenses. North Vietnam could only get SAMs from the Soviet Union and the closure of Haiphong limited the amount that could reach North Vietnam quickly. Furthermore, U.S. bombs destroyed North Vietnam’s primary SAM assembly depot (needed to unpack the SAMs) on 26 December.'®’ Over the past few years. North Vietnam had developed what seemed to be a very strong air defense capability. It must have been some shock to the DRV that the U.S. had been able to neutralize it in only 11 days. Concern over future bombings probably generated a good deal o f Linebacker II’s compellent leverage. The devastation o f North Vietnam’s air defenses meant the U.S. could hit whatever they wanted with impunity. With fewer planes being shot down, Hanoi’s ability to gain valuable POWs had diminished as well. Nixon had now committed B-52s against Hanoi, and had weathered the storm. Just as importantly, the U.S. bombers were using laser guided bombs to great affect a
Node: 15327, Score: 0.0338739360472026, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0007.txt, Content: a major component of coercion.® Military power is used for more than just demonstrational purposes. Instead, it can be used to administer pain or to directly negate the opponent’s military capability or strategy to convince the opponent to cease hostilities. Regardless, the goal of coercion remains persuasion rather than complete military victory and occupation.^ On the other hand, the traditional military strategy aims to destroy the opponent’s military capability to achieve victory, most often defined in strict  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 17 --- military terms. The military and political objectives are often quite similar. After basic completion o f the military objectives (but not annihilation) the political objectives are generally achieved as fait accompli. However, compellence generally exists even within the framework of a traditional military strategy. Most states will terminate their military action prior to completion of their purely military goals if their political objectives are accomplished. For example, the United States used a traditional military strategy in the Pacific during World War II. Yet the U.S. was willing to accept a Japanese surrender, the political objective, far short of complete military victory and territorial conquest o f Japan.® In sum, compellence is when a state uses military force to achieve political objectives. But the identifying mark of compellence is that, regardless of the level/intensity of military activity, the compelling state is willing to accept political victory short of absolute conquest. In other words, compellence is the intent to achieve political objectives prior to absolute military victory, territorial conquest, and/or extermination of the opposing nation. O f course, a compeller may eventually have to conquer the opposing state to achieve the political objectives, but the key is whether the intent o f compellence is present. For example, the Allies in World War II had to completely conquer Ger
Node: 15379, Score: 0.0337523359438955, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0059.txt, Content: bombing, the Army Air Force leadership decided to shift to urban area firebombing.’  The AAF was under pressure from the military and political leadership in Washington to show more results and incendiaries could inflict large, quantifiable amounts of damage.'”'* "  Actually, the operational head o f the B-29s, Brigadier General Haywood Hansell strongly favored selective bombings over firebombings. Therefore, he was replaced by Major General Curtis LeMay, who supported urban firebombing raids. 59  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 72 --- The Americans believed there was an operational justification for the incendiary campaign. Japan’s industry relied heavily on a dispersed feeder system and small "cottage" industries rather than large, central plants. Selective bombing did not have the accuracy to hit these small, spread out targets, but area bombing could eliminate the plants by destroying whole urban areas. Incendiaries would take advantage of the inflammability of Japan’s cities to vastly increase the destructiveness of the bombing.'”®  During the campaign, the AAF portrayed the raids as targeting industrial areas, and the resultant civilian casualties as just an unfortunate side effect of war.'”® The results o f the incendiary campaign were astounding. During the first firebombing raid on Tokyo in March 1945 some 16 square miles were immolated and there were over 100,000 casualties.'”’ By June 1945, Japan’s six biggest industrial cities were devastated.'”*  Yet the B-29s were not finished. After the main Japanese cities were hit, the bombers attacked the smaller cities. Altogether, the B-29s dropped approximately 160,000 tons of bombs, far less than the 2 million tons dropped on Germany, but the bombers obliterated some 175 square miles of 66 cities.'”" Nevertheless, destroying the industrial system was not the only objective of the incendiary campaign. The Americans were growing increasingly concerned with the prospective invasion. The Japanese were vie
Node: 15610, Score: 0.0337331636787172, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0290.txt, Content: singly heavy air defenses along the Trail to facilitate attacks on the first three target sets.'*” Evaluating Commando Hunt, like all protracted interdiction campaigns, is difficult. Undoubtedly, Commando Hunt inflicted a large amount of damage and increased the resource expenditure needed to maintain the same net flow of supplies and men down the Ho Chi Minh Trail. U.S. estimates o f Commando Hunt’s effectiveness range from destroying sixty-four to eighty-eight percent of supplies North Vietnam sent down the Ho Chi Minh Trail depending on the particular period of time.'*' In other words, at its most effective point. Commando Hunt destroyed 54,000 tons out of 61,000 tons of supplies North Vietnam shipped south. North 307  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 320 --- Vietnam typically had to send 5 or 6 tons to ensure 1  ton made it to South Vietnam.'®’’ ’ Yet, Commando Hunt faced numerous environmental difficulties which limited its ability to impede seriously the southward flow of supplies and men. The most obvious was the dense jungle that hid NVA trucks from airplanes. But also of importance was that the U.S. was never able to find and hit effectively targets on a widespread basis at night. Therefore, the NVA could always move supplies by night.'®® Moreover, flight operations of separate day and night forces dictated that dawn and dusk hours were often clear of American planes.'®" Regardless of the number of trucks destroyed, the true measure of interdiction is whether the enemy has to alter its operations significantly. Without access to North Vietnamese records, it is hard to determine if Commando Hunt forced the NVA to change their plans or decrease involuntarily the intensity o f their fighting.'®® However, it was unlikely that Commando Hunt significantly disrupted logistical operations for an extended period.'®® Consequently, it apparently did ’ ’  These are U.S. intelligence numbers, which of course may vary considerably from reality. Generating the ba
Node: 15360, Score: 0.0336910955539965, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0040.txt, Content: Luftwaffe struck while the Dutch government was attempting to surrender.’®  If anything, the bombings of Warsaw and Rotterdam simply expedited the surrenders, but did not cause them. The Luftwaffe again captured the world’s attention through its bombing o f Britain to support the planned invasion in the fall o f 1940. Actually, the initial use 38  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 51 --- of air power was closer to tactical than strategic because the objective was to gain air superiority for Operation Sealion, not to independently defeat England. The Luftwaffe first struck Britain’s air defence system, but then shifted to London and other cities to draw the RAF into a decisive battle and to retaliate for British bombing of Germany, including Berlin.' The RAF defeated the Luftwaffe attempt to secure air superiority by September 1940 causing the indefinite postponement, and eventual cancellation, of the invasion.^^ Yet the bombing of Britain continued. Due to heavy losses, the Luftwaffe shifted to night operations, which eliminated the option of selective bombing. Moreover, the objectives of the bombing had changed from support o f an invasion to coercing a settlement that would take Britain out o f the war. The nighttime bombings were supposed to inflict enough pain and suffering on Britain to convince the leadership to negotiate for peace. This marked a shift to purely strategic bombing. Although the casualties and material damage was mueh higher than in World War I, the British population never wavered, the economy was not significantly disrupted, and helped by Churchill’s staunch leadership, Britain did not surrender. By the summer o f 1941, the Germans were forced to divert their bombers to support the invasion o f the Soviet Union and the "Blitz" was over. Coercion by attacking the civilian population and damaging industry had failed.^® ' The Germans did not realize the extent of the damage they inflicted to the RAF and the British air defense. This exem
Node: 15350, Score: 0.0333135744734324, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0030.txt, Content: ften been readily dismissed. Yet it is wrong to discard their beliefs without detailed examination. While their writings included some very obvious errors, they had some remarkably prescient thoughts.® Moreover, they understood that air power was fundamentally ^ It should be noted that Douhet and Mitchell’s writings were not altogether original. They gained distinction due to their ability to cogently organize concepts, ideas, and arguments into easily accessible material. ®  They erred in other aspects of air power as well. Douhet was badly mistaken in his belief that the only plane necessary was a battleplane, which was mostly a bomber. Remarkably, he failed to see the need for fighter planes, believing bombers were invulnerable to interception and destruction. ®  One example was Mitchell’s demonstration o f naval vessels’ vulnerability to aerial attack by sinking of a number of battleships during exercises in 1921. Unfortunately, the American military leadership did not fully understand that message until December 1941. 28  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 41 --- different from land or sea warfare and that the traditional ideas and theories concerning warfare needed modification in order to account for air power. Their mistakes are partially attributable to the conditions o f their time. A significant cause was their constant fight to preserve the fledgling air arms. The military budgets o f the 1920s and early 1930s were very small, bringing into question the need for separate air forces and even airplanes themselves. Extolling the virtues of air power, and strategic bombing, provided a rationale for maintaining i'le air forces.”  For example, Mitchell emphasized naval ships’ vulnerability to the airplane, thereby capitalizing on America’s isolationist leaning political leadership to demonstrate how air power could defend America’s shores.” Furthermore, the small body of data, based on the limited experience in World War I, adversely affected the accura
Node: 15641, Score: 0.0321425509893493, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0321.txt, Content: klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 352 --- and six F-llls  were to bomb the military side of the Tripoli Airfield, to hit jet transports used to support terrorism abroad as well as disrupt operations on the airfield. The Navy A-6s were given two targets in the Benghazi area, seven A-6s were to hit the Jamahiriyah Barracks, one of Qaddafi’s alternate command and control centers, which also housed terrorists, some o f Qaddafi’s counter-coup forces, and a number of MiG jets in storage. Finally eight A-6s were to bomb the Benina Military Airfield to prevent any MiGs from intercepting the strike force.*^ Even before the planes left their respective bases the raid ran into a significant difficulty as France and Spain refused overflight permission for the F- 111s from England. This forced the planes to detour around the European continent and extended their round-trip to over 5,500 miles. On the evening o f 14 April, the first planes took off from England. Defense suppression began at 0154 hours 15 April (Libyan time) and the bombs began to fall at 0200. In a remarkable feat of planning and execution, after flying some 2,700 miles the F-11  Is still arrived exactly on time over Libya. The bombers were given strict Rules o f Engagement in an attempt to reduce collateral damage and were also limited to one pass to lessen the probability of losses. Because of these restrictions a number of planes did not drop their bombs.** Six F-llls  and three A-6s aborted due to equipment and navigation problems.*® Libya anti-aircraft and SAM fire was heavy although inaccurate. One plane was lost, an F-111, either to pilot error or, possibly, Libyan fire.™ 340  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 353 --- The F-llls’  results were somewhat disappointing. Only two o f the planned nine F-llls  dropped ordnance on the Aziziyah Barracks, although they still inflicted serious damage to some structures. The other F-111 strikes fared somewhat better, damaging the Sidi Bilal training site and d
Node: 15367, Score: 0.0310018992052396, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0047.txt, Content: and only a limited stockpile. The destruction of the ball-bearing plants would indirectly neutralize a vital center of Germany, the industrial sector. ” A long-term, concentrated attack on the submarine yards never materialized because the submarine crisis in the Atlantic passed before a significant bomber force was operational. 46  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 59 --- These attacks failed to destroy the German ball-bearing produetion capacity. The Army Air Force did not press the assault and the Germans were able to disperse and rebuild enough of the industry to prevent disruption of the ball-bearing supply.®" The attempt to disable the war economy by choosing a vulnerable "choke point" had failed. Due to heavy losses, the Army Air Force then deemed that establishing air superiority should be the top priority. Therefore, the bombers went after the German aircraft manufacturing industry in early 1944. While the bombers damaged this industry, again German resourcefulness made up for the losses. In fact, the Germans increased aircraft production.®" Air superiority was eventually achieved not through destruction o f industry, but by attriting the Luftwaffe in the air. The aerial defeat o f the Luftwaffe was a direct result o f the introduction of the P-51 fighter in early 1944. The P-51’s long range allowed it to fly throughout Germany, and its superior technical attributes meant it could outfly nearly all German fighters.®' During the spring and summer o f 1944, much o f the strategic bombing effort (both American and British) was diverted to support the Normandy invasion. Nonetheless, American bombers did launch some attacks on Germany’s petroleum system in May and June 1944. Unfortunately, the AAF were not able to concentrate on the oil system until after the Normandy breakout in August 1944. After this, the strategic bombing campaign hit its stride. The petroleum industry felt the full impact o f the bombers and suffered accordingly. Additionally, star
Node: 15588, Score: 0.0304673489680987, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0268.txt, Content: ort limited the NVA’s overall capability. Likewise, the economic infrastructure attacks that had failed in Rolling Thunder because its destruction had little impact on the war in the South now were more effective. With the shift to more conventional warfare. North Vietnam had a greater need for its limited industrial and power supply infrastructure to function. Both Linebacker I and the tactical bombing were greatly enhanced by the wide-spread use of smart weapons. This was the first time the U.S. used guided munitions, especially laser-guided bombs, in large numbers. These weapons significantly increased the destructive power of each plane. Moreover, guided bombs facilitated the destruction of targets that previously had proved extremely difficult to hit and destroy. For example, a North Vietnamese bridge which had defied destruction from hundreds of bombing sorties during Rolling Thunder was totally destroyed by 16 aircraft dropping 24 guided bombs and 48 unguided 284  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 297 --- bombs.'™ Furthermore, tactical air strikes could now easily hit individual tanks and trucks.'®‘ *  Guided bombs did not change the bombing strategy, it simply hastened and increased the overall amount of destruction wrought on the NVA and North Vietnam. The U.S.’s deft efforts to isolate North Vietnam from its allies, the Soviet Union and China also contributed to the compellent success. The Soviets and Chinese no longer gave unqualified aid and protection from the U.S. The Soviets also applied an undetermined amount o f pressure on North Vietnam to agree to a settlement.” ®  Clearly, Hanoi was angry and disturbed with the Soviet Union and China’s behavior. This most likely caused a feeling o f isolation and desertion in North Vietnam’s leaders.'®® North Vietnam’s decreasing superpower support increased its need to remove the U.S. from South Vietnam. The last, and possibly most important, contributing factor to this compellent success was the change
Node: 15439, Score: 0.0297486120341109, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0119.txt, Content: feature larger units conducting deeper raids into the Sinai. The final stage was the major cross-Canal assault. It is important to note that Egypt did not plan for a static war of attrition, instead attrition was supposed to be a tactie that would facilitate that strategy o f a cross-Canal assault.® ‘ Egypt’s Strategy in Action Initially, Egypt’s plan seemed to work well. Although the Bar-Lev Line provided good protection for Israeli troops against the heavy Egyptian fire, the Egyptians still inflicted some 40 to 50 casualties a month from March through June.”  The artillery attacks seemed so successful that on 19 April, Egypt initiated the second phase of their plan by sending commandos across the Canal. Artillery and commando attacks continued through July without letup.” To avoid escalation into a more general war, Israel adopted a defensive strategy aimed at re-imposing the ceasefire. This limited Israel’s response to counter-artillery strikes and commando raids. In fact, at first the Israeli leadership did not recognize the larger Egyptian strategy at play; believing it to be merely localized harassment. Nevertheless, as the fighting continued and casualties mounted, Israel decided to act more forcefully. Previously, small demonstrations of military superiority and attacks on countervalue targets had compelled Egypt to curb its aggressive behavior. Therefore, Israel launched dramatic commando raids into Egypt and shelled oil facilities, ports, and cities along the Suez Canal. But this had 125  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 138 --- little effect because Egypt had already evacuated most of the population along the Canal and had stopped work in the oil sites.® '* However, Egypt’s plan for reclaiming the Sinai became stuck in stage two. The Israeli positions had not been sufficiently weakened to allow for the move to large commando raids. But at the same time, Israel’s inferiority in manpower and artillery was beginning to show. The Israeli army simply
Node: 15364, Score: 0.0288213124055974, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0044.txt, Content: on Germany’s oil and transportation systems.'*^ Nonetheless, the leader of the Bomber Command, Sir Arthur Harris, constantly resisted attempts to divert his bombers from city-busting.'’ ®  He dismissed the effectiveness o f selective attacks on oil and transportation, derisively calling them "panaceas".'” In the end, the pressure from the top military and political leadership forced Harris to cut back on city-busting to concentrate on more selective targets. Post-war analysis showed the British area bombing o f cities to be of lesser impact on the course of the war than the Allies had hoped or envisioned. Area bombing inflicted immense destruction, nearly all the 61 major German cities had 50% or more o f their buildup areas destroyed. Many smaller cities also received substantial damage as w ell.'*®  But area bombing was unable to pound Germany into submission because it neither crushed the population’s will to fight nor ruined 43  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 56 --- Germany’s capability to resist. Independent compellence through a Douhet/Trenchard strategy of annihilating cities had failed. It is worthwhile to examine briefly why area bombing failed. Although area bombing killed hundreds of thousands of civilians, it was unable to demoralize the German population or weaken their resolve sufficiently to significantly reduce their contribution to the war. Obviously, morale suffered, but not enough to seriously affect industrial production (at least not until the very end stages of the war) or lead to anti-war riots.'’^  Regardless, the Nazis ran an efficient police state that ensured civilians would "stay in line" and not rebel.®" Furthermore, area bombing’s role in reducing German industrial production was limited. The bombings failed to prevent German workers from working. And surprisingly few industries were destroyed, mainly because most German industries were not centrally located in the cities. Anyway, simply destroying industries in general was n
Node: 15328, Score: 0.0284850385582253, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0008.txt, Content: e to conquer the opposing state to achieve the political objectives, but the key is whether the intent o f compellence is present. For example, the Allies in World War II had to completely conquer Germany to achieve an unconditional ®  The traditional military strategy invariably leads to territorial occupation as well. Unable to seize territory, air power’s ability to independently achieve compellence in these cases is inherently more restricted than with coercive diplomacy or coercion. However, I am not interested in determining whether air power can "win wars". Instead, I want to examine the dynamics o f how military force is used to achieve political objectives.  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 18 --- surrender. But they most likely would have accepted an unconditional surrender offer in January or February 1945. Indeed, forcing Germany to surrender was a driving force behind the bombing of Dresden in February 1945. Therefore, the Allies’  campaign should be considered a compellent operation using the traditional military strategy.'* Usable Military Option Alexander George’s work on coercive diplomacy is a crucial part o f the literature on coercion/compellence."* While George and his co-authors did not * *  It is important to note that equating compellence with the attainment of political objectives across the spectrum of using military force is a different definition of compellence than Thomas Schelling proposes. Dr. Schelling believes compellence is achieving political objectives with mostly threats o f military force, far short of including the traditional military strategy. I wanted to use a term that described the how states use military force to achieve political objectives that would apply across a wide range of more practical operations. Far too often discussions of employing military force use the nebulous term o f "victory" to describe conflict termination. Only rarely do states intend to exterminate a people or wantonly destroy. Even in cas
Node: 15334, Score: 0.0284135852294653, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0014.txt, Content: s in its capability to strike multiple "centers of gravity" o f a state. Clausewitz defined the term as, "the hub o f all power and movement, on which everything depends".But  in modem, complex, industrial societies, states have more than one center o f gravity."' The centers of gravity o f a state are best described as a set of concentric circles. The outermost ring is the armed forces, which encircles the population, followed by the state’s economic infrastructure (industrial, communication, and transportation systems), then the power ^  With the traditional military strategy, there may not be much of a decision per se. For example, in May 1945, the German decision to surrender was more of an acceptance o f reality of the death of Hitler, the destruction of the Wehrmacht, and the Allied occupation o f Germany. The Japanese surrender should be considered a rational cost-versus-benefit decision because Japan could have fought on, even though at great cost to the state and society. ^ Although some may disagree, I concur with Col. John Warden and expand Clausewitz’s definition of center o f gravity. The state as an entity is much more complicated today than the 19th century. 1 1  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 24 --- production/organic essentials (primarily petroleum and electrical), and the innermost circle is the leadership.” ' Ground and naval units generally are limited to attacking the outermost ring, fielded military forces. Opposing military forces generally prevent direct strikes by ground and naval power onto the inner rings, which are physically located deep within the state. In fact, most of ground and naval doctrine and strategy has been developed with the specific goal of defeating the opposing military’s forces. Compellent leverage is generally only exerted through indirect means. For example, the objective of all three primary strategies used by ground forces, attrition, maneuver, and blitzkrieg (a specialized form of maneuver warfare), is to
Node: 15386, Score: 0.0277569146023498, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0066.txt, Content: re-emphasizing the need for air superiority. Yet this was tempered by the mistaken belief that gradual escalation was the cause of Rolling Thunder’s failure (the 1965-8 bombing campaign). Many in the Air Force, especially the leadership, felt the Linebacker campaigns succeeded due to their fast pace and ferocity. Therefore, the Vietnam War could have been won if Linebacker 1 1  (the 1972 Christmas bombing) had been implemented in 1965.'-^ Critical examinations of strategic bombing in Vietnam have been partially responsible for renewed analysis o f air power theory. One historian, Maj. Mark Clodfelter, USAF, analyzed the conduct o f the Rolling Thunder and Linebacker campaigns to determine the reasons for success and/or failures.'^® He concludes Rolling Thunder was a failure, and the Linebackers succeeded. Clodfelter believed the Air Force strategy concerning Rolling Thunder was so deficient, its failure was almost certain. The common myths o f gradualism and Washington micro-management causing the failure were false. Instead, Rolling Thunder failed because strategic bombing as implemented was wholly unsuited for ' This was especially evident during Rolling Thunder from 1965-1968. Although, to the Air Force’s credit, by the Linebacker campaigns, it had put some o f the hard earned lessons to good use. 67  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 80 --- the guerrilla/light infantry conflict of 1965-1968. Moreover, Rolling Thunder targeted North Vietnam, although the main threat was the Viet Cong supported by some North Vietnamese regulars. Destruction of North Vietnam would not necessarily achieve the United States’  goal of maintaining the existence of South Vietnam. But by 1972, the Vietnam War had changed dramatically. Conditions now favored the use of strategic bombing. The North Vietnamese Army, which was more heavily mechanized and modernized, had taken over the fight. Strategic bombing had a greater influence against this type o f army, since it relied on cons
Node: 15535, Score: 0.0275952895575729, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0215.txt, Content: gnificant effect.'®' In fact, the infiltration o f men actually increased from 35,000 in 1965 to 90,000 in 1967.'®’ Moreover, even with Rolling Thunder, North Vietnam was able to send enough men and supplies south to launch the 1968 Tet Offensive. The primary problem was the very type of war being fought. Interdiction is most effective when used against an army fighting an intense, mobile, conventional war which requires large amounts of supplies. Yet, from 1965 to 1968, the NVA and VC forces relied on light infantry forces. The majority of soldiers were VC who fought infrequently using small-unit guerilla tactics, thus needing few supplies and resources." In addition, only about one-third of their total supply requirement eame through the DRV, most o f it ammunition.'®" U.S. analysts estimated that the total NVAA/C force needed only some twenty to eighty tons per day (depending on the intensity of the fighting).'®" This load could be moved by less than 20 trucks.'®" By late 1965, McNamara admitted that the North could move 200 tons of supplies per day to the South, even under attacks by Rolling Thunder.'®" American air power could not possibly locate and destroy enough of these meager supplies in the jungles of Southeast Asia to make a significant " Even as late as 1967 the U.S. estimated there were only 55,000 NVA soldiers, but 245,000 VC in South Vietnam. 227  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 240 --- difference on the battlefield. Any inefficiencies and destruction from bombing were simply overwhelmed by massive North Vietnamese (and Soviet/Chinese) resource expenditure to keep the flow going.'®’ In addition, North Vietnam’s transportation system (and the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos) primitiveness defied attempts to disrupt it with bombing. The North relied on simple and labor-intensive transportation that was inefficient but flexible. Most o f the transportation infrastructure consisted o f dirt roads and trails which were essentially impossible to destro
Node: 15503, Score: 0.0275336734774278, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0183.txt, Content: ategy of perseverance.”  The U.S. government wanted to make just enough effort to keep South Vietnam from falling while hoping that each escalation would be sufficient to make Hanoi break off the war and negotiate or the war would simply peter out. The ground and air operations were to smash the VC/NVA units and punish North Vietnam until its breaking point was reached. But optimism in Washington for success was already beginning to wane. John McNaughton, Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, even considered the primary objective in Vietnam to be avoiding a humiliating U.S. defeat, not saving South Vietnam from communism.™ The immediate rationale for the July decision to massively increase the number o f American ground troops was to forestall a collapse o f South Vietnam (by this time a continual threat). The VC/NVA summer offensive had been very successful and one axis of advance threatened to split South Vietnam in half.’® The U.S. responded with the deployment of 44 battalions of ground troops (some of which would be South Korean and Australian) with plans for a further 24 battalions in 1966. Moreover, America fundamentally changed the role o f its ground forces. The short-lived enclave strategy of spring 1965 intended to secure vital urban areas o f South Vietnam under U.S. protection proved inadequate. Not permitted to launch an annihilating attack into North Vietnam, the U.S. Army adopted a strategy o f attrition under the term "search and destroy". The ground forces were not 193  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 206 --- responsible for just stabilizing the situation. Now, the U.S. military hoped that by inflicting heavy casualties the enemy’s military capability would be significantly reduced to where the South Vietnamese could handle the war. Even better, the U.S. hoped that the North’s will would he broken under the strain o f massive losses. Like the Germans at Verdun, the U.S. hoped to bleed its enemy white.™ Concurr
Node: 15374, Score: 0.0271704339824878, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0054.txt, Content: bombings is the indirect cost to the German war effort. Germany was forced to divert large amounts of increasingly scarce resources, armaments, and men to defend against the bombings and rebuild after the bombings. For example, some 20,000 of Germany’s fearsome 88mm guns were used for anti-aircraft work against strategic bombers.*® If not so utilized, they could have wreaked havoc with Allied and Soviet tanks. Without the diversion, more production in other critical areas would have occurred. Moreover, Germany’s air defence system was manned by a million men, who obviously could have been used elsewhere. Additionally, the Allied air superiority over France for D-Day was partially due to the Luftwaffe withdrawal to protect Germany from bombing. Although the Allies also had to devote considerable resources to the strategic bombing campaign, they had much more than Germany to spare. Consequently, the overall draining affect was a major accomplishment for strategic bombing. These contributions have often been ignored because they are indirect and difficult to quantify and assess.*" Indeed, the indirect benefits are rarely discussed or analyzed in bombing campaigns during any conflict. This, however, is a mistake and the Allied bombing of Germany is an example of the potential effects of draining resources. 54  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 67 --- Upon closer examination it becomes apparent that the Allied strategic bombing campaign could have been more effective. If the attack on the petroleum and transportation systems had begun earlier, the Germany war effort would probably have collapsed sooner,"” The independent compellence failure cannot be solely attributed to an inherent weakness o f strategic bombing; the misapplication of strategic bombing also played a role. In the final assessment, even if the bombing did not independently win the war, without a doubt it contributed to the victory. Most importantly, the United States Army Air Force concluded stra
Node: 15580, Score: 0.026967538430499, Chunk File: klubes_compellence/chunks/klubes_compellence_0260.txt, Content: ss effective against truck traffic from China, this mode o f transportation was unable to completely make up the losses.'®’ Linebacker I quickly cut off much o f North Vietnam’s external support. Meanwhile, B-52s were concentrating on supply depots and transportation routes in southern DRV. Nixon and Kissinger concluded that sending B-52s against 275  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 288 --- Hanoi and Haiphong would create too much domestic outcry.'®* After the mining and the attacks on bridges, U.S. planes began to strike major supply depots, railroad marshalling yards, and storage facilities set up to cope with the disruption to the transportation system.'®* The Easter Offensive Wanes By June, South Vietnam and the U.S. had beaten back North Vietnam’s Easter Offensive. There were four major reasons for its defeat; hardening of ARVN, gallant efforts of the U.S. advisers, tactical bombing by U.S. air power and poor strategy and tactics by the NVA. While the ARVN initially fought poorly, it rebounded well by May. Partially this was due to simple natural selection; the bad was wiped out, leaving only the better units. In addition, Vietnamization had actually created some good ARVN units and officers. The ARVN’s performance was aided considerably by the American advisers still assigned down to the regimental and even battalion level. Although sometimes ignored and abandoned by inept and corrupt Vietnamese officers, the advisers often provided the cool, competent leadership under fire that was lacking in the ARVN. They also were critical in coordinating air support to beleaguered ARVN positions."® Tactical bombing played a critical role in foiling NVA attacks and hindering NVA supply efforts within South Vietnam. Large numbers of attack sorties took a heavy toll on NVA forces. As opposed to the 1968 Tet Offensive there were many more suitable targets for tactical air power, including tanks, heavy artillery, large 276  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 2