Node: 8729, Score: 0.0679509442420913, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0243.txt, Content: superior defensive power of our Fortress formations, the British still held that unless we quickly turned to night bombing our losses would be prohibitive and our effort futile.  The arguments on this point were long, with neither side convinced. It was granted by all that daylight precision bombing, if successful, would be far superior to night area bombing in ton-for-ton effect. Consequently discussions centered exclusively around the one point of feasibility. General Spaatz and I were supported in our position by the United States Chiefs of Staff and we insisted that our system should first be thoroughly and completely tested before anything could lead us to deviate from it.  In the final outcome, months later, both sides were proved to be partially right. When our heavy bombers first began operating in formation outside fighter range, the volume of their defensive fire so astonished the enemy that for a period we enjoyed a considerable degree of immunity. Gradually, however, the German devised new tactics and methods and began to use his fighters in large concentrations against our units. Our percentage of losses began to mount rapidly. On June 13, 1943, the U.S. Eighth Air Force attacked Kiel with 76 planes, without fighter support, and lost 22.1201 A later raid by 291 planes suffered a loss of 60. With each plane shot down went also a minimum of ten officers and men. In the face of such percentage losses it became certain that but for the mass pro- duction of the long-range efficient fighter we would have had to modify our bombing program and could have proceeded into Germany itself only under cover of darkness or bad weather.  But in the initial arguments these experiences still belonged to the future. A great factor in my own calculations was the degree of dependence I placed upon the operation of the precision bomber in preparing the way for a ground invasion of France.  This was the keynote of the invasion plan. Unless accurate daylight bombing was feasib
Node: 8728, Score: 0.0621809483950936, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0242.txt, Content: nse. We believed that, in suitable close formations permitting concentration of a terrific fire power, they could proceed well outside of the area in which they could be protected by their own fighters and could carry out daylight bombing operations without undue losses.  The Prime Minister was convinced that this view was false and that the United States was merely wasting its effort and resources in making the attempt. General Spaatz knew, of course, that the United States was already developing long-range fighters which would become available by the time his Eighth Air Force could reach its scheduled strength. However, for some months his forces would have to employ the P-39 and P-40 fighters, which had a very limited operational radius, roughly about three hundred miles.[18] The Prime Minister urged us to give up the whole idye of daylight bombing and start training our crews for night work. British air experience at that time was far greater than ours. Following hard upon the Battle of Britain in 1940, they had begun laboriously to build up a bomber force that could strike deep into the heart of Germany. Their experience had driven them to bomb only at night; otherwise they suffered unsupportable losses. The British staged their first 1,000-plane raid in an attack against Cologne on the night of May 30-31, 1942. Losses amounted to 42 planes.|121  The British bombers could not, in daylight, have undertaken such an operation except with prohibitive losses. We believed that this was due to the fact that they were designed for range and weight lifting at the expense of speed and defensive fire power. The British fighter called the Spitfire was handicapped by very short range, although in other respects it was one of the finest then in existence. While acknowledging the superior defensive power of our Fortress formations, the British still held that unless we quickly turned to night bombing our losses would be prohibitive and our effort futile.  The arguments on thi
Node: 8731, Score: 0.0604491781041088, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0245.txt, Content: See ee en — 2  adil ~ aes -—_ ad —— ae ia United States was already developing long-range fighters which would become available by the time his Eighth Air Force could reach its scheduled strength. However, for some months his forces would have to employ the P-39 and P-40 fighters, which had a very limited operational radius, roughly about three hundred miles.|18! The Prime Minister urged us to give up the whole idea of daylight bombing and start training our crews for night work. British air experience at that time was far greater than ours. Following hard upon the Battle of Britain in 1940, they had begun laboriously to build up a bomber force that could strike deep into the heart of Germany. Their experience had driven them to bomb only at night; otherwise they suffered unsupportable losses. The British staged their first 1,000-plane raid in an attack against Cologne on the night of May 30-31, 1942. Losses amounted to 42 planes.  The British bombers could not, in daylight, have undertaken such an operation except with prohibitive losses. We believed that this was due to the fact that they were designed for range and weight lifting at the expense of speed and defensive fire power. The British fighter called the Spitfire was handicapped by very short range, although in other respects it was one of the finest then in existence. While acknowledging the superior defensive power of our Fortress formations, the British still held that unless we quickly turned to night bombing our losses would be prohibitive and our effort futile.  The arguments on this point were long, with neither side convinced. It was granted by all that daylight precision bombing, if successful, would be far superior to night area bombing in ton-for-ton effect. Consequently discussions centered exclusively around the one point of feasibility. General Spaatz and I were supported in our position by the United States Chiefs of Staff and we insisted that our system should first be thoroughly and complet
Node: 9680, Score: 0.0595424966304581, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1194.txt, Content: the concentrations required for successful attacks.  As the infantry replacement problem became acute we resorted to every kind of expedient to keep units up to strength. Full reports were made to the War Department so that effort in the homeland would be concentrated on this need. We combed through our own organization to find men in the Services of Supply and elsewhere who could be retrained rapidly for employment in infantry formations. Wherever possible we replaced a man in service organizations by one from the limited-service category or by a Wac.|15!| General Spaatz found that he could give us considerable help in this  re a ee _c- ae. 4 re ne ee Se ee a. eae en aa) te eet tee et ttt tt At ee in  Page 399 of 669 58%  Devers’ estimate of the French First Army’s immediate effectiveness was overoptimistic, while he probably underrated the defensive power of German units when they set themselves stubbornly to hold a strong position. The French Army, weakened by its recent offensive, found it impossible to eliminate the German resistance on its immediate front, and thus was formed the Colmar pocket, a German garrison which established and maintained itself in the defensible ground west of the Rhine in the vicinity of Colmar. The existence of this pocket was later to work to our definite disadvan- tage.L14]  The fighting throughout the front, from Switzerland to the mouth of the Rhine, descended during the late fall months to the dirtiest kind of infantry slugging. Advances were slow and laborious. Gains were ordinarily measured in terms of yards rather than miles. Operations became mainly a matter of artillery and ammunition and, on the part of the infantry, endurance, stamina, and courage. In these conditions infantry losses were high, particularly in rifle platoons. The infantry, which in all kinds of warfare habitually absorbs the bulk of the losses, was now taking practically all of them. These were by no means due to enemy action alone. In other respects, too
Node: 8732, Score: 0.0548097151176774, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0246.txt, Content: ely around the one point of feasibility. General Spaatz and I were supported in our position by the United States Chiefs of Staff and we insisted that our system should first be thoroughly and completely tested before anything could lead us to deviate from it.  In the final outcome, months later, both sides were proved to be partially right. When our heavy bombers first began operating in formation outside fighter range, the volume of their defensive fire so astonished the enemy that for a period we enjoyed a considerable degree of immunity. Gradually, however, the German devised new tactics and methods and began to use his fighters in large concentrations against our units. Our percentage of losses began to mount rapidly. On June 13, 1943, the U.S. Eighth Air Force attacked Kiel with 76 planes, without fighter support, and lost 22.[20| A later raid by 291 planes suffered a loss of 60. With each plane shot down went also a minimum of ten officers and men. In the face of such percentage losses it became certain that but for the mass pro- duction of the long-range efficient fighter we would have had to modify our bombing program and could have proceeded into Germany itself only under cover of darkness or bad weather.  But in the initial arguments these experiences still belonged to the future. A great factor in my own calculations was the degree of dependence I placed upon the operation of the precision bomber in preparing the way for a ground invasion of France.  This was the keynote of the invasion plan. Unless accurate daylight bombing was feasible, I believed, large-scale invasion of the Continent would be exceedingly risky. Therefore I maintained that even if we could carry on precision bombing only to the extreme range of our fighters we must continue to develop the United States forces on that basis, so as to have available the great force that would be needed to carry out the preparatory work in the areas selected for invasion.  The upshot was that the United
Node: 9722, Score: 0.0535442389906966, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1236.txt, Content: sly and we soon had a very good picture of the general strength of the German attack.  For the assault Von Rundstedt concentrated three armies. These were the Fifth and Sixth Panzer Armies and the Seventh Army. Included were ten Panzer and Panzer Grenadier divisions and the whole force totaled twenty-four divisions with their supporting troops. Some of this information did not become available until later in the battle, but by the evening of the seventeenth Intelligence agencies had identified seventeen divisions and were certain that at least twenty were involved in the operation.[81  In two important points the enemy had gained definite surprise.!2! The first of these was in timing. In view of the terrible defeats we had inflicted upon him during the late summer and fall, and of the extraordinary measures he had been compelled to undertake in raising new forces, we had believed that he could not be ready for a major assault as early as he was. The other point in which he surprised us was the strength of the attack. The Sixth Panzer Army was the mobile reserve we had lost track of earlier, a fresh and strong unit only recently arrived on our front from Germany, but we had already badly mauled the Seventh Army and the Fifth Panzer.  In gaining this degree of surprise the enemy was favored by the weather. For some days aerial reconnaissance had been impossible, and without aerial reconnaissance we could not determine the locations and movements of major reserves in the rear of his lines. The strong artificial defenses of the Siegfried Line assisted the enemy to achieve strength in the attack. The obstacles, pillboxes, and fixed guns of that line so greatly multiplied the defensive power of the garrison that the German could afford to weaken long stretches of his front in order to gather forces for a counterblow.  Although with regard to the strength of the forces engaged on both sides the Kasserine affair was a mere skirmish in proportion to the Ardennes battle, yet
Node: 8835, Score: 0.049886856592866, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0349.txt, Content: the safe arrival of the others in the group had been reported. This caused some consternation among the staff, the larger portion of which was still in the United Kingdom, but of this we were unaware at the moment. One plane, which had failed to take off with us, made the flight on the following day and was attacked by two German JU-88s.!29| One man was wounded but the gun- ners on the Fortress finally drove off the attacking planes.  I went to the tunnels of the Fortress, where our offices were located and where I met Admiral Cunningham, who had made the journey from London in a fast cruiser. He and I began to scan the reports of weather and of operation, to check and recheck everything we had done, and to talk over all the things that have so far been related in this book.  Chapter 6  Page 111 of 669 17%  to how to teach his men the use of this vitally needed weapon. me said, 1dont know anything about it Myselr except from hearsay. —  Nothing more could now be done in London. It was a relief to lock up a desk. To account for my absence from London an elaborate story was circulated that I was making a visit to Washington. Even the President helped out in this particular deception. Actually we took off for Gibraltar, in a flight of five Fortresses, on November 5, 1942.[28| At Gibraltar we were greeted by the governor, Lieutenant General Sir F. N. Mason MacFarlane, who most hospitably welcomed us to Government House for quarters. By a series of minor mishaps the plane in which I was flying was unreported in London for several hours after the safe arrival of the others in the group had been reported. This caused some consternation among the staff, the larger portion of which was still in the United Kingdom, but of this we were unaware at the moment. One plane, which had failed to take off with us, made the flight on the following day and was attacked by two German JU-88s./29| One man was wounded but the gun- ners on the Fortress finally drove off the attacking planes.
Node: 9674, Score: 0.0491167628951902, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1188.txt, Content: difficult mountain country the attack was certain to be slow and costly. After an attack by the 28th Division had failed to make satisfactory progress a heavy assault was started by the First Army December 13.  Meanwhile, south of the Ardennes Forest, the Third Army launched an attack on November 8. Its offensive was aimed generally at the Saar region and made excellent initial progress. North of Metz, bridgeheads were established across the Moselle, and shortly after the middle of November the leading troops crossed the German frontier. Metz was surrounded and cut off. The city surrendered No- vember 22.[12] However, some of the forts in the vicinity held out stubbornly and it was almost the middle of December before the final one was reduced and mopped up.  In the right sector of the Third Army the advance quickly brought us up against some of the strongest sections of the Siegfried Line, those guarding the triangle between the Moselle and the Rhine. In this region the Siegfried comprised two general lines of defenses. The forward one was a continuous system of obstacles and pillboxes, but was of no great depth. In the rear was ther line, of extraordinary strength. It featured a series of field forts, mutually supporting, arranged in a line more than two miles deep. These defenses slowed up the advance of the Third Army, and since their re- duction required a vast amount of heavy artillery ammunition, the attacks there were suspended until additional logistical support could be provided.  Still farther south there was much fighting in Devers’ Sixth Army Group. During September it advanced northward through the Rhone Valley and came in abreast of the Third Army line, facing eastward in the difficult Vosges Mountains area. Devers attacked that formidable barrier on November 14, in an attempt to penetrate into the plains of Alsace. Once we could secure this region Devers’ forces could concentrate the bulk of their strength on the left and the defenders of the Saar wo
Node: 8824, Score: 0.0489145145285013, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0338.txt, Content: r factors that bear directly upon the degree of hazard inherent in this operation:  (a)  )  (c)  (d)  () The sufficiency of carrier-borne air support during initial stages.  The operational strength of the French Air Force in Africa is about 500 planes. Neither the bombers nor the fighters are of the most modern type, but the fighters are superior in performance to the naval types on carriers. Consequently, if the French make determined and unified resistance to the initial landing, particular)yby concentrating the bulk of their air against either of the major ports, they can seriously interfere with, if not prevent, a landing at that point. The total carrier-borne fighter strength (counting on 100 U.S. fighters on Ranger and auxiliary) will apparently be about 166 planes in actual support of the landings. Only twenty to thirty will be with the naval covering forces to the eastward. These fighters will be under the usual handicaps of carrier-based aircraft when operating against land-based planes.  Efficiency of Gibraltar as an erection point for fighter aircraft to be used after landing fields have been secured.  Since Gibraltar is the only port available to Allies in that region, the rapid transfer of fighter craft to captured airdromes will be largely dependent upon our ability to set up at Gibraltar a reasonable number for immediate operations and a flow thereafter of at least thirty planes per day. The vulnerability of Gibraltar, especially to interference by Spanish forces, is obvious. If the Spaniards should take hostile action against us immediately upon the beginning of landing operations, it would be practically impossible to secure any land-based fighter craft for use in northern Africa for a period of some days.  Another critical factor affecting the air will be the state of the weather.  It is planned to transfer by flying to captured airdromes in North Africa the American units now in Great Britain except the Spitfire groups. These last will necessaril
Node: 9595, Score: 0.0485384388444563, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1109.txt, Content: that on Patton’s front the city of Metz could have been captured. Nevertheless, we had to sup- ply each force for its basic missions and for basic missions only.  On our right we connected up near Dijon with Patch’s advancing forces on September 11, just twenty-seven days after the landing in southern France.[18! From that moment onward the only thing standing in the way of the ample supply of all our forces south of Metz was the repair of the railways leading up the Rhone Valley. As a result of the junction with Patch’s forces, a considerable number of Germans were trapped in southwestern France. These began to give themselves up by driblets except in one instance, when 20,000 Germans surrendered in a single body.  On the extreme left the attack against Arnhem went off as planned on the seventeenth. Three airborne divisions dropped, in column, from north to south. The northernmost one was the British 1st Airborne Division, while farther southward were the American 82d and 101st Airborne Divisions. The attack began well and unquestionably would have been successful except for the intervention of bad weather. This prevented the adequate reinforcement of the northern spearhead and resulted finally in the decimation of the British airborne division and only a partial success in the entire oper- ation. We did not get our bridgehead but our lines had been carried well out to defend the Antwerp base.  The progress of the battle gripped the attention of everyone in the theater. We were inordinately proud of our airborne units but the interest in that battle had its roots in something deeper than pride. We felt it would prove whether or not the Germans could succeed in establishing renewed and effective resistance—on the battle’s outcome we would form an estimate of the severity of the fighting still ahead of us. A general impression grew up that the battle was really a full-out attempt to begin, immediately, a drive into the heart of Germany. This gave a great added intere
Node: 9568, Score: 0.048227146395709, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1082.txt, Content: en in the month subsequent to July 25.  German matériel losses included 1,300 tanks, 20,000 other vehicles, 500 assault guns, and 1,500 pieces of artillery. In addition the German air forces had suffered extensively. More than 3,500 of his aircraft had been destroyed and this in spite of the fact that the Luftwaffe had been seriously depleted before the invasion began.110]  There was a definite drop in enemy morale. So far as prisoners were concerned this was more noticeable among the higher officers because they, with professional training, could see the inevitability of final defeat. But the Army as a whole had clearly not yet reached the stage of mass collapse and there was no question that the German divisions, given decent conditions, were still capable of put- ting up fierce resistance.[1)  With the capture of Paris we were substantially on the line that had been predicted before D-day as the one we would attain three to four months after our landing. Thus, in long-term estimate, we were weeks ahead of schedule, but in the important particular of supply capacity we were badly behind. Because almost the entire area had been captured in the swift movements subsequent to Au- gust 1, the roads, railway lines, depots, repair shops, and base installations, required for the maintenance of continuous forward movement, were still far to the rear of the front lines.l12  When the German forces succeeded, in spite of defeat and disorder, in withdrawing significant numbers of their troops across the Seine, there still remained the hope of on stractinbSinother trap for them before they could reorganize and present an effective defensive front. Portions of the German Fifteenth Army still remained in the Calais area, where they would provide a stiffening core for the retreating troops of the First and Seventh Armies. It was considered possible that some resistance would be attempted along one of the natural defenses provided by the waterways of Belgium. A surprise vertical en
Node: 10213, Score: 0.047506995652729, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1727.txt, Content: economy were becoming catastrophic ... there developed a continuous crisis in German transportation and in all phases of her war effort.” Bremen Is Target of B-17 and B-24 Flight  Page 569 of 669 83%  SUPREME OVER GERMANY  “By early 1945 the effects of our air offensive against the German economy were becoming catastrophic ... there developed a continuous crisis in German transportation and in all phases of her war effort.” Bremen Is Target of B-17 and B-24 Flight  Page 569 of 669 83%  THESE WERE HITLER'S ELITE “,.. within eighteen days of the moment the Ruhr was surrounded it had surrendered with an even greater number of prisoners than we had bagged in the final Tunisian collapse . . ” Page 486  Nazis Taken Prisoner in the Ruhr Pocket  THESE WERE HITLER'S ELITE “... within eighteen days of the moment the Ruhr was surrounded it had surrendered with an even greater number of prisoners than we had bagged in the final Tunisian collapse ...” Nazis Taken Prisoner in the Ruhr Pocket  Page 569 of 669 83% DOUBLE-LOADED FOR HOME  83% DOUBLE-LOADED FOR HOME This plan required “one man to sleep in the daytime so that another could have his bunk during th  The Queen Elizabeth Brings Them Home (illustrat  e night.... Inever afterward heard of a single complaint ...”  83%  DOUBLE-LOADED FOR HOME This plan required “one man to sleep in the daytime so that another could have his bunk during the night.... I never afterward heard of a single complaint ...” The Queen Elizabeth Brings Them Home  Page 569 of 669 83% 83%  SURVIVING BOMBS AND HITLER , however sacred, will survive atomic war. “Even the bombed ruins of Germany ... provide but faint warning of what future war could mean to the people of the earth.”  But no edifice  The Cathedral Stands Amid Cologne’s Rubble  83% SURVIVING BOMBS AND HITLER But no edifice, however sacred, will survive atomic war. “Even the bombed ruins of Germany ... provide but faint warning of what future war could mean to the people of the earth.” The Cat
Node: 9881, Score: 0.0470265544967236, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1395.txt, Content: south. Long before this time the RAF Bomber Command, originally designed for night bombing only, had begun to participate regularly in daylight attacks. With the protection provided by our great array of fighters, it could operate safely during hours of daylight and its accuracy was vastly increased. On the twenty-fourth it came over to attack rail centers and oil targets in and near the Ruhr./8!  The March 24 operation sealed the fate of Germany. Already, of course, we had secured two bridgeheads farther to the south. But in each of those cases surprise and good fortune had favored us. The northern operation was made in the teeth of the greatest resistance the enemy could provide anywhere along the long river. Moreover, it was launched directly on the edge of the Ruhr and the success- ful landing on the eastern bank placed strong forces in position to deny the enemy use of significant portions of that great industrial area.  In the meantime events farther south had been proceeding swiftly. Bradley’s first purpose was to secure a firm lodgment in the Frankfurt region from which an advance in strength would be undertaken toward Kassel. At this latter point we expected to join up with Montgomery’s attack on the north of the Ruhr and so complete the envelopment of that area.  From the moment that General Patton pushed the U.S. 5th Division across the Rhine on the night of March 22 he had continued steadily to build up his bridgehead. By the evening of March 24 it was nine miles long and six miles deep, and the attacking troops had taken 19,000 prisoners. The entire XII Corps was now across the river and its 4th Armored Division pushed forward so rapidly that on  Page 461 of 669 67%  FIOW AlL© YOUU LCs, sUlis 1 aoKeU.  “General,” he said, “I’m awful nervous. I was wounded two months ago and just got back from the hospital yesterday. I don’t feel so good!”  “Well,” I said to him, “you and I are a good pair then, because I’m nervous too. But we’ve planned this attack for
Node: 8734, Score: 0.0465813934393334, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0248.txt, Content: astonished the enemy that for a period we enjoyed a considerable degree of immunity. Gradually, however, the German devised new tactics and methods and began to use his fighters in large concentrations against our units. Our percentage of losses began to mount rapidly. On June 13, 1943, the U.S. Eighth Air Force attacked Kiel with 76 planes, without fighter support, and lost 22.[201 A later raid by 291 planes suffered a loss of 60. With each plane shot down went also a minimum of ten officers and men. In the face of such percentage losses it became certain that but for the mass pro- duction of the long-range efficient fighter we would have had to modify our bombing program and could have proceeded into Germany itself only under cover of darkness or bad weather.  But in the initial arguments these experiences still belonged to the future. A great factor in my own calculations was the degree of dependence I placed upon the operation of the precision bomber in preparing the way for a ground invasion of France.  This was the keynote of the invasion plan. Unless accurate daylight bombing was feasible, I believed, large-scale invasion of the Continent would be exceedingly risky. Therefore I maintained that even if we could carry on precision bombing only to the extreme range of our fighters we must continue to develop the United States forces on that basis, so as to have available the great force that would be needed to carry out the preparatory work in the areas selected for invasion.  The upshot was that the United States Air Forces stuck to their program of precision bombing, while the British Bomber Force continued to concentrate on increasing the efficiency of night bomber operations. While the question was raised again, on the highest levels, at the Casablanca Conference in January 1943, the result was merely to confirm this earlier decision.  Coupled with our organizational and preparatory program was the task of developing an operational plan to carry out the agr
Node: 9670, Score: 0.0464062524942127, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1184.txt, Content: ross the Roer River impossible, since any troops successful in crossing could be isolated by a flood- ing of the river and thereafter eliminated by the employment of German reserves.|11!  We first attempted the destruction of the dams by air. The bombing against them was accurate and direct hits were secured. However, the concrete structures were so massive that damage was negligible, and there was no recourse except to take them by ground attack. Because the dams were located in difficult mountain country the attack was certain to be slow and costly. After an attack by the 28th Division had failed to make satisfactory progress a heavy assault was started by the First Army December 13.  Meanwhile, south of the Ardennes Forest, the Third Army launched an attack on November 8. Its offensive was aimed generally at the Saar region and made excellent initial progress. North of Metz, bridgeheads were established across the Moselle, and shortly after the middle of November the leading troops crossed the German frontier. Metz was surrounded and cut off. The city surrendered No- vember 22.[12] However, some of the forts in the vicinity held out stubbornly and it was almost the middle of December before the final one was reduced and mopped up.  In the right sector of the Third Army the advance quickly brought us up against some of the strongest sections of the Siegfried Line, those guarding the triangle between the Moselle and the Rhine. In this region the Siegfried comprised two general lines of defenses. The forward one was a continuous system of obstacles and pillboxes, but was of no great depth. In the rear was another line, of extraordinary strength. It featured a series of field forts, mutually supporting, arranged in a line more than two miles deep. These defenses slowed up the advance of the Third Army, and since their re- duction required a vast amount of heavy artillery ammunition, the attacks there were suspended until additional logistical support could be provide
Node: 9570, Score: 0.0460694575922511, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1084.txt, Content: launching a profitable airborne attack was developing in the Brussels area, and though there was divided opinion on the wisdom of withdrawing planes from supply work because of the uncertainty of the opportunity, I decided to take the chance. The Troop Carrier Command, on September 10, was withdrawn temporarily from supply missions to begin intensive preparation for an airborne drop in the Brussels area.[13] But it quickly became clear that the Germans were retreating so fast as to make the effort an abortive one. Except with rear guards, the Germans made no attempt to defend in that region at all.  All along the front we pressed forward in hot pursuit of the fleeing enemy. In four days the British spearheads, paralleled by equally forceful American advances on their right, covered a distance of 195 miles, one of the many fine feats of marching by our formations in the great pursuit across France. By September 5, Patton’s Third Army reached Nancy and crossed the Moselle River between that city and Metz. Hodges’ First Army came up against the Siegfried defenses by the thirteenth of the month and was shortly thereafter to begin the struggle for Aachen. Pushed back against the borders of the homeland, the German defenses showed definite signs of stiffening. On September 4, Montgomery’s armies entered Antwerp and we were electrified to learn that the Germans had been so rap- idly hustled out of the place that they had had no time to execute extensive demolitions. Marseille had been captured on August 28 and this great port was being rehabilitated.  These developments assured eventual solution of our logistical problem, which meant that within a reasonable time we would be in position to wage on the German border a battle of a scale and intensity that the enemy could not hope to match. However, there was much to be done before we could be in this fortunate position, and we had little remaining elasticity in our overstrained supply lines. On the south Patch’s and Bradley’
Node: 9778, Score: 0.045863949231369, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1292.txt, Content: pected.!29!  One of the breaks in our favor occurred December 23. This was a sudden, temporary clearing of the weather in the forward areas which released our air forces to plunge into the battle. From that moment onward, with some interruptions owing to bad weather, our battle-tested ground-air tactical team began again to function with its accustomed efficiency. The air forces bombed sensitive spots in the German communications system, attacked columns on the road, and sought out and reported to us every significant move of the hostile forces. German prisoners taken thereafter invari- ably complained bitterly about the failure of their Luftwaffe and the terror and destruction caused by the Allied air forces.  On the twenty-sixth Patton at last succeeded in getting a small column into Bastogne but he did so by a narrow neck along his left flank that gave us only precarious connection with the beleaguered garrison. It was after that date that the really hard fighting developed around Bastogne, both for the garrison itself and for the relieving troops.  I had planned to go to see Montgomery on the twenty-third but air travel in the rear areas was still not advisable and travel by road was slow and uncertain. It was unwise for me to leave headquarters on a trip that might keep me absent for several days. Fortunately telephone and radio communications with both him and Bradley remained satisfactory and I was able to keep in close touch with the situation. Nevertheless, I decided to make a night run by railway to Brussels to see Montgomery and to return immediately upon completion of the conference. The train I expected to use was bombed by the Germans on the night of the twenty-sixth, but another was hurriedly made up and I got away on the twenty-seventh.  The trip was further complicated by the extraordinary fears entertained by the Security Corps that enemy murderers were circulating in the area with the hope of killing Montgomery, Bradley, and me, and possibly other
Node: 8831, Score: 0.0458556866300859, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0345.txt, Content: e last minute, to minimize interference in Allied shipping programs, we hoped and believed that major errors revealed by the exercises would not be repeated in actual operations. This proved to be the case.  While on this trip I received a piece of information that carried me back again to America’s traditional peacetime indifference toward preparedness. I was told by a troop commander that his unit had just received its final consignment of “bazookas,” the infantryman’s best weapon of defense against tanks. Since his command was to begin embarking the next day, he was completely at a loss as to how to teach his men the use of this vitally needed weapon. He said, “I don’t know anything about it myself except from hearsay.”  Nothing more could now be done in London. It was a relief to lock up a desk. To account for my absence from London an elaborate story was circulated that I was making a visit to Washington. Even the President helped out in this particular deception. Actually we took off for Gibraltar, in a flight of five Fortresses, on November 5, 1942.128| At Gibraltar we were greeted by the governor, Lieutenant General Sir F. N. Mason MacFarlane, who most hospitably welcomed us to Government House for quarters. By a series of minor mishaps the plane in which I was flying was unreported in London for several hours after the safe arrival of the others in the group had been reported. This caused some consternation among the staff, the larger portion of which was still in the United Kingdom, but of this we were unaware at the moment. One plane, which had failed to take off with us, made the flight on the following day and was attacked by two German JU-88s.!29| One man was wounded but the gun- ners on the Fortress finally drove off the attacking planes.  I went to the tunnels of the Fortress, where our offices were located and where I met Admiral Cunningham, who had made the journey from London in a fast cruiser. He and I began to scan the reports of weather and of
Node: 9374, Score: 0.0454424596196377, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0888.txt, Content: fixed by our governments fell largely to the lot of our headquarters and occasioned a great deal of worry because we were depending on considerable assistance from the insurrectionists in France. They were known to be particularly numerous in the Brittany area and in the hills and mountains of south- east France. An open clash with De Gaulle on this matter would hurt us immeasurably and would result in bitter recrimination and unnecessary loss of life.  Page 291 of 669 43%  confidence as each of the scores of commanders and staff officers present learned in detail the extent of the assistance he would receive for his own particular part of the vast undertaking.  Before the actual assault, operational portions of SHAEF and Twenty-first Army Group Headquarters were set up at Portsmouth on the south coast. This was the region of our principal embarkation point, and here also the Navy had established a communication system that would keep us in touch, during the early hours of D-day, with the progress of each element in the great armada.  By the time the operational staffs had moved to Portsmouth, I felt that the only remaining great decision to be faced before D-day was that of fixing, definitely, the day and hour of the assault. However, the old question of the wisdom of the airborne operation into the Cherbourg peninsula was not yet fully settled in Air Chief Marshal Leigh-Mallory’s mind. Later, on May 30, he came to me to protest once more against what he termed the “futile slaughter” of two fine divisions. He believed that the combination of unsuitable landing grounds and anticipated resistance was too great a hazard to overcome. This dangerous combination was not present in the area on the left where the British airborne division would be dropped and casualties there were not expected to be abnormally severe, but he estimated that among the American outfits we would suffer some seventy per cent losses in glider strength and at least fifty per cent in paratroop str
Node: 8582, Score: 0.045236831108227, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0096.txt, Content: for one more hope to hold out to the Philippines garrison. In the final result all our efforts proved feeble enough, but after many months of contemplation I do not yet see what more could have been done. One proposition that was frequently advanced, both in the public press and by enthusiastic but ignorant professionals, was to dispatch fighter craft by carrier to some point within flying range of the islands and from that point to fly them in to land bases for operations against the Japanese invader. The first difficulty encountered was final in itself.  The Navy Department stated flatly that none of the carriers they then had could be supported with the necessary cruisers and destroyers to risk an operation that could place it, even for the required fleeting moment, within fighter range of the Philippines. Other obstacles, almost equally decisive, were exposed by a full examination of the proposal, but this one alone obviously made further enter- tainment of the idea completely futile.  Many months later I read the assertion that while the Philippines were forlornly battling for their existence United States bombers were flying in endless streams to Great Britain and materials needed in the islands were being saved for the North African campaign. That was far from the actual fact.  We had only one light bombardment squadron in England, which arrived in May 1942, and there was no American heavy bomber unit there until the following month.|12! The African campaign was not even an approved project until July of the same year. Both these dates were after the surrender of Bataan and Corregidor. The crux of the matter was that Japan had command of the seas sur- rounding the Philippines; we could not furnish substantial help until we could develop strength to break the encirclement.  As early as December 1941 we determined to try a system of blockade running into the Philippines. We sent officers to Australia with money to hire, at no matter what fantastic prices, the