Node: 10190, Score: -0.0366422753300478, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1704.txt, Content: ur moral rectitude, we must address ourselves to the new tensions that beset the world.  The implications of the failure to eliminate aggression and to co-operate effectively are as full of meaning for the world as were the dictatorial and arbitrary acts in the late 1930s of Hitler, Mussolini, and Hirohito. The name of almost every small country of eastern Europe is a reminder to us of the lost objectives so bravely stated in the Atlantic Charter, even before Pearl Harbor Day. Fear, doubt, and confusion are the portion of those who fought and won the war with the fervent prayer that at last this was the war to end wars.  Volumes have been, and more volumes will be, written on the collapse of world co-operation and the true significance of the events that accompanied the tragedy. For us, all their words will amplify one simple truth. Freedom from fear and injustice and oppression will be ours only in the measure that men who value such freedom are ready to sustain its possession—to defend it against every thrust from within or without.  The compelling necessities of the moment leave us no alternative to the maintenance of real and respectable strength—not only in our moral rectitude and our economic power, but in terms of adequate military preparedness. To neglect this, pending universal resurgence of a definite spirit of co-operation, is not only foolish, it is criminally stupid. Moreover, present-day weakness will alarm our friends, earn the contempt of others, and virtually eliminate any influence of ours toward peaceful adjustment of world problems. The lessons of 1914 and 1939 remain valid so long as the world has not learned the futility of making competitive force the final arbiter of human questions.  Military preparedness alone is an inadequate answer to the problem. Communism inspires and enables its militant preachers to exploit injustices and inequity among men. This ideology appeals, not to the Italian or Frenchman or South American as such, but to men a
Node: 8487, Score: -0.0271593092420676, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0001.txt, Content: om House LLC.  The Library of Congress has cataloged the Doubleday edition as follows:  Name: Eisenhower, Dwight D. (Dwight David), 1890-1969.  Title: Crusade in Europe / Dwight D. Eisenhower.  Description: New York : Doubleday, 1990, c1948. |  Includes bibliographical references and index. Identifiers: LCCN 90037598 Subjects: LCSH: Eisenhower, Dwight D. (Dwight David), 1890-1969. | World War, 1939-1945—Campaigns. | World War, 1939-1945—Personal narratives, American. | Presidents—United States—Biography. Classification: LCC D743 .E35 1990 | DDC 940.54/1—dc21 LC record available at https://lecn.loc.gov/90037598  Vintage Books Trade Paperback ISBN 9780593314852 EbookISBN 9780307816573  Cover design by Anabeth Bostrup Cover images: General Dwight Eisenhower © Usis-Dite/Bridgeman Images; map © British Library Board. All Rights Reserve/Bridgeman Images  www.vintagebooks.com  Page iii of 669 1%  To the Allied Soldier Sailor, and Airman of World War II,  CONTENTS  SS  10.  . PRELUDE TO WAR  . GLOBAL WAR . COMMAND POST FOR MARSHALL . PLATFORM FOR INVASION  . PLANNING TORCH  . INVASION OF AFRICA  . WINTER IN ALGIERS  . TUNISIAN CAMPAIGN  . HUSKY SICILY AND SALERNO  lOO |NI | | JA Joo | |e  Wo  11.  CATRO CONFERENCE  ITALY  12. 13.  PLANNING OVERLORD  14.  D-DAY AND LODGMENT.  BREAKOUT  15. 16.  PURSUIT AND THE BATTLE OF SUPPLY  17.  AUTUMN FIGHTING ON GERMANY’S FRONTIER  HITLER'S LAST BID  18. 19.  CROSSING THE RHINE  20.  ASSAULT AND ENCIRCLEMENT  21.  OVERRUNNING GERMANY  22.  VICTORY’S AFTERMATH  OPERATION STUDY  23.  Page iv of 669  1%  CONTENTS  G  . PRELUDE TO WAR . GLOBAL WAR COMMAND POST FOR MARSHALL  LATFORM FOR INVASION  P P  loo |NI JOY | |B Joo | |  \o  H  . PLANNING TORCH  _ INVASION OF AFRICA . WINTER IN ALGIERS  . TUNISIAN CAMPAIGN . HUSKY  10. SICILY AND SALERNO  11. CAIRO CONFERENCE  12. ITALY 13. PLANNING OVERLORD  14. D-DAY AND LODGMENT.  15. BREAKOUT 16. PURSUIT AND THE BATTLE OF SUPPLY  17. AUT  UMN FIGHTING ON GERMANY’S FRONTIER  18. HITLER’S LAST BID 1
Node: 9561, Score: -0.0262455842717658, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1075.txt, Content: esentatives of the press was to regard them as quasi staff officers; to recognize their mission in the war and to assist them in carrying it out. Normally the only justifiable excuse for censorship is the necessity to withhold valuable information that the enemy could not otherwise obtain. During the war I personally violated this general rule by imposing temporary political censorship in North Africa and by withholding advance notice of the eventual command arrangements in Normandy. Though my reasons, on both occasions, seemed valid to me, I never failed to regret what later proved to be a mistake.  In World War II the great body of the American and British press representatives comprised an intelligent, patriotic, and energetic group of individuals. They could, with complete safety and mutual advantage, be taken into the confidence of the commander. When this was done the press body itself became the best possible instrument for the disciplining of an individual who violated any confidence or code under which the group was operating. Throughout the campaigns in the Mediterranean and Europe, I found that correspondents habitually responded to candor, frankness, and understanding.  In the handling of the press, the American practice was to provide every facility that would permit an individual to go wherever he wanted, whenever he wanted. While this imposed upon us some additional administrative burdens, it paid off in big dividends because of the conviction in the minds of all that there was no attempt to conceal error and stupidity. These, when discovered, could be promptly aired and therefore did not grow into the festering sores that would have resulted from any attempt at concealment.  Censorship applied to the designation of units already committed to action denies the commander one of his greatest aids in the development and maintenance of morale among his own fighting troops. The combat soldier wants to be recognized; he wants to know that his sufferings and
Node: 8952, Score: -0.0262033737166551, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0466.txt, Content: ng of personnel could we prevent the Arab-French-Jewish pot from boiling over.  To illustrate the delicacy of the situation: very early we had insisted that the French authorities ameliorate anti-Jewish laws and practices, going far beyond the bounds of “Allied co-operation” in the forcefulness of our demands. Appropriate proclamations were issued and we felt that some progress had been achieved. Imagine my astonishment when Darlan came to my office with a letter signed by a man whom he identified as the “Rabbi of Constantine,” which implored the authorities to go very slowly in relaxation of anti-Jewish practices, else, the letter said, the Arabs would undoubtedly stage a pogrom! This minor example of the confused nature of the racial and political relationships was multiplied daily in innumerable directions.  Politics, economy, fighting—all were inextricably mixed up and confused one with the other.  On the political side Murphy and his British counterpart, Mr. Harold Macmillan, worked tirelessly, but they had had to deal with the dangerous Darlan, later with the gallant and honest but politically uninterested Giraud, the weak Yves Chatel, the notorious Nogués, and men of similar stripe. We insisted upon liberalization of the political systems but every day brought new complaints, most of them well founded, of continued injustices, lack of good faith, and lip service without performance. We determined to begin elimination of the most objectionable charadyers but were desperate over our failure to find satisfactory substitutes. Moreover, always we had to move in the knowledge that we were ostensibly in the land of an ally: we had neither the authority nor the respon- sibilities implicit in a military occupation. Nevertheless we early told Darlan he had to get rid of Chatel, governor of Algeria, and Nogués, minister to the Sultan of Morocco.  In this type of problem General Giraud was no help. He hated politics; not merely crookedness and chicanery in politics, but
Node: 8959, Score: -0.024968720094518, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0473.txt, Content: rt, but we could not force social acceptance at that time. Their wives were coldly treated, even insulted, by the wives of other officers. The feeling against them was initially so strong that they themselves, and Giraud, counseled against the attempt to use them in administrative positions.  In this period I made another error, even though from a good motive. It was the application of censorship to political news from North Africa for a period of six weeks. Because of personal dislike of censorship, I had to be convinced that the reason for such action was important. In this case it was. The plan of my political advisers and myself was to promote an eventual union between the local French administration and the De Gaulle forces in London. It was, we felt, a difficult but necessary development.  The local antagonism in the French Army and in all echelons of government against De Gaulle was intense, but he enjoyed a distinct popularity with the civilians and this sentiment progressively increased as prospects of Allied success brightened. Through every possible outlet open to them the De Gaulle forces in London and central Africa were fiercely attacking every French military and civil official in Africa, and the latter wanted to reply, publicly, in terms no less harsh. I believed that to permit the growth of such a public name-calling contest would create conditions which would make future reconciliation impossible. By imposing political censorship on all I prevented local French officials from participating in the public quarrel. They argued bitterly, as did the press representatives in the theater. I think the censorship had some of the desired effect, and it was lifted the second I learned that Giraud and De Gaulle had agreed to meet at Casablanca. The reasons for the censorship could not be explained, however, and were of course misinterpreted at home.  Tha inteianaian Af ELA aitentinn miilitness and nalitinnl cerned aaenlinntad Ler tha annnawia citiatian Masth A
Node: 10082, Score: -0.0234910793126142, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1596.txt, Content: nwavering courtesy, to say nothing of personal hospitality.  I sometimes saw Field Marshal Brooke, General Frederick Morgan, Air Chief Marshal Tedder, Sir Andrew Cunningham, Field Marshal Montgomery, and others of the British service heads and high commanders with whom I had served during the war. All were my good friends. Strangely enough our conversations rarely turned backward, in the habit of old soldiers, to incidents of the war. Even then we seemed to sense that the future problems of peace would overshadow even the great difficulties we had to surmount during hostilities. Consequently our talk nearly always dealt with the prob- abilities of the future: particularly the prospects for establishing clear and mutually observed understandings between the Western Allies and the Soviets.  During those months we had also at our headquarters a constant stream of visitors from the United States. Among these were congressional committees and various official and semiofficial bodies gathering material on the conduct of the war or informing themselves as to details of current administration. These visitors we were always delighted to have. We gave them every needed facility for the conduct of their investigations and explorations, and opened up to them every kind of information in our possession. They, on their part, always brought us news of the homeland, and frequently were good enough to carry personal letters from families at home to members of the command. This, in particular, was a distinct kindness on their part, for letters sent through them would take only one or two days for delivery, whereas in the ordinary mail, because of its volume, two or three weeks were sometimes required.  Page 529 of 669 77%  Germany. For flights in and out of Berlin the Russians had allotted us a narrow corridor, within the limits of which all our planes were supposed to stay. Often a new puot, unfamiliar with the country, got slightly outside the established boundaries; and in cloudy
Node: 9135, Score: -0.021648531917648, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0649.txt, Content: mmander in my theater would be contingent upon his offering an apology to the two men whom he had insulted. I demanded also that he apologize to all the personnel of the hospital present at the time of the incident. Finally, I required that he appear before the officers and representative groups of enlisted men of each of his divisions to assure them that he had given way to impulse and respected their positions as fighting soldiers of a democratic nation.[151  Patton instantly complied and I kept in touch with results again through a series of observers and inspectors.  In the meantime, as soon as I had determined upon my course of action, I called in to see me the group of reporters who had brought me the story of the occurrence. I explained to them in detail the action I had taken and the reasons for it. I read them the letter I had written to Patton and extracts from the letter he wrote me in reply. This, so far as I was then concerned, closed the incident.  On one point connected with the matter there has been considerable misapprehension. This was the assumption that censorship was applied. On the contrary, my staff and General Patton were told that under no circumstances was there to be any effort to suppress the story. These specific instructions, which I issued personally to a group of newspapermen, covered “indirect pressure” as well as direct censorship. They were flatly told to use their own judgment!16] That they voluntarily refused to write or speak about the matter is proved by the fact that two of the press representatives who made a detailed report to me of the affair returned to the United States within a few days after the occurrence. They were then no longer under the direct or indirect influence of Allied Headquarters. They were Demaree Bess and Quentin Reynolds.  However, the aftermath connected with this episode temporarily strained our usually splendid relations with the press. When, months later, the story finally reached Washington via the
Node: 8956, Score: -0.0215598673865802, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0470.txt, Content: had had to deal with the dangerous Darlan, later with the gallant and honest but politically uninterested Giraud, the weak Yves Chatel, the notorious Nogués, and men of similar stripe. We insisted upon liberalization of the political systems but every day brought new complaints, most of them well founded, of continued injustices, lack of good faith, and lip service without performance. We determined to begin elimination of the most objectionable characters but were desperate over our failure to find satisfactory substitutes. Moreover, always we had to move in the knowledge that we were ostensibly in the land of an ally: we had neither the authority nor the respon- sibilities implicit in a military occupation. Nevertheless we early told Darlan he had to get rid of Chatel, governor of Algeria, and Nogués, minister to the Sultan of Morocco.  In this type of problem General Giraud was no help. He hated politics; not merely crookedness and chicanery in politics, but every part of the necessary task of developing an orderly, democratic system of government applicable to the North African kaleidoscope. He merely wanted supplies and equipment to develop fighting divisions and, provided he could get these, he had no interest in the governmental organization or its personnel. His purpose was pure but his capacity for larger administrative and organizational tasks was doubtful.  Darlan was assassinated on December 24, the same day that I was compelled to abandon all thought of immediate attack in northern Tunisia. I was at the headquarters of British 5 Corps near Béja when notice of his death reached me and I immediately started for Algiers. I arrived there after thirty hours of non-stop driving through rain, snow, and sleet.  My entire acquaintanceship with Darlan covered a period of six weeks. His reputation was that of a notorious collaborator with Hitler, but during the time that he served as the administrator of French North Africa he never once, to our knowledge, violat
Node: 10089, Score: -0.0202517857589695, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1603.txt, Content: mes saw Field Marshal Brooke, General Frederick Morgan, Air Chief Marshal Tedder, Sir Andrew Cunningham, Field Marshal Montgomery, and others of the British service heads and high commanders with whom I had served during the war. All were my good friends. Strangely enough our conversations rarely turned backward, in the habit of old soldiers, to incidents of the war. Even then we seemed to sense that the future problems of peace would overshadow even the great difficulties we had to surmount during hostilities. Consequently our talk nearly always dealt with the prob- abilities of the future: particularly the prospects for establishing clear and mutually observed understandings between the Western Allies and the Soviets.  During those months we had also at our headquarters a constant stream of visitors from the United States. Among these were congressional committees and various official and semiofficial bodies gathering material on the conduct of the war or informing themselves as to details of current administration. These visitors we were always delighted to have. We gave them every needed facility for the conduct of their investigations and explorations, and opened up to them every kind of information in our possession. They, on their part, always brought us news of the homeland, and frequently were good enough to carry personal letters from families at home to members of the command. This, in particular, was a distinct kindness on their part, for letters sent through them would take only one or two days for delivery, whereas in the ordinary mail, because of its volume, two or three weeks were sometimes required.  Chapter 23  OPERATION STUDY ee  Page 530 of 669 77%  eee eee eee ee ee ee eee ew ee ee ee een Tew eee ee eee en ee eee ee ene ee eee ee iene enna ee en ON Ne Oe ON BE ONDE ON Nee Ne NN NN NNN ON DRE RADDA ND BBB DDN ONE OO  During those months we had also at our headquarters a constant stream of visitors from the United States. Among these were congress
Node: 9628, Score: -0.0202274791312718, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1142.txt, Content: earn of the outside world, seemed to over- shadow, at least for the moment, their hunger and their privation. The people had lived in virtual captivity for more than four years.  During that period their trade with other nations had ceased, their industries were perverted to the use of the Nazis, and their daily lives were never free from fear of imprisonment and worse. Even their news of the outside world was filtered to them through Nazi-controlled newspapers and radios. On a clandestine basis they did, of course, receive some information from British and American broadcasting stations but such news could not be freely circulated to the whole population and those who listened were, if discovered, subject to stern punishment. With the coming of the Allies popu- lar exuberance sometimes was so emotional as to embarrass our soldiers, but there was no room left for doubt concerning the people’s great joy in deliverance from the Nazi yoke.  The re-established governments of western Europe co-operated wholeheartedly with the Allied high command. Labor and other assistance were made available to us so far as the capacity of each country would permit. There were, of course, dissident elements. Men who, with arms in their hands, had long served in the underground, who were accustomed by stealth and violence to accomplish their purposes of sabotage, did not easily adapt themselves again to the requirements of social order. In some cases they wanted to maintain and magnify their power, to become the dominant and controlling element in the liberated country. While these things caused some local, and at times worrisome, difficulty, they were overshadowed by the eagerness of the population to earn again, under free institutions, their own living.  Because France had been divided into occupied and unoccupied segments by the armistice of 1940 and because the underground in that country was not only strong but very aggressive, more than normal difficulties were encountered in the
Node: 8711, Score: -0.0200643918958257, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0225.txt, Content: ngland censorship had been established by American headquarters on stories involving minor difficulties between Negro troops and other soldiers, or civilians. These incidents frequently involved social contacts between our Negro soldiers and British girls. The British population, except in large cities and among wealthy classes, lacks the racial consciousness which is so strong in the United States. The small-town British girl would go to a movie or dance with a Negro quite as readily as she would with anyone else, a practice that our white soldiers could not understand. Brawls often resulted and our white soldiers were further bewildered when they found that the British press took a firm stand on the side of the Negro.  When I learned at the press conference that stories of this kind were on the censored list I at once revoked the order and told the pressmen to write as they pleased—urging them only not to lose their perspective. To my astonishment, several reporters spoke up to ask me to retain the ban, giving me a number of arguments in support of their recommendations. They said that troublemakers would exaggerate the importance of the incidents and that the reports, taken up at home, would cause domestic dissension. I thanked them but stuck to my point, with the result that little real excite- ment was ever caused by ensuing stories. It was a lesson I tried always to remember.  Progress in these matters of administration, preparation, training, planning, had to go forward simultaneously. An early deficiency in our wartime Army involved a dismaying lack of compre- hension on the part of our soldiers as to fundamental causes of the war. Differences between democracy and totalitarianism were matters of academic rather than personal interest; soldiers saw no apparent reason why conflict between the two was any concern of America. No matter what clash of opinion had existed on the point before the war began, a clear, simple, and commonly held understanding was now e
Node: 8486, Score: -0.0200488697383734, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0000.txt, Content: UNUGAUE  68) C=) Ek @& eisenhower_crusade [Ss] Q  ©) Recents  4. Applications Name Size Kind Date Added © Downloads  ( chim  © Working  _*) Creative Clou...  [5 QuickTime PI...  © iCloud Drive {5 Documents  (=) Desktop  E® Shared  ® DataGrip Cancel  DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER  SX Whate Ann _  UNUGAUE  = @ eisenhower_crusade is) Q  Nn Vv iii <  ar <  © Recents  4. Applications Name Size Kind Date Added © Downloads  ( chim  © Working  _*) Creative Clou...  [3 QuickTime PI...  © iCloud Drive (S Documents  (=) Desktop  E® Shared  ® DataGrip Cancel —  SX MWhate Ann a  RD “ 1  DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER  UNUBAUE  =a 5 et  DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER  »  UNUBAUE  —— |  DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER  ®  UnUOA  DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER  UNUGAUE  ~¢  DWIGHT I D. EISENHOWER  ®  UnUOH  DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER  UNUGAUE  DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER  * Saar he  DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER  P7VV EN Tit WU.  EISENHOWER  CRUSADE inEUROPE  A Personal Account of World War II  Dwight D. Eisenhower  Page iii of 669  CRUSADE inEUROPE  A Personal Account of World War II  Dwight D. Eisenhower  VINTAGE BOOKS  A Division of Penguin Random House LLC New York  CRUSADE inEUROPE  A Personal Account of World War II  Dwight D. Eisenhower  VINTAGE BOOKS  A Division of Penguin Random House LLC New York  Page iii of 669  ©  VINTAGE BOOKS A Division of Penguin Random House LLC New York  FIRST VINTAGE BOOKS EDITION, DECEMBER 2021 Copyright © 1948 by Doubleday & Company, Inc.  All rights reserved. Published in the United States by Vintage Books, a division of Penguin Random House LLC, New York, and distributed in Canada by Penguin Random House Canada Limited, Toronto. Originally published in hardcover in the United States by Doubleday, a division of Penguin Random House LLC, New York, in 1948.  Vintage and colophon are registered trademarks of Penguin Random House LLC.  The Library of Congress has cataloged the Doubleday edition as follows:  Name: Eisenhower, Dwight D. (Dwight David), 1890-1969.  Title: Crusade in Europe / Dwight D. Eisenhower.  Descri
Node: 8953, Score: -0.0199911831915142, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0467.txt, Content: atel, governor of Algeria, and Nogués, minister to the Sultan of Morocco.  In this type of problem General Giraud was no help. He hated politics; not merely crookedness and chicanery in politics, but every part of the necessary task of developing an orderly, democratic system of government applicable to the North African kaleidoscope. He merely wanted supplies and equipment to develop fighting divisions and, provided he could get these, he had no interest in the governmental organization or its personnel. His purpose was pure but his capacity for larger administrative and organizational tasks was doubtful.  Darlan was assassinated on December 24, the same day that I was compelled to abandon all thought of immediate attack in northern Tunisia. I was at the headquarters of British 5 Corps near Béja when notice of his death reached me and I immediately started for Algiers. I arrived there after thirty hours of non-stop driving through rain, snow, and sleet.  My entire acquaintanceship with Darlan covered a period of six weeks. His reputation was that of a notorious collaborator with Hitler, but during the time that he served as the administrator of French North Africa he never once, to our knowledge, violated any commitment or promise. On the other hand, his mannerisms and personality did not inspire confidence and in view of his reputa- tion we were always uneasy in dealing with him. In any event, his death presented me with new problems.  While it was known, of course, that the person in the French Government I trusted most was General Giraud, my headquarters was still in no position to sponsor a puppet government. Such a resort to Nazi methods would have been a far more serious violation of the principles for which we were fighting than would the mere temporary acceptance of some individual whose past record was, from our viewpoint, distasteful. Moreover, in our inner councils we doubted Giraud’s ability to establish himself firmly in the chief position—but no one e
Node: 10183, Score: -0.0194918429756241, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1697.txt, Content: s pure speculation. I have never discussed the matter with any of the individuals directly responsible for the decision.  In any event the Berlin record of those late summer and early autumn months of 1945 represents the peak of postwar cordiality and co-operation that we were ever able to achieve with the Soviet officials. In broader fields, on highest levels, misunderstandings continued to grow and these were inevitably reflected in the local German scene. It is possible, also, that this process worked in reverse.  Americans at that time—or at least we in Berlin—saw no reason why the Russian system of government and democracy as practiced by the Western Allies could not live side by side in the world, provided each respected the rights, the territory, and the convictions of the other, and each system avoided overt or covert action against the integrity of the other. Because implicit in Western democracy is respect for the rights of others, it seemed natural to us that this “live and let live” type of agreement could be achieved and honestly kept. That was probably the most for which we ever really hoped. But even such a purely practical basis for living together in the world has not been achieved.  What caused the change—not necessarily in the realm of ultimate purpose but definitely in the apparent desire for a pragmatic approach to co-operation—may possibly never be clearly understood by any of us. But two and one half years of growing tension have shattered our dream of rapid progress toward universal peace and the elimination of armaments. Seriously and soberly, aware of our strengths and our weaknesses, sure of our moral rectitude, we must address ourselves to the new tensions that beset the world.  The implications of the failure to eliminate aggression and to co-operate effectively are as full of meaning for the world as were the dictatorial and arbitrary acts in the late 1930s of Hitler, Mussolini, and Hirohito. The name of almost every small country of ea
Node: 8950, Score: -0.0183718916192573, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0464.txt, Content: pathetic to us. But since all the hated Vichy officials had carefully ingratiated themselves with the Arab population it was manifest that only through progressive changes and careful handling of personnel could we prevent the Arab-French-Jewish pot from boiling over.  To illustrate the delicacy of the situation: very early we had insisted that the French authorities ameliorate anti-Jewish laws and practices, going far beyond the bounds of “Allied co-operation” in the forcefulness of our demands. Appropriate proclamations were issued and we felt that some progress had been achieved. Imagine my astonishment when Darlan came to my office with a letter signed by aman whom he identified as the “Rabbi of Constantine,” which implored the authorities to go very slowly in relaxation of anti-Jewish practices, else, the letter said, the Arabs would undoubtedly stage a pogrom! This minor example of the confused nature of the racial and political relationships was multiplied daily in innumerable directions.  Politics, economy, fighting—all were inextricably mixed up and confused one with the other.  On the nolitical side Murvhv and his British counternart. Mr. Harold Macmillan. worked tirelesslv. but thev had had to deal with the dangerous Darlan. later with the gallant and honest but  Page 151 of 669 22%  and worse, Dut ne was the roreign iviinister to the ouitan, all reports indicated that he enjoyed tne ruil confidence and triendasnip of the Moroccans. ine flerce tribesmen of that area were a force to be reckoned with; General Patton was fearful of the whole situation and still adhered to his estimate that if the Moroccans should grow antagonistic to us it would require 60,000 fully equipped Ameri- cans to keep order in that region alone. We could not afford—and did not have—any such force. Patton strongly counseled us to let Nogués alone!  One complication in the Arab tangle was the age-old antagonism existing between the Arab and the Jew. Since the former outnumbered the l
Node: 8961, Score: -0.017324007245291, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0475.txt, Content: official acceptance, even the promotion, of Mast and Bethouart, but we could not force social acceptance at that time. Their wives were coldly treated, even insulted, by the wives of other officers. The feeling against them was initially so strong that they themselves, and Giraud, counseled against the attempt to use them in administrative positions.  In this period I made another error, even though from a good motive. It was the application of censorship to political news from North Africa for a period of six weeks. Because of personal dislike of censorship, I had to be convinced that the reason for such action was important. In this case it was. The plan of my political advisers and myself was to promote an eventual union between the local French administration and the De Gaulle forces in London. It was, we felt, a difficult but necessary development.  The local antagonism in the French Army and in all echelons of government against De Gaulle was intense, but he enjoyed a distinct popularity with the civilians and this sentiment progressively increased as prospects of Allied success brightened. Through every possible outlet open to them the De Gaulle forces in London and central Africa were fiercely attacking every French military and civil official in Africa, and the latter wanted to reply, publicly, in terms no less harsh. I believed that to permit the growth of such a public name-calling contest would create conditions which would make future reconciliation impossible. By imposing political censorship on all I prevented local French officials from participating in the public quarrel. They argued bitterly, as did the press representatives in the theater. I think the censorship had some of the desired effect, and it was lifted the second I learned that Giraud and De Gaulle had agreed to meet at Casablanca. The reasons for the censorship could not be explained, however, and were of course misinterpreted at home.  The intricacies of the situation, military and pol
Node: 9352, Score: -0.0173175013129279, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0866.txt, Content: t were strictly military, sometimes only tactical, in character.  In such conferences as these I came to admire and like many of the people with whom I was so often in contact. One of them was Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal, Air Member of the British Chiefs of Staff. He was a profound military student—but with it all a man of action—and quiet, courteous, of strong convictions. It was a pleasure to discuss with him any problem of war, whether or not it pertained exclusively to his own field of the air. He enjoyed great prestige in British military and civil circles, as well as among the Americans of the Allied command. His distinguishing characteristic was balance, with perfect control of his temper; even in the most intense argument I never saw him show anger or unusual excitement.  Mr. Churchill, on the other hand, rarely failed to inject into most conferences some element of emotion. One day a British general happened to refer to soldiers, in the technical language of the British staff officer, as “bodies.” The Prime Minister interrupted with an impassioned speech of condemnation—he said it was inhuman to talk of soldiers in such cold-blooded fashion, and that it sounded as if they were merely freight—or worse—corpses! I must confess I always felt the same way about the expression, but on that occasion my sympathies were with the staff officer, who to his own obvious embarrassment had innocently drawn on himself the displeasure of the Prime Minister.  As in most other British homes, there was a guest book in Chequers. Each guest was expected to sign it every time he entered the house. Once, on a trip to the southern coast, I dropped in at Chequers to see Mr. Churchill for ten minutes, after which I dashed for the door to continue the journey. Just as I gained the seat of my car I became aware that the family butler, in all his dignity, was standing by to speak to me. He said, “Sir, you have forgotten the book,” and his solemn tone meant to me that he found i
Node: 8710, Score: -0.016661263852834, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0224.txt, Content: n helped institute a system of home entertainment of American Gls by British families.|15] I have never yet met an American soldier who, after spending a week end with a British family, did not feel that America had a staunch and sturdy Ally. We found, however, that a British family, inspired by a determination to show real hospitality, was likely to utilize an entire week’s rations to entertain an American over Sunday. At once we encouraged visiting soldiers to carry rations with them on these home visits, while a publicity campaign explained the matter to the British hosts, so as to save their pride and preclude embarrassment. In every direction where we expected trouble we instituted preventive measures—generally with success. The keynote of the campaign was avoidance of mawkish sentimentality and the basing of all our programs on facts—with emphasis on opportunity for personal discovery of facts. Everyone who occupied a responsible position in Britain during that time will always have a feeling of gratitude and admiration for the almost universal spirit of co-operation, tolerance, and friendship displayed by both sides.  This type of problem brought immediately to the fore the need for an effective Public Relations Section of the headquarters. Our concern was emphasized by the necessity for keeping two populations, the American and the British, informed on a variety of subjects. I began the practice of holding short, informal conferences with the press, for the purpose of discussing our mutual prob- lems and finding common solutions for them. I insisted that they occupy positions as quasi-staff officers on my staff, and I respected their collective responsibilities in the war as they did mine.  My first press conference had a curious result. Prior to my arrival in England censorship had been established by American headquarters on stories involving minor difficulties between Negro troops and other soldiers, or civilians. These incidents frequently involved socia
Node: 10184, Score: -0.0165141918508789, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_1698.txt, Content: o-operate effectively are as full of meaning for the world as were the dictatorial and arbitrary acts in the late 1930s of Hitler, Mussolini, and Hirohito. The name of almost every small country of eastern Europe is a reminder to us of the lost objectives so bravely stated in the Atlantic Charter, even before Pearl Harbor Day. Fear, doubt, and confusion are the portion of those who fought and won the war with the fervent prayer that at last this was the war to end wars.  Volumes have been, and more volumes will be, written on the collapse of world co-operation and the true significance of the events that accompanied the tragedy. For us, all their words will amplify one simple truth. Freedom from fear and injustice and oppression will be ours only in the measure that men who value such freedom are ready to sustain its possession—to defend it against every  Hhernint feam urithin av erithadut  Page 561 of 669 81%  be profoundly convinced of the essential rectitude of the Communist theory. He knew that I was an uncompromising foe of Communism because I believed that it was synonymous with dictatorship; he would listen patiently when I said that I hated everything that smacked of statism, and that our whole Western tradition was devoted to the idea of personal liberty. But his own adherence to the Communistic doctrine seemed to come from inner conviction and not from any outward compulsion.  The Russians are generous. They like to give presents and parties, as almost every American who has served with them can testify. In his generous instincts, in his love of laughter, in his devotion to acomrade, and in his healthy, direct outlook on the affairs of workaday life, the ordinary Russian seems to me to bear a marked similarity to what we call an “average American.”  The existence of a personal friendship and understanding with Marshal Zhukov did not, however, eliminate the incidents and conflicts which were always irritating and exasperating members of my staff. Occasional
Node: 8970, Score: -0.0164848969415219, Chunk File: eisenhower_crusade/chunks/eisenhower_crusade_0484.txt, Content: “after all, he was merely General Eisenhower’s valet. I must maintain the proper social atmosphere in my properties.” I trust that the lady is not concerned over the relative standing of herself and Sergeant McKeogh in my affections, respect, and admiration!  One of my finest memories of the war is the service rendered me by my personal staff. Seemingly by common consent they gave my affairs and welfare, even my comfort and convenience, complete priority over any consideration of their personal desires or ambitions.  On the official level I had an outstanding staff, many members of which served with me throughout the war. Under General Smith, the chief of staff, were such men as Generals Sir Humfrey Gale, J. F. M. Whiteley, and Kenneth Strong of the British Army, and Everett S. Hughes, Ben M. Sawbridge, Lowell W. Rooks, and Arthur S. Nevins of the American Army. They and their many associates mas- tered, during the African campaigns, the art of dealing with large Allied forces, operating under single command. Without men of their caliber in the important staff positions of AFHQ, the unification of the Allied forces could not have been achieved. Their names are virtually unknown to the public. But they and their counterparts in many other high headquarters were as responsible for the team- work out of which came the victories in Tunisia, Sicily, Italy, and northwest Europe as were many others whose more spectacular accomplishments often made headlines.  Every commander is always careful to select only the best officers he can find for key staff positions in his headquarters. Yet these men, who in the average case would do anything to obtain a field command and who could serve brilliantly in such positions, devote their talents to the drudgery of the staff with few of the rewards that go to their comrades of the line.  y Chapter 8  TUNISIAN CAMPAIGN  IN DECEMBER WE RECEIVED WORD that the president of the United States and the Prime Minister of Great Britain, each acco