Node: 823, Score: 0.0546557931124818, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0098.txt, Content: n 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 78 --- The Area Division investigated a number of German cities sub- jected to area attacks to “determine the economic effects of the area raids.” The division’s Hamburg study argued that “concentrated at-tacks [precision bombing] on limited targets were more effective indisrupting vital production than were the area raids on workers’ quar-ters throughout the city.” 52The study went on to conclude that al- though area attacks on Hamburg did lower the overall war produc-tion of the city, they were not “as effective in disrupting the enemy’sability to wage war as the destruction of transportation facilities ingeneral throughout the industrial regions of the country.” 53 Building on the findings of the Hamburg study, the published Area Studies Division Report was more direct in pointing out the indecisive nature of area attacks on German war-making capacity.Because area raids generally damaged “sectors of the German econ-omy not essential to war production,” the raids, according to thereport, “did not have a decisive effect upon the ability of the Ger-man nation to produce war material.” 54According to the report, a city attacked by an area raid would experience an immediate de-cline in the labor force due to the deaths of workers or absenteeism,but the city would be able to quickly recover most of its industriallabor force within two to three months following the raid. 55 IV In the summer of 1940, when he helped write AWPD/ 1, Haywood Hansell believed that the AAF should use its strategic bombers toattack critical target systems that linked together the enemy’s wareconomy. 56AWPD/1 ended up selecting German transportation and electric power as two high-priority targets for the AAF to bomb.57 In his 1986 memoirs, Hansell used Survey conclusions to argue that the AAF’s strategic bombing campaign against Germany had vindi-cated AWPD/ 1’s choi
Node: 844, Score: 0.0437042145311805, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0119.txt, Content: ary raids, would be more effective in reducing Japan’s critical warindustries than incendiary raids. 7 But other COA studies emphasized the potential of incendiary raids on Japanese cities. The COA analyzed the effects of the RAF’sarea raids against German cities to use in their planning for Japan.One such study, “The Economic Effect of Attacks in Force on Ger-man Urban Areas,” admitted that “a straight incendiary attackagainst congested residential areas in Japanese cities is the method most frequently considered for the Far East.” But for the attacks tobe successful, according to the committee, they would ultimatelyhave to “demoralize war production.” According to the COA, in-cendiary attacks needed to do more than just attack civilian morale“to be successful,” they had to ultimately affect war production tobe of value as a method of strategic bombing. 8 The great fire caused by the Tokyo earthquake of 1923 provided the COA with information on the flammable nature of Japanesecities. The COA noted that the “frame-built cities of Japan arehighly combustible and can be more readily destroyed than the mas-sive-built cities of Germany.” The committee’s only question was“how much more readily” they could be destroyed. Their answerwas to choose the most effective bombs and “modes” of deliveringthose bombs. 9Another analysis by the committee provided further information on the potential of fire raids by emphasizing that thethe survey presents its findings 82 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 94 --- “sustaining sources of Japanese military strength” could best be damaged by strategic bombing operations against aircraft produc-t
Node: 859, Score: 0.0373277456937987, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0134.txt, Content: ing the economic effects of strategic bombing on Germany duringthe war. General Anderson brought up again the effectiveness of theRAF’s area raids against German cities. George Ball, referring toSpeer’s testimony, pointed out that “the Hamburg raid in 1943 scared them to death.” Colonel Brownell, who had been quiet up tothen, perceptively noted that Ball’s statement placed “some doubton what [Ball] said earlier about the effectiveness of area raids.”Ball retorted: “What Speer said was that he was terribly worried atthe time. He thought if those raids were continued that the war waslost, but he later realized he had been wrong, as other people inthe survey presents its findings 92 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 104 --- Germany realized.” Anderson told Brownell that Germany could materially “recover faster than they expected,” hence the lack of ef-fectiveness of area raids against German cities. But General Norstadprobed at the profound implications of Speer’s testimony: the po-tential effects of area bombing on German morale. Norstad sug-gested to Anderson and Ball that “there was probably a certainamount of hysteria connected with [the area raids].” 38“Hysteria” for Norstad clearly meant the ability of the RAF’s area raids oncities like Hamburg to cause terror among the civilian population.But because Ball framed his analysis of area attacks in terms of Ger-man war-making capacity and not morale, he easily moved the dis-cussion back to the economic effects of area bombing and Ham-burg’s “surprisingly fast recuperation.” 39 Although morale as an objective had been a key topic of discussion for the Committee of Histori
Node: 804, Score: 0.0314523542864607, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0079.txt, Content: aid in which you set yourself to doa maximum of physical damage of all sorts . . . an area raid is designedto destroy general enemy resources to the maximum extent, and it isfor this reason that the center part [of the city] chosen is somewherewhere ﬁre will take hold and burn of itself.” Another lecturer arguedthat “the main physical effect of area bombing is the destruction ofdwellings, but there is also an economic effect because the workers inthese dwellings will be kept away from work in factories because theyhave to settle somewhere else.” 69 Believing in the American approach toward strategic bombing and prepared to carry out their evaluation within that conceptualframework, Survey analysts were ready to begin the work thatwould lay the theoretical groundwork for air power. From Marchto November 1944, the AAF had played an important part in estab- lishing the parameters within which the Survey would conduct itsevaluation. The AAF had taken great steps to insure that the Sur-vey’s conclusions would be “sound and substantiated” and supportthe future independence of the air service. 70the united states strategic bombing survey 53 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 65 --- chapter 3 ✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦ ✦ The Evaluation of Strategic Bombing against Germany Hamburg had put the fear of God in me. albert speer, 1970 That is why I stress and will continue to stress in this Survey that you have got to know what you are looking for, then seek to confirm it. orvil arson anderson, 1945 At a Survey directors’ meeting on 1April 1945, Franklin D’Olier expressed his amazement that the “Air Corps should have given us this job with no qualific
Node: 843, Score: 0.0294425354621744, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0118.txt, Content: strategic bombers, General Arnold considered the possibility ofﬁre raids to destroy Japanese industry. 5As a result of the general’s in- terest, the military chairman of the COA, Brigadier General ByronGates, asked the head of the Ofﬁce of Scientiﬁc Research and Devel-opment (OSRD), Vannevar Bush, to provide the COA with personnelto form a subcommittee to analyze “the susceptibility to area attackof Japanese cities and industries located therein.” Gates recom-mended that one of Bush’s OSRD experts on incendiary weapons, Dr.Raymond H. Ewell, be involved in the study. 6the survey presents its findings 81 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 93 --- The COA submitted its study in November 1943 to General Arnold. The study noted that area attacks on Japanese cities would cause production loss from “direct damage to industrial facilitiesand housing [and] the diversion of Japanese industry from its nor-mal activities to the repair and replacement of this damage.” Thestudy cautioned that the potential effectiveness of incendiary raidsrequired further analysis. It did conclude forthrightly that “incendi-ary attacks on urban areas will produce great economic loss . . . butbecause of the wide diffusion of this loss over many industries it isunlikely that output in any one important category” would substan-tially reduce the Japanese military’s frontline strength. The COA’ssubcommittee concluded that precision attacks, rather than incendi-ary raids, would be more effective in reducing Japan’s critical warindustries than incendiary raids. 7 But other COA studies emphasized the potential of incendiary raids on Japanese cities. The COA an
Node: 970, Score: 0.0292458842705041, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0245.txt, Content: uary, after more than a month of continuous bombing, the United States and coali-tion forces launched a ground campaign to achieve the goals thatair power may or may not have been able to accomplish if left on itsown. 15Relying heavily on the conditions created by the air cam- paign, the ground offensive took a mere four days to defeat theIraqi forces in Kuwait and compelled the Iraqi leadership to accepta cease-fire on coalition terms. Like the airmen at the end of World War II, air officers after the Gulf War perceived great success in their application of air power toachieve American objectives. 16And there was a similar desirea comparison of surveys 171 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 183 --- among at least a few airmen to prove success through a civilian-led, independent survey of air power’s effectiveness in the Gulf War. On 25July 1991, Secretary of the Air Force Donald B. Rice made a phone call to Eliot A. Cohen, a professor of strategic studies at thePaul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at JohnsHopkins University, inviting him to serve as the editor-in-chief (ordirector) of what became known as the Gulf War Air Power Survey.Secretary Rice, in a follow-up memorandum, pointed out to Cohenthat the GWAPS would “form conclusions on the implications forfuture Air Force organization, training and force structure.” How-ever, for the GWAPS to be accepted as a credible source of analysison air power in the Gulf, it needed to “conduct its study accordingto the highest standards of professional and intellectual integrityand objectivity.” Cohen accepted the secretary’s invitation to headthe GWAPS, agreein
Node: 905, Score: 0.0286857152474671, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0180.txt, Content: stie’s Naval Analy- sis Division’s published study, Campaigns of the Pacific War . The navy’s report was a calm, methodical narrative of the major navalbattles of the Pacific war. There were no grandiose claims about thedecisiveness of the navy’s antishipping campaign or of its carrier-based aircraft. The most sweeping conclusion, if one can call it that,was the following: By January 1945, Japan was in fact a defeated nation. . . . All hope of future resistance had depended upon oil and now the tankers were sunk and the oil cut off. . . . At home the bad news began to beknown and mutterings of negotiated conditional peace arose even inthe armed forces. Japan was defeated: it remained only necessary topersuade her of the fact. 80 This statement does not differ from observations found in other Pa- ciﬁc Survey reports: Japan’s economy had been broken before themain AAF attacks; the antishipping campaign had been decisive inJapan’s defeat; conventional strategic bombing had persuaded the po-litical leadership to realize defeat and accept unconditional surrender. The process of getting Anderson’s Air Campaigns of the Pacific War and Ofstie’s Campaigns of the Pacific War to the Government Printing Office for publication in late 1946 and 1947 demonstrates the powerful postwar interests of both the Army Air Forces and thenavy that operated within the Pacific Survey. The process alsostrategic bombing against japan 125 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 137 --- shows that the services’ representatives on the Survey, General An- derson and Admiral Ofstie, were not “evenly matched.”81Instead, the AAF clearly had the upper hand becaus
Node: 850, Score: 0.0284180414267719, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0125.txt, Content: era-tional boldness that led to his decision in March 1945 to switch from precision attacks on specific Japanese industries to firebomb-ing Japanese cities. This shift was not a result of pressure placed onLeMay from Arnold in Washington, D.C. Instead, LeMay made thechange on his own owing to a number of factors that made it diffi-cult to fly high-altitude precision bombing during the day againstthe fortress of Japan, as Hansell had unsuccessfully tried to do. 20 LeMay’s first major area attack using incendiary bombs occurredon the night of 9March 1945 against Tokyo. The attack killed at least seventy thousand civilians and burned major portions ofTokyo’s industrial and residential sectors. Using the results of LeMay’s fire raids and intelligence on Japan- ese industry, the JTG put together “target information sheets” thatcontained data on concentrated industrial areas located in thelargest Japanese cities. A late-March JTG summary listing the majorJapanese industrial cities noted that the city of Nagasaki contained“industry including both plants of the Mitsubishi Steel and ArmsWorks, the Akunoura Engine Works, Mitsubishi Electric, severalthe survey presents its findings 86 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 98 --- other small factories and most of the ports storage and trans-ship- ment facilities.”21The Nagasaki target sheet pointed out that a “successful area attack against Nagasaki will damage or destroyfactories and a large proportion of the housing in the city.” 22Nei- ther the city summary nor the Nagasaki target sheet listed themorale of the civilian population as an objective for strategicbombers. The JTG knew tha
Node: 848, Score: 0.0283104886046514, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0123.txt, Content: strategic bombing operations to limit “replacements in certain weapons and materialsof war essential to the defense of the Japanese homeland.” GeneralSamford noted that the “dispersal of small industry throughoutcongested urban industrial areas [was] of such a high order that thisdispersed industry alone, if undeterred, could provide an increas-ingly significant volume of defense material.” These industrial areaswere “highly vulnerable to incendiary attacks.” The estimate alsorecommended that the AAF use precision attacks to destroy aircraftengine factories, weapons and ammunition arsenals, electronicplants, and thermal electric power facilities on Kyushu. The in-tended purpose for these different methods of attack was to lessenthe Japanese ability to defend the home islands against an Americanland invasion. 16 A February 1945 general analysis by the JTG stated its “concept of area attacks”: Area attacks, interpreted as attacks directed at concentrations of di- versified industrial/military facilities and/or housing, are effective pri-marily in terms of the relatively large amount of physical damage andproduction loss which they impose. Maximum loss will result from\successful attacks against target areas which combine high physicalvulnerability and important industrial facilities. 17 The objective for area attacks, according to the group, was “industrial concentration[s] in principal urban areas.” Within those “urbanareas” were speciﬁc war industries like aircraft production, steel fac-tories, and ammunition plants. The targets contained in the “indus-trial concentrations” could be attacked with incendiary or precisionbombing, depending on operational and target factors. Area attacks,therefore, were a method, like precision bombing, to destroy the warindustry in Japan’s largest cities. The JTG realized that area attackswould kill “workers.” But causing terror was not the primary purposeof area attacks, according to the JTG. Instead area attacks would pro-duce indus
Node: 827, Score: 0.0281438267877132, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0102.txt, Content: rize their findings. Survey analysts hadhoned in on two basic industries or target systems that, accordingto them, either would have been decisive or were decisive in the waragainst Germany.strategic bombing against germany 69 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 81 --- The Combined Bomber Offensive had removed electric power as a priority target for strategic bombers. The airmen believed that the German electric power system was too decentralized and could eas-ily recover from strategic bombing attacks. 66Yet analysts from the Survey’s Utilities Division argued that based on their interrogationsof “German power plant and systems operators . . . the bombing ofpower plants and primary sub-stations would have been the quick-est and most effective way to have destroyed Germany’s war econ-omy.” 67Even though German electric power was not directly tar- geted by the AAF, the cumulative effect of ground operations andstrategic bombing attacks on other basic industries placed a seriousstrain on electric power. The division’s published study, German Electric Utilities Industry Report , argued that had the AAF made power plants “primary targets as soon as they could have beenbrought within the range of Allied strategic bombing attacks, all ev-idence indicates that the destruction of such installations wouldhave had a catastrophic effect on Germany’s war economy.” 68 If the AAF did not direct its strategic bombing campaign against German electric power, it did, by the closing months of the war inEurope, heavily attack German transportation and oil production.General Spaatz, on orders from Supreme Allied Commander Gen-eral Dwight D. Ei
Node: 838, Score: 0.0280488663358419, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0113.txt, Content: ot efficiently run; it neverachieved its full war potential, mostly because of poor strategicplanning and inept economic management by Adolph Hitler and hisstaff. Second, attacks on urban areas were not effective in seriouslyreducing or breaking German war production. Finally, the AAFachieved its most decisive results by attacking German transporta-tion, and should have devoted a greater effort to bombing Germanelectric power. 100 The real difference between Galbraith’s Economic Division report and the other two had identical concluding sections commenting on“some signposts” for “the future.” In a frequently quoted passage, theOver-all Report and Summary Report state in identical words: The foregoing pages tell of the results achieved by Allied air power, in each of its several roles in the war in Europe. It remains to look at theresults as a whole and to seek such signposts as may be of guidance tothe future. . . . Allied air power was decisive in the war in Western Eu-rope. Hindsight inevitably suggests that it might have been employeddifferently or better in some respects. Nevertheless, it was decisive. 101 Evidently General Anderson’s “controversialist” stance during the debate over Cabot’s draft ensured that the Summary Report andstrategic bombing against germany 77 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 89 --- Over-all Report would include favorable remarks on the “decisive- ness” of strategic bombing in the European war and some com- ments on the future of air power.102His desire was fulfilled, at least for the time being. Although other senior AAF leaders did not make official com- ments on the European Survey reports
Node: 847, Score: 0.0277692595465171, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0122.txt, Content: yfor the air campaign in the Pacific. The problem for the Chiefs wasthat were at least six agencies that made contributions to targetanalysis, with no centralized control. The result was a lack of coor-dination between these agencies over Far Eastern target selection. The Joint Target Group (JTG) was established by the Joint Chiefs in the fall of 1944. The JTG relieved other agencies like the COA “of target analysis functions as it absorbe[d] personnel from them.” TheJTG would be responsible for target analysis in the Paciﬁc theater andwould also provide information to the operating commands. TheChiefs instructed the JTG to use the “European experience” in strate-gic bombing to revise the bombing strategy for the Paciﬁc, emphasiz-ing “the development of new techniques of air attack.” 14 As a target analysis agency directly responsible to the Joint Chiefs, it was natural for the JTG to support the Chiefs’ plan forAmerican air power to attack the war-making capacity of Japan inorder to make possible a successful land invasion. 15In their first es- timate on air power in the Pacific war, the JTG pointed out that“the strategic air mission can only be the rapid elimination ofJapanese capacity to defend the homeland against invasion.” Writ-ten by the group’s director, Brigadier General John A. Samford, thethe survey presents its findings 84 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 96 --- estimate considered it essential that the AAF use strategic bombing operations to limit “replacements in certain weapons and materialsof war essential to the defense of the Japanese homeland.” GeneralSamford noted that the “dispersal of small industr
Node: 869, Score: 0.0267225266181697, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0144.txt, Content: le that the most efficient method of destroyingsuch precision targets is by area rather than precision attack. 59 The above passage from the Survey’s plan clearly demonstrates Nitze’s view that area and precision attacks were different methodsfor the AAF to bomb Japanese war-making capacity. According toNitze’s plan, the most effective way to destroy Japanese “end prod-ucts” (the JTG’s primary concern) was by precision attacks againstJapanese transportation that linked together the factories that pro-duced war material. However, Nitze cautioned that for the recom-mended bombing program to be decisive, it would “take time.” 60the survey presents its findings 99 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 111 --- The JTG disagreed with certain parts of Nitze’s plan. They placed greater emphasis on continuing the XXI Bomber Com- mand’s area attacks against Japanese cities to destroy “identifiedconcentrations of end product industries and stores, including am-munition storage.” The group believed that the targets contained inthese “concentrations” were “highly vulnerable to incendiary at-tacks.” The purpose of the raids, argued the JTG, was “to destroyby fire large quantities of war material produced and being pro-duced . . . thereby creating expenditures over which the Japanesecannot exercise control.” 61The JTG’s reliance on area raids to de- stroy Japanese end products reflected their belief that strategicbombing should be directed at ultimately preparing the way for asuccessful American land invasion of fortress Japan. The JTG did agree, though, with the high priority the Survey plan placed on attacking Japanese transportation. In
Node: 828, Score: 0.0265642896415834, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0103.txt, Content: electric power, it did, by the closing months of the war inEurope, heavily attack German transportation and oil production.General Spaatz, on orders from Supreme Allied Commander Gen-eral Dwight D. Eisenhower, reluctantly diverted his bombers fromstrategic attacks on the German war economy to tactical bombingagainst local railroad facilities in France to support the Normandylandings. Once the Allied forces had established themselves on thecontinent, the AAF again concentrated its strategic bombers againstGermany. But having seen the value of using its bombers to attackrailroads in France as a part of the Normandy invasion, the AAFdecided to make similar strategic attacks against transportation tar-gets inside of Germany. 69 Survey analysts accepted the notion that strategic bombers should attack basic industries that linked together the enemy’s wareconomy. Moreover, it was logical for them to conclude that theAAF’s attacks on German transportation and oil production“brought about a total disintegration of the German economy.” 70strategic bombing against germany 70 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 82 --- Nitze, working together with Ball and other key directors, had de- termined that there was no doubt about “the vulnerability of theGerman [war production] system to air attack.” It was simply amatter of selecting the right “vital factor” for destruction, and thenkeeping it destroyed by continuous air attack: “The German experi-ence strongly supports the position that one objective be selected asthe basic target system. . . .” Transportation, according to Nitze,was one of those “vital factors.” He posited that the “latene
Node: 1081, Score: 0.0265365485496436, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0356.txt, Content: 1. 55.“Minutes of Review Session for Task Force VI, Effects and Effec- tiveness,” 9June 1992 (notes taken by LTC Daniel Kuehl), file 0874788, misc. 56, v. 2 , GWAPS Collection, AFHRA; Watts and Keaney to Cohen, “Pedantic Thunder: Task Force VI Research Agenda and Production Plan,”[undated], file 0874790, misc. 56, v. 4 , ibid. 56.GWAPS, Effects and Effectiveness, vol. 2, part 2 , 27–31, 57–63. 57.Ibid., 30, 57–63. 58.USSBS, Effects of Strategic Bombing on the German War Economy, 13–14. 59.Overall Effects Division, “Memorandum on the Investigation of the Effects of Strategic Bombing,” undated, box 18, file 300. 6, RG 243, NA; Overall Economic Effects Division, “Brief Notes on the Conference withOverall Economic Effects Division at Bad Nauheim,” 3July 1945, box 14, file 300.6, RG 243, NA. 60.Personal e-mail from Watts to author, 22December 1999. 61.See for example Galbraith, “Germany Was Badly Run”; John Ken-notes to chapter 7 248 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 260 --- neth Galbraith, “Albert Speer Was the Man to See,” New York Review of Books, 10January 1971); John Kenneth Galbraith, “Peace through Pa- tience, Not Air Power,” New York Times , 25April 1999. 62.Galbraith, Life in Our Times, 226– 27. 63.Except, ironically, Orvil Anderson’s Air Campaigns of the Pacific War, which bombastically proclaimed the dominance of air power in World War II and beyond. 64.See, for example, MacIsaac, “What the Bombing Survey Really Says.” 65.Memo from Galbraith, 19October 1949, box 70, Harvard Univer- sity File, Galbraith Papers; Potts to Galbraith, 22March 1950, ibid. 66.GWAPS, Effects and Effectiveness, vol. 2, part 2 , 262. 67.Ibid
Node: 842, Score: 0.0264737369730403, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0117.txt, Content: resents its findings 80 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 92 --- plan for the defeat of Japan. Paul Nitze completed the plan in July 1945. General Spaatz, the newly designated commander of theUnited States Army Strategic Air Forces and a devout advocate ofprecision bombing, took that plan to the Pacific with him in lateJuly. He intended to implement it. I The COA had submitted an initial report back in the fall of 1943 on the most effective method for American strategic bombers to dam-age Japanese war production. 3That preliminary study recom- mended that the AAF bomb Japanese merchant shipping and cokeproduction. Because the Japanese economy was different from Ger-many’s in that Japan’s represented “an island industrial core whichderive[d] its material largely from overseas,” an attack against ship-ping and coke for steel production would have a powerful effect on“the entire structure of Japanese industry.” 4This early COA report did not recommend using incendiary attacks against Japanese citiesto destroy war industry. But the vulnerability of Japanese cities, constructed largely out of wood, to ﬁre was widely understood. As early as 1939, the Air Corps Tactical School had informed its students about the combustible na- ture of Japan’s major industrial cities. In February 1942, GeneralArnold had his staff prepare target analyses that highlighted the vul-nerability of Japanese cities to ﬁre. Always looking for new ways touse strategic bombers, General Arnold considered the possibility ofﬁre raids to destroy Japanese industry. 5As a result of the general’s in- terest, the military chairman of the COA, Brigadier General By
Node: 748, Score: 0.0261267693957776, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0023.txt, Content: d its case to the committee. Lieutenant Ralph A. Ofstie testi-ﬁed that the nation’s defense was in good hands with the navy andtherefore an independent air force was not needed. 14Ofstie, like Orvil Anderson, became a director of the Strategic Bombing Survey at theend of World War II. His testimony in 1924 anticipated the bitter in- terservice rivalry between himself and Anderson over air power issuesin the post–World War II uniﬁcation debates. During the Depression years of the 1930s, airmen had to show caution when advocating their conceptual approach to strategicbombing. Mitchell and other American airmen believed that strate-gic bombers were fundamentally offensive weapons designed tostrike quickly, violently, and preferably with surprise at key targets in enemy territory. 15In the logic of air power theory that Douhet, Mitchell, and other airmen of the time understood, there was a needto strike first at the enemy’s homeland to destroy its aircraft andproduction facilities before they could be brought to bear against the United States. Defense of the continental United States, how-ever, was the ostensible justification that airmen used when callingfor an independent air force. Continental defense fit comfortablywith isolationist American attitudes. It would have been unpalat-able for air officers to advocate air power in an offensive role afterthe American experience with German aggression in the Great Warand the nominal support for the Kellogg-Briand Pact of 1929 that purportedly outlawed war. The Depression years focused Americanattention on internal domestic problems. Arguing for a fleet oflong-range strategic bombers designed to attack the homeland of aforeign nation obviously smacked of direct American military in-volvement in foreign affairs. Air officers, therefore, had to couchtheir crusade for an independent air force (an air force that they un-derstood fundamentally as an offensive weapon) in the rhetoric ofdefensive military policy that coincided with
Node: 849, Score: 0.0260777180775385, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0124.txt, Content: s largest cities. The JTG realized that area attackswould kill “workers.” But causing terror was not the primary purposeof area attacks, according to the JTG. Instead area attacks would pro-duce industrial loss consisting “of direct damage to factories and theirequipment . . . and of time lost by workers through the disorganizingthe survey presents its findings 85 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 97 --- effects of de-housing, casualties, disruption of utilities services, and general administrative disorganization.”18 A major recipient of the JTG’s analyses was Brigadier General Haywood Hansell’s XXI Bomber Command. The Twenty-first hadbeen flying bombing missions against Japan out of Tinian Island, inthe Mariana chain, since November 1944. Hansell’s command con-ducted mostly precision bombing missions against specific Japaneseindustrial targets. As a former instructor at the Air Corps TacticalSchool and an architect of precision bombing doctrine, Hansell feltthat he could effectively attack Japanese war-making capacity usingprecision bombing methods. 19 Owing to numerous operational problems and difficult flying weather over Japan, Hansell was never able to achieve much successwith precision methods. As a result, General Arnold replaced Han-sell on 20 January 1945 with Major General Curtis E. LeMay. His- torian Conrad Crane notes that LeMay was probably “the most in-novative air commander of World War II.” It was LeMay’s opera-tional boldness that led to his decision in March 1945 to switch from precision attacks on specific Japanese industries to firebomb-ing Japanese cities. This shift was not a result of pressure pla
Node: 759, Score: 0.0258586340257118, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0034.txt, Content: ill of Germany to wage war.” Thiswould be accomplished, according to Hansell, by “destroying thewar-supporting industries and economic systems upon which thewar-sustaining and political economy depended.” 38 III From late 1942 to the end of 1943 the AAF put into practice its the- ory of strategic bombing in the skies over France and Germany. TheAAF’s Eighth Air Force began bombing operations out of bases inBritain in August 1942 by attacking German submarine pens in the coastal waters of France. While conducting these early operations,American airmen realized that their prewar idea of having largebombers fly over enemy territory without fighter aircraft protectionthe origins of the american conceptual approach 21 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 33 --- was wrong. In August and October 1943, respectively, the Eighth Air Force conducted two large-scale bombing missions against ball- bearing factories in Schweinfurt, Germany. But without their ownfighter protection the bombers suffered prohibitive losses to Ger-man fighters. With the arrival of substantial numbers of new Amer-ican fighters, the P 51Mustang, the airmen were able to resume their full-scale attack on the German war economy in February1944. As the airmen of the Eighth Air Force worked through thetactical and operational procedures of strategic bombing, they gavemore attention to strategic target selection and evaluation. 39 But the selection of targets produced by the AAF’s military and civilian intelligence sections created a good deal of controversy.Some airmen believed that the analyses were too pessimistic in theirappraisal of the effect that target destru
Node: 840, Score: 0.0254990007682192, Chunk File: gentile_effective/chunks/gentile_effective_0115.txt, Content: eakened by oil alone or transportation or by the combination of both to apoint where he had to quit? Mr. Alexander: Of course when you say “have to quit[,]” decisive doesn’t mean that completely. There were still men standing inbushes with rifles that had to be disposed of. . . . It does notnecessarily mean that every soldier would have to put down hisgun and go home. Conference between Members of the Joint Target Group (JTG) andthe Strategic Bombing Survey,9June 1945 Following the publication of the chairman’s European Summary Report and Overall Report, Henry Alexander held a press conference at the Pentagon on 24 October 1945 to pass out copies of both studies and to answer questions from newspaper reporters about the Survey. During the conference Alexander fielded a question on the “relative effectiveness of satu-ration; i.e. area bombing as against more accurate [precision]bombing.” Alexander, restating the Survey’s conclusions concerning 79 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 91 --- area attacks against German cities, responded that the most effec- tive method for destroying the productive capacity of Germany wasthe effort directed “toward the industry rather than toward thecommunity.” Most of the industry, as he put it, was located on theperimeter of German cities. Area attacks, argued Alexander, whichhad as their aiming point the center of the city, were ineffective indamaging the city’s war economy. 1 In June 1945, four months prior to his press conference in Octo- ber, Alexander was involved in another conference on the effects ofstrategic bombing against Germany, but this time with members ofthe Joint Target Grou