Node: 15284, Score: -0.0099735737034872, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0064.txt, Content: n 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 38 --- 288 THE GREAT CRUSADE fronts, increasingly short of manpower and fuel and beset by long-term structural weaknesses. /ornament21 WAR ECONOMIES COMPARED Examination of the war at sea and the Anglo-American strategic bombing offensive in terms of their impact upon Germany’s capacity tomake war leads naturally to consideration of the relative performance of the economies of the great powers in the course of the Second World War. This complicated and highly specialised subject presents problemsof presentation and integration within a general history of the war,though the relative performance of the major powers can be summarisedsimply: the Axis preoccupation with the acquisition of resources con-trasted with the Allied practice of expanded capacity and output, and in a protracted war of attrition this conferred on the Allied powers an over-whelming material advantage that was applied on the battlefield to ever-increasing effect during and after 1942.  This basic simplicity of definitionincorporates, however, a host of matters, peculiar to each of the powers,that defies simple and comprehensive examination. For the purpose ofsetting out the industrial context of the war, therefore, the economic performance of the great powers in the course of the Second World War will be summarised under two counts: a general statement about selectedaspects of individual national performances and a consideration of thecommon problems that beset the efforts of the Axis powers. In very different ways the individual performance of each of the five major powers—Britain, Germany, Japan, the Soviet Union and the United States—was impressive, if not in whole then in part. Between 1939 and 1943 Britain outproduced Germany despite Germany’s muchsuperior industrial capacity, and even in 1944, when Germany out-produced Britain 3:2 in aircraft num
Node: 15224, Score: -0.0042641231975403, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0004.txt, Content: ptember1943 was not unconditional, and neither the final Allied demands on Ja-pan—the Potsdam Proclamation of 26 July 1945—nor the final surrenderof Japan on 2 September were unconditional. PLANS FOR ANGLO-AMERICAN OPERATIONS The Anglo-American conferences of 1943—Casablanca, Washington (12–25 May), Quebec (14–24 August) and second Cairo (3–6 December)—were primarily concerned with two problems: defining the relationshipbetween and timetable for Anglo-American operations in the Mediterra- nean and northwest European theatres, and the developing of a coherent strategy in the Pacific—an American monopoly—and relating it to opera-tions in China and southeast Asia. Both problems were fearfully compli-cated, though their essence can be stated simply. With regard to the European war, the Americans accepted a Medi- terranean commitment grudgingly, convinced that Italy could never be more than a liability to whoever occupied her and that the road up pen- insular Italy was one that in military terms led nowhere. When a Mediter-ranean commitment proved unavoidable, the American high commandtried to limit it in order to ensure that the main Anglo-American effort innorthwest Europe proceeded at the earliest possible opportunity.  In 1942the American military tried to insist upon landings in northern France that year, and when this demand was set aside in favour of Torch they EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 4 --- 254 THE GREAT CRUSADE tried to insist upon a 1943 invasion. But without command of the sea and air and without the forces and supplies necessary to conduct a subse-quent campaign into Germany, there could be no invasion in 1943, thoughthe British were given no credit for their arguments to this effect. ButBritain’s insistence upon the prosecution of a campaign in Italy to anindeterminate end came to be regarded by the American high co
Node: 15222, Score: 0.0006313227805677, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0002.txt, Content: s of 1943 fall under five headings: the five Allied confer- ences that collectively established the framework for the prosecution of the European war and the war against Japan; the Allied success in master- ing the U-boat threat; the gathering pace of the strategic air offensiveagainst Germany; the military operations that re-established the Westernallies on the continental mainland and also saw the Soviets clear most ofthe Ukraine; and the battle of production. Though obviously the Axisconduct of the war and the major part of Soviet deliberations and opera- tions fall outside their terms of reference, the Allied conferences providethe latticework of the year, and, indeed, of the remainder of the war, in noinstance more evidently than the decision made at the Casablanca con-ference (14–24 January) that the United Nations would not accept any-thing less than the unconditional surrender of the Axis powers. This decision remains controversial, many post-war commentators condemning it on the grounds that it hardened German resolve and madethe task of bringing about Germany’s defeat more difficult. This argu-ment is superficially plausible, though there seems no good reason toassume either that had the Allies adopted a less intransigent positionGerman resistance would have been less or that there could have beenan end to the German war on other terms.  The fact of the matter was that the European war’s terms of reference had been provided by the nature of Nazism and by the Anglo-French declaration of war in 1939.Germany showed no restraint either in aim or conduct other than thatimposed by the prudence before 1941 in tackling her enemies singly:Britain and France, rightly calculating that as long as Hitler ruled Ger-many there could be no peace in Europe, declared total war in 1939, and then failed to wage it. By 1943 theory and practice came together: the EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/te
Node: 15290, Score: 0.0011670950038655, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0070.txt, Content: S.S., Göring’s economic ministry and assorted ser- vice interests—that were in large measure deliberately encouraged byHitler’s ‘divide and rule’ style of leadership. Moreover, there was no tradi-tion in Germany and Japan of the close but often informal cooperationbetween government and industry as existed in less tightly administered societies such as Britain and the United States, and industry in both Ger- many and Japan reproduced its organisational and associated problemsthat further militated against efficiency. German and Japanese industry were reluctant to accept mobilisation for war, even after the start of hostilities, when in the case of Germanyconsumer production and in Japan trade continued to offer higher re- turns on investment, and in both countries industry was not suitably struc- tured to permit a rapid and economic expansion of production. Germanindustry was concentrated towards capital goods production and Japa-nese industry to cheap, mass-consumer items: unlike American and Brit-ish industry, neither was geared to end-manufacture that could be adaptedfairly easily to war production and which primarily required the expan- sion of supply in order to achieve increased output. In the task of conver- sion to war production, therefore, both German and Japanese industrylaboured under difficulties not encountered by Anglo-American industryand neither initially received major state support. In the United States 89per cent of the aircraft industry’s expansion was financed by federal au-thorities, and this was achieved with the full support of industry itself because the federal authorities were not regarded as inimical to the free- EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 42 --- 292 THE GREAT CRUSADE enterprise principle. In Germany and Japan state direction and owner- ship were regarded with suspicion by industry only too aware
Node: 15226, Score: 0.0018251789957548, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0006.txt, Content: e American objectives in the western Pacific— in effect, the question of whether the Philippines were to be taken orbypassed—were decided.  The arguments on this score, in which thenavy lost to the army, obscured the more important question of whetherJapan was to be blockaded and bombarded into submission or subjectedto invasion and physical conquest. This question was settled in mid-1944, and the decision then set aside by events. Even without this question, American difficulties in 1943 in trying to formulate inter-dependent strategies for the Pacific and the Asian main- land were severe.  At the heart of American troubles was how to ensurean effective Chinese contribution to the Allied war effort, but there was no agreement within the American high command regarding what form this contribution should take. This,  however, obscured a more serious EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 5 --- 255 1943 AND THE ELEVENTH  PRINCIPLE  OF WAR matter. In assuming that China would play the role assigned her in an American-de vised strategy Washington misunderstood Chungking’s in- tentions and capabilities.  Chiang Kai-shek’s regime had no intention of accepting any offensive obligation.  The outbreak of the Pacific war, whichprompted China’s formal declaration of war on Japan, vindicated Chiang’spolicy of waiting until Japan embroiled herself in a general war that she could only lose, and it formed no part of Chiang’s policy that his regime should seek to drive out the Japanese occupier when China’s victory andliberation would be achieved by nations more powerful than herself.American military missions to China in 1942 were scandalised to findwhat amounted to a ‘de facto truce’ in existence between Chungking and Japan. But the Roosevelt administration, having spent years extolling Chiang Kai-shek as the great leader of a mighty struggle against
Node: 15288, Score: 0.0019425910523949, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0068.txt, Content: o the fact that the Allies alone had the industrial, financial, intel- lectual and moral resources to engage in major research and develop-ment outside the immediate demands of the war. For all the veryconsiderable German success in weapons development, the Axis powersregistered no non-military achievement that compared to those of theirenemies. AXIS STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS Common to the three major Axis powers were aspects of political, industrial and administrative organisation that prevented their full andeffective mobilisation of resources, the extent of the restrictions upontheoretical potential being demonstrated by the fact that whereas in 1942 the productive capacity available to the European powers was superior to that of the United States the latter outproduced Germany four-fold.The most obvious and persistent factor in Axis difficulties, however,stemmed from the fact that Axis rearmament dated from the mid-Thirtiesand each of the three major Axis powers embarked upon war between1939 and 1941 when already at the peak of the production possible within existing political, industrial and financial restraints that effectively pre- cluded simultaneous expansion of industrial capacity. Once the war thatthey had initiated did not provide the Axis powers with the rapid victo-ries that had been anticipated, the lack of long-term planning for theexpansion of industrial output—and it took even the United States anaverage of thirty-one months from building site to airframe production— left the Axis powers without the time and means to meet the demands of the wars in which they found themselves engaged. The disparity betweenthe Axis and Allied camps became more pronounced with the lengthen-ing of the war into its fourth and fifth years despite a massive expansionof production on the part of Germany and Japan after 1943. At the heart of Axis problems in meeting the demands of total war were fundamental difficulties of organisation, most obviously in terms of EBSCOhost - pri
Node: 15293, Score: 0.0035150877648472, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0073.txt, Content: ctive, never produced antidotes to Allied material superior- ity, and were strategically defensive in application and of limited value. ALLIED ADVANTAGES In contrast to the position and practices of the Axis powers, the three major Allied powers both collectively and individually enjoyed cer- tain intrinsic advantages and made a number of key decisions that pro- vided them with a decisive material advantage in wars that were fought to Allied strengths after 1941. Most obviously the United States, and to alesser extent the Soviet Union after spring 1942, had access to domesticresources of continental proportions and enjoyed a geographical isola-tion and invulnerability against attack on industry denied other coun-tries. No less important, throughout the war the Allied powers enjoyed command of the sea and with it the ability to tap resources globally: in terms of inter-Allied movement of material this same ability to use thesea allowed the United States to supply the Soviet Union with 17,499,861tons of material, of which 23.77 per cent was moved through the Gulfand Iran and 47.11 per cent across the north Pacific in Soviet ships com-pared to the 22.65 per cent shipped through White Sea ports. The Soviet Union, with its experience of five-year plans, freedom from normal com- mercial constraints, docile labour force and minimal consumer demand,was able to concentrate production upon material requirements, and bya ruthless selection of relatively simple but very reliable weapons sys-tems she accepted what was no more than marginal qualitative inferior-ity in return for marked numerical superiority. Whereas the Germans presented problems for themselves in producing tanks and guns de novo, the Soviets concentrated tank and self-propelled gun development on existing chassis, and thereby ensured a continuity of production thatduplicated that of Britain and the United States in other fields, most obvi-ously in the output of aircraft. These two powers, Britain in the three ye
Node: 15259, Score: 0.005047655535195, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0039.txt, Content: ve by a dissipation of battle-front strength and industrial effort. To have accepted such self-imposed limitation would have constituted a betrayal of the Allied cause itself, of the Allied armies in the field, and—perhaps most important of all—of thepeoples of occupied Europe, to whom Britain and the United States owedinfinitely more than they did to the German civilian population. Bomb-ing may have embraced a dubious morality, and arguably bombing em-braced an increasingly dubious morality as Germany’s defeat became reality and other means of taking the war to Germany came to hand, but without recourse to the argument that a just cause permitted the deli ber- ate waging of war against a civilian population as the means of achievingvictory the absence of choice in Allied policy after 1940 and the limita-tions of the air weapon itself at this time precludes morality as a seriousfactor in any consideration of this campaign. The Allies could not bomb without causing civilian casualties, and they could not afford to deny EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 24 --- 274 THE GREAT CRUSADE themselves an offensive that imposed a second front upon the Wehrmacht a full year before the invasion of northwest Europe. R.A.F .  BOMBER COMMAND Before examining the Anglo-American strategic bombing offensive against Germany it should be noted that the first Allied air raid of the war was on 1 September 1939 when Polish aircraft attacked Berlin, and that the Soviet Union, the first nation to possess four-engine heavy bombersin the 1930s, retained a strategic bombing capability throughout the warand attacked cities in eastern Germany at various stages of the Nazi–Soviet conflict.  The Soviet achievement was nevertheless very modest,as indeed was that of R.A.F .  Bomber Command before February 1942. Though the British effort before this month divided into
Node: 15287, Score: 0.0052157115969979, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0067.txt, Content: regional companies, pro-vided the bedrock of the Allied war efforts in the Middle East and south-east Asia and served as the base for support for China. Moreover, shemaintained some twenty divisions on her own soil and in what beforeDecember 1941 had been the military and economic backwaters of the subcontinent. Black African troops of the British and French colonial empires fought in Africa itself, in Europe and in the Far East, and in thevictories they helped to secure they sowed the seeds of post-war revoltand independence. In short, the Second World War witnessed an unprecedented global mobilisation of human and economic resources that was most marked in but not confined to the great powers, and in the process vast political, EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 40 --- 290 THE GREAT CRUSADE economic and social changes were effected: the war in effect spelt the end of the European colonial empires; it transformed the United Statesfrom a country that covered a continent into a continental power; it al-tered trade patterns and industrial practices throughout the world, and itcontributed, in the same way as the First World War, to concepts of themanaged economy and interventionist state; it also contributed to the process of female advancement and saw the principle of racial equality conceded. Moreover, the war years saw various humanitarian develop-ments such as the synthesis of quinine, penicillin and DDT, the first bluebaby operation and the completion of the calutron. Yet these variousachievements were significant in terms of the unfolding of the SecondWorld War in one respect: that all were prerogatives of the Allied powers pointed to the fact that the Allies alone had the industrial, financial, intel- lectual and moral resources to engage in major research and develop-ment outside the immediate demands of the war. For all the ve
Node: 15258, Score: 0.0060888611594177, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0038.txt, Content: ccupation and arguably the Alliedair offensive justified itself for this reason alone. The fact that between 1940 and 1943 bombing was the only offen- sive option available to the British and Americans was important in thatit provides the corrective to one of the most important arguments aboutthis campaign which may be discussed at this point in order to dismiss itfrom further consideration. Both during and after the war the question ofthe value of the strategic air offensive was inextricably linked with moralissues, and it cannot be denied that Allied claims of moral superiority over Nazism sit uneasily alongside such episodes as the razing of Dresden in 1945. The strategic bombing campaign, with first its acceptance ofcivilian casualties as the inevitable, if unfortunate, by-product of opera-tions and then the concentration against civilian targets as an act of policy,is not easy to reconcile with the Christian doctrine of the Just War, firstdefined by Aquinas in the thirteenth century, with its moral imperatives the avoidance of the unnecessary taking of life and the sparing of non- combatants. But in respect to the strategic bombing campaign as a whole,morality existed only in choice, and German civilian casualties could havebeen avoided only if the Allies had chosen deliberately to deny them-selves a means of attack that Germany had employed from the start ofhostilities. Moral justification can always be rationalised, not that the Al- lies considered it necessary at the time to justify the strategic bombing offensive in moral terms, but there existed in the war’s middle years nei-ther political nor military reasons, and no good moral consideration, thatwould have justified the Allies denying themselves their only means offorcing Germany to respond to their initiative by a dissipation of battle-front strength and industrial effort. To have accepted such self-imposed limitation would have constituted a betrayal of the Allied cause itself, of the Allied armies in
Node: 15223, Score: 0.0080011044935668, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0003.txt, Content: in 1939, and then failed to wage it. By 1943 theory and practice came together: the EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 3 --- 253 1943 AND THE ELEVENTH  PRINCIPLE  OF WAR declaration merely articulated a fact that all the warring nations recognised. After forty months of war there could be no changing aims that werestripped of ambiguity and which, when realised, would deny Germansany claim that they had been cheated into surrender. For twenty yearsthe victorious powers of the First World War had been subjected to anorchestrated German campaign of lies and deceit that had denied the reality of defeat in 1918, which asserted that the settlement of 1919 had been imposed by fraud, and which was used by Hitler as cloak for aggres-sion. Just as the Casablanca declaration eased the problems of the Alliesby postponing the solution of their various clashes of interest to thepost-war period, so this demand for unconditional surrender—issued atthe time when the Germans had just set about razing the Warsaw ghetto— made clear to Germany that this time there would be no excuses and no mitigation of defeat. The inter-war experience, the lack of any crediblealternative to Hitler within Germany, and the logic of the war itself madethe formal Allied demand for their enemies’ unconditional surrender in-evitable. If there are grounds for criticism of this policy then it lies in itbeing applied to all of Germany’s allies, though given the behaviour of Bulgarian and Italian armies in Yugoslavia it is difficult to see how these two enemies could have been excluded. However, in practice the Ameri-cans and British were not consistent.  The Italian surrender in September1943 was not unconditional, and neither the final Allied demands on Ja-pan—the Potsdam Proclamation of 26 July 1945—nor the final surrenderof Japan on 2 September were unconditional. PLANS FOR
Node: 15291, Score: 0.0089995408230277, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0071.txt, Content: le: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 42 --- 292 THE GREAT CRUSADE enterprise principle. In Germany and Japan state direction and owner- ship were regarded with suspicion by industry only too aware of latenthostility on the part of government and the military. In these countries, moreover, the position and attitudes of the mili- tary also served to create other problems of organisation. In Japan therivalry between the two armed services manifested itself in a struggle for resources that was carried to absurd lengths: both ignored the agencies established in 1943 to plan resources; the army built its own ships; thetwo services developed their aircraft and radars separately; and Japanwas the only major combatant not to have an atomic bomb project forthe very simple reason that she had two, one for each service. In bothGermany and Japan the armed services consistently sought to control the procurement process and to define the terms of reference, either in the initial specification or subsequent modification, of required weap-onry. Without the scientific and technical capability or the necessary co-operation with industry, the Axis powers tied output to changing andoften ill-defined requirements at the expense of production, and in bothGermany and Japan this problem was exaggerated by the primacy of de- signers, not production managers, in industry. For example, Japan in the course of the Pacific war produced no fewer than ninety different air-craft compared with the eighteen of the United States, and with Japaneseproduction between 1942 and 1945 totalling 64,800 aircraft 104,446 aero-engines and 126,339 tons of airframe to American construction aggre-gates of 279,813 aircraft, 728,467 engines and 1,029,911 tons of airframe the American advantages in terms of settled production runs, economy of scale and concentrated research and development are obvious. With ahighly diluted labour force and a largely imitative as opposed to innova-tive tradition, Japanese industry f
Node: 15225, Score: 0.0090365781642917, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0005.txt, Content: British were given no credit for their arguments to this effect. ButBritain’s insistence upon the prosecution of a campaign in Italy to anindeterminate end came to be regarded by the American high command in 1943, not altogether surprisingly, as reluctance to commit herself to any invasion of northern France, and even after the British did committhemselves to this effort at Quebec in 1943 there remained the questionsof whether or not the Italian campaign should remain the main Alliedeffort in the Mediterranean and how Allied efforts in this and the north-west European theatres should be coordinated.  These questions were not resolved until March 1944 and then not satisfactorily: it was not until July 1944 that issues were finally settled, but neither to British liking norto any useful military purpose. STRATEGIC POLICY—JAPAN AND CHINA With regard to the formulation of strategic policy for the war against Japan, Anglo-American difficulties were even more pronounced. Beforethe outbreak of the Pacific war the American high command concludedthat Japan could be defeated only by coordinated efforts in the Pacificand on the Asian mainland ( i.e., in China). But the devising of a strategyfor the Pacific proved very difficult for the Americans, in part becausePacific matters had to wait upon the settling of European priorities and timetables and in part because of inter-service rivalries.  After April 1942 the Pacific was divided into two American commands, one naval and theother army, and neither would accept subordination to the other. By theend of 1943, however, the weakness inherent in a divided command waspartially offset by the American ability to mount coordinated offensivesacross both the central and southwest Pacific, but it was not until Sep- tember 1944 that immediate American objectives in the western Pacific— in effect, the question of whether the Philippines were to be taken orbypassed—were decided.  The arguments on this score, in which thenavy lost to the ar
Node: 15319, Score: 0.0094540753425986, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0099.txt, Content: fear of the Soviet Union were not enough to preventher in 1944 seeking to ensure her continued existence at the expense of her alliance with Germany. For all the junior Axis powers the dilemma that Finland faced was one that they shared after mid-1943. These pow-ers had good reason to fear a German victory that would reduce them toa status little different from that of more obviously conquered and occu-pied states, but after summer 1943 these powers, particularly those thatlived alongside the Soviet Union, realised that they stood in danger of being dragged down to defeat along with a Germany that would ensure their ruination in an attempt to save herself. What held the European Axisalliance together until 1943 were German power and the prospect of aGerman victory, and German defeats after mid-year ushered in a periodwhen Germany’s allies sought to extricate themselves from alliances thatthreatened them with disaster while avoiding the German retaliation that was visited upon Italy after September. As Hitler sought to adjust to the reality that Germany would have to wage a defensive war, defeat in theAtlantic in the Mediterranean and on Sicily, and in the Ukraine served toweaken fatally the cohesion and unity of the Axis alliance. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use
Node: 15228, Score: 0.0098079401221985, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0008.txt, Content: to train, arm and supply a limited number of Chinese divisions for conventional opera- tions against the Japanese forces of occupation. As a result, the Americanmilitary effort in China was divided against itself from the outset, and in thissituation Stilwell’s arguments were systematically under mined by Chiang. Chiang was not averse to the Americans raising divisions on his behalf,but he was totally opposed to their being used in this war when the more important one, with the communists, would follow in due course. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 6 --- 256 THE GREAT CRUSADE In China, the American high command found itself with a political commitment that it could not repudiate; a commitment to supply eco- nomic and civil aid that at times seemed limitless; an ally not interestedin fighting the Japanese; and no agreed strategic priorities; yet with apersistence that would have been admirable in another context or cause,the American high command maintained its attempts to devise a coher- ent, reasoned policy in China even after the Quebec and Tehran confer- ences that together should have resulted in the Americans cutting theirlosses. At Quebec the Americans committed themselves to taking theMarianas in summer 1944 and, as the basis of future planning, to seekingthe defeat of Japan within one year of the defeat of Germany, which wasscheduled for October 1944. Before Quebec the Americans had given no great consideration to the Marianas, and the attraction of the Chennault thesis in part was that no air offensive against Japan could be stagedexcept from China before 1946 under the terms of existing Americanplans. The inclusion of the Marianas on the list of 1944 objectives thusended the importance of China as a base for strategic air operations. Simi-larly, ‘the twelve-month plan, ’  because it envisaged American forces fight- ing t
Node: 15318, Score: 0.0129596881912781, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0098.txt, Content: ion against their defection and as their lack of enthu- siasm for war—except with one another—became obvious. At the sametime Slovakia’s contribution to the Axis cause ceased to merit even to-ken status. Only Bulgaria showed any sign of reliability in the aftermathof Kursk, and she had taken the precaution of never having declared waron the Soviet Union. After July 1943, therefore, the German leadership was aware of a weakening of the ties that bound the Axis powers to- gether, and at the very time when the importance of her allies involvedwidening commitments to ensure their security without any correspond-ing increase of their contributions to the common cause. Italy was vital to Germany because of the depth she provided to the defence of the southern Reich , and with Hungary and Bulgaria she was crucial to the security of the Balkans: Finland and Romania were noless important to Germany on account of their nickel and oil. But theweakening of all these associated powers after mid-1943 meant thatwhereas previously all had provided military forces that were useful ad-juncts to German power, after this time German attention and resourceshad to be diverted to ensure their continuing loyalty as German failure at sea, in the air and in two major land theatres became apparent. The need EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 58 --- 308 THE GREAT CRUSADE to ensure that Finland remained in the field, for example, prevented the withdrawal of Army Group North from the positions it held in front of Leningrad to a shorter and more defensible line that would release for-mations into the reserve; in the event Finland’s economic dependenceupon Germany and fear of the Soviet Union were not enough to preventher in 1944 seeking to ensure her continued existence at the expense of her alliance with Germany. For all the junior Axis powers the dilemma that Fi
Node: 15289, Score: 0.0138426800811527, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0069.txt, Content: on the part of Germany and Japan after 1943. At the heart of Axis problems in meeting the demands of total war were fundamental difficulties of organisation, most obviously in terms of EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 41 --- 291 1943 AND THE ELEVENTH  PRINCIPLE  OF WAR the political and administrative direction of national war efforts. The Ger- man, Italian and Japanese states were modern creations, and all shared adecentralised yet bureaucratic tradition that militated against the highlycentralised yet flexible organisation needed to direct a war economy.The position of head of government in all three states was largely consti-tutional and titular rather than executive, and in Japan the prime minis- ter was obliged to have a law passed that compelled ministers to abide by his instructions. In both Germany and Italy the concept of leadershipprecluded the development of a cabinet system, and its crucially impor-tant sub-committee organisation, that was responsible for the formula-tion, implementation and supervision of policy and for the effectivecoordination of ministries and of government with industry and the mili- tary. Even when the need for reform was recognised in mid-war, the vari- ous institutionalised constraints of the administrative systems in Germanyand Italy were too often so entrenched as to prevent major change. Inboth Germany and Japan highly structured administrative systems, com-plete with clearly defined and jealously guarded lines of demarcation andestablished hierarchies, did not lend themselves to close co-opera tion, not least in Germany because of the rivalries between various different agen-cies—the party, the S.S., Göring’s economic ministry and assorted ser- vice interests—that were in large measure deliberately encouraged byHitler’s ‘divide and rule’ style of leadership. Moreover, there was no tradi-tion
Node: 15227, Score: 0.015107072209085, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0007.txt, Content: mounted to a ‘de facto truce’ in existence between Chungking and Japan. But the Roosevelt administration, having spent years extolling Chiang Kai-shek as the great leader of a mighty struggle against a barba- rous invader, could not repudiate Chiang and its previous version of events,and Chungking had its champions in the form of a powerful and vocifer-ous lobby in Washington that, in the final analysis, had the beating of theadministration and military. To compound these problems, this lobby contained within itself an equally strident air lobby. As part of its policy of supporting China in1941 before Pearl Harbor, the Roosevelt administration had provided cred-its, aircraft and facilities for pilots to enlist in a surrogate air force inChina. This organisation, legitimised once the United States entered thewar and headed by Colonel Chennault, embraced extreme air power doc-trines, the basis of its 1942 policy being that a strategic bomber force numbering fewer than 200 aircraft could bomb Japan into submission from bases in China if the entire American effort in China was geared tothat end.  The patent absurdity of this claim was obscured by the fact thatthe message itself, with its combination of high technology, low commit-ment and quick results, was tailored to American public expectation, butit was disputed by orthodox military opinion headed by the highly un- conventional Major-General Stilwell, appointed Chiang Kai-shek’s chief of staff and made responsible for the entire American effort in China inFebruary 1942. From the start Stilwell recognised that the weakness ofthe Chennault argument was that before any bombing offensive couldbecome effective the Japanese army in China would move to secure the airfields from which the bombers operated, and his priority was to train, arm and supply a limited number of Chinese divisions for conventional opera- tions against the Japanese forces of occupation. As a result, the Americanmilitary effort in China was divided ag
Node: 15229, Score: 0.0165488681148012, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0009.txt, Content: rianas on the list of 1944 objectives thusended the importance of China as a base for strategic air operations. Simi-larly, ‘the twelve-month plan, ’  because it envisaged American forces fight- ing their way into the Formosa–Philippines–Hong Kong area by early 1945 ended the importance of China as a base for military operationsbecause Stilwell’s proposed programme could not be effective by thatdate. The Soviets’ declaration at the Tehran conference (28 November–1December) that they would enter the war against Japan after the defeatof Germany merely underlined the fact the United States could afford to cut its losses in China, but the ill-defined political commitment to China prevented the United States’ leadership, even after the disillusionment ofthe Cairo meeting between Churchill, Chiang and Roosevelt (22–26 No-vember), from acting upon the logic of events. China, therefore, presented the American high command with an ‘option of difficulties, ’ but this was not the limit of American problems because the need to support China, irrespective of purpose, involved another set of equally intractable difficulties, this time with the British.The supply of China after March 1942 could be staged only through north-east India, and the Americans insisted that the British should proceedwith the reconquest of Burma in order to restore overland communica-tions with China. The Americans also insisted that in the meantime sup- plies should be airlifted to China from airfields in northeast India. The immediate obstacle to these demands was the fact that northeast Indiawas a backwater, lacking the airfields needed for such an airlift and thecommunications and military infrastructures needed to support either,still less both, efforts. Moreover, with the British obliged to try to developthese airfields and infrastructures and the Americans unable to decide between the Chennault and Stilwell proposals,  American problems were EBSCOhost - printed on 10/6/2024 9:23 PM via COLUMBIA UNIV
Node: 15317, Score: 0.0166742165743113, Chunk File: willmott_principle/chunks/willmott_principle_0097.txt, Content: ect to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- willmott_principle.pdf --- Page 57 --- 307 1943 AND THE ELEVENTH  PRINCIPLE  OF WAR were not lost upon Hitler’s allies. For the Hungarians, Italians and Roma- nians the destruction of their armies in the winter campaign was infi-nitely more traumatic than any defeat sustained by the Wehrmacht. In this sense the wavering of Germany’s allies in 1943 had origins that pre-dated Kursk and were in any event the product of a combination of de-feats on a number of fronts, though the failure of the Wehrmacht in the eastern and central Ukraine remained of singular significance. Having beensubjected to German contempt because of their inability to resist Sovietarms, Germany’s allies could take some wry satisfaction from the defeatof forty-one German divisions in front of Kursk, but this was tempered bythe realisation that if German power w as broken then their own defeat was assured. The first indication of unsteadiness in the ranks of Germany’s allies was provided on 25 July when Mussolini, having been defeated in thefascist grand council, was dismissed by the King of Italy and a new ad-ministration headed by Marshal Pietro Badoglio was installed in office:thereafter the German high command recognised the inevitability of theItalian defection from the Axis camp. Soviet overtures to Finland in the summer of 1943, and the Finns’ serious consideration of the possibility of a separate peace, provided confirmation of uncertainty within the Axiscamp, and Sweden’s withdrawal of transit concessions for German forcesin northern Norway and Finland served clear notice of the neutrals’ as-sessment of which powers would win the European war. By Septemberthe German plans for the occupation of Hungary and Romania were com- pleted as a precaution against their defection and as their lack of enthu- siasm for war—except with one another—became obvious. At the sametime Slovakia’s contribution to the Axis cause ceased to merit even to-ken stat