Node: 25666, Score: -0.0081805437558778, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0162.txt, Content: hot.42 These outrages caused international outcries and galvanized the attitudes governments took toward the two opposing sides. The League stayed clear of involvements, last but not least because it was almost defunct and powerless. Britain, France, and the United States adopted a policy of non- intervention. Under Mussolini, Italy saw an opportunity to rope Franco into its orbit and make Spain an ally in the Mediterranean. Germany sympathised with the Falangists and was afraid that if the Republicans won, the USSR would have a foothold in Western Europe. The USSR pretended not to involve itself but supported ideologically and materially the Republicans. The lines of political, economic, and military interests were drawn by the summer of 1936. Britain, France, the United States, and other countries per- mitted their nationals to join the International Brigade, which on many fronts put up strong resistance to the Nationalist advance. On the Nationalist side, the Italians came in early. In July 1936 they sent twelve Marchetti S.81 Pipistrello bombers, complete with crews.43 Total Italian support until the end of the war amounted to about 50,000 troops and over 700 planes of all types.44 German help was crucial in getting Franco started on the mainland and continued until April 1939. In the beginning the German effort was clandestine and German military per- sonnel traveled to Spain in civilian clothes. In November 1936 the Condor Legion was formed and 12,000 troops landed at Cadiz. They were mostly Luftwaffe personnel but there were also tank crews and antiaircraft and artillery gunners.45 By the time it was over the Germans had up to 16,000 men in Spain on a rotating basis. In all, they supplied 285 aircraft, from lumber- ing Ju-52 transport bombers and obsolete He-51 biplane fight- ers to the modern Ju-87 Stuka divebombers, Me-109 fighters, and He-111 bombers of World War II fame. Stalin's USSR was enamored by the Republicans's anticler- ical and Communist stance a
Node: 25894, Score: -0.0078272778238824, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0390.txt, Content: ne can do so many years after the wars is to analyze and assess them, dispatch them to history, and hope and pray that they will never happen again. BIBLIOGRAPHY Allen, George. Images of the Spanish Civil War. London: Unwin Publishers Ltd, 1986. Allen, H. R. The Legacy of Lord Trenchard. London: Cassell, 1972. Angelucci, E. and Matricardi, P. World Aircraft. New York: Rand McNally & Co., 1975. Bekker, Cajus. The Luftwaffe War Diaries. London: Macdonald & Co. (Publishers) Ltd., 1967 (original German title: Angriffshöhe 4,000). Bernstein, Barton J. "A Postwar Myth: 500,000 US Lives Saved," Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, Vol. 42, No. 6, June/July 1986. Bernstein, Barton J. "Churchill's Secret Biological Weapons," Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, Vol. 43, No.1, January /February 1987. Bernstein, Barton J. "Why We didn't Use Gas in World War II," American Heritage, The Magazine of History, Vol. 36, August/September 1965. Best, Geoffrey. Humanity in Warfare. New York: Columbia University Press, 1980. Bidinian, Larry J. The Combined Allied Bombing Offensive against the German Civilian 1942-1945. Lawrence, KS: Coronado Press, 1976. Birkenhead, Earl of. The Prof in Two Worlds. London: Collins, 1961. Blum, John Morton. Roosevelt and Morgenthau. Boston: Houghton and Mifflin, 1970. 335  336 To DESTROY A CITY BIBLIOGRAPHY Böhme, Hermann. Entstehung und Grundlagen des Waffenstill- standes von 1940. Stuttgart: Deutsche Verlagsanstalt, 1966. Boog, Horst. The Conduct of the Air War in the Second World War. Providence, RI: Berg Publishers, Ltd., 1992. Botting, Douglas. In the Ruins of the Reich. London: Grafton Books, 1985. Boyd, Alexander. The Soviet Air Force. New York: Stein and Day, 1977. Boyle, Andrew. Trenchard. London: Collins, 1962. Bradley, Dermot. Generalleutnant Walter Wever: Eine vorbildlche Persönlichkeit der Luftwaffe. Europäische Wehrkunde, 1, 1979. Brittain, Vera. "Massacre by Bombing," Fellowship, March 1944. Brown, Eric. Wings of the Luftwaffe. Garden City, NY: Double
Node: 25664, Score: -0.0077935662779169, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0160.txt, Content: governor of Libya in 1933, and after the "pacification" had been completed, Italian colonists came to settle. Ethiopia, which neighbored the Italian colonies of Eritrea and Somalia at the Horn of Africa, became the next target of Mussolini's expansion. It had been invaded by Italy in 1895 but the aggressors had been repulsed in the battle of Aduwa. A border clash was engineered in December 1934, and by October 1935 the Italian army and air force had brought enough men and equipment through the Suez Canal to com- mence an invasion. Whether it was in the interest of the share- holders of the Suez Canal Company to let these forces pass is a moot point. The League tried to stop the conflict but failed. Similar presentations by the British and French governments failed. Sanctions were agreed upon but not enforced. Nobody wanted to be too hard on the Italians. There was also anxiety that the Regia Aeronautica would bomb London if it came to an open conflict.38 Mussolini, like Hitler a few years later, had succeeded in bluffing the international establishment about the strength of his air force. There had been the impressive long- range mass flights of bombers with refueling stops under the command of Italo Balbo from Rome to Chicago and Rome to Rio de Janeiro.39 But there certainly were no planes to reach London and return without refueling. By May 1936, Ethiopia was firmly in Italian hands. The role of the Regia Aeronautica has been described as purely tactical but one must question that when one learns that among the 320 aircraft employed, a good portion were state-of-the-art bombers such as the Caproni 101, Ca 133, and Savoia SM81. These multi-engine bombers dropped mustard gas on helpless Ethiopian troops and towns, despite the June 1925 Geneva Protocol that out- lawed the use of poison gas, and of which Italy was a signato- ry.40 The international press reported that the RA attacked many hospitals; but that kind of news was to be expected. The guns were barely silent
Node: 25646, Score: -0.0075673942984314, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0142.txt, Content: ulfill the obliga- tions instituted by the treaty? In addition to these treaty obligations, the German govern- ment also had internal obligations. There were war disability pensions to be paid, there was the cost of changing from a war footing back into peace, and there were the war bonds. During 127 the war, the Kaiser's government had begun to accelerate the printing of new money, because the cost of the conflict had become monumental and bonds could not finance it any longer. Now, after the war and in the face of national and treaty obligations, the government speeded up the presses even more. In 1914 four goldmarks were worth one U.S. dollar. In May 1921 it was 14.8 marks, in November 1921, 62.6 marks, and toward the end of the postwar German inflation it was 62 billion marks to the dollar.5 In other words, the money my grandparents had saved before 1914 to look after their retire- ment was worth nothing. The war bonds they had dutifully purchased, not least because they promised good interest, were just pieces of paper. I remember as a youngster playing with stacks of what would be called today monopoly money and collecting stamps with face values of millions of marks. The family's bonds, money, and stamps were eventually consumed in our attic by the firestorm of 16 March 1945. The German economy collapsed. The established sum of 132 billion goldmarks of reparations, in 1914 goldmarks, was equal to U.S.$33 billion. The U.S.$33 billion did not take into account the value of the lands, foreign assets, merchant navy, coal deliveries, occupation levies, etc. The men in charge of hammering out these conditions at the peace conference were politicians such as Clemenceau, Lloyd George, and their advi- sors. Under the circumstances it seems justified to turn the tables on Clemenceau and his comment about war being too serious a business to leave to the military. Perhaps peace is too serious a business to leave to the statesmen. Perhaps a Duke of Wellington at the Peace
Node: 25892, Score: -0.0071302860390786, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0388.txt, Content: ethics of them ever since. From the economic point of view they did have an impact. The cost of the bombing in Europe and the Far East in World War II shows staggering statistics. The United States produced 98,000 heavy bombers at a cost of $259,000 for a B-17, $304,000 for a B-24, and $894,000 for a B-29.5 Britain constructed 28,000 bombers at an average cost of £150,000.6 Germany manufac- tured 18,000 bombers at an average cost of RM 269,000, and Japan 15,000. The USSR produced 17,800.7 The winner in the production of these aircraft was the United States. It was from the wartime effort of the U.S. aircraft industry that the United States established its leading postwar role as supplier of com- mercial airliners. Another economic aspect of the bombing is that what had been destroyed would have to be rebuilt. The destruction of the German cities helped the U.S. export industry after WWII. The Marshall Plan provided the funds and, as is well known, the credits were all repaid. From the military point of view, area bombing was not a success. It did not cause the collapse of the enemy war effort as promised by the bomber commanders. It could have done that had the campaigns been consistently executed. Though area bombing was to result in the defeat of enemy morale and cause the overthrow of the enemy political systems, that effort did not produce the desired result. What it did produce are appalling statistics of human losses. These victims are the forgotten heroes of the fighting in the first half of the twentieth century. Aside from monuments in places where they are buried, there are no national memorials, no mentions on armistice days, or any recognition of their sac- rifices. German bombs and V-weapons killed 60,595 British  334 To DESTROY A CITY civilians.8 The estimates of German civilians killed vary con- siderably. They range from 410,000, to 570,000, to 800,000.9 In Japan the toll was considerably over 200,000 people killed by the fire raids (nobody knows th
Node: 25858, Score: -0.006831527176982, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0354.txt, Content: the treasures, not the destination, and called it a typical Nazi art robbery. Of course, the removal of cultural assets by occupying powers is a fact of warfare. Göring was not alone in this, although after the war his "acquisitions" received the most publicity. From antiquity to this day there is war booty in the hands of the victors but claimed by the vanquished. Many treasures are still in the British Museum, the Hermitage, or stored somewhere out of sight. In that category are works removed from Germany after the war by not only common soldiers of the Western Allies but by very senior officers.12 The Russians sent in whole brigades to plunder East Germany. It is interesting to note that the Japanese are reported not to have touched the art treasures of the territories they occupied.13 Although it would appear that the leaders of World War II 301 cared little about their enemy's cultural assets and their preser- vation for mankind, there are some outstanding exceptions. The Luftwaffe did not bomb Leningrad's famous Hermitage, St. Isaac's Cathedral, St. Paul's Fortress, and other buildings, although Hitler had given orders to flatten the city. When in late 1944 Hitler wanted Paris "burning" the Luftwaffe "could not do it." Kesselring pulled German troops out of Rome and Florence to avoid these places being bombed and shelled. The British effort to save enemy art treasures is not very pronounced because Churchill, Portal, et al, gave Harris a free hand in conducting the area campaign. Harris's statements during the war indicate that he did not waste any thoughts on the subject. The most active in saving art treasures were Americans from the president down to museum directors and people of scholarly inclinations. In the autumn of 1942 William Bell Dinsmoor, the president of the Archeological Institute of America arranged that Roosevelt be made aware of the danger to these cultural assets.14 Roosevelt reacted quickly and before long, in August 1943, he approved the
Node: 25856, Score: -0.006533258381255, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0352.txt, Content: e ongoing campaign did not allow avoidance of such monuments, particularly, if there would be additional personal danger to the air crews- an understandable, but still regrettable statement.7 A commit- tee was set up under Harold McMillan for consultation by the War Office and the Air Ministry, but there are no records that there were any consultations. In Germany it was not until May 1942 that the government decreed that art treasures must be removed or protected from bombs. Galleries were closed and their moveable exhibits stored in castles, vaults, and even individual homes in the countryside. Yet soon these places were not considered safe any longer and the treasures were shipped farther afield to salt mines and dry caves. By the time industry was being relocated underground, the art treasures were moved again to less suit- able places and many suffered irreparable damage. Historical monuments that could not be moved were bricked up. The local party organizations decided what were historical monu- ments and, if metal-cast statues were considered not in line with party ideology, they were removed and melted down. From April 1943 onward photographs were made of all immoveable art works, historical buildings, paintings, etc. Most of these photographs survived the war and were used in the reconstruction and restoration. The question of protecting art treasures from bomb damage became very acute after the Allies landed in Italy. Churchill and Roosevelt became involved. In December 1942 Churchill approved Portal's plan to bomb Palazzo Venezia, Mussolini's home and office. Churchill further approved the delivery of 4,000 tons of bombs per month on Italian cities. By August 1943 Roosevelt pleaded with Churchill to declare Rome an Open City. The Germans under Kesselring had withdrawn their troops from the center to indicate their concern for the Eternal City. Churchill's reply via the foreign secretary to Roosevelt's plea was "to continue to bomb Rome remorselessly."8 Th
Node: 25879, Score: -0.0060331531403583, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0375.txt, Content: fallen apart or were razed for safety reasons. When a bombed-out person or family had been accommo- dated in housing that had escaped the bombing and which was of reasonable construction and comfort, there was immediate- ly after the war a new danger of being dehoused. The victori- ous Allies, particularly the Americans, had told us during the war through the Voice of America that their troops would not requisition private homes to house the occupying troops and their families. That turned out to be merely propaganda. Many houses and apartments, where bombed out families and the original owners were crammed into one room per family, had to be vacated with all furniture remaining in place. Notice was seldom more than fifteen minutes. Compensation of victims or their dependents was spotty and slow in all countries affected by the bombing. The Japanese initiated a big effort to help the victims of the atomic bombs, but there was no help beyond immediate assistance for the victims of LeMay's B-29s.20 There was no assistance or even recognition forthcoming for relatives of the 67,000 French civil- ians killed by Allied bombs.21 Similarly, no support for the dependents of 15,000 Belgians, 5,000 Dutch, and 150 Luxemburgers killed by German bombs, V-weapons, and USAAF and RAF bombs. To the best of my knowledge there are no local, national, or international organizations which represent the civilian vic- tims. Governments and victims are not interested. They only want to forget because the war on the home front is a contro- versial subject. There were many heroes among the victims. But even the media showed scant interest. In Germany there was some compensation for losses incurred during the war. In 1952 a law was passed by the Federal Republic intended to equalize the losses between the citizens. It meant that persons who had suffered little or no losses ; were taxed to compensate people who had been expelled from the eastern provinces of the Reich after the war and people
Node: 25580, Score: -0.0059589260836366, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0076.txt, Content: ver. Britain and France. The Allies were not far behind in retaliating. The men in charge of these carriers of destruction could be called executioners or imple- menters. They executed and implemented carefully concocted plans of how to hurt the enemy's civilian population. In the process they not only implemented a scheme, they executed thousands of people with their bombs. They were thought to be the instigators and implementors of these mass executions. But were they really? All of them were military men and, there- fore, subject to orders from above. As marshal of the RAF, Sir Arthur Harris, the man who sent Bomber Command to Dresden in February 1945, said it was not he who decided to raze that beautiful city, he only followed orders.1 Many a military man blamed for disasters defends himself 69  70 To DESTROY A CITY THE BOMBER PRACTITIONERS with pleading that he only followed orders. Orders there must be, otherwise the entire fabric of the military will fall apart. Although, when Fieldmarshal Keitel, the Wehrmacht chief of staff, pleaded "orders" as his defense at the Nürnberg trials in 1946 he was still found guilty and hanged. But that obviously represents the difference between victor and vanquished. Ironically, Harris made his statement at about the same time Keitel put up his defense. To call the bomber leaders "implementors" appears to be too flat a definition. To call them "executioners" seems too harsh. I prefer to call these men "practitioners." But nobody should ever ask me to call them heroes. The bomber practitioners we will learn about here received their orders from chiefs of staff, who in turn implemented pol- icy decisions taken by their governments or heads of state. In World War I there were people such as Hindenburg and Ludendorff, who ordered General von Höppner to send the German bombers off. On the Allied side, the Independent Air Force, formed as a separate section of the RAF and command- ed by General Trenchard, was directed by the Air Mi
Node: 25880, Score: -0.0051552605208914, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0376.txt, Content: tween the citizens. It meant that persons who had suffered little or no losses ; were taxed to compensate people who had been expelled from the eastern provinces of the Reich after the war and people who had lost everything in air raids. Any assets a dehoused persons might still have as the land of the destroyed home, investments, accounts receivable, etc. were assessed and 50 percent of the value became taxable. For many it became an additional hardship because they had to part with further belongings to pay the tax, which was due no later than 1978 including interest. By 1969 about DM 100 billion had been dis- bursed, about 70 percent to refugees from the East and 30 per- cent for bomb damages.22 For my five cousins and I it meant receipt of the paltry sum of DM 200 each for the ruin of an apartment house our grandmother had owned. For my father it meant a substantial payment because he owned real estate. For the federal government it undoubtedly was a political stunt employing a substan ostantial bureaucracy. Today there are still victims of the bombing war. In 1994 three workers were killed when they drove sheet piling into an unexploded WWII bomb on a property in Berlin.23 How many unexploded bombs still remain undiscovered as a deadly dan- ger in the ground nobody knows.  13 STRATEGIC BOMBING AND INTERNATIONAL LAW If war is an inevitable fact of human life, there must be a Lreturn to the battlefield and civilians must be left unhurt. Civilians in war zones will always suffer, but civilians far removed from the action should not enter the planning of the military. It was the intention of the signatories of the conven- tions in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries to codify the security of populations and their assets. When it came time to negotiate the terms and conditions of the conventions, the participating nations, despite all the humane clamor, had their own interests in mind and to protect. War itself was not to be outlawed. Only the conditio
Node: 25863, Score: -0.0043261040753757, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0359.txt, Content: t assessed whether the men were psychologically capable of enduring the stress. It was not in the planning of the bomber campaign that human nature might suffer from flying and drop- ping bombs on the enemy. To staunch that oversight the RAF invented "Lack of Moral Fibre"(LMF); a catch-all phrase to deal with anything from obvious cowardice to nervous breakdown. Little is written and said about LMF because the applica- tion of it was and is, today in particular, considered controver- sial.9 Airmen were judged LMF if they frequently aborted their missions for any possible reason, if they did not get over the target but bombed at the fringes, if they dropped their bombs into the North Sea to improve the maneuverability of their plane, or if they openly refused to fly. An escape from the rig- ors of bombing missions was to land in neutral Sweden or Switzerland and be interned till the end of the war. The pun- ishment of airmen for LMF was severe. Their flying badges could be removed on parade and they could be assigned to menial jobs such as cleaning toilets; all in front of their com- rades. Officers were required to resign their commissions and lower ranks could be drafted to work in coal mines.10  306 To DESTROY A CITY PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF BOMBING The stigma of being found LMF was a burden on the con- science of all flying personnel. LMF occurred more frequently in Bomber Command than in the other RAF commands. To avoid hysteria the Air Ministry kept casualty figures secret, but looking around on the base would show what was happen- ing.11 Badly shot up planes returning with dead or wounded comrades on board or planes not returning at all put a strain on the crews. What made most members of Bomber Command not succumb to LMF was self-discipline expressed in doing one's duty, or with many the very fear of being declared LMF. but in most cases it was the daredevil attitude that it "cannot happen to me."12 Seemingly LMF was in all RAF personnels' mind, but only 0.2
Node: 25518, Score: -0.0030408431599193, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0014.txt, Content: onal experience and detailed knowledge of one of the worst examples of area bombing. These thoughts went through my mind and my attitude toward the subject changed. In the more than fifty years since it happened I have come to the conclusion that what is needed is an objective assessment. I have long given up the idea of cas- tigating the perpetrators of bombing on both sides of the two world wars. Or condemning the bomber crews or the civilians who mistreated and often even killed downed flyers. It was war time. People were guided by patriotic fervor and were convinced that they were right, the enemy down to the last cit- izen wrong, and that even God was on their side. The bomber leaders were soldiers and all acted in the best tradition of their profession. A soldier's duty is to protect his country and defeat the enemy. There are international agree-  12 To DESTROY A CITY INTRODUCTION ments and there is a code of ethics, all of which define the con- duct of war. Yet war is not merely a matter of fighting. As Clausewitz, the German military philosopher wrote in the early nineteenth century, war is the continuation of diplomacy by other means. In other words, there are political implications for war. War costs money and any responsible soldier leader will attempt to defeat his enemy at the least possible cost. I came to the conclusion that, if at all possible, I would see both sides of the bombing war-the victor's and the van- quished's. The fact that World War I ended over eighty years ago and World War II over fifty years ago, had to influence my writing. There was no point in regurgitating old hatreds and misunderstandings that mankind cannot possibly be proud of. What happened was bad. Both sides committed acts which his- tory has since condemned. The bombing wars from 1914 to 1945 are now history. Terrible history at that. Whether histori- ans prove that the bombing, killing, maiming, and destructions did not win the wars, or whether respected military leaders
Node: 25893, Score: -0.0026647407132993, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0389.txt, Content: mates of German civilians killed vary con- siderably. They range from 410,000, to 570,000, to 800,000.9 In Japan the toll was considerably over 200,000 people killed by the fire raids (nobody knows the exact number) and 112,000 by the atomic bombs.10 These "incidental losses," as Portal called them, cost the loss of 46,268 RAF bomber crew in action11 and 161,000 of USAAF bomber crew in Europe and the Far East.12 The bomber commanders were proud of the results. Many wrote their memoirs, such as Harris and LeMay, after the war and claimed that without their efforts World War II could not have been won by the Allies. They were proud that they had done their duty. In Europe the USAAF even showed off the results to their ground crews who had serviced the bombers in Britain. Over 30,000 ground personnel were flown over Europe to see for themselves what bombing had done.13 Whether the bomber leaders were war criminals is a moot question. The British historian Spaight thinks it is the bombed and not the bombers who will be the judges of whether bomb- ing is justified.14 A telling aspect of how bombing has been judged is Churchill's treatment of the subject in his six volume The Second World War. He devotes a mere fourteen pages to the longest military campaign of the war, which consumed dispro- portional human, financial, and economic resources. Würzburg was bombed because the bombing offensive had long ago become an end in itself, with its own momentum, its own purpose, devoid of tactical or strategic value, indifferent to the needless suffering and destruction it caused. In summarizing the bombing between 1914 and 1945, one can say that the losses and destruction were unnecessary and do not represent a leaf of honor in the annals of mankind. They cannot be excused. The best one can do so many years after the wars is to analyze and assess them, dispatch them to history, and hope and pray that they will never happen again. BIBLIOGRAPHY Allen, George. Images of the Spanish C
Node: 25604, Score: -0.0025817621820876, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0100.txt, Content: inese cities in 1938 and 1939. Information on these raids, aside from western correspondents' reports, are hard to find and history has shown that these reports were often filed on unconfirmed information. The Japanese Naval Air Force flew the raid on Pearl Harbor and was engaged in all the major Pacific theater battles. But nowhere can one find that the Japanese leaders and commanders ever planned strategic bombing campaigns or executed any on a large scale. As said at the beginning of this chapter, the bomber practi- tioners or, perhaps more euphemistically, the bomber barons were all high-ranking officers in their respective armed forces. They all have in common that they wanted the best for their countries at the time of national emergencies. They all hide behind orders from above when it comes to facing the huge losses of innocent people, who supposedly were protected by the Hague or Geneva Conventions or at least should have been protected by common chivalry. To show that aerial bombing can be employed in a profes- sional and military manner one should turn to such eminent leaders as RAF Air Marshal Arthur Tedder and USSR Marshal Zhukov. Tedder was Deputy Allied Supreme Commander under Eisenhower, first in North Africa and later in Western Europe until the end of the war. He is described as an articu- 89 late airman with many interests outside the narrow path of his profession.47 On his insistence Lord Zuckerman's transporta- tion plan was imposed on Harris. Although it cost the lives of many French and Belgian civilians who lived near the rail- ways, the plan restricted German troop and supply move- ments so badly that "Overlord," the Allied landing in Normandy, became a full success. Tedder believed in bombing strategic targets only. After Dresden he said: "Bombing, YES, but massacre, NO."48 Marshal Zhukov, the conqueror of Berlin in 1945, was a Soviet Army commander who expressed his country's view on the application of air power when he told Tedder that th
Node: 25643, Score: -0.0020966677685357, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0139.txt, Content: il. In between were all the clauses about reduction of armaments, repara- tions, new frontiers, and other issues. As for aerial bombing, all treaties had one important clause: Article 198 of the Versailles Treaty forbade Germany to have any aircraft. The other treaties had similar clauses forbid- ding the defeated powers to have aircraft, including Zeppelins. Since the unspoken intention of all treaties was that the world would disarm, outlawing airplanes and thereby bombers seemed a hope for the beginning to a worldwide rejection of area bombing. Disarmament was Point 4 of Wilson's Fourteen. It was unilaterally and contractually imposed on the vanquished. No timely commitment was made by the victors to do the same. If only that had been accom- plished, the death of many civilians in the wars to come could have been prevented. The peace conference officially ended on 21 January 1920, when the Entente Powers and the newly created states had sat- isfied themselves that the world was set for a better future. But was the world ready? The Ottoman Empire, which had collapsed in 1918, was reduced to its heartland, Turkey, with territories in Europe and Asia Minor. The Dardanelles was internationalized under Allied occupation. Cyprus was ceded to Britain. The Dodecanese Islands off the south coast of Turkey were given to Italy. Hedjaz (today's Saudi Arabia), Armenia, Syria, Meso- potamia (today's Iraq), and Palestine became independent states, the latter three after a limited League of Nations man- date. The Kurdistan area was to be subjected to a plebiscite (something that has not happened to this date). Kemal Atatürk emerged in 1919 as a nationalistic strong- man and repudiated the Sèvres Treaty immediately after it was signed. He deposed the sultan, invaded Armenia, and drove the Greeks out of Smyrna. He sent troops into British occupied Mesopotamia causing RAF bombing in response. Atatürk became the father of modern Turkey. Nobody dared to stand up to him and at times t
Node: 25651, Score: -0.00200925934753, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0147.txt, Content: a government."11 BOMBING AND REARMAMENT In Articles 8 and 9 of its constitution the League of Nations recognized the need for disarmament. This objective came as a direct result of the fourth of Wilson's Fourteen Points in which he proposed reduction of armed forces to the lowest 131 level consistent with domestic safety. Domestic safety meant defense and by definition eliminated offensive actions. Having the Covenant of the League in the Châteaux Treaties, and Articles 8 and 9 in the League Constitution gave the Central Powers the assurance that they would not be alone in disarming. The preamble of Part V of the Versailles Treaty specifically indicates that.12 Allied Control Commissions traveled the width and breadth of the loser countries to ensure that they were in com- pliance with disarmament. But soon, either because they mis- trusted each other or they felt the need to codify peace and armaments, conferences were called among the victors to establish ranks. Britain, with its world-spanning navy, was intent not to lose its preeminent status at sea. The 1921-1922 Washington Naval Conference, and later conferences in London on the same subject, set the numbers and sizes of cap- ital ships Britain, France, Italy, Japan, and the United States could have. At the Washington Conference the participating governments recognized that the threat of aerial war still exist- ed and that some codes and limitations had to be set up for its conduct. The participants of the conference condemned aerial warfare, but could not agree on outlawing it. Therefore, a Committee of Jurists was established to draft rules, which would then be ratified. The committee met in The Hague on 11 December 1922, and by 6 February 1923 a proposal for the con- duct of aerial warfare containing sixty-two articles was ready. Article 17 stated that the 1907 Hague Convention on Maritime War would also apply to aerial warfare. That meant no bom- bardment of cities was allowed. Article 22 forbade aerial bo
Node: 25509, Score: -0.0018198038542286, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0005.txt, Content: ny renowned historians presented papers on "The Conduct of the Air War in the Second World War." Strategic and area bombing were extensively covered. The head of the institute expressed hope that the publication of the proceed- ings would contribute to an objective analysis.3 One wonders whether it could, because many prominent authors/historians were not present. There is a psychological need to forget and a moral obliga- tion to remember. There is the human desire to forgive and the ethical necessity to warn of a possible repeat of the disaster. There is above all still great public interest in the subject with the hope that historians can arrive at a verdict. Either condemn it and have the courage to pronounce the perpetrators of it, politicians and military, guilty, or accept it as a fact of modern war, inhuman but unavoidable. The human suffering of both the bombed on the ground 3 and the bombers in the air must be brought into focus. Why could it all happen and why was it implemented beyond all humane considerations? Why was Würzburg, a city in south- ern Germany, destroyed beyond any military necessity and, above all, why is so little known about it? Based on personal experience and considerable research this book tries in small measure to fill the gap in this literature. It is meant to contribute to a better understanding of strategic and area bombing. It is meant to honor the victims, both the civilians and the air crews, who lost their lives. It is meant to fulfill the same purpose as Hoito Edoin's book The Night Tokyo Burned which offers an understanding of the worst air raid and is dedicated to the U.S. airmen and Tokyo citizens killed.4  INTRODUCTION In Europe the Second World War had come to an end. It was 1May 1945 and for any German citizen living in the devastat- ed, conquered, and politically extinct Third Reich the future looked bleak. Very bleak indeed. The war had ended with a crescendo of fighting, killing, destruction, and the arrival of the v
Node: 25744, Score: -0.0009447543443574, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0240.txt, Content: ondemning the Axis grabs of European real estate. Secret staff talks were started with Britain after the fall of France. Three senior U.S. officers visited Bomber Command in August. 109 Capital Royal Navy ships were refitted in American east coast shipyards, a clear breach of neutrality. Over 30,000 British children were brought to the United States to be safe from German bombs. In December 1940 Henry Morgenthau informed the U.S. president that Britain was rapidly running out of cash. There would be no money, no arms deliveries, and Axis victory was rising on the horizon. With no deliveries, U.S. industry would decline, unemployment rise, and American shores would be the next to be attacked. The answer was Lend-Lease, brilliant- ly pushed through Congress. Britain could breathe easy, sup- port, both material and psychological, was increasing. Roosevelt sent envoys to Churchill with secret messages prom- ising help. When the British admiralty wanted to lease U.S. ships to transport troops to the North African theater, the U.S. govern- ment graciously provided U.S. navy ships at no charge.110 On 7 April 1941 all German and Italian ships in U.S. ports were seized to prevent any acts of sabotage. On 11 April 1941 the U.S. security zone was extended to twenty-six degrees west thus bringing almost the whole of the Atlantic from west of Iceland and the Azores under the control of the U.S. Navy.11 No official announcement was made to the Axis Powers causing confrontations between German submarines and the U.S. Navy with the loss of ships and men. After U.S. and British staff talks in March 1941 and the extension of the U.S. security zone, the U.S. Navy took over the guarding of convoys. The U.S. craft operated out of the new bases the United States had acquired from Britain from Newfoundland to the Caribbean  206 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II for the delivery of fifty old U.S. Navy destroyers. All of these operations had to be done clandestinely because they wer
Node: 25749, Score: -0.0002839269322043, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0245.txt, Content: he scribe of the Air Council, had instructed Bomber Command in Bombing Directive No. 22 to focus operations on the morale of the enemy and in particular on the industrial worker.116 The directive lists the targets and even gives the tonnages of bombs required per square mile and number of inhabitants of the major cities to be blasted. At 50 percent effi- ciency, i.e. bombs hitting the target, a square mile needed seven tons and eight hundred inhabitants needed one ton. All Harris had to do was do the soldier's thing and follow orders. Just in case the instructions were not clearly understood, Portal followed them up with a memo to Bottomley the next day stressing that the aiming points were to be built-up areas and not, for instance, dockyards or aircraft factories.117 On 29 October 1942 this was followed up with a directive from the Air Ministry to all RAF home and overseas commands on what could and could not be attacked in enemy occupied countries and what could be bombed in German, Italian, and Japanese home territories. The list of restrictions in enemy occupied countries is understandably long and ambiguous. The instructions on enemy home territories comprised one single paragraph and said: Bomb everything and particularly morale. 118 Improvements were coming and it would have seemed fair to let Peirse prove his mettle as commander. Instead he was replaced by a man who had shown since his early military career that he was a singleminded soldier who would follow orders, stick with them, and implement them beyond any sec- ond thoughts. Indiscriminate bombing had been encouraged some time  210 To DESTROY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 211 before. Air Vice-Marshal Saundby, a senior officer in the Bomber Command staff, instructed Air Vice-Marshal Slessor commander of No. 5 Group, in case the target could not be found to drop bombs on "any good looking built-up area" instead of bringing them home, "to get at least some sort of benefit out of the sortie."119 As early as 13
Node: 25822, Score: -0.0002292690644375, Chunk File: knell_city/chunks/knell_city_0318.txt, Content: the Japanese have been warned, or should there have been a demonstration blast in a remote area? Was the A-bomb necessary at all since the Japanese government had already put out peace feelers to the still neutral USSR? Or was it a means for the United States to impress the Russians, the next adversary just below the horizon? These questions will be debated for a long time to come. Stalin had officially informed the Potsdam Conference on 28 July 1945 that the Soviet government had been approached by the Japanese gov- ernment about a peace proposal originating from the Japanese emperor.282 There would still have been time to stop the bomb- ing on 6 August. American military leaders were mostly against letting the bombs go, because they knew Japan was about to surrender. Arnold, Spaatz, and LeMay, in particular, agitated against it. From their point of view, as commanders of large fleets of bombers, this is understandable. If one single bomber could do what normally took hundreds of aircraft, there would be no need and future for most generals. It would take 210 B-29s delivering 2,100 tons of bombs to produce the same effect as the one bomb from the Enola Gay, the B-29 that released the bomb on Hiroshima. 283 The Twentieth USAAF had a list of cities selected for the atomic bombs. In order of sequence they were Kyoto, Hiroshima, Nigata, and the Kokura Arsenal.284 Mr. Stimson, the minister of war in Roosevelt's cabinet, had visited Kyoto  268 TO DESTROY A CITY > between the wars and insisted that it not be destroyed. Hiroshima took its place and Nagasaki was bombed because the assigned target for the second bomb could not be clearly located. The bombing of Japan was a gruesome affair. As in Europe, many civilians were killed. The estimates run from 330,000 to 900,000 Japanese dead and up to 1.3 million injured.285 The two atom bombs destroyed two entire cities, but the conventional bombing had flattened an area thirty times larger.286 When it came time to sign the armi