Node: 21912, Score: -0.0344519276185699, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0038.txt, Content: ced human conduct (ethics) on a scientific footing. Instead, he discovered that evolution, as seen to work in human communities, spoke with two voices, each enunciating a separate code. He called the one the ‘Code of Amity’, and the other the ‘Code of Enmity’. Of them he wrote:Rude tribes and . . . civilized societies . . . have had continually to carry on an external self-defence and internal co-operation -  external antagonism and internal friendship. Hence their members have acquired two different sets of senti­ments and ideas, adjusted to these two kinds of activity.’2‘A life of constant external enmity generates a code in which aggression, conquest, and revenge, are inculcated, while peace­ful occupations are reprobated. Conversely a life of settled internal amity generates a code inculcating the virtues con­ducing to a harmonious co-operation -  justice, honesty, vera­city, regard for each other’s claims.’3 1  Life and Letters of Herbert Spencer , D. Duncan (1908), p. 62.*  The Principles of Ethics  (1892), Vol. I, p. 822. See also Essays on  Human Evolution,  Sir Arthur Keith (1946), pp. 104-5.*  Ibid., Vol. I, p. 471.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 42 --- ‘As the ethics of enmity and the ethics of amity [arising] in each society in response to external and internal conditions respectively, have to be simultaneously entertained, there is formed an assemblage of utterly inconsistent sentiments and ideas.’1  There thus comes ‘to be two classes of duties and virtues, condemned and approved in similar ways, but one of which [code of Amity] is associated with ethical conceptions, and the other [code of Enmity] not.’2Man is therefore acted upon by a double set of impulses: those supplied by nature which are inbred and have become instinctive, and those acquired by the pressure of his social environment. That the tribe may survive, tribal man must be willing to sacrifice himself in battle, and that the tribe may maintain its cohesion, he must submit himself
Node: 21897, Score: -0.0325686843399576, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0023.txt, Content: eople would not be compelled to limit its fighting by financial calculations. One would see this people subjugate its neigh­bours, and overthrow our feeble constitutions, like the north wind bends the frail reeds.’1Twelve years earlier still -  that is, in 1762 -  the typhoon which was to overwhelm an epoch, and today is still bending the ‘frail reeds’, in embryo lay in the pages of Jean Jacques Rousseau’s (1712-1778) The Social Contract.  It was to be named ‘  e mocracy’, the basis of which -  that all men are equal -  was also the basis of Christianity; and although, since times im­memorial, moralists and philosophers had emphasised it, and never more so than during the first half of the eighteenth century, it was not until Rousseau’s glowing phrase -  ‘Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains’  -  lit the fuse of the bomb of the Age of Reason that an explosion became inevitable.In his earlier work, Discourse on the Origin of Inequality , published in 1753, Rousseau held that in the state of nature man had been a noble savage.2  Now, in his Social Contract , he exalted him to the position of an abstract being unrelated to place, time and circumstances. He opens his argument by ask­ing the question: Why is it that man who is born free is every­where enslaved? His answer is: Because the only legitimate government by natural (divine) right is the rule of the popular majority. The Contract, he writes, was: ‘. . . each of us puts in common his person and his whole power under the supreme direction of the general w ill. . . each giving himself to all, gives himself to nobody’;3  and should an individual refuse to do so, he must be forced by the majority to obey the general will, or, as he says, ‘forced to be free’. By creating the myth that the sovereign will of the people is always right he endowed 1  Oeuvres Militaires de Guibert  (1803), Vol. I, p. 16.2  In an after-dinner conversation with Roederer, on 11th January 1803,  Bonaparte said: ‘I have been especia
Node: 22202, Score: -0.0243176730838201, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0328.txt, Content: ce that was in him ___He liked to fancy himself as a practical,down-to-earth, horse-sense realist-he often used to say  “Winston and Uncle Joe and I get along well together because  we’re all realists ” - and yet his idealism was actually no less  empyrean than Woodrow Wilson’s.’1Should this description be a just one, it would appear that  the American President possessed none of the qualities  demanded by Napoleon to direct the grand operations of war.During the days of the New Deal many Communists saw in it an instrument which would assist them, and Roosevelt col­laborated with them because, through their control of the American Labour Party, they held the balance of power in New York State, and also were a major factor in the industrial states of Ohio, Illinois and Pennsylvania. Although it paid him handsomely when, in 1940, he was elected to a third term, it gathered around him some strange characters, among whom was Harry Hopkins.2  He was a moribund ex-social worker, vain, ambitious and gullible, who on 10th May 1940, was invited to take up his residence in the White House, and a year later was appointed by the President to administer Lend- Lease, a duty which endowed him with the authority of de facto  Deputy President.3  The President, writes General Albert 1  The White House Papers of Harry L. Hopkins , Robert E. Sherwood  (English edition, 1948), Vol. I, p. 10. The American edition is entitled  Roosevelt and Hopkins: An Intimate History .2  Churchill rated him ‘high among the Paladins’, and Representative  Dewey Short of Missouri called him ‘the White House Rasputin’.8  See Sherwood, Vol. I, p. 267.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 272 --- C. Wedemeyer, was ‘surrounded by intriguers and soft-on- communism eggheads who enjoyed his wife’s patronage and were given formidable power by Harry Hopkins and others in the President’s confidence.’ Another dupe was General George C. Marshall, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army, an honest and simple man who, Wedemey
Node: 22182, Score: -0.022530415960448, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0308.txt, Content: about them [the  Russians]. I knew that they accepted no moral code and studied their  own interest only’ (Ibid., Vol. I, p. 351). Why then had he so ardently  courted them?  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 256 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 5 3 Churchill said: ‘I cannot forecast to you the action of Russia.  It is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma.’1  Refer­ence to any work on Soviet foreign policy would have informed  him that it had remained constant for over twenty years -  it  was peace at home and trouble abroad.His next diversionary side show he calls ‘my pet’, and he threw himself with ‘increasing confidence into this daring adventure.’2  It was the Narvik expedition of April 1940; it ended in a fiasco, tumbled the Chamberlain administration, and, on 10th May 1940, Churchill became Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. In this dual capacity the conduct of Britain’s part in the war passed into his hands.Churchill was a man cast in the heroic mould, a berserker  ever ready to lead a forlorn hope or storm a breach, and at his  best when things were at their worst. His glamorous rhetoric,  his pugnacity, and his insistence on annihilating the enemy  appealed to human instincts, and made him an outstanding  war leader, which was the greatest of his contributions to his  country. Nevertheless, as Napoleon once said:‘The first quality in a general in chief is to have a cool head,  which receives exact impressions, which never gets excited or  dazzled by good or bad news.. . .  There are men who, due to  their physical and moral constitution, create a picture out of  everything. . .  nature has not intended them either to com­mand armies or to direct the grand operations of war.’3  How far Churchill fulfilled these requirements may be  judged from what his closest collaborators had to say of him:  ‘You cannot judge the P.M. by ordinary standards’, writes  General Lord Ismay, ‘he is not in the least like anyone that  you or I have ever met. H
Node: 21898, Score: -0.0222513275067987, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0024.txt, Content: people is always right he endowed 1  Oeuvres Militaires de Guibert  (1803), Vol. I, p. 16.2  In an after-dinner conversation with Roederer, on 11th January 1803,  Bonaparte said: ‘I have been especially disgusted with Rousseau since  I have seen the East. Savage man is a dog.’ (Oeuvres de Roederer , 1854,  Vol. I ll, p. 461.)*  The Social Contract  Bk. I, Chap. VI.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 31 --- 28 THE CONDUCT OF WAR the nation-state with a quasi-divine sanction, and provided democratic revolutionaries with their most powerful weapon. Although he held that the organic idea of the State was hostile to organized Christianity, because the latter separates politics from religion, and thereby destroyed the unity of the State, he was aware that organized religion was a social necessity. In the place of Christianity he proposed a purely civil profession of faith, the articles of which the sovereign people would determine ‘not exactly as dogmas of religion, but as sentiments  of sociability , without which it is impossible to be a good citizen or a faithful subject.’1Although his assumption that popular majorities are always able to discern the general interest and are willing to pursue it is patently a fallacious one,2  it flattered the popular imagina­tion and unthinkingly was accepted as an article of faith. Thus the jinni of popular absolutism was released from the mon- archial brass bottle, to oust the absolutism of kings, to rebuild the tower of Babel, and to transform the auction-room of war into a slaughter-house.In justice to Rousseau, it should be borne in mind that he drew his ideal from the classical city states, and held that popular majority rule was only workable in a country of limited size and population; he never suggested that it should be applied to so large a one as France.When summing up his chapter on ‘Philosophy of the Revo­lution’, Mr P. F. Willert writes:‘The Revolution was an attem pt to apply in practice the principle of individua
Node: 22201, Score: -0.0208046098011237, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0327.txt, Content: er of many of his speeches, depicts him as follows:‘Frances Perkins has written of Roosevelt that he was “the  most complicated human being I ever knew”. Henry Morgen-  thau, Jr., has written: “Roosevelt is an extraordinary person  to describe.. . .  Weary as well as buoyant, frivolous as well  as grave, evasive as well as frank. . .  a man of bewildering  complexity of moods and motives.” Miss Perkins and Morgen-  thau were members of Roosevelt’s Cabinet and knew him far  longer and better than I did. But I saw enough of him, particu­larly in hours when he was off parade and relaxed, to be able  to say “Amen!” to their statements on his complexity. Being  a writer by trade, I tried continually to study him, to try to  look beyond his charming and amusing and warmly affectionate  surface into his heavily forested interior. But I could never 1  The Tragedy of Europe: A Day by Day Commentary on the Second  World War  (in five volumes), Francis Neilson (1940), Vol. I, p. 156.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 271 --- 268 THE CONDUCT OF WAR really understand what was going on in there. His character  was not only multiplex; it was contradictory to a bewildering  degree. He was hard and he was soft. At times he displayed a  capacity for vindictiveness which could be described as petty,  and at other times he demonstrated the Christian spirit of  forgiveness and charity in its purest form. He could be a  ruthless politician, but he was the champion of friends and  associates who for him were political liabilities, conspicuously  Harry Hopkins, and of causes which apparently competent  advisers assured him would constitute political suicide. He  could appear to be utterly cynical, worldly, illusionless, and  yet his religious faith was the strongest and most mysteriousforce that was in him ___He liked to fancy himself as a practical,down-to-earth, horse-sense realist-he often used to say  “Winston and Uncle Joe and I get along well together because  we’re all realists
Node: 22139, Score: -0.0198263227616495, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0265.txt, Content: onstructive ideas what­ever for clothing with the flesh of life the commandments he had thundered from the White House.’3In 1918, Clemenceau was a disillusioned old man of seventy-  seven. When he heard that Germany had accepted the terms  of the Armistice, he exultantly exclaimed: ‘Enfin! II est arrive  ce jour que f  attends depuis un demi-siecle! II est arrivee le jour  de la revanche!'*  He was the apotheosis of French tribalism,  but no hypcrite. His policy was to put back the clock and undo  all that Germany had accomplished since 1870. He ‘stood  throughout the Peace Conference’, writes C. Howard Ellis, ‘for  nothing but hatred and fear, and a cynically frank desire to  cripple and fetter [Germany] for ever.’6  It was he and not the  President who dominated the Conference, and to him the  President’s Charter was sentimental humbug: ‘ Quatorze com - mandementsV  he contemptuously exclaimed, ‘c'est un peu raide!  Le bon Dieu n'en avail que dixF  And to the misfortune of  France, out of his slogan ‘La guerre est finie, la guerre continue ’• emanated the catastrophe of 1940. 1  Ibid., p. 53.2  Half a century earlier, his predecessor, Abraham Lincoln, had fought  one of the most terrible of wars to save his country from this ‘imperative  principle’.8  Keynes, op. cit., p. 39.4  Cited in Furst Billow Denkwilrdigkeiten  (1931), Yol. I ll, p. 302.6  The Origin, Structure and Working of the League of Nations  (1928),  p. 43.• Cited by Arthur Bryant, op. cit., p. 45.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 223 --- 220 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Lloyd George was firstly an artist of power, and secondly an  artisan of peace. He knew what peace demanded, but because  of the enthusiasm awakened by the ending of the war, he  placed power first, and decided to appeal to the country, and  on the tidal wave of popular emotionalism seek an unassailable  mandate.On the day following the Armistice, in an address to his Liberal supporters he said: ‘No settlement which contravenes the princ
Node: 22146, Score: -0.0194626343053674, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0272.txt, Content: ed up enough collective intelligence and good will to make something of it.’  Neverthe­less, in the final reckoning, it was not Wilson, nor Clemenceau, 1  Ibid., p. 155.*  A  Revision of the Treaty , John Maynard Keynes (1922), p. 180.8  The Twenty Years of Crisis  (1940), p. 294.4  By the terms of the Treaty of Trianon, Hungary was deprived of  71 per cent, of her territory, and 3,000,000 ethnic Hungarians were  incorporated in Czechoslovakia, Rumania and Yugoslavia. By those of  St. Germain, Austria was reduced to some two-thirds of her German­speaking territory, was prohibited to unite with Germany, and 3,500,000  of her German subjects were assigned to Czechoslovakia, and 230,000  to Italy.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 228 --- THE TWENTY YEARS ARMISTICE 2 2 5 nor Lloyd George who compounded the betrayal, it was, as  Colonel Nickerson points out, hysterical and irresponsible  mass democracy, which came into full bloom during the war.  ‘Without democracy’, he writes, ‘although a certain amount  of war will always be inevitable, nevertheless its ferocity and  destruction might be kept within bounds by setting up govern­ment independent of election and therefore not compelled  alternately to rouse popular passion and to cringe before it.’1  Obscured even from the would-be destroyers of democracy,  from now on ‘independence of election’  became a hidden  tendency in the Weltanschauung  which emanated from out the  war. Blindly human events began to swing toward a new  political lodestar which, although invisible, would seem to be  guiding the world bark of mutinous nations toward a new  international order, whether better or worse was impossible  to say. 2 • Adolf Hitler During the war, the Allied nations had been told that it was  being fought to make the world safe for democracy; but when  it was won they found that the opposite was true. Instead of  being safe, democracy was left so rickety that one dictator  after the other emerged from out of the chaos
Node: 22204, Score: -0.018746805182362, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0330.txt, Content: Board, the Board of  Economic Warfare, the Office of Price Administration, the Office of War  Information, and many other government agencies.’  ( The Twenty- Year  Revolution from Roosevelt to Eisenhower,  Chesley Manly (1954), p. 42.)*  Wedemeyer, p. 348. See also Masters of Deceit,  J. Edgar Hoover  (1958).* Sherwood, Vol. I, p. 133.*  Wedemeyer, p. 341.*  Sherwood, Vol. I, p. 183.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 269  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 273 --- 2 7 0 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ‘his greatest fear then and subsequently was of a negotiated  peace.’1  A year later, when Hitler invaded Russia, at Hopkins’  own request he sent him on a mission to Moscow. At the same  time Roosevelt announced the freezing of Japanese assets and  credits in the U.S.A., and placed an embargo on the export  of aviation fuel and machine tools to Japan. This was a  declaration of economic war.Hopkins arrived in Moscow on 31st July 1941, and was enthralled by Stalin.2  Like Churchill, he blindly espoused the Soviet cause, and forthwith, without any reservations, started the flow of lend-lease goods to Russia. General John R. Deane, head of the U.S. Military Mission in Moscow, writes that Hopkins carried out the Russian aid programme ‘with a zeal which approached fanaticism.’8  His mission fulfilled, he left Moscow to join the President and Churchill at the Atlantic Conference, held in Placentia Bay, Newfoundland, between 8th and 13th August.At it, with reference to Japan, Churchill states: ‘I told his circle [the President’s] that I would rather have an American declaration of war now and no supplies for six months than double the supplies and no declaration. When this was repeated to him [to Roosevelt]. . .  he went so far as to say to me, “I may never declare war; I may make war. If I were to ask Congress to declare war they might argue about it for three months”.’4  Further, he promised Churchill that ‘the United States, even if not herself attacked, would come into the war in the Fa
Node: 21921, Score: -0.0175911326759958, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0047.txt, Content: em of their comrades’, he said, ‘should not be members of the French army.’5  His appeal to them was not through their pockets; ‘Bravery’, he wrote, ‘cannot be bought with money.’6  Instead, he appealed to their sense of glory: ‘When in the fire of battle I rode down the ranks and shouted: “Unfurl the standards! The moment has at length come!” it made the French soldier leap into action.’ 7  And ‘The 32nd Brigade would have died for me, because after Lonato I wrote: “The 32nd was there, I was calm.” The power of words on men is astonishing.’8  ‘In Italy we were always one against three, but the men had confidence in me. Moral force more so than numbers decides victory’;9  and ‘It is not the number of troops that gives strength to an army, it is their loyalty and good humour.’1 0  He was so sure that personal touch between officers and men was the secret of successful leadership that in an Order of the Day we read: ‘A battalion commander should not rest until he has become acquainted with every detail; after six months in command he should even know the names and abilities of all the officers and men of his 1  O’Meara (English edit., 1822), Vol. II, p. 377.*  Memorial deSainte-Htttne,  Comte de Las Cases (1823), Vol. II, p. 210.8  Corresp ., X, No. 8832.8  Ibid., X XX, p. 176.8  Ibid., I, No. 925.8  Ibid., IX, No. 7527.' Ibid., X X X I, p. 416.8  Gourgaud, Vol. II, p. 109.• Ibid., Vol. II, p. 119.1 0  Lettres Intdites de NapoUon lex , Leon Lecestre (1897), No. 155.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 50 --- NAPOLEONIC WARFARE 47 battalion.’1  The health of his men deeply concerned him: ‘Sickness is the most dangerous of enemies’,2  he wrote, and ‘It would be better to fight the most bloody of battles than to place the troops in an unhealthy locality.’3  Of his men in general he said: ‘If courage is the first quality of the soldier, perseverance is the second.’4  And when in St. Helena Madame de Montholon asked him which were the best troops? ‘Madame’, he replied,
Node: 22287, Score: -0.0167032378900869, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0413.txt, Content: hes of the peoples  concerned.Third, they respect the rights of all peoples to choose the  form of government under which they will live, and they wish  to see sovereign rights and self-government restored to those  who have been forcibly deprived of them.Fourth, they will endeavour, with due respect to their  existing obligations, to further the enjoyment by all States,  great or small, victor or vanquished, of access, on equal terms,  to the trade and to the raw materials of the world which are  needed for their economic prosperity.Fifth, they desire to bring about the fullest collaboration  between all nations in the economic field, with the object of  securing for all improved labour standards, economic advance­ment, and social security.Sixth, after the final destruction of the Nazi tyranny they  hope to see established a peace which will afford to all nations  the means of dwelling in safety within their own boundaries,  and which will afford assurance that all the men in all the  lands may live out their lives in freedom from fear and want.Seventh, such a peace should enable all men to traverse the  high seas and oceans without hindrance.Eighth, they believe that all the nations of the world, for 838  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 342 --- APPENDIX III 339 realistic as well as spiritual reasons, must come to the abandon­ment of the use of force. Since no future peace can be main­tained if land, sea, or air armaments continue to be employed by nations which threaten, or may threaten, aggression out­side of their frontiers, they believe, pending the establishment of a wider and more permanent system of general security, that the disarmament of such nations is essential. They will likewise aid and encourage all other practicable measures which will lighten for peace-loving peoples the crushing burden of armaments.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 343 --- A P P E N D IX  IV The United Nations Pact A  joint Declaration by the United States of America,
Node: 22200, Score: -0.0165247996062128, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0326.txt, Content: Soviet-German Pact of 23rd August 1939 was first an­nulled, and that all Polish prisoners and deported Poles in Russian hands were released.Thirdly, he should have realized that there could be neither  moral nor political advantage in substituting Stalin for Hitler,  and were this to happen, not only would the war be politically  lost, but the balance of power in Europe would pass into  Soviet hands.His partner in this negation of statesmanship was the  American President. 1  The Second World War , Vol. IV, p. 300.2  See Ritter, p. 212.8  See infra  Section 7.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 270 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 267 5 'President Roosevelt's anti-Japanese and  pro-Russian Policies On 18th October 1939, an American historian, who for long had contemplated the ways of the world, noted in his war diary:‘So far as England is concerned, the war is not now a naval  affair! So far as France is concerned, it is not now a military  affair! It has become a war of systems. It is Stalinism versus  Europeanism, and the sooner the directors of the war forces  of the Western Allies realize it, the better it will be for them.  There is now taking place in Europe something that is more  sinister than war.’1This remarkable prevision, that the war so recently un­leashed transcended the physical struggle and was a contest  between two antagonistic cultures, the free Western way of  life and Asiatic despotism, was unseen by Mr Churchill and  President Roosevelt. But while in the last lap of the war, when  it was no longer possible for him to change the course he had  steered, the former became aware of it, the latter never did:  this was the tragedy of Europe. What manner of man was the  American President?Robert E. Sherwood, one of his close collaborators and the  writer of many of his speeches, depicts him as follows:‘Frances Perkins has written of Roosevelt that he was “the  most complicated human being I ever knew”. Henry Morgen-  thau, Jr., has written: “Roosev
Node: 22116, Score: -0.0149741467962889, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0242.txt, Content: nd March 1923, and entitled ‘Better Fewer, but Better’,1  Lenin is a disillusioned man.‘Our experience of the first five years’, he says, ‘has fairly  crammed our heads with disbelief and scepticism. These  qualities assert themselves involuntarily when, for example,  we hear people dilating at too great length and too flippantly on  “proletarian” culture. We would be satisfied with real bourgeois  culture for a start.. .. The situation as regards our machinery  of state is so deplorable, not to say disgusting, that we must  first of all think very carefully as to how to eliminate its  defects.. . .  We must come to our senses in tim e.. . .  We must  think of testing the steps forward which we proclaim to the  world every hour, which we take every minute, and which  later on we find, every second, to be flimsy, superficial and  not understood.. . .  We have been bustling for five years  trying to improve our state apparatus, but it has been mere  bustle; and these five years have proved that bustle is useless,  even futile, even harmful. This bustle created the impression  that we were doing something; as a matter of fact, it only  clogged up our institutions and our brains. It is high time  things were changed. We must follow the rule: “Little, but  good”. We must follow the rule: “Better get a good staff in  two or even three years, than work in haste without getting  any at a ll.. . . ” Everybody knows that a more badly organized  institution than our Workers’  and Peasants’ Inspection does  not exist, and that under present conditions nothing can be  expected from the People’s Commissariat.. . .  If we cannot  arm ourselves with patience, if we are not prepared to devote 1  Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 844-55.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 204 --- several years to this task, we had better not start on it at all.’The dreamer had awakened to find that the alluring vision  of the Marxian Beatitude, which he so fanatically had believed  in and so frantically had qu
Node: 22236, Score: -0.0140612410024326, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0362.txt, Content: on of empty ruined cities.’2  The out­come was that on 14th April, two days after President Roosevelt’s death, Mr Harry S. Truman, who had succeeded him, instructed Eisenhower to halt his troops on the Elbe, and abandon Berlin and Prague to the Russians. The former was occupied by them on 2nd May, and the latter on the day following the cessation of hostilities at midnight 8th-9th May.‘For the United States and Great Britain, the fruits of the battle of Normandy were apples of Sodom, which turned to ashes as soon as they were plucked. Hitler and his legions were destroyed, and in their stead stood Stalin and his Asiatic hordes. Because “Victory -  victory at all costs” had been the Western Allies aim, and because of their insistence that “it was to be the defeat, ruin, and slaughter of Hitler, to the exclusion of all other purposes, loyalties and aims”, Stalin, the supreme realist, whose strategy had throughout kept in step with his policy, had been able to impose his messianic cult upon Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, part of Finland, Poland, eastern and central Germany, a third of Austria, Yugoslavia, Hungary, Rumania, and Bulgaria. Vienna, Prague and Berlin, the vertebrae of Europe, were his, and, except for Athens, so was every capital city in eastern Europe. The western frontier of Russia had been advanced from the Pripet Marshes to the Thuringerwald, a distance of 750 miles, and, as in the days of Charlemange, the Slavs stood on the Elbe and the Bohmerwald. A thousand years of European history had been rolled back.’3 1  The Second World War,  Vol. VI, p. 370.*  Report of the Supreme Commander to the Combined Chiefs of Staff on  the Operations in Europe of the Allied Expeditionary Force, 6 June 1944  to 8 May 1945  (1946), p. 181.*  Cited from the author’s The Decisive Battles of the Western World  (1956), Vol. Ill, p. 589.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 300 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 9 7 10  • The Tactical Grand Climacteric The great naval battle of
Node: 21914, Score: -0.0139291084628435, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0040.txt, Content: ainst outsiders it is meritorious to kill, plunder, practise blood revenge and steal women . . . ’, whereas the opposite holds good for the in-group.1This, in various contexts, has been know for centuries. For instance: Xenophon makes Cyrus object to his father’s advice that a general must prove himself to be an arch-plotter, a cheat, a thief, and a robber, so that he may overreach his opponent at every turn. When Cyrus objects that this is con­trary to the lessons he had been taught on how to behave, his father replies: ‘Those lessons were for friends and fellow citizens, and for them they stand good; but for your enemies -  do you not remember that you were taught to do much harm.’2  Plato in his Republic  makes Potemarchus reply to Socrates’  question ‘What is justice?’  -  ‘Justice is helping friends and harming enemies.,’3  Hobbes in his Leviathan  states: ‘Force, and Fraud, are in warre the two Cardinall vertues’,4  which implies that in peacetime they are two cardinal vices. And David Hume in his Essays and Treatises  writes: In war ‘we recall our sense of justice and sympathy and permit injustice and enmity to take their place.’5  A glance through almost any newspaper pub­lished during the First and Second World Wars will convince the most sceptical reader that this is still so.The most dangerous foes of primitive man were those of his own species. Today man is man’s only foe, and homo homini  lupus  is as true as it was half a million years ago. War and the chase still make their old appeal; this is why instinctively every small boy loves a gun, and every adult is thrilled by a murder.War to the men of the Stone Age was not the business of a selected few, it was the occupation of every adult male, and it is still so, with the addition of numerous women. In savage warfare, the aim was to kill all enemy males and abduct the women and children. This has been improved upon by the invention of weapons which make discrimination between the victims impossible -  s
Node: 22192, Score: -0.0138533454057817, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0318.txt, Content: thrown into confusion by a host of ill-considered panic  measures. Crazy obstructions were erected across the roads;  signposts were uprooted, and the names of railway stations,  inns, villages and towns were obliterated. Further, on 18th  May, Churchill instructed his Chief of Staff that ‘Actions  should . . .  be taken against Communists and Fascists, and  very considerable numbers should be put in protective. . .  internment.’3  This led to wholesale arrests; hundreds of people,  whose sole ‘crime’  was that they considered the war a blunder,4 1  Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 41-42.2  The Private Diaries of Paul Baudouin  (English edition, 1948), p. 33.8  The Second World War , Vol. II, p. 49.4  Mr P. C. Loftus told the House of Commons of one man who was  arrested because he was a member of Sir Oswald Mosley’s British Union  of Fascists. His story was: ‘He happened to own a motor-boat and was  on the Thames at the time of Dunkirk when the wireless appeal came  over. He volunteered to go, and rescued about 450 men, his motor-boat  being fairly well plastered with machine-gun bullets. On his return to  England he was arrested.’ ( Parliamentary Debates , 5th Series, Vol. 373,  col 983.)  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 264 --- were held in custody without charge or trial, and in conditions  which can only be described as barbarous. One internee, a  German-Jew refugee, who previously had been interned at  Dachau, stated that conditions were so much worse at the  Ascot Concentration Camp than in Germany, he would rather  spend six months in Dachau than one at Ascot.1On 13th June, four days before Marshal Petain announced that France had asked for an armistice, Churchill despatched a ‘message of good cheer’  to the French Government, in which he proposed a fraternal and indissoluble union of the peoples of the British and French Empires.2  Three weeks later he instructed Admiral Sir James Somerville to sink the French warships at Oran and Mers-el-Kebir.3  With this ‘mourn
Node: 22203, Score: -0.013450505542872, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0329.txt, Content: e given formidable power by Harry Hopkins and others in the President’s confidence.’ Another dupe was General George C. Marshall, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army, an honest and simple man who, Wedemeyer says: ‘became an easy prey to crypto-Communists, or Communist-sympathizing sycophants, who played on his vanity.’1  Thus it came about that Stalin and his henchmen ‘were all along well informed of American atti­tudes and intentions by Communist stooges in Washington . . .  some government bureaus2  were infiltrated both by Communist sympathizers and Soviet agents and . . .  U.S. policies, plans, and official attitudes were not only influenced by these infil­trators but also promptly reported back to Moscow.’3This does not seem in any way to have perturbed the Presi­dent, because, as Sherwood writes: ‘The Roosevelt doctrine was that if we were to get into the war we should fight it as far from our own shores as possible and with the greatest number of allies, regardless of ideology.’4  This may account for General Wedemeyer’s remark that, when as late as March 1945, he informed Roosevelt that he felt certain the Communists would cause trouble in China as soon as the war was ended, ‘He did not seem to understand what I was talking about.’5All his hatred was focused on Hitler. ‘So far as he was  concerned’, said Hopkins, ‘there is absolutely nothing impor­tant in the world but to beat Hitler.’6But it was not until the collapse of France that the Presi­dent became convinced that, were Britain to meet with disaster, Hitler would attack the Western Hemisphere, and 1  Wedemeyer Reports!  (1958), p. 370.1  ‘They held influential positions in the White House, the State  Department, the Treasury Department, the War Department, the  Office of Strategic Services, the War Production Board, the Board of  Economic Warfare, the Office of Price Administration, the Office of War  Information, and many other government agencies.’  ( The Twenty- Year  Revolution from Roosevelt to Eisenh
Node: 22208, Score: -0.0132984364748378, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0334.txt, Content: s before the Joint Committee on the Pearl  Harbor Attack  (1946), Pt. II, p. 5488.*  The Japanese code had been broken by the U.S. Army & Navy  Intelligence, and throughout the negotiations all messages between  Tokyo and Washington were at once translated and sent to the White  House. It remained broken throughout the war.*  The Second W orld W ar,  Vol. I ll, pp. 539-40.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 276 --- The first of these decisive conferences assembled at Washing­ton in late December 1941; it was code-named ‘Arcadia’. To attend it, Churchill left England on the 12th, and while at sea he received a report from his Foreign Secretary, Mr Anthony Eden, then in Moscow, on his first conversation with Stalin, a statesman who never fell into the error of looking upon war as anything other than an instrument of policy.From Eden’s report Churchill learnt that Stalin had broached  to him what he considered should be the shape of post-war  Europe. He proposed that Germany should be split into a  number of small independent states; that the Baltic States,  Finland and Bessarabia, as they were before Hitler invaded  Russia, should be restored to the Soviet Union; and that the  ‘Curzon Line’ should be accepted as the Soviet-Polish frontier.1The main problems discussed at the Conference were the  conduct of the war and its aim. To direct strategy, the British  Chiefs of Staff, or their representatives, were combined with  the American Joint Chiefs of Staff in a committee known as  the Combined Chiefs of Staff, with its headquarters in Wash­ington. This was an eminently sound decision; but throughout  the war unanimity was frequently impeded by the systems of  control adopted by the two heads of state. While Churchill  looked upon his Chiefs of Staff as the instruments of his will,  Roosevelt treated his as free agents. The result was that,  while much of the time of the British Chiefs of Staff was occupied  in wrangles with Churchill, the Americans were given so fre
Node: 22286, Score: -0.0130230130114751, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0412.txt, Content: mutual guarantees of political independence and territorial integrity to great and small States alike.’ The Four Principles ,  11th February 1918 (1) ‘Each part of the final settlement must be based upon the essential justice of that particular case.’(2) ‘Peoples and provinces must not be bartered about from sovereignty to sovereignty as if they were chattels or pawns in a game.’(3) ‘Every territorial settlement must be in the interests of the populations concerned; and not as a part of any mere adjustment or compromise of claims among rival states.’(4) ‘All well-defined national elements shall be accorded the utmost satisfaction that can be accorded them without introducing new, or perpetuating old, elements of discord and antagonism.’ The Five Particulars, 27 th September 1918 1) The first insisted on justice to friends and enemy alike.2) The second denounced all separate interests.3) The third provided that there should be no alliances within the body of the League.4) The fourth forbade all economic combinations between League members.5) The fifth reaffirmed the prohibition against secret Treaties.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 341 --- A P P E N D IX  I I I The Atlantic Charter Joint Declaration hy the President and the Prime  Minister ,  12th August 1941 The President of the United States of America and the Prime  Minister, Mr Churchill, representing His Majesty’s Govern­ment in the United Kingdom, being met together, deem it  right to make known certain common principles in the national  policies of their respective countries on which they base their  hopes for a better future for the world.First, their countries seek no aggrandisement, territorial or  other.Second, they desire to see no territorial changes that do  not accord with the freely expressed wishes of the peoples  concerned.Third, they respect the rights of all peoples to choose the  form of government under which they will live, and they wish  to see sovereign rights and self-government res
Node: 22229, Score: -0.012957363720366, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0355.txt, Content: Yugoslavia, and will denounce  everything done to the contrary as “undemocratic.” ’ (The Second  World War , Vol. V, p. 422.)• Ibid., Vol. V, p. 852.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 294 --- parts, each self-governed; but that Kiel, the Kiel Canal, Ham­burg, the Ruhr and the Saar should be administered by the United Nations. Churchill considered that the root evil lay in Prussia, the Prussian Army, and the General Staff. He would seem to have been oblivious of the fact that, throughout, the General Staff had been antagonistic to the Hitler regime. He wanted to see Prussia isolated, Bavaria, Wurttemberg, the Palatinate, Saxony and Baden detached, and Bavaria, Austria and Hungary formed into a non-aggressive confederation. Stalin disagreed with the Danubian combination, and the President fully agreed with Stalin.(6) Japan. Stalin assured the President that the United States need have no fear about the Pacific, since the Soviet Union would declare war on Japan once Hitler had been defeated. This so pleased the President and his Chiefs of Staff that, in gratitude and without Churchill’s knowledge the former dis­cussed with Stalin the question of a common front against the British, and proposed that he and Stalin should back Chiang Kai-shek against Churchill on the question of Hong Kong and Shanghai. Further, he mentioned to Stalin ‘the possibility that Russia might have access to the port of Dairen in Man­churia’,1  which, incidentally, was Chinese territory.In the end little was formally agreed; nevertheless, the seeds  of Europe’s ruin were sown.‘Pushed by the Russians and pulled by the Americans’, writes Chester Wilmot, ‘the overall strategy of the Western Powers had been diverted away from the area of Soviet aspirations. Even before Teheran it was inevitable that the enforcement of “Unconditional Surrender” upon Germany would leave the U.S.S.R. the dominant power in Eastern Europe, but it was by no means inevitable that the Russian influence would extend deep