Node: 22013, Score: 0.0475402487286559, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0139.txt, Content: sition of her corps of staff officers . . . ours cannot be compared with it. . . . The composition of the Prussian staff will, in the next war, constitute the most formidable element of superiority in favour of the Prussian Army.’1In 1870 the Prussians were faced with a breech-loading rifle, the French chassepot sighted to 1,200 meters. It was greatly superior to the Prussian needle-gun; but the French bronze muzzle-loading field guns were inferior to the Prussian iron breech-loaders, and the expert use the Prussians made of them more than compensated for the inferiority of their rifles. A weapon the French might have made better use of was Reffeye’s mitrailleuse , a machine gun of twenty-five barrels, axis grouped and sighted to 1,200 metres, which could fire at 1  Military Reports,  pp. 48, 56.MOLTKE, FOCH, AND BLOCH 119  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 123 --- 120 THE CONDUCT OF WAR the rate of 125 rounds a minute. In order to keep it a dead secret, it was not issued to the army until a few days before the outbreak of hostilities, and, according to Reffeye, it was then used ‘in a perfectly idiotic fashion’, which is not surprising as no troops had been trained to use it.The French rifle tactics were based on long-range volley fire, so as to take full advantage of the superior range of the chassepot; next to dig in and await the enemy’s approach, and lastly to overwhelm him with fire. Moltke met these tactics by assuming the tactical defensive-offensive: first, he held his enemy in front and next he attacked him in flank. Every tactical group from the company upwards was instructed to remain always on the offensive, so as to allow the French no breathing space: to hold by fire, attack by fire, manoeuvre under cover of fire, and outflank by fire; in short, never cease to fire until the battle was won.Throughout the war neither side succeeded in taking a position by a frontal attack, nor did either side succeed in bringing troops in close order into the firing
Node: 22190, Score: 0.0449453079073116, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0316.txt, Content: onsible for formulating the plans of the allied armies are incapable of functioning in this new and astonishing lay-out.’1 m a y  22: ‘Our one and only armoured division was landed in  France yesterday.. . .  Where are the German infantry? Where  are the main bodies of the armies? Are we right in estimating  them to be 100 miles behind this thunderbolt of 5,000 tanks?’  [The actual number was less than half this figure.]Rumour is a swift traveller, and panic grows with distance. At 7.30 a.m. on 15th May Churchill was awakened by the ring of his bedside telephone; the voice was Reynaud’s. ‘We have been defeated’, it said. ‘The front is broken near Sedan; they are pouring through in great numbers with tanks and armoured cars.’  Dumbfounded, Churchill replied: ‘All experience shows that the offensive will come to an end after a while. I remember the 21st of March, 1918. After five or six days they had to halt for supplies, and the opportunity for counter-attack is presented.’  But in March 1918, the Germans had no tanks, this had skipped Churchill’s memory, and he excuses himself by writing: ‘Not having had access to official information for so many years, I did not comprehend the violence of the revo­lution effected since the last war by the incursion of a mass of fast-moving heavy armour.’2  He might have found all he needed in his remarkable memorandum ‘Variants of the Offen­sive’  of World War I; but the last place to seek it was in official sources.On 16th May, he felt it imperative for him to go to Paris, and when, at 4 p.m. he landed at Le Bourget, the officer who met him told him that ‘the Germans were expected in Paris in a few days at most.’  He drove to the Quai d’Orsay to meet Reynaud, Daladier and Gamelin, and when the latter had 1  It is of interest to note that, during the German advance, broadcasts  in French were sent out in a continuous stream by the German Director  of Radio. They caused panic and confusion among the French civil  population, and led
Node: 21940, Score: 0.0431127776969271, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0066.txt, Content: ’s theories to those only which have influenced wars subsequent to his day. 2 •  What is War? Clausewitz likens war ‘to a duel on an extensive scale’ (I, p. I),1  and compares it with a struggle between two wrestlers. From this he infers that war ‘is an act of violence intended to com­pel our opponent to fulfil our will’  (I, p. 2) -  violence is the means, and ‘the compulsory submission of the enemy to our will is the ultimate object  (I, p. 2). Violence must be pushed ‘to its utmost bounds’  (I, p. 4), and ‘the disarming or over­throw of the enemy must always be the aim of Warfare’  (I, p. 5). He scoffs at the old idea of ‘War without spilling blood’, calls it ‘a real business for Brahmins’  (I, p. 287),2  and considers that ‘. .. to introduce into the philosophy of W ar. . .  a principle of moderation would be an absurdity’  (I, p. 3). Therefore, he writes, ‘Let us not hear of Generals who conquer without bloodshed’  (I, p. 288).This insistence on violence as an imperative has misled many of his disciples, who have accepted it in its absolute sense. Nevertheless, once he has freed himself from the toils of his philosophy, Clausewitz goes out of his way to explain that war is not made ‘with an abstraction but with a reality’  (I, p. 139); that ‘the absolute . . .  nowhere finds any sure base in the calculations in the Art of War’, and that ‘War in all branches of human activity [is] most like a gambling game’  (I, p. 20). ‘The Art of War’, he writes ‘has to deal with living 1  References are to volumes and pages of the English edition of On War , revised by Colonel F. N. Maude and published in 1908.1  In I, p. 229 he writes ‘ . .. in these feints, parades, half and quarter  thrusts of former Wars, they find the aim of all theory, the supremacy  of mind over matter, and modem Wars appear to them mere savage  fisticuffs, from which nothing is to be learnt, and which must be regarded  as mere retrograde steps towards barbarism.’  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page
Node: 21995, Score: 0.0418985449949362, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0121.txt, Content: same blunder and with identical results.Throughout the war, the spade increasingly became the complement of the rifle, until, in 1864, every battle fought between Grant and Lee in the Wilderness of Virginia was an entrenched one,1  and when Grant neared Petersburg and Richmond, both sides became so extensively entrenched that siege warfare set in and lasted for nearly ten months. Even in Sherman’s simultaneous advance on Atlanta, the mobility of his campaign was due, not only to his skill in manoeuvring 1  Colonel Theodore Lyman writes: ‘The great feature of this campaign  is the extraordinary use made of earthworks’  Meade's Headquarters  1863-1865  (1922), p. 99.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 108 --- his men, but also in his ability to manoeuvre their entrench­ments with them.A graphic picture is penned by Colonel Lyman of what a battle was like in this war:‘I had taken part’, he writes, ‘in two great battles, and heard the bullets whistle both days, and yet I had scarcely seen  a Rebel  save killed, wounded, or prisoners! I remember even line officers, who were at the battle of Chancellorsville, said: “Why, we never saw any Rebels where we were; only smoke and bushes, and lots of our men tumbling about” ; and now I appreciate this most fully. The great art is to conceal  men; for the moment they show, bang , bang , go a dozen cannon, the artillerists only too pleased to get a fair mark. Your typical “great white plain”, with long lines advancing and manoeuv­ring, led on by generals in cocked hats and by bands of music, exist not for us. Here it is, as I said: “Left face-prim e -  forward!” -  and then wrang , wr-r-ang,  for three or four hours, or for all day, and the poor bleeding wounded streaming to the rear. That is a great battle in America.’1It was the rifle bullet and the spade which made the defensive the stronger form of war, a fact also noted by Lyman: T u t a man in a hole’, he said, ‘and a good battery on a hill behind him, and he will beat
Node: 22042, Score: 0.0417190183375238, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0168.txt, Content: ing them the value of the machine gun became increasingly a p p a re n t;w h ile  cavalry faded out of the picture. The outstanding tactical lessons of the war were:(1) The failure of frontal attacks and the success of en­velopments.(2) The enormous defensive power of field entrenchments and wire entanglements.(3) The increasing deadliness of the machine gun.(4) And most marked of all, the power of quick-firing artillery. In the reports of British officers attached to the Japanese army, Colonel W. H. H. Waters says: ‘By the light of my own experiences I can see no reason why artillery should not often  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 146 --- THE ROOTS OF ARMAGEDDON 148 be the decisive factor, and it certainly was at Tellissu.’1  And Major J. M. Home writes: ‘The greatest impression made on me by all I saw is that artillery is now the decisive arm and that all other arms are auxiliary to it. The importance of artillery cannot be too strongly insisted upon, for other things being equal, the side which has the best artillery will always w in.. . .  So strongly am I convinced of the immense impor­tance of artillery that it seems almost a question for deliberate consideration whether artillery should not be largely increased even a t the expense of the other arm s.. . .‘With the extraordinary development of artillery it begins to appear as though infantry fire action cannot usefully be employed at ranges beyond 600 yards, as beyond that distance the hostile guns ought to be able to prevent infantry from using their rifles.’2 4 •  Discords and Concords From the close of the Franco-Prussian War until his dismissal in March 1890, Bismarck’s policy was to stabilize the peace Germany had won, and to assure it he set out to win the friendship of Russia, and, in order to isolate France, in 1879 he concluded with Austria a defensive treaty known as the Dual Alliance, which two years later was joined by Italy, which was outraged by the French occupation of Tunisia; the Dual
Node: 22057, Score: 0.041475028112285, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0183.txt, Content: duct.pdf --- Page 158 --- This was the problem Count Alfred von Schlieffen set out to solve when, between 1891 and 1906, he was Chief of the German General Staff. Aware that the Russian mobilization would be considerably slower than the French, and correctly anticipating that the bulk of the French forces would assemble on the line M^zieres-Epinal, he decided to oppose the Russians with an army of ten division and local troops (the Eighth Army) in East Prussia while the Austrian armies advanced into Galicia, and deploy seven armies against France on the line Krefeld-Mulhausen, five (First to Fifth) north of Metz, and two (Sixth and Seventh) south of it. The former -  the right w ing-w as to consist of thirty-five and a half corps, seven cavalry divisions, sixteen brigades of Landwehr, and six Ersatz divisions; and the latter -  the left wing -  of five corps and three cavalry divisions. His idea was that, while the left wing gained contact with the French forces in Lorraine and Alsace, first held them and next fell back before them, the right wing, pivoted on Metz, would move forward through Luxemburg, Belgium, and the Dutch Maastricht appendix, then swing south-west with its head advancing west of Paris, and from there wheel eastward, fall on the rear of the French armies engaged with the left wing, and drive them pell-mell into Germany and Switzerland. It was to be a repetition of Frederick’s battle of Leuthen (1757) on a gigantic scale.In 1906 Schlieffen handed his plan over to General Helmuth von Moltke, nephew of the great Moltke, who -  because of his name -  had been selected by the Kaiser to succeed him. In 1914 he was sixty-eight years old, a sick man, and was soused in the staff ideas of his uncle, which he copied slavishly. Although as Chief of the General Staff he was Commander-in- Chief all but in name, once his armies had been deployed, he looked upon his role as no more than that of a starter of a race -  all he had to do was to lower the flag, and th
Node: 22060, Score: 0.0409455330590298, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0186.txt, Content: ur infantry and one cavalry divisions; but no blockade of Germany was resorted to other than the seizure of contraband cargoes allowed by maritime law, in accordance with the Declaration of London. Austria formed six armies; three strong ones to cut off Russian Poland in co-operation with eventual German forces, and three weak ones to operate against Serbia. Russia mobilized eight armies, under the Grand Duke Nicholas; two on the North-West Front to move against East Prussia; four on the South-West Front to advance against the Austrians; and the remaining two, in the first instance, were located to guard the flanks and coasts, with headquarters at St. Petersburg and Odessa. Both the Belgian and Serbian plans contemplated a strict defensive.The five campaigns opened simultaneously, and their fate was as follows:That of France was ruined at the first shock; yet, strange to relate, out of its debris emerged a second plan which put the finishing touch on the ruins of the German western plan, while the German eastern plan, which at the start appeared most hazardous, ended in an overwhelming tactical victory. That of Austria against Serbia was a muddled failure, and that of Russia against Austria was indecisive, although it went far to emasculate Austria for the rest of the war. Of these failures and successes, the one which had the most pronounced in­fluence on the future conduct of the war was the ruin of the Moltke-Schlieffen plan.When, on 14th August, the First German Army, under General von Kluck, was still battering its way through theTHE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 157  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 161 --- 158 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Liege fortifications, Joffre’s immense battle of penetration, known to the French as the ‘Battle of the Frontiers’, was launched, to continue without intermission until 25th August, by when the French were everywhere defeated with crippling losses, which amounted to some 300,000 men killed, wounded and missing. Their defeat threw the Fr
Node: 22084, Score: 0.0397214886091346, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0210.txt, Content: improved machinery and increased numbers used in mass, instead of in driblets, the stalemate might be broken. This is borne out by the German account which said, ‘that their men felt powerless to withstand the tanks’2  —  that is, felt themselves disarmed. Unfortunately this was not appreciated by the British High Command, with the result that, until the Battle of Cambrai, tanks continued to be used in driblets.At Cambrai, the aim was to effect a surprise penetration of four lines of entrenchments in twelve hours without any kind of preliminary artillery preparation. Nine battalions of tanks, in all 378 fighting machines, were to lead two infantry corps over the Hindenburg (Siegfried) Line, the most formidable en­trenched system on the Western Front. It was protected by immensely deep fields of wire, many on the reverse slopes, and to cut them would have required several weeks’  bombardment and scores of thousands of tons of shells.The assault was launched over undamaged ground at 6.20 a.m. on 20th November 1917. The enemy broke back in panic, and by 4 p.m., from a base of 18,000 yards, a penetration of 1  See The Tanks, the History of the Royal Tank Regiment and its  Predecessors,  Captain B. H. Liddell Hart (1959), Vol. I, Chap. II.*  Ibid., Vol. I, p. 75.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 175  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 179 --- 176 THE CONDUCT OF WAR 10,000 yards had been effected. At the Third Battle of Ypres an equivalent advance without penetration took over three months. Eight thousand prisoners and one hundred guns were captured; the prisoners alone numbered nearly double the casualties sustained by the two attacking corps.Although lack of reserves led to the battle ending in a severe repulse, there could no longer be any doubt that the re- introduction of armour on the battlefield, as mooted by Jomini nearly a century earlier, could solve the stalemate, and the decisive battle of Amiens, fought on 8th August 1918, proved this conclusively.In it 462 fight
Node: 22011, Score: 0.0382209611589804, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0137.txt, Content: which will determine the issue. If it is possible for us to occupy such a position that the enemy, for some political or military reason, or perhaps merely from national amour propre,  will decide to attack it, it seems perfectly reasonable to utilize the advantages of the defensive at first before assuming the offensive.’1The Sadowa campaign confirmed Moltke in his belief that the breech-loading rifle had made the defensive the stronger form of war, and that the decisive attack must be sought through envelopment. ‘Little success’, he wrote, ‘can be expected from a mere frontal attack, but very likely a great deal of loss. We must therefore turn towards the flanks of the enemy’s position.’2In 1866 Moltke made the fullest use of the five railways at his disposal, and he based his plan largely on those the Austrians were likely to use. In 1870 he did the same, and a study of the French railways made it clear to him that the French would almost certainly assemble their forces about Metz and Strasbourg, which meant that they would be separated by the Vosges. On this he based his plan, and to conquer space by time, he relied on the rapidity of his mobili­zation of the army, coupled with the fullest use of the railways leading to the Rhine. Of his intention he says:‘But above all the plan of war was based on the resolve to attack the enemy at once, wherever found, and keep the German forces so compact that a superior force could always be brought into the field. By whatever special means these plans were to be accomplished was left to the decision of the hour; the advance to the frontiers alone was pre-ordained in every detail.’3The French plan was a bastard edition of the Jena campaign of 1806, with the third Napoleon instead of the first in com­mand. Because the French Emperor knew that the Prussian 1  Cited in The Transformations of War,  Commandant J. Colin (1912),  p. 33.s Cited by Lieutenant-General von Caemmerer in Developments of  Strategical Science during the 19
Node: 21943, Score: 0.0381518052544458, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0069.txt, Content: ould ‘accustom himself never to lose sight of it, to regard it as the natural measure of all his hopes and fears, in order to approach it where he can , or where he must'  (III, p. 82). 4 •  W ar as an Instrum ent of Policy Clausewitz’s outstanding contribution to military theory is his insistence on the relationship of war and policy. In ‘all circum­stances’, he writes, ‘War is to be regarded not as an independent thing, but as a political instrument; and it is only by taking this point of view that we can avoid finding ourselves in oppo­sition to all military history. This is the only means of unlock­ing the great book and making it intelligible. Secondly, this view shows us how Wars must differ in character according to the nature of the motives and circumstances from which they proceed’  (I, p. 25).This observation is more fully elaborated in Sub-Section B  of Chapter VI of Book VIII, of which the following is a  summary.Clausewitz opens his discussion by stating, although it is  well known that war is called forth through the political inter- 1  This shows clearly the confusion into which Clausewitz’s concept of  absolute war led him. In Book I, Chapter I, Sections 6-9, he proves that  war can never be absolute; now he states that Bonaparte’s system of war  was one of ‘absolute completeness’. What, presumably, he means is, as  near the ideal as it is possible to get.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 67 --- 64 THE CONDUCT OE WAR course of governments and nations, it is generally assumed that intercourse is broken off by war, ‘and that a totally differ­ent state of things ensues, subject to no laws but its own.’  This is erroneous, because ‘War is nothing but a continu­ation of political intercourse, with a mixture of other means.’ He emphasizes the word ‘mixture’, so as to make it clear that political intercourse, though changed, does not cease, and that ‘the chief lines on which events of the War progress . . .  are only the general features of policy whi
Node: 22085, Score: 0.0380186828493389, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0211.txt, Content: mour on the battlefield, as mooted by Jomini nearly a century earlier, could solve the stalemate, and the decisive battle of Amiens, fought on 8th August 1918, proved this conclusively.In it 462 fighting tanks, in co-operation with aircraft, led three corps of the British Fourth Army, under command of General Sir Henry Rawlinson, into battle.1  Again surprise was complete, panic rampant, and the German front was penetrated.‘As the sun set on 8th August on the battlefield’, writes the author of the German official monograph on the battle, ‘the greatest defeat which the German Army suffered since the beginning of the war was an accomplished fact.’2  It was the terror the tanks instilled, more so than their killing power, which led him to entitle his monograph Die Katastrophe des  8 August, 1918.  It precipitated, not the final retirement after a ding-dong battle, but an initial rout without fighting -  this was the unexpected novelty. Without the tank there would have been no surprise commensurate with the one achieved, and it was the suddenness of the assault which detonated the panic. Added to this, the feeling of utter powerlessness of the soldier on foot, when faced with an antagonist no rifle or machine gun bullet could halt, instinctively led him to exag­gerate the danger in order to mitigate the ignominy of im­mediate surrender or flight -  the tank was a psychological, more so than a material weapon.Ludendorff made no mistake over the situation the tank created. ‘Everything I had feared, and of which I had so often given warning’, he writes, ‘had here, in one place, become a 1  On his right flank he was supported by the French First Army,  which had no tanks.1  Cited in the British Official History , 1918,  Vol. IV, p. 88.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 180 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 1 7 7 reality. . . . The 8th of August put the decline of [our] fighting power beyond all doubt. . . .  I became convinced that we were now without that safe foundatio
Node: 22061, Score: 0.0374714938890683, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0187.txt, Content: nue without intermission until 25th August, by when the French were everywhere defeated with crippling losses, which amounted to some 300,000 men killed, wounded and missing. Their defeat threw the French centre and left back to the west of Verdun, and so elated Moltke that he assumed the decisive battle in France had been won. Perturbed by the news he was receiving from the Eighth Army in East Prussia, he decided to reinforce it with two corps1  and a cavalry division from the French front, and instead of taking them from the left wing, he took them from the Second and Third Armies of the right wing, which had already been deprived of three corps to observe the Belgian army in Antwerp and lay siege to Maubeuge.This considerable reduction in the strength of the right wing,  coupled with the independent actions of its army commanders,  over whom Moltke by now had lost control, caused an inward  shrinkage of the great wheel, which led to the First Army being  drawn in a south-easterly direction east of Paris instead of  advancing west of it; this left the French capital and railway  hub uninvested.On the day Moltke made his fatal decision, Joffre, perturbed by the approach of Kluck’s army toward the left of the French line, in order to protect it, set out to build up a new army, the Sixth, under General Maunoury, in the vicinity of Amiens. Meanwhile Kluck pushed on, and although on the 29th he learnt of French detrainments at Amiens, he paid little attention to them. On 1st September, Joffre ordered Maunoury to fall back on Paris, and, on the 4th he instructed him to cross the river Ourcq and attack Kluck’s exposed right flank, held by General von Gronau’s IVth Corps. The next day the battle of the Ourcq -  prelude to the battle of the Marne -  opened, and by the 7th the fighting had become so precarious that Kluck, without consulting Biilow, in command of the 1  At first he even thought of sending six corps. He persisted in send­ing two, although he was informed by t
Node: 22074, Score: 0.0365227610413146, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0200.txt, Content: nhayn, who had succeeded  Moltke as Chief of the German General Staff, the aim of the  Verdun offensive was to weaken ‘the enormous hold England  still had on her allies’, and because ‘the strain on France had  almost reached breaking-point’, were Verdun wrested from  her, ‘that breaking-point would be reached and England’s bestTHE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 167  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 171 --- 168 THE CONDUCT OF WAR sword knocked out of her hand.’ Verdun was selected because  its retention would compel the French General Staff ‘to throw  in every man they had. If they do so’, writes Falkenhayn, ‘the  forces of France will bleed to d e a th -a s there can be no  question of a voluntary withdrawal -  whether we reach our  goal or not.’1  Verdun was, therefore, to be another battle of  attrition.On 21st February 1916, the battle was launched on a front of twenty miles, and although the French knew that it was impending, because its preliminary bombardment was limited to twenty-four hours, instead of the normal week or more, it came as a surprise to them. Fighting went on until 11th July, by when a penetration of five miles had been effected at a loss to the Germans of 281,000 men, and to the French of 315,000.To relieve the pressure on Verdun, the long delayed Franco- British spring offensive, known as the Battle of the Somme, was launched on a twenty-five miles front on 1st July. It was preceded by a bombardment of eight days, in which 1,738,000 shells were poured onto the enemy’s defences. Its tactical surprise was the introduction of the rolling barrage, under cover of which the infantry slowly moved forward from objec­tive to objective. The battle continued until 14th November, by when a strip of ground some thirty miles long with a maxi­mum depth of seven miles had been conquered at a cost of 419,654 British and 194,451 French casualties. The German losses were probably in the neighbourhood of half a million.Although Sir Douglas Haig2  was well pleased
Node: 22062, Score: 0.0357860330951024, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0188.txt, Content: fighting had become so precarious that Kluck, without consulting Biilow, in command of the 1  At first he even thought of sending six corps. He persisted in send­ing two, although he was informed by the Eighth Army that they were  not wanted, and if sent would arrive too late to take part in the battle  of Tannenberg then being fought; it opened on 25th August.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 162 --- Second Army on his immediate left, withdrew his IX th and Illrd  Corps from his left to support Gronau. This created a gap of some twenty miles wide between the First and Second Armies, and into it entered the British Army under Sir John French.In the meantime Moltke, who had now established his G.H.Q. at Luxemburg, received just sufficient information to fill him with the gravest anxiety, and instead of going forward to co-ordinate the critical situation on the front of his First, Second and Third Armies, he selected as his emissary a junior staff officer, Lieutenant-Colonel Hentsch, and verbally em­powered him, should he consider it necessary, to order the retreat of the right wing armies to the Aisne -  surely one of the most extraordinary commissions ever entrusted to an inferior subordinate.Hentsch set out on 8th September; he visited the Fifth, Fourth and Third Armies, and arrived at the headquarters of the Second at nightfall; there he found that Bulow had already decided to order his army to retreat on the following day. At 7 a.m. on the 9th Hentsch left for First Army headquarters; he found Kluck out, preoccupied with his battle with Maunoury, which was going against the latter, in spite of General Gal­lium’s1  effort to save the situation by rushing the last reserves he could lay his hands on in Paris in taxi-cabs and ’buses to Maunoury’s support. Instead of seeking out Kluck, Hentsch instructed General von Kuhl, Kluck’s Chief of Staff, to order the First Army to retreat to Soissons, which, on his return, against his better judgement, Kluck complied wit
Node: 21958, Score: 0.035559856078161, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0084.txt, Content: n, and Clausewitz was probably the first to suggest this. 10  •  Clausewitz's disregard of Napoleonic Warfare When it is borne in mind that Clausewitz not only lived throughout the Napoleonic Wars, but also took part in the campaigns of 1806, 1812, 1813 and 1815, it is astonishing that he pays so little attention to Napoleon’s generalship. Equally astonishing is it that, although he saw in Napoleon the greatest exponent of the offensive, and could write: ‘Buonaparte hardly ever started upon a War without thinking of conquering his enemy at once in the first battle’  (I, p. 289), he nevertheless held that the defensive was the stronger form of war. Again, it is astonishing that in his illuminating discussion on the centre of gravity he does not mention Napoleon’s struggle against six English coalitions, and his ultimate failure to win his long series of wars because of his inability to ‘hit the common centre of gravity of the whole war.’Although he points out that ‘Napoleon always showed great foresight in the provisions he made [to secure] the rear of his Army; and in that way, even in his boldest operations, he incurred less risk than might be imagined at first sight’  (III, p. 221), he did not grasp the main reason for it. It was, in order to gain complete freedom of movement, to move away from his communications should he wish to: he was willing to accept their temporary loss as long as his base remained firm.Instead of holding, as Clausewitz did, that ‘there is no more imperative and no simpler law for strategy than to keep the  forces concentrated . No portion is to be separated from the main body. . . . On this maxim we stand firm’  (I, p. 208), Napoleon frequently sought to trap his enemy by dividing his army.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 79 --- 76 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Instead of keeping it concentrated to cover his line of com­munications, as Clausewitz would have done, he split it into three or more widely spaced columns and formed what he called a
Node: 22032, Score: 0.0351103142624028, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0158.txt, Content: rd and below the entrance of the breech. And two years later the British adopted the .303 calibre Lee-Metford with a box magazine of  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 138 --- THE ROOTS OF ARMAGEDDON 135 eight cartridges, later increased to ten. By 1900 all armies had magazine rifles approximately of equal efficiency, and of calibres varying from .315 to .256; all were bolt operated, fired smokeless powder, and were sighted to 2,000 yards or metres.Simultaneously with the development of the magazine rifle proceeded the development of the machine gun -  another very old idea. Many types were experimented with and some adopted, such as the improved Gatling,1  Nordenfeldt (1873), Hotchkiss (1875), Gardner (1876), Browning (1889) and Colt (1895). The crucial year in their development was 1884, when Hiram S. Maxim patented a one barrel gun which loaded and fired itself by the force of its recoil. The original model weighed 40 lb., was water cooled and belt fed, and 2,000 rounds could be fired from it in three minutes. It was adopted by the British army in 1889, and was destined to revolutionize infantry tactics.The introduction of quick-firing artillery arose out of pro­posals made in 1891 by General Wille in Germany and Colonel Langlois in France. They held that increased rate of fire was impossible unless recoil on firing was absorbed. This led to much experimental work on shock absorption, and to the eventual introduction of a non-recoiling carriage, which per­mitted of a bullet-proof shield being attached to it to protect the gun crew. Until this improvement in artillery was intro­duced, the magazine rifle had been the dominant weapon, now it was challenged by the quick-firing gun, which not only outranged it and could be fired with almost equal rapidity, but could be rendered invisible by indirect laying.The increasing growth in the size of armies raised the prob­lem of their supply, and the first attempt to solve it was centred in the traction engine. Already i
Node: 22081, Score: 0.0348897031311977, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0207.txt, Content: overcome by the introduction of the gas shell,2  which was largely independent of wind, which enabled sudden concentrations of gas to be landed on selected targets, which needed no special training, and which above all was a mobile method of attack. The sole disadvantage was that the shell was so small a container, but this was in part overcome by the introduction of more potent gases than chlorine, notably phosgene and mustard gas.The latter, also called Yellow Cross and Yperite, is a remark­ably persistent chemical and a powerful vesicant. It seldom kills, but men who come into contact with it, either as a liquid or a vapour, suffer severe blistering of the skin; the burns appear from four to twelve hours after exposure, and heal very slowly. Because one part of it in 4,000,000 of air will cause blisters, it is eminently suited for artillery shells, and a few are sufficient to cause many casualties hours or even days later, because its persistence is very slowly destroyed by earth.Mustard gas was first used by the Germans in the Ypres Salient on 11th July 1917, and in the following six weeks it caused over 20,000 British casualties. From then on the British and French set out to manufacture it in large quantities.The first skilful use of gas to effect a penetration was made in General von Hutier’s attack on the Riga front on 1st September 1917. He selected a sector of the Russian lines of 1  In 1854, the year before Lord Dundonald suggested to Lord Panmure  the use of sulphur fumes as an asphyxiant, Dr J. Stenhouse invented  the first charcoal respirator.*  Also, for short ranges, the mortar bomb and the Livens projector.  The latter fired a cylinder which held 80 lb. of gas; it could rapidly be  erected in a shallow trench, and fired in batteries of 100 to 500 at a time.  On one occasion the British fired 2,500 into Lens.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 177 --- 174 THE CONDUCT OF WAR no more than 4,600 yards in width; massed against it a power­ful force of
Node: 21955, Score: 0.0347681072687589, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0081.txt, Content: which surround it. At times the offensive is the more so, as it was with Napoleon, because his genius coupled with his enemies’  obsolescent ideas favoured it. At times the passive defence was profitable, as with Wellington at Torres Vedras; and at times, also with Wellington, it was the defensive-offensive which was correct,  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 76 --- THE THEORIES OF CLAUSEWITZ 73 and in Spain he handled it in a masterly way. The foundations of all operations of war are not philosophy, they are common sense, as the seven principles of war so clearly show. 8 •  The Decisive Battle In Clausewitz’s conception of the decisive, or great, battle there is no more nonsense about weaker and stronger forms of war, and he speaks with no uncertain voice.‘The combat is the real warlike activity, everything else is only its auxiliary’  (I, p. 238).‘. .. the essence of War is conflict, and the [great] battle is the conflict of the main Armies, it is always to be regarded as the real centre of gravity of the War’  (I, p. 270).‘. .. the direct destruction of the enemy’s forces is every­where predominant; we contend here for the overruling impor­tance of the destructive principle and nothing else’  (I, p. 241).Numerical superiority is only one of the factors relied on to produce victory (I, p. 193). Others are the enveloping attack (II, p. 145); manoeuvre ‘to turn or surround’  (III, p. 11), and surprise (I, p. 262). These three additional means are ‘only possible for the side which has the initiative’  -  the attacker (II, p. 145).Rightly he points out that, although ‘The battle is the bloodiest way of solution . . .  it is not merely reciprocal slaughter, and its effect is more a killing of the enemy’s courage than of the enemy’s soldiers’  (I, p. 286). Because ‘loss of moral force is the chief cause of the decision . . . this loss continues to increase until it reaches its culminating-point at the close of the whole act’  (I, p. 246). After which, ‘the next qu
Node: 21974, Score: 0.0345953758450353, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0100.txt, Content: cap and the cylindro- conoidal bullet, revolutionized infantry tactics. The first was impracticable before the discovery of fulminate of mercury in 1800 -  an explosive which detonates on concussion. Seven years later, the Revd A. Forsyth patented a percussion priming powder composed of chlorate of potash, fulminate of mercury and powdered glass, and in 1816, among other claimants, Thomas Shaw of Philadelphia invented the copper percussion cap. Although it led to the introduction of the percussion- operated sporting gun, vastly reduced misfires, and, unlike the flintlock, could be fired in windy and rainy weather, so conser­vative was the British Ordnance Department that not until 1839 were flintlock muskets converted to the percussion prin- 1  The Poetry and Aesthetics of Erasmus Darwin , James Venable Logan  (1936), p. 117. Dr Erasmus Darwin was grandfather of Charles Darwin  the naturalist.INFLUENCES OF THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 87  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 91 --- 88 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ciple. Its superiority became immediately apparent; in 1841 ‘A company of Sepoys, armed with flintlock muskets, which would not go off in a heavy rain, were closely surrounded by some 1,000 Chinese and were in imminent peril, when two com­panies of marines, armed with percussion-cap muskets, were ordered up, and soon dispersed the enemy with great loss.’1The cylindro-conoidal bullet was invented by Captain Norton of the British 34th Regiment in 1823. It had a hollow base, so that, when fired, the bullet would expand and seal the bore. The origin of his idea is an interesting one: when in Southern India, he examined the blow-pipe arrows used by the natives, and found that their base was formed of elastic locus pith, which by its expansion against the inner surface of the blow-pipe prevented the escape of air past it (windage).In 1836, Mr Greener, a London gunsmith, improved on Norton’s bullet by inserting a conoidal wooden plug into its base. Although both inventions we
Node: 22063, Score: 0.0339130416340864, Chunk File: fuller_conduct/chunks/fuller_conduct_0189.txt, Content: f seeking out Kluck, Hentsch instructed General von Kuhl, Kluck’s Chief of Staff, to order the First Army to retreat to Soissons, which, on his return, against his better judgement, Kluck complied with, and at the very moment when Maunoury was contemplating a with­drawal on Paris. Thus the Moltke-Schlieffen plan, created by the General Staff, was liquidated by the General Staff, because generalship was bankrupt.On 13th September the Germans stood and faced their pursuers on the river Aisne -  an almost stationary battle. Next, followed the race for the Channel, in which both sides attempted to outflank each other by bringing up corps from their respec­tive eastern wings, but neither gained advantage over the other, and at length the sea was reached. In each move the 1  Gallium was Military Governor of Paris.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 159  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 163 --- 160 THE CONDUCT OF WAR defender proved stronger than the attacker; the combination of bullet, spade and barbed wire, as Colonel Nickerson re­marks, ‘crushed every offensive on the Western Front so thoroughly that from October 1914 to March 1918 no attack or series of attacks was able to move the front line ten miles in either direction.’1  Thus, as Bloch had predicted, the outcome was siege warfare, and Lord Kitchener exclaimed: ‘I don’t know what is to be done -  this isn’t war!’ 3. Strategy of Evasion The problem now became the reinstatment of mobility, and its solution depended on overcoming the defensive trinity of bullet, spade and wire. The soldiers set out to solve it in the conventional way, they turned to artillery and sought to blow a gap in their enemy’s entrenched front. Had they con­sidered the problem after the Russo-Japanese War, in which the power of the then recently introduced quick-firing gun had been demonstrated, they might have prevented the problem arising, as long as entrenchments were no more than shallow lines of field works -  this will become apparent in the