Node: 7518, Score: 0.0715628534078263, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0207.txt, Content: d muddy fields. Operational ready rates in front-line units slipped to just 40 per cent by the time of the Moscow offensive, and the sortie rate fell by almost 50 per cent.23 In previous campaigns direct close support operations for the army had taken up some 25 per cent of the Luftwaffe ’s sortie effort. In the Russian offensive this figure hovered around 60 per cent, a trend not welcomed by Goering’s staff in view of the excessively high attritional rates suffered on such duties.24 The significance of this shift in combat effort was that less offensive action could be taken against the VVS directly, or againstoperational, rather than tactical, level targets. Indeed, sophisticated plans for a strategic bombing campaign against Soviet industry had to be abandoned because resources were being diverted to more pressing duties. 25 The Luftwaffe  was clearly successful in carrying out this expanded role, but its equipment was no better suited or designed for such operations. The Ju 87 Stukas and Henschel Hs 123 bi-planes were the only dedicated close support aircraft and, although they were later bolstered by the modification of Bf 109s and FW 190s into swing-role fighter-bombers, the only purposely designed ground-attack aircraft introduced by the Luftwaffe  throughout the war was the Henschel Hs 129 and this proved to be a profound disappointment. The logical outcome of having to deploy more resources to army support was the allocation of twin-engined medium bombers, such as Heinkel He 111s, Junkers Ju 88s and the rapidly obsolescing Dornier Do 17s to such duties, duties for which they were clearly ill-suited. By the end of 1941 the true extent of the task facing the German armed forces was clear. The blitzkrieg  had proven to have limitations, and now once embroiled in an exhausting attritional war the failure of German industrial and economic planning and management prior to 1941 became all too apparent. Although the Luftwaffe  continued  File: --- buckley_total.pdf
Node: 7405, Score: 0.0665313061620257, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0094.txt, Content: a joint knockout blow to Britain in conjunction with the launch of unrestricted submarine warfare.However, although they were more successful than their airship predecessors, they too were eventually forced to abandon daylight raids in order to keep losses down, as they were beginning to suffer at the hands of concentrated anti-aircraft fire and betterorganized fighter defences. Moreover, large aircraft of this type were still relatively new and lacked an effective gestation period. German development went back only to the RGO1 programme of late 1914 and successive designs encountered many problems,most notably the Gotha, which suffered from structural weaknesses to such an extent that more aircraft of this type were lost in flying accidents than on combat duty. 50 Notably, a trend was established that was to be followed many times in attempted strategic bombing campaigns. Daylight raids by Zeppelins in 1915–16 and heavy bombers in 1917–18 proved to be too dangerous and were replaced by night-time operations to keep losses down. This, however, seriously affected bombing accuracy, ultimatelydid not provide the protection desired and eventually led to the abandonment of bombing operations. Physical destruction from both Zeppelins and heavy-bombers was minimal in World War I with total damage amounting to less than one per cent ofthat caused by rats. 51 However, the psychological impact of bombing was to be far more profound and was markedly to influence perceptions in the post-war world. Early French daylight efforts were suspended when German Fokker Eindekker fighters started to take a significant toll of the bombers and, like the Germans, they switched in 1916 to night operations. The Allies were unable and unwilling to undertake a serious long-range bombing campaign until much later in the war when, with theinflux of US equipment and the gradual diminution of German defences, the prospects for bombing offensives against targets as far away as Berlin looked fair. H
Node: 7393, Score: 0.0640408046345903, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0082.txt, Content: he air campaign swung back and forth with ever larger concentrations of aircraft (French groupes de chasse  and German Jagdstaffeln ) being deployed. Ultimately, the French emerged victorious and German artillery fire became progressively less effective once their reconnaissance aircraft werebeing driven from French airspace on all but rare occasions. As Lee Kennett has argued, the Verdun air campaign was the first to demonstrate the value of winning air superiority, or at least of denying it to the enemy, and of the pivotal role of fighteraircraft in such operations. 27 Moreover, just as the war on the ground and at sea had become campaigns of attrition so too did the war in the air when fought on the scale of Verdun, and subsequently over the Somme. The Allies were successful because theycould feed in more resources than the Germans, and by mid-to-late 1916 the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 64 --- THE FIRST WORLD WAR, 1914–18 53technological battle had swung back in the favour of the Allies who also now had fighters equipped with synchronized forward firing machine guns. The Germans responded with a major reorganization of their air forces into specific fighter, bomber and reconnaissance units. New and more advanced fighters wereintroduced such as the Albatross D-1. By the winter of 1916/17, the air superioritywar had tilted back to the Germans, especially as the French were rebuilding after thelosses at Verdun and the British were doing likewise after the Somme. Indeed, although the RFC could deploy 550 aircraft by the spring of 1917, they lost 140 of them to the newly invigorated German air forces. 28 However, by the middle of 1917, again aptly demonstrating the new technological aspect of war, the advantage had swung back tothe Allies with the introduction of Sopwith Camels, SE-5s and latterly the SPAD andNieuport 28s which gained and then maintained the lead on both technological andnumerical grounds. The formula was to be repeated against both major A
Node: 7514, Score: 0.0634400637041433, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0203.txt, Content: are of the British aero-industry’s true production capacity, the Luftwaffe  failed to appreciate the performance of the Hurricane and Spitfire fighters, overlooked the significance of the RAF’s early warning radar and markedly overestimated theeffectiveness of the Luftwaffe  itself. It was considered that RAF Fighter Command could be eliminated in just four days; the rest of the RAF and the British aero-industry in four weeks. 17 Conversely, the British, despite overestimating the strength of the air forces facing them, were already beginning to gain intelligence gathering advantages from the breaking of the German encoding device, Enigma. The Luftwaffe,  partly as a result of poor intelligence and partly thanks to ill-considered strategic decision making, was to change its direction a number of times throughoutthe campaign. Worse still, even when night-time bombing of London had been adoptedthere was no considered policy of targeting and effort was dissipated between morale,transportation and the aero-industries, with the consequence that none was particularly affected. In addition, the Luftwaffe  was forced to fight with a number of other strategic shortcomings and failings. Primarily, the strategic position was such that the Luftwaffe was forced to fight over enemy territory, a significant multiplying effect in rates ofattrition. Whereas the RAF could recover many of its pilots and nurse home damagedaircraft, the Luftwaffe  lost downed pilots and aircrew for good and crippled aircraft were often unable to make the hazardous return flight to France. Arguably, the most fundamental strategic problem facing the Luftwaffe  was that of making the RAF fighters come and fight. Even if the campaign had gone more infavour of the Luftwaffe,  there was nothing stopping the RAF from withdrawing its fighters north, out of range of the Luftwaffe,  and conserving its resources for countering the attempted German invasion. With German naval and invasion forces at a premium,to ris
Node: 7559, Score: 0.0632584228304032, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0248.txt, Content: an radar. However, Harris’ greatest effort, the attempted destruction of Berlin over the winter of 1943–4, resulted in excessive casualties to his command and failed to cripple Germany as he had hoped. The US 8th also failed in its disastrousdouble raid on the ball bearing factory at Schweinfurt in August and October. Markedout as a crucial chokepoint in the German economy, the US bombers suffered grievouslyin their attempts to destroy the complex. Some success was achieved but not even theUSA could endure casualty rates of over 68 per cent. 83 Eaker had already indicated that he believed that the destruction of the Luftwaffe and the gaining of air supremacy over Europe was the key to success: hence thePointblank  directive of May 1943 which called for the persistent targeting of the German aero-industry. However, he failed to appreciate the significance of his bombers’vulnerability to German interceptors, unless escorted by Allied fighters. This was toprove the breakthrough in the combined bomber offensive and was to have major consequences beyond the direct bombardment of Germany itself. The doctrine of the USAAF had been founded on the notion that the bomber would always getthrough. In any case, it was argued, fighters simply did not have the endurance toallow them to escort bombers over any great distance. Attempts to create long-rangefighters had always foundered, resulting in low performance, heavy, twin-engine fighters,such as the Luftwaffe ’s Bf 110, a design quite unable to cope with enemy high- performance single-engine fighters. However, it was clear to General “Hap” Arnold (Commander-in-Chief, USAAF) by the middle of 1943 that the only way the Luftwaffe ’s fighter strength could be neutralized was by sending US escort fighters to do battlearound the bomber formations as they travelled to and from their targets. The key to this was finding a fighter that would be able to fly to Berlin and back. 84  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 171 --- AIR POWER IN
Node: 7511, Score: 0.0617083935311391, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0200.txt, Content: m both German fighters and flakdefences were prohibitive. Within two days, half of the Allied aircraft in the combatzone had been destroyed and, by 20 May, with the situation for the British ExpeditionaryForces deteriorating the RAF had abandoned the continent. 12 Perhaps the act which best illustrated the role air power played in blitzkrieg  came with the audacious breakthrough across the Meuse which decided the outcome of the campaign.13 Here, a screen of fighters covered the crossing from Allied reconnaissance aircraft, and German close-air support bombers, notably the Junkers Ju 87 “Stuka”,kept the French defenders under constant bombardment. Allied attempts to strike atthe unexpected breach in their defences came to nothing and incurred heavy losses,despite the simultaneous diversion of the Luftwaffe ’s main efforts to the elimination of Dutch resistance. In this brief northern air campaign the ending of Dutch resistance, largely as a result of the bombing of Rotterdam, indicated the psychological effectaerial bombardment could have. 14 The Allied armies were thrown back in chaos and disarray, a state maintained by the dominance of German air power which constantlydisrupted and harried the retreating British and French units. By June the campaignwas over, the French eliminated and the British driven back across the English Channel. The success of the Germans had been staggering and the Luftwaffe  had played a significant part in the victory. Its fluid, flexible and concerted use of air power hadproved far more effective than the rigid dispersed doctrine of the French, but thismirrored the overall approach of the two powers. The Germans had achieved surpriseand, importantly, had been able to maintain the speed of their breakthrough, in part,by relying on the Luftwaffe  to provide support. The Allies were unable to respond quickly enough, because of unco-ordinated decision making, poorly considered planning and due to the intervention of the Luftwaffe ’s interdic
Node: 7561, Score: 0.0614800361542305, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0250.txt, Content: to the German fighter arm was immense. 86 By attempting to intervene and engage the USAAF in air superiority battles the Luftwaffe  opened itself up to heavy “imposed” attrition, attrition which the USAAF could cope with but with which the Germans could not. Moreover, the P-51 was greatly superior to theGerman interceptors, many of which had been slowed down by the addition of heavy armaments to increase their effectiveness against large bombers. With US fighters arriving in ever growing numbers and beginning to shoot the Luftwaffe  out of the skies, realization dawned that control of German airspace was being lost. Albert Speer recorded that Goering had always claimed that Allied fighters would never be able to reach Germany. When they did, it was clear the war was lost. 87 As loss rates soared, the growing problem of replacing the pilots, even more than their aircraft, began to appear insurmountable. Between January and May 1944 the Luftwaffe lost the equivalent of its entire fighter pilot strength, meaning that replacements couldonly just keep up with losses. Thus, no expansion of the fighter arm could take place at the very time the Allied air forces were encroaching ever further and in greater numbers into German airspace. While Milch and Speer made exceptional efforts toincrease aircraft production, although largely consisting of single-engined fighters,  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 172 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 161Table 6.3 – German fighter pilot loss rate, January 1942–May 1944 Source:  Murray, Luftwaffe,  pp. 310–11. little could be done to prevent the haemorrhaging of trained Luftwaffe  aircrew. Pilot training was hit particularly badly by the bombing raids on oil production and by 1944 German pilots had less than half the length of flying time prior to being thrown into the fray than their American and British counterparts. In the months leading up tothe Normandy landings the Luftwaffe  suffered grievous losses to its fighter arm, some 3,278
Node: 7510, Score: 0.060840196943409, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0199.txt, Content: and luck that was to bring about the collapse of the West in six weeks, a feat that had eluded the Imperial German army for four years. The Luftwaffe  had 1,300 bombers, 380 dive-bombers and 1,210 fighters deployed in support of Operation Fall Gelb  (Case Y ellow, the code name for the invasion of the West) while the Allies mustered some 1,151 fighters and 1,045 bombers and ground-attack aircraft. However, the deficiencies ran much deeper than the figures indicate. First, the Allied air forces were heterogeneous and lacked centralized control and direction, in marked contrast to the Luftwaffe.  Aside from the few British Hurricanes and Spitfires and a very small number of Dutch Fokker types, the Luftwaffe ’s aircraft were technically superior to anything in the Allied inventory, and it was particularly in bomber attackson German forces that the RAF and the French Armee de l’Air  were to suffer. However, the most important factor in the Allied defeat lay in the doctrine of employment of  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 140 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 129the available resources. The Luftwaffe  was used to support the direction of the campaign in a generally co-ordinated manner, massing aircraft to create air superiority where required and sweeping the skies of the more widely dispersed Allied air forces. The offensive opened, as was becoming the norm, with an attempt by the Luftwaffe to cripple the enemy air forces on the ground. The Dutch, Belgian and French airarms were badly mauled on the first day but, as in Poland, the Luftwaffe ’s attacks were indecisive. However, again following the Polish pattern, the real defeat of the RAF and the French Armee de l’Air  came when they attempted to intervene in the ground war by attacking German land forces. The losses from both German fighters and flakdefences were prohibitive. Within two days, half of the Allied aircraft in the combatzone had been destroyed and, by 20 May, with the situation for the British Expeditio
Node: 7392, Score: 0.0586380962855523, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0081.txt, Content: , Franz Schneider. 23 More importantly, it was the Germans who were the first to marry the synchronized forward firing machine gun to a fast and manoeuvrable single-engined aircraft in theFokker Eindekker, which started to arrive at the front in the middle of 1915. This was the first real example of technology providing one side in the air war with a distinct tactical and operational advantage over the other. The Allies were forced to respond,and the technological aspect of the air superiority war was to swing back and forth for the next three years. The Eindekker was soon to have an impact by ending French bombing raids when losses inflicted by the new fighter grew too high. By the end of 1915, the Germans began inflicting heavier losses on Allied aircraft over the frontline, the Royal Flying Corps attributing the loss of 20 aircraft between November 7 and January 12 tothe new “Fokker scourge” as it was christened. 24 Armed with the Eindekkers, the Germans attempted the first co-ordinated air superiority campaign over Verdun in 1916, where they used fighters both to deny French reconnaissance aircraft access toGerman airspace and to escort German reconnaissance aircraft when they flew over French territory. New aggressive German fighter tactics as pioneered by Oswald Boelcke and Max Immelmann had immediate impact and the unprepared French air forceswere rapidly swept from the skies. 25 The French were forced to hit back in this first struggle for air superiority, and Joffre appointed Major Tricornot de Rose to re-establish control of French airspace.He put together a high quality force of 15 escadrilles  (French air groups) to contest the air over Verdun, adopting offensive patrols with the avowed intent of fighting German aircraft and driving them from the skies. 26 The air campaign swung back and forth with ever larger concentrations of aircraft (French groupes de chasse  and German Jagdstaffeln ) being deployed. Ultimately, the French emerged victorious and Germ
Node: 7541, Score: 0.0577948493844225, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0230.txt, Content: was known in the RAF , as swing-role fighter-bombers.50 The fighter-bomber in World War II had in fact been pioneered by the Luftwaffe,  but RAF Fighter Command saw bomb equipped Hurricanes and Spitfires as a means of provoking the Luftwaffe  to engage in aerial combat over France. This strategy produced only limited results, but the fighter-bomber,which was to dominate ground-support operations for the rest of the war, was nevertheless a logical progression from the air superiority campaign over Europe. 51 The fighter-bomber was an effective air superiority aircraft, quite capable of looking after itself against enemy fighters, while being rugged and fast enough to absorb lightflak damage and being too nimble to be hit by heavier anti-aircraft gunnery. TheHurricane and T omahawk were eventually superseded in 1944 by Hawker T yphoonsand Republic P-47 Thunderbolts, the latter being powered by an air-cooled engine which made it less susceptible to flak damage, probably making it the most effective swing-role fighter-bomber of the war. With a frantic air superiority battle raging formuch of the 1942–3 period the advantages of the dual-purpose fighter-bomber wereapparent. The dedicated ground-attack aircraft were less successful, being vulnerableto heavy flak and to enemy fighters which until 1944 remained a serious threat. Inmany ways, the success of the Shturmovik on the Eastern Front bucked the trend, but it survived because the density of fighter cover and flak defences was never high enough. It is difficult to imagine the VVS aeroplane surviving for long in the westerntheatre. Rommel’s final push towards Alexandria and Cairo ground to a halt for a variety of reasons but he was quick to note the value of Allied air power in Montgomery’seventual victory in North Africa. The RAF had gained effective air superiority, eventually attaining air supremacy, and Rommel’s supply lines, rear zone and ground forces were attacked constantly. He stated,  File: --- buckley_total.
Node: 7404, Score: 0.0574961359100129, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0093.txt, Content: n, endurance and bombing accuracy had all been conveniently passed over by the bombing enthusiasts prior to the war, and when the defenders started to organize themselves, and even dared to shoot back at the bomber aircraft, the realities of long-range bombing began to cause serious misgivings. Airships proved to be a profound disappointment. They began to fall foul of ground fire and the weather. The much vaunted Zeppelin raids on Britain achieved very little in the way of substantive physical damage, although in the aftermath of a raid in 1915, that paragon of Victorian Englishness, the cricketer W .G. Grace, was a much mourned casualty. In total there were 54 German airship raids on Britain, the last as late as 1918, but the campaign was effectively brought to a halt in 1916 when airship losses grew too great. As defences improved, especially with the development of interceptor fighters, the Zeppelin became an expensive and vulnerable behemoth. By 1916 it had been replaced by long-range bomber aircraft. Indeed, it has been calculated that German airship crews suffered the highest casualty rates of any part of the German army.47 Other powers rapidly came to the same conclusion about the value of airships as the Germans: the Italians notably lost two airships on night- time bombing raids in 1915, 48 while the French mirrored the Germans in abandoning their army airships by 1917.49  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 71 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 60The successor to the airship proved to be the large, multi-engined bomber, developed by a number of powers both before and as the war progressed. The Germans produceda number of such aircraft, notably the Friedrichshafen GIII, the Gotha V and the Zeppelin Staaken R VI. These heavy-bombers were intended to deliver a joint knockout blow to Britain in conjunction with the launch of unrestricted submarine warfare.However, although they were more successful than their airship predecessors, they too were eventually
Node: 7517, Score: 0.0574467922667683, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0206.txt, Content: n, for the VVS (the Red Air Force) had some 8,000–10,000 aircraft in all in June 1941 with around 6,000 initially deployed in Europe. Once again the German plan adopted the tried and tested methods, beginning with a major attack on the VVS on 22 June. Despite warnings, the Soviet armed forces were surprised and some 1,200 VVS aircraft were eliminated by the Luftwaffe  in the first eight-and-a-half hours of operations, 1,800 by the end of the first day, 4,000 after a week’s fighting, and by September a staggering 7,500 VVS aircraft had been accounted for. 21 The rout of the VVS mirrored the near collapse of the Red Army as a whole, but despite the spectacular success of the  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 144 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 133German armed forces they were unable to secure the total victory they required. The VVS was able to survive and, in contrast, serious shortcomings in the Luftwaffe ’s capabilities were starting to become all too apparent. The most basic problem, and one largely glossed over in the planning of Operation Barbarossa,  was the sheer scale and size of operations that the Luftwaffe  was being called upon to perform. Although only a crude indicator, the aircraft per square mile ratio on the Eastern Front in 1941 was around 2, whereas in the West it had been between 10 and 15.22 Quite simply, there was physically only so much the Luftwaffe  could achieve as the campaign wore on into the autumn and winter, constrained as it was by the vicissitudes of the Russian climate and, importantly, by the burgeoning demands of the Wehrmacht ’s ground offensives. Moreover, the logistical crisis was already a cause for serious concern. Supply lines stretched back for hundreds of miles, and the active units were having to operate from dirt tracks and muddy fields. Operational ready rates in front-line units slipped to just 40 per cent by the time of the Moscow offensive, and the sortie rate fell by almost 50 per cent.23 In previous campaigns dir
Node: 7513, Score: 0.0565633252531245, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0202.txt, Content: ent. 15) The attempt to spearhead the invasion of the British Isles with the Luftwaffe  was a plan that had already been discussed and rejected by the German Air Ministry in 1939.16 Nevertheless, in view of the overwhelming naval superiority of the British, control of the air was considered essential. In the same way that the Luftwaffe  conducted any other campaign, the suppression of the enemy air force was the first step to victory. Unfortunately, the Luftwaffe  was confronted by a number of significant problems on a scale it had not yet encountered and arguably the lack of a dedicated purpose was in part to be its undoing. The Luftwaffe  failed for a number of reasons, many indicative of the German air force’s inherent shortcomings. A series of tactical failings only partly exposed by the Polish, Scandinavian and French campaigns were ruthlessly exposed during the Battle of Britain, emphasizing that the Luftwaffe,  although broadly capable, was not actually particularly proficient at anything. Its mainstay air superiority fighter, the Bf109, had too limited a radius of operations to act effectively over the British Isles, thus exposing the German bomber fleet to the RAF’s high performance fighters, against which theywere hopelessly vulnerable. Notably, the campaign over Britain was the first time the Luftwaffe  had encountered a properly organized air defence system specifically designed to meet the challenge of an air war. Crucially, the Luftwaffe  had, in no particular way, been developed to conduct such a focused offensive. In the intelligence gathering war the Germans continued to follow their pre-war predilection for underestimating their enemies’ resources and capabilities. Already  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 142 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 131unaware of the British aero-industry’s true production capacity, the Luftwaffe  failed to appreciate the performance of the Hurricane and Spitfire fighters, overlooked the significance of the RAF’s early
Node: 7558, Score: 0.0564075471650162, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0247.txt, Content: sablanca Conference of January 1943 sought to put the bomber offensive to the forefront of Allied strategy, but its directive was a fudge because Harris wantedto persist with the area strategy while Ira Eaker, the commander of the 8th Air Force,wanted to pursue the precision bombing policy. The conference, in effect, allowed both to go their own way, opaquely mentioning both morale and industry as the prime targets of the newly named combined bombing offensive. 81 Efforts in 1943 again demonstrated an up-turn in the campaign. In July the RAF launched a major raid on Hamburg in which a high proportion of incendiary bombs (designed to burn rather than blast) were deployed. Due to the hot weather and dry  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 170 --- THE WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–45 159conditions parts of Hamburg burned with such ferocity, possibly reaching temperatures of 1,000 degrees Celsius, that all the oxygen was used up and more was sucked in from outlying areas creating what became known as a “firestorm”. The consequenceswere appalling with asphyxiation and incineration accounting for many of the 30,000–40,000 dead. The firebombing of Hamburg caused considerable consternation inGermany, with Albert Speer’s comment that six more raids of that nature and the warwould have been over being the most interesting, though he was later to moderate his statement. 82 The RAF was improving its accuracy and navigational prowess with the introduction of the latest electronic technology such as Oboe, Gee,  and H 2S, while the excellent Avro Lancaster heavy-bomber began to constitute the backbone of thecommand’s strength. Short term advantages were also gained by the deployment ofaids such as window,  which consisted merely of metal foil strips cut to the appropriate length to blind German radar. However, Harris’ greatest effort, the attempted destruction of Berlin over the winter of 1943–4, resulted in excessive casualties to his command and failed to cripple Germany as he had hoped
Node: 7512, Score: 0.055983932755881, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0201.txt, Content: fe  to provide support. The Allies were unable to respond quickly enough, because of unco-ordinated decision making, poorly considered planning and due to the intervention of the Luftwaffe ’s interdiction operations which prevented rapid movement and response by defending forces. In marked contrast tothe Ludendorff breakthrough in 1918, which outdistanced its supports and waseventually pummelled by redeployed Allied artillery, the 1940 offensive never allowed  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 141 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 130the Allies enough time to reorganize and this was partly as a result of the suppressing effect of German air attack and the inability of the French and British air forces to prevent it. However, the shortcomings of the Luftwaffe  were soon to be exposed by the RAF . The first indications had come during the Dunkirk evacuation of 25 May to 2 June 1940. Goering had argued that the Luftwaffe  would be able to smash the fleeing British on the Dunkirk beaches and in the English Channel but it was prevented from doingso by the intervention of modern and well-equipped RAF fighters. The limited range of the Bf 109, which was operating from bases some distance from Dunkirk, and the vulnerability of the Luftwaffe ’s bombers to British fighters became all too clear. The Luftwaffe  lost 240 aircraft to the RAF’s 177. For a numerically much superior force this was hardly a catastrophe, but it was a rude shock to the Luftwaffe  as well as a foretaste of things to come. Moreover, due to the limited powers of recovery of the Germanaero-industry, these were losses which could not be sustained indefinitely, especially in light of the high attritional rates even a victorious air campaign such as that in France incurred. (Losses had been around 30 per cent. 15) The attempt to spearhead the invasion of the British Isles with the Luftwaffe  was a plan that had already been discussed and rejected by the German Air Ministry in 1939.16 Nevertheless, in v
Node: 7519, Score: 0.055419828513183, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0208.txt, Content: n exhausting attritional war the failure of German industrial and economic planning and management prior to 1941 became all too apparent. Although the Luftwaffe  continued  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 145 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 134to play a part on the Eastern Front, by the time of Kursk in 1943 the VVS had made good the technological, training and doctrinal shortcomings that had contributed greatly to its near collapse in 1941. Additionally, the Soviet aero-industries were swamping the Luftwaffe  with vast numbers of new aircraft. At Kursk, the Luftwaffe  mustered some 1,500 aircraft, while the VVS could deploy close on double that number.26 A clear indication of the crisis the Luftwaffe  was facing had already emerged in 1942 when training programmes were cut short to allow new aircrew to get to the front line faster. The idea was for them to finish their training at the front line. However, ill- prepared as they were, active Luftwaffe  units shielded raw airmen from dangerous operations to allow them to settle in. Unfortunately, this had the effect of increasing attritional rates on experienced pilots and crew, exacerbating the underlying problem. Additionally, new aircrew suffered greater accident rates as a result of their inadequate training. Clearly, the technical ability of the Luftwaffe,  which their enemies sought to copy, slowly declined as the war went on, although perversely doctrine reached peak effectiveness in 1943.27 In assessing the impact of the Luftwaffe  on conduct of the blitzkrieg  campaigns it is clear that the German air forces were technically and doctrinally superior to the enemy air forces confronted, arguably with the exception of the RAF’s air defence system. The rearmament of the Luftwaffe  in the wake of the technological advances of the late 1930s had handed Goering’s force a considerable advantage over the opposingair forces. Moreover, the Luftwaffe ’s flexible approach to war, almost an anti-doctrine, allowe
Node: 7516, Score: 0.0539183738145607, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0205.txt, Content: d away by the very high rates of attrition endured even by victorious air forces. Clearly, the Luftwaffe which prepared for the invasion of the USSR was not the force it had once been.19 In spite of the potentially much larger scale of operations across the USSR, the size ofthe German air force remained much the same in 1941 as it had been for the campaigns of 1940. Indeed, Goering and his staffwere horrified at the prospect of launching their under-prepared and ill-supported air forces on the Soviet masses. The perspicacious Air Ministry secretary, Erhard Milch, on hearing that Hitler and his staff believed that the campaign would be over before winter 1941 predicted a four year long war and began ordering winter clothing for the Luftwaffe. 20 T o compound the problem, resources were being stretched still further as Germany’s commitments grew across the continent. Already committed to maintaining the air war over northwest Europe, albeit on a reduced scale, the Luftwaffe  was also being called upon to conduct operations over the Balkans. This included the massed bombing of Belgrade, which resulted in the deathsof some 17,000 people and culminated in the airborne invasion of Crete. In addition, at the height of Operation T yphoon,  the attempt to capture Moscow in the autumn and winter of 1941, Field-Marshal Kesselring’s Second Air Fleet was sent to the Mediterranean theatre to aid the ailing the Regia Aeronautica,  particularly in North Africa where German troops and armour had recently been despatched under the aegis of Erwin Rommel. Nevertheless, to support Operation Barbarossa  the Luftwaffe  was able to deploy 2,775 aircraft, 65 per cent of its total strength. For the first time however, the Luftwaffe  was confronted by an enemy air strength much larger than its own, for the VVS (the Red Air Force) had some 8,000–10,000 aircraft in all in June 1941 with around 6,000 initially deployed in Europe. Once again the German plan adopted the tried and tested methods, b
Node: 7494, Score: 0.0534050613697961, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0183.txt, Content: uld capitalize on theireconomic superiority and defeat Germany in a long haul war. The French army andthe Maginot Line would occupy the Wehrmacht,  while the RAF would keep the Luftwaffe  away from the British Isles. It can be seen that the emphasis in British air power policy had altered towards air defence, now considered feasible thanks to early warning radar, high-speed monoplane fighters and properly organized civil defence. Inskip and the British government rejectedthe claims of the RAF that there was no viable defence to aerial bombardment, butquite apart from the fact that Britain could no longer afford to continue the air armsrace with Germany, the switch to air defence fitted more naturally into British foreignpolicy. The high point of the bomber based expansion plans called for the creation of a 90 squadron fleet with 1,659 bombers, but in the wake of Inskip’s report this was reducedto 77 and 1,360 respectively, while fighter strength was to be increased from 476 to 532. 48 The importance of air power and in particular air defence to British planning was emphasized during the Munich crisis when the Chiefs of Staff informed  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 129 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 118Chamberlain that the British air forces were simply not ready for war and nor would they be in a fit state until mid-1939 at the earliest.49 On the outbreak of war, British air power was still in a state of flux, with increasing and highly sophisticated air defence forces, principally based around the Hawker Hurricane and Supermarine Spitfire, at least equal if not superior to anything the Luftwaffe  could deploy. However, most other elements of the RAF were equipped with obsolete or unsuitable aircraft. Indeed, RAF Bomber Command was to suffer badly in the early stages of the war, having to fight with aircraft unfit for the grand designs of its senior officers. Britain’s most notable achievement in the years leading up to World War II was the transformat
Node: 7560, Score: 0.0531131463279825, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0249.txt, Content: ormations as they travelled to and from their targets. The key to this was finding a fighter that would be able to fly to Berlin and back. 84  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 171 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 160Although the P-47 Thunderbolt was the first to give the Luftwaffe  a nasty shock in July 1943 by operating with fuel-filled drop-tanks well inside Germany, it was the P-51 Mustang design that was to transform the air war over Europe. Simple improvements to the internal fuel capacity, as well as the addition of drop-tanks, enabled the high- performance Mustang, along with the Thunderbolt and the twin-engine Lightning,to fly into German airspace with the US 8th’s bombers and begin tackling the German fighter arm in a series of bloody attritional battles. In January 1944 USAAF policy was altered to put their escort fighters on an offensive footing. It was their job to seek outthe Luftwaffe  while escorting the bombers and to do battle with them. Conversely, at the same time Goering ordered his fighter arm to take up a more careful and defensive posture when confronted by Allied escort fighters, to keep losses down. Adolf Galland,the Luftwaffe  fighter commander in western Europe, later claimed that this was a considerable error in judgement. 85 The breakthrough in the air campaign came in late-February 1944 in what was later titled “Big Week”. A period of clear weather allowed the USAAF to begin a series of substantial raids on German aircraft production plants, which continued into March and then switched to targeting oil production before being used to support theNormandy landings. The Luftwaffe  was forced to come up and fight and, although they inflicted heavy losses on the US bomber fleet (some 20 per cent were written- off in February), the cost to the German fighter arm was immense. 86 By attempting to intervene and engage the USAAF in air superiority battles the Luftwaffe  opened itself up to heavy “imposed” attrition, attrition which the U
Node: 7352, Score: 0.0530888785929757, Chunk File: buckley_total/chunks/buckley_total_0041.txt, Content: ncern of airship designers. The first rigid airship (where the hydrogen envelope was supported and protected by an aluminium frame) was designed by the Austrian David Schwartz. The inaugural flight of this aircraft ended in destruction too, although this was probably due to poor handling and inappropriate weather conditions. Nevertheless, the Schwartz rigid airship design inspired Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin to pursue its development in order to create a new weapon for Germany. Despite many setbacks and failures, by 1909, long after the Wrights had flown the first true aircraft, Zeppelin was operating commercial airships to fund his military activities and to make the German people more air- conscious. The success of Zeppelin’s airships caused some concern in Britain and France, and attempts to copy the German success subsequently followed. Clearly with the advent of true dirigible airships in the first few years of the twentieth century, air power had arrived. Before the Wrights proved to the world that heavier- than-air craft could fly, balloons were being used in warfare, as the British had most recently demonstrated in the Second Boer War (1899–1902), and the airship appeared to be the way ahead for offensive military air power. The Wrights and the arrival of powered flight The scientific investigation into heavier-than-air flight had already been pursued in the nineteenth century by, among others, William Henson and John Stringfellow who carried out experiments on powered models.11 However, the first real advocate of  File: --- buckley_total.pdf --- Page 37 --- AIR POWER IN THE AGE OF TOTAL WAR 26heavier-than-air flight was the Scarborough-based British enthusiast Sir George Cayley. Between 1796 and 1853 he proposed helicopter designs and, importantly, the use offixed wing gliders which he eventually constructed and had flown. The problem of powering the flight was still effectively beyond prevailing technology, but the basic founding principles of fully direc