Node: 23518, Score: 0.0836796525271309, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0347.txt, Content: he Germans and only two further aircraft were lost from it. But for the combined missions, a total of 60 bombers were lost, an unacceptable 16 per cent. PR checks showed impressive bombing accuracy at Regensburg, and serious damage to the ball-bearing plants at Schweinfurt. But machine tools were difficult to destroy, and production at Schweinfurt was restored within four weeks. The Germans expected repeat raids and the path to Schweinfurt became better defended than that to Berlin. [Coffey, 1978:267] In the second Schweinfurt mission on 14 October, 291 B-17s crossed the mainland coast. Most of the German fighter units waited until, near Aachen, the P-47s turned for home. Thereafter, attacks on the bombers were continuous on both outward and return legs. Including several due to fog, 65 B-17s were lost (a rate of 19 per cent) and many others badly hit. Heavy damage to the ball-bearing plants was achieved, but production was virtually restored within six weeks. With 8th AF crew morale deteriorating - and diversions to Switzerland increasing - this second Schwein- furt mission brought acceptance that the concept of self-defending formations was not viable. From now on, US day bombing missions would be constrained by the availability and range capability of escort fighters. The percentage of German fighters in Western Europe had increased from 43 per cent in January to 60 per cent in October, while those on the Eastern Front declined from 33 per cent to 19 per cent. US Bombing Operations in the Mediterranean; the 15th Air Force The heaviest raids on Italy were by the RAF at night, notably one by 504 aircraft on Milan on 12 August. But US1943 206 NIGHT BOMBING TECHNIQUES AND OPERATIONS 207 Hamburg's devastation, survivors returned and industrial production was gradually restored. Use of a 'Master Bomber'; the Peenemünde Raid The PFF had long sought to use a 'Master of Ceremonies' or 'Master Bomber' to control a raid and so increase its effectiveness. After its use on th
Node: 23392, Score: 0.0824485156887232, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0221.txt, Content: d only two further aircraft were lost from it. But for the combined missions, a total of 60 bombers were lost, an unacceptable 16 per cent. PR checks showed impressive bombing accuracy at Regensburg, and serious damage to the ball-bearing plants at Schweinfurt. But machine tools were difficult to destroy, and production at Schweinfurt was restored within four weeks. The Germans expected repeat raids and the path to Schweinfurt became better defended than that to Berlin. [Coffey, 1978:267] In the second Schweinfurt mission on 14 October, 291 B-17s crossed the mainland coast. Most of the German fighter units waited until, near Aachen, the P-47s turned for home. Thereafter, attacks on the bombers were continuous on both outward and return legs. Including several due to fog, 65 B-17s were lost (a rate of 19 per cent) and many others badly hit. Heavy damage to the ball-bearing plants was achieved, but production was virtually restored within six weeks. With 8th AF crew morale deteriorating - and diversions to Switzerland increasing - this second Schwein- furt mission brought acceptance that the concept of self-defending formations was not viable. From now on, US day bombing missions would be constrained by the availability and range capability of escort fighters. The percentage of German fighters in Western Europe had increased from 43 per cent in January to 60 per cent in October, while those on the Eastern Front declined from 33 per cent to 19 per cent. US Bombing Operations in the Mediterranean; the 15th Air Force The heaviest raids on Italy were by the RAF at night, notably one by 504 aircraft on Milan on 12 August. But US  1943 196 NIGHT TARGET MARKING DEVELOPMENTS day raids, tactical and strategic, were increasing. After RAF Wellingtons dropped 800,000 warning leaflets during the night, on 19 July 270 US B-17s and B-24s made the first Allied raid on Rome, attacking rail targets and airfields. The fall of Corsica to the Allies made its 17 airfields available. Then o
Node: 23254, Score: 0.0799666777793343, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0083.txt, Content: strength shrank abruptly as 17 squadrons were assigned as advanced training units, beginning the build-up for a long war. With the British and the French agreeing not to bomb German territory, the British began occasional attacks on German shipping instead. These were made in daylight, at relatively long range and therefore without fighter escort. In effect they were a try-out for future British strategic bombing. They reflected Bomber Command's belief, albeit unverified in war exercises, that unescorted bombers could penetrate fighter defences in daylight. Later, aware that the USSR was supplying much of Germany's oil needs, the Allies planned a bombing campaign against the USSR's 122 Caucasus oil refineries, mostly around Baku. The rather optimistic plan, using six French and three British bomber squadrons flying from Turkey and Iraq, was being considered when the Germans struck in Scandinavia, and never materialized. British Attempts with Unescorted Daylight Bombing The RAF attacks on German shipping off Brunsbüttel and Wilhelmshaven in 1939 were the first attempts at unescorted daylight bombing against an adversary equipped both with modern fighters and EW radar. The initial tactic was to fly at low altitude, below cloud. On 4 September, 7 of the 29 Blenheims and Wellingtons were lost; on 29 September, 5 out of 11 Hampdens; and on 14 December, 5 out of 12 Wellingtons. Bomber Command assumed most of the losses were due to light AA, but many were not. In the last action, German reports credited all five kills to fighters. Reacting to the losses sustained at low altitude, the RAF ordered bomber crews to fly at above 10,000ft to reduce the risk from AA, and to maintain close formation to provide mutual protection against fighters. The inadequacy of this quickly became apparent. On 18 December 1939, German  82 1939-40 DAYLIGHT BOMBING OPERATIONS radar-directed fighters intercepted an RAF raid heading for German shipping off Wilhelmshaven. Caught in clear skies by Bf
Node: 23264, Score: 0.0791681237360945, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0093.txt, Content: ese German and British experiences with unescorted daylight bombing had little effect on USAAC planning. For the Ju87 dive-bomber especially, prior local air superiority was proving essential. On 12 May, French Curtiss Hawk fighters shot down all 12 Ju87s in one unescorted group and several in another. Even with escorts, the Ju87s still had to peel from formation for a strike, and could be pounced on while unprotected, climbing to reassemble; with no dive-brakes, the escort fighters were unable to stay with them during the dive. With major losses over Britain, after 18 August the Ju87s were withdrawn, the intention being to reintroduce them for close support in the invasion itself. Meanwhile, in May, French land-based naval Vought V-156 dive-bombers had also suffered heavy losses. German Bomber Formations During the Battle of Britain, the Luftwaffe mounted many raids by large groups of bombers. Normally they flew in a tight formation in Vee's of three aircraft, taking off as a Vee in the case of a grass field, otherwise taking off singly and forming up once airborne. A tight formation enabled mutual defence against fighters, and reduced the number of rounds that could be fired at the bombers by any given AA site. But it took time and fuel to build up, and as the USAAF was to  90 1939-40 91 DAYLIGHT BOMBING TACTICS AND TECHNIQUES find later, it had its own risks: inadvertent bomb hits from aircraft above, if the formation got distorted; inadvertent gun hits from adjacent bombers when under attack; and collisions from other bombers, especially if one was hit and out of control. Typically, the German bombers took off in pre-set sequence, then would rendezvous and circle at low altitude, gradually assembling into the required formation, and then climb on course for the target. The short-range fighters took off last, from the airfields closest to the coast, and climbed to join the bombers as they crossed the French coast at the chosen raid altitude. Over the target, the
Node: 23266, Score: 0.0750326605863445, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0095.txt, Content: an Escort Fighter Tactics: the Failure of the Bf110 Although faster than a Hurricane and having a formidable forward-firing armament, the Messerschmitt Bf110 heavy fighter could not match the manoeuvrability and acceleration of a single-engine interceptor. Encountering such fighters on sweeps over France in May, Bf110 pilots resorted to forming a 'Lufbery' defensive circle. Introduced against Britain in an escort role, which required attempts at dogfighting to keep enemy fighters away from the bombers, the Bf110 proved a disappointment. On 15 August, 21 Bf110D fighters flew escort for He111 bombers from Stavanger; intercepted by RAF fighters, some Bf110s were shot down, others abandoned the bombers - some forming a Lufbery, others turning for home. After subsequent losses, the Germans attempted an inefficient concept in which the Bf110 escort fighters were themselves escorted by Bf109 single-seat fighters. Clearly the heavy escort fighter was not viable, and the Bf110 was withdrawn from the role, the Luftwaffe relying thereafter on the single-engine fighters only, despite their poor range without drop tanks. Meanwhile, continuing bomber losses brought a Göring directive requiring escort fighters to remain close to the bombers, thereby handing the air fighting initiative to the RAF. Although a high escort was flown, most Bf109s flew at either side, above and below the bombers. Tied in this way, the German fighters lost the speed, height and freedom of action needed to counter the British attacks. Although limited fighter sweeps were implemented ahead of the bombers, the escort fighters were now prevented from chasing and destroying the British fighters, even though this was the Luftwaffe's stated primary objective. German Introduction of Strategic Fighter-bombers Luftwaffe Bf109E and Bf110C Jagdbomber fighter-bombers had already carried out low-level bombing attacks against shipping and against the British CH radar stations. But in September 1940, they were introduce
Node: 23297, Score: 0.0747166891445694, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0126.txt, Content: ter fitness and oxygen tests to ensure they could withstand the 30,000ft altitude and ambient air temperature of -50 degrees C. Raids began on 8 July, with three aircraft over Germany. US advisors trained the British crews and in some cases flew on operational missions. But without a tail turret especially, the B-17C's armament proved inadequate, while the weather over northern Europe gave severe icing problems and poor visibility which compromised effectiveness, including of the Sperry Mk 0-1 bomb sight. Several broke up in mid air after Clear Air Turbulence caused a violent spiralling dive. With eight aircraft lost after only 39 sorties, the British assigned surviving Fortresses to the Middle East and Coastal Command. The Americans claimed the Fortresses had been misused by not operating them in formation, but put in train major modifications to the B-17, notably for improved armament. German and Soviet Daylight Bombing on the Eastern Front With the German invasion of the USSR, daylight attacks on the Soviet airfields and communications system were interspersed with raids on Moscow itself, using Ju88 and He111 bombers. On the first three days of the campaign, Moscow was attacked by 127, 115, and 100 bombers respectively. The range allowed fighter escort, although the Soviets were unable to provide much effective fighter opposition. Later, in August, the Germans made heavy fire-bombing attacks against Leningrad. But subsequently, the Luftwaffe's bombers were largely withdrawn from  1941 118 Cal DAYLIGHT BOMBING strategic operations, and assigned instead to tactical support for the ground forces. While this helped to speed the German offensive eastwards, by December 1941 it had also allowed the Soviets to uproot and transport some 1.5 million freight railcar loads of vital factory plant and equipment much further east, where it was now out of reach of the bombers. As the first morning of the German invasion progressed, Soviet bomber units began to react in a manner
Node: 23391, Score: 0.074069053357733, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0220.txt, Content: defences were ready thanks to the decoding of a US radio message and, in part' because of a delay when the lead group made a turn at the wrong landmark. The B-24s formed large, slow and steady targets, and many of the 52 lost fell to the intense light flak over the target area. The damage caused to the refineries was considerable, taking eight months for production to return to pre-raid levels. But the price paid in aircraft and crews had been prohibitive. The US Schweinfurt and Regensburg Missions The town of Schweinfurt, with its five ball-bearing factories was top of the Allied 'Pointblank' list of 76 key German targets. It was the one to fully test the theories of selective precision daylight bombing and the self-defending bomber formation. It required a much deeper daylight penetration into Germany than had been attempted before, unescorted for most of the way, and under attack by relays of German fighters, there and back, such that consumption of ammunition was itself a major problem for the bomber crews. Operation 'Double Strike' on 17 August 1943 was the biggest 8th AF operation yet, and the first with shuttle bombing. For deception, the Schweinfurt task force, with LeMay himself flying, was preceded by another one attacking the Messerschmitt factory at Regensburg and then 195 heading southwards over the Mediterranean to North Africa. In the two forces, 363 B-17s eventually crossed the mainland coast, with initial and return escort provided by US P-47s and RAF Spitfires. Beyond escort range, both forces came under almost continuous attack, including by air-to-air bombing and rocket mortars, many fighters achieving several sorties from different bases as the running battle progressed. The turn southwards by the Regensburg force was not expected by the Germans and only two further aircraft were lost from it. But for the combined missions, a total of 60 bombers were lost, an unacceptable 16 per cent. PR checks showed impressive bombing accuracy at Regensburg,
Node: 23263, Score: 0.0710897117610579, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0092.txt, Content: nebu and Sola. Then, during the German Western offensive, many more attacks were made on airfields. Normally, these used an approach at low level for surprise, the raids being led by strafing Bf110s. The following bombers released time-delay bombs enabling all aircraft to get clear. On 11 May, Do17s destroyed a squadron of Blenheims lined up at Conde-Vraux. On 19 May, 12 He111 bombers wrecked 40 of the 50 LeO451 bombers at Persan-Beaumont. Successes during the Battle of Britain included: on 13 August at Detling, 22 aircraft destroyed by Ju87s; on 15 August at Driffield, 10 Whitleys destroyed by Ju88s; on 16 August at Brize Norton, 46 aircraft destroyed by just two Ju88s. Such results, and Britain's need to stave off imminent invasion, make the RAF's policy of attacking targets in the Ruhr, rather than the German aircraft massed on the airfields of Northern France, a surprising one. 89 The Vulnerability of Bombers in Daylight; the Ju87 Stuka The air battles of 1940 confirmed that in daylight, most bombers were vulnerable even with an escort. Allied light bombers suffered crippling losses in France, and even the modern medium bombers of the Luftwaffe, flown by practised crews and mostly with strong fighter cover, experienced major losses. In the Battle of Britain, on 15 August, 7 of 50 Ju88s of KG30 making the long North Sea crossing in daylight without escort were shot down by RAF fighters; the Luftwaffe flew no more such raids. On the British side, despite all Bomber Command's previous experience, Blenheims were sent on unescorted daylight bombing attacks on German-held airfields, e.g. 9 July (Stavanger in Norway, 7 out of 12 shot down) and 13 August (Aalborg in Denmark, all 11 shot down); neither airfield was playing a major role in the Battle of Britain. Seemingly, these German and British experiences with unescorted daylight bombing had little effect on USAAC planning. For the Ju87 dive-bomber especially, prior local air superiority was proving essential. On 12 M
Node: 23203, Score: 0.0697383118805884, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0032.txt, Content: der development, including the Handley Page Halifax (Britain), the CAO 700 (France), the Heinkel He177 (Germany), the Consolidated B-24 (USA), and the Nakajima G5N-1 (Japan). So, although the way it would be used was not well established, the four-engined heavy bomber was already a reality. The Boeing B-17 was the first heavy bomber to be evolved for a specialist day bomber rôle, and was to become the war's archetypal day bomber, with its turbo-supercharged engines and progressively increasing armour plate protec- tion and defensive fire power. The Short Stirling was the RAF's first monoplane four-engined bomber, with large- chord Gouge flaps for take-off and landing, but with cruise speed and altitude performance compromised by short span wings to fit hangar dimensions. Escort Fighters and Bomber-support Aircraft The 'battlecruiser': considered by the British as a large, heavily armed aircraft (Vickers Type 163 four-engined bomber with three 37mm COW guns) flying ahead of the bombers to clear the airspace of fighters; it was rejected as unrealistic - the fighters would go around it. The 'destroyer' or 'strategic fighter': e.g. the German Kampfzerstörer or Soviet Krejser (cruiser); a heavy twin- engined multi-seat and multi-rôle fighter, often with a bomb bay and defensive as well as fixed guns; to be sent in waves ahead of the bombers to fight a path through; various types were in service, notably the Messerschmitt Bf110, but not proven in this role or as an escort. The single-seat, single-engine escort fighter: scarcely thought credible in 1939 because of the long range required; but the key to long range, the jettisonable auxiliary fuel tank had been suggested in the US in 1929, and had received some development in the USSR, Germany and Japan; the  Cano PRE-WORLD WAR TWO 40 BOMBER ARMAMENT Mitsubishi A6M Zero-sen already offered long range even on internal fuel. The single-seat twin-engine escort fighter: half way to a 'destroyer', such a fighter offered longer r
Node: 23446, Score: 0.0686462948461772, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0275.txt, Content: crewman, and had less need of escorts. But the German use of fighter-bombers for high-level bombing had made no provision for achieving accuracy. Now the USAAF proposed using a tight formation of them, bombing accurately by means of a suitably equipped lead aircraft, all bombing when the leader bombed. A B-24 was tried for leading a formation of P-47s, but its low speed made the formation vulnerable to flak at the 24,000ft the laden P-47s could reach. Accordingly, a few P-38J Lightnings were converted as two-seat 'droop snoot' pathfinder lead aircraft, with a lengthened nose housing a bombardier and a Norden bombsight. Later a radar bombsight was added for raids through cloud cover. The first two 8th AF 'B-38' raids were made on 10 April 1944, by the 20th and 55th P-38 Groups with other P-38s as escorts, attacking airfields in France. Further missions followed, but were eventually phased out with the reducing threat to the heavy bombers. British Daylight Bombing Techniques For its new daylight bombing operations in June 1944, RAF Bomber Command transferred its night techniques. The target was marked as at night, and crews bombed individually, the raid being controlled by a Master Bomber. If cloud or smoke from the bombing or from defence smokescreens obscured the target and/or markers, later crews bombed blind using H2S, or even a Gee fix. The 239 British bombers flying at 18,000ft were judged too vulnerable to flak to use large USAAF-type tight formations, so loose 'gaggles' were normally used. But tight formations were judged practical at small scale, and in July 'Oboe Formation' and 'Gee-H Formation' were introduced for precision daylight/overcast bombing. This employed a tight group of six heavy bombers, led by an Oboe or Gee-H equipped aircraft, with 'bombing on the leader'. Range was limited by the leader flying at the lower altitude of the other bombers, but forward movement of mobile transmitters as the Allied troops advanced towards Germany eased this probl
Node: 23372, Score: 0.0684032764823456, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0201.txt, Content: e accurate back-up marking. Later, the British introduced the Jordan Trainer for training Master Bombers. To represent a position orbiting a German city under night attack, the trainee sat in darkness in a bomber cockpit, high above an elaborate revolving model of a city, the model using lights, steam and pyrotechnics to simulate defences, marking, cloud and smoke. For the USAAF, daylight bomber crew training, with its great need for gunnery expertise, included novel approaches to gunnery training. These ranged from the use of truck-mounted turrets for firing at targets as the truck sped past, to a purpose-built gunnery training aircraft (Fairchild AT-21). Also, 1943 saw the introduction of RP-63A 'live target' conversions of Bell P-63 Kingcobra fighters. These 'Pin-Ball Targets', which flashed lights to record a hit, were given thick skins, armour plate and bullet-proof glazed areas. They were used in simulated attacks on bombers, the gunners firing at them with a lightweight frangible practice ammunition. US 'Wing-tip Escort' Bomber Conversions US prototype four-engined heavy 'wing-tip escort' fighters, the Lockheed Vega XB-40 and Convair XB-41 - conversions of a B-17F and a B-24D - appeared in 1943. Compared with the normal bomber version, each carried additional armour, 16 guns, twice the ammunition, and special supply tracks to feed ammunition to the waist and tail positions. There was a plan for the other bombers to be fitted with additional, dummy, gun installations to mislead the enemy fighter pilots. Thirteen YB-40s were built, apparently with up to 30 179 guns in some cases. The 8th AF 92nd Bomb Group flew the first YB-40 mission in a raid on St Nazaire on 27 May. But the YB-40s proved to be too heavy, tail heavy, slow and unmanoeuvrable, and unable even to defend themselves adequately. They were withdrawn in August. Long-range Single-engine Escort Fighters; the P-51B Mustang Belatedly, in 1943 the Allies began using fighters with drop tanks for extended s
Node: 23344, Score: 0.068281407069996, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0173.txt, Content: ing units, were ordered to supplement the transport fleet. The losses of aircraft and trained crews to the steadily tightening Soviet defences around the pocket were severe. Göring later said 'There died the core of the German bomber fleet'. [Air Ministry, 1983:218] Selective RAF Daylight Raids; the Armoured Lancaster; Mosquito Raids Although the RAF was concentrating heavily on night bombing, thought was still being given to ways of achieving daylight bombing with acceptable losses. On 17 April, diversion raids by light bombers and over 500 fighters were used to support an RAF low-level daylight raid on the MAN works at Augsburg. The attack was made near dusk, to allow a return flight in darkness, but only 5 of the 12 Lancasters got back home, all of them damaged. On 11 July, 44 Lancasters used cloud over Denmark and the Baltic to reach Danzig to attack the U-boat yards at dusk in the longest (1,500 miles) round trip yet attempted; two were lost. On 17 October, a larger low-level dusk raid, by 94 Lancasters on the Schneider Armaments Arsenal at Le Creusot and a nearby transformer station, was achieved by 155 flying around north-west France and then in from the Bay of Biscay; only one aircraft was lost, but 1,000 civilians were killed. On 6 December, 93 Ventura, Boston and Mosquito bombers of the RAF's 2 Group mounted a low-level daylight raid on the Philips works at Eindhoven. The raid caused major damage, but 15 aircraft were lost. In May 1942 the Air Staff advocated a specially armoured Mk.III day bomber version of the Lancaster. Harris thought such an aircraft offered little reduction in vulnerability compared with an unmodified Lancaster, and rejected the proposal; the aircraft was already in production. [Webster and Frankland, Vol.I, 1961:451] With the Mosquito, RAF Bomber Command had a bomber with the speed, altitude and manoeuvrability to outstrip existing German day fighters, plus the range to penetrate far into Germany. The first such daylight raid was at
Node: 23517, Score: 0.0681847723783034, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0346.txt, Content: ions. But the defences were ready thanks to the decoding of a US radio message and, in part' because of a delay when the lead group made a turn at the wrong landmark. The B-24s formed large, slow and steady targets, and many of the 52 lost fell to the intense light flak over the target area. The damage caused to the refineries was considerable, taking eight months for production to return to pre-raid levels. But the price paid in aircraft and crews had been prohibitive. The US Schweinfurt and Regensburg Missions The town of Schweinfurt, with its five ball-bearing factories was top of the Allied 'Pointblank' list of 76 key German targets. It was the one to fully test the theories of selective precision daylight bombing and the self-defending bomber formation. It required a much deeper daylight penetration into Germany than had been attempted before, unescorted for most of the way, and under attack by relays of German fighters, there and back, such that consumption of ammunition was itself a major problem for the bomber crews. Operation 'Double Strike' on 17 August 1943 was the biggest 8th AF operation yet, and the first with shuttle bombing. For deception, the Schweinfurt task force, with LeMay himself flying, was preceded by another one attacking the Messerschmitt factory at Regensburg and then 195 heading southwards over the Mediterranean to North Africa. In the two forces, 363 B-17s eventually crossed the mainland coast, with initial and return escort provided by US P-47s and RAF Spitfires. Beyond escort range, both forces came under almost continuous attack, including by air-to-air bombing and rocket mortars, many fighters achieving several sorties from different bases as the running battle progressed. The turn southwards by the Regensburg force was not expected by the Germans and only two further aircraft were lost from it. But for the combined missions, a total of 60 bombers were lost, an unacceptable 16 per cent. PR checks showed impressive bombing accuracy at
Node: 23194, Score: 0.0681268401502325, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0023.txt, Content: although it was also in train for the B-17; and only German bombers had the vitally important self-sealing fuel tanks, having a layer of unvulcanized rubber to swell up and seal bullet holes. Few bombers had much specialization for either day or night operations, although for night bombing the changes required were largely limited to a dark paint scheme,  PRE-WORLD WAR TWO 32 BOMBER TYPES blackout curtains for the navigator's compartment, subdued cockpit/instrument lighting, flash eliminators on the guns, and flame dampers on the engine exhausts to make them less visible both to enemy night fighters and to the crew who were trying to see the ground to navigate. Survival on overwater missions had been little thought of; the war was to force much more attention to ditching behaviour and the provision of sea survival equipment. But Italian and British bombers were operating in the desert, and 'tropicalization' measures (desert camouflage, engine sand filters, cockpit sunblinds, water containers and survival kits) were in use. Many new types of bomber were to be designed and flown during the war, but few of these were put into production and fewer saw service in substantial numbers. The cost and delays in re-tooling and in pre-operational training were such that once an initial requirement was satisfied the emphasis was usually one of improving existing designs instead of introducing new ones. Light Single-engined Bombers Despite their limited potential compared with larger and faster twin-engined machines, in 1939 there were a number of single engine monoplane light bombers in service. Typically they featured a crew of two or three in tandem, a small internal bombload, minimal defensive armament (one or two light machine guns), and no armour even though some were expected to be used for ground attack. Examples include: the PZL P-23 Karas (Poland, 1934); Vickers Wellesley and Fairey Battle (Britain, 1935 and 1936. respectively); and the Mitsubishi Ki-30 and Kawasaki Ki-
Node: 23223, Score: 0.068081824505469, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0052.txt, Content: ican B-25. But with any new bomber, technical problems and training requirements meant that there could be many months between first deliveries into service and the first operational use. Among technology developments, the first remotely operated gun barbettes appeared in 1939-40: first, barbettes on the outer engine nacelles of the Italian P.108B; then the German Arado/DVL FA13 hydraulically-operated system on the Ar240, using a periscope sight. New bombsights also appeared: in Germany, in April 1940 the Zeiss Jena Lotfe 7C bombsight showed impressive accuracy; and in Italy, in August the new Borletti-Colnaghi bombsight was tested on a Fiat BR20. With some bombers too cramped to enable crew members to change places, the problem of the pilot being killed or injured by enemy action was treated on the Martin 167 Maryland and Douglas DB-7 Boston by providing a second simplified set of flying controls in another crew position. In Britain, the discovery of self-sealing linings in the fuel tanks of an He111H-2 bomber shot down on 28 October 1939 led to the rapid development and introduction of similar linings on RAF bombers. In 1940, a Manchester bomber was successfully launched from the RAE 'Fric- tionless Take-off' catapult, before the catapult programme was halted. Heavy Bombers: Heinkel He177, Consolidated B-24 Powered by four P&W Twin Wasp radials, the B-24 was the first production heavy bomber with a tricycle u/c. Other features included the low-drag, high aspect ratio 'Davis Wing', conferring exceptional range and endurance which  Ca 1939-40 58 59 BOMBER DEVELOPMENTS made the B-24 the war's most widely used four-engined aircraft; and 'roller-shutter' bomb doors which retracted upwards inside the fuselage, giving less drag than downward-opening hinged doors. But a longitudinal keel and catwalk allowed only relatively small bombs stowed either side. The He177 was the most innovative heavy bomber of the time. Features included: a structure stressed for dive- bombing,
Node: 23488, Score: 0.0660073824628917, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0317.txt, Content: ircraft ditched, for as long as fuel reserves allowed, to guide rescue craft. All crews were required to watch for any survivors using flares or mirrors. After a mission, the B-29s flew search missions back over the route taken. The rescues were made by 'Dumbo' PBY-5 amphibians or by surface ships or submarines, including some positioned for 'planeguard' duty. On 27 January, a B-29 raid on Japan was the first to be accompanied by two SB-29A 'Superdumbo' rescue escort conversions. Each carried additional radio equipment and droppable supplies, including a large A-3 ventral lifeboat, life rafts and survival kits. The crew included an extra radio operator to communicate with downed crewmen and rescue ships. Iwo Jima: Escort Fighter Operations; Sweeps After a conventional bombardment (the Lethridge plan to 'sanitize' it with chemical bombs and shells having been rejected), on 19 February 1945 US forces invaded Iwo Jima. The heavily defended island was half way between the B-29 bases in the Marianas and their targets in Japan. Its occupation enabled elimination of the Japanese radar early warning station, and the provision of both an emergency landing field for B-29s and a forward base for P-51 escort fighters. The first of 2,251 B-29s to make an emergency  1945 276 DAYLIGHT BOMBING landing there did so on 4 March. P-51s arrived on 6 March. The first escorted B-29 daylight mission against Japan came on 7 April, 95 P-51s from Iwo Jima accompanying the raid on Musashino. For such raids, escort assembly was achieved by squadron lead aircraft dropping parachute flares and smoke bombs to indicate the assembly point. But the Iwo Jima P-51s were to fly only ten escort missions, the B-29s continuing to operate mainly at night and in bad weather, bombing by radar. When by June, the Japanese fighter force could offer little opposition to large-scale daylight B-29 raids, the P-51 escorts were able to drop down low for strafing attacks. On 16 April, P-51s from Iwo Jima made the firs
Node: 23425, Score: 0.0658403633644033, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0254.txt, Content: fuelling by VJ-Day Alternative concepts tried for carrying additional fuel for long range included towed unmanned 'fuel gliders' (e.g. the US Cornelius XFG-1), and a towed winged fuel tank tried with the Me262 and Ar234C in Germany. The British 'FIDO' Fog Dispersal System Fog was a special hazard for returning bomber crews. One night in 1941, the crews of 30 Whitleys all baled out because they were unable to see to land; and in December 1943, six out of seven Halifaxes trying to land at Woodbridge ELG in fog crashed with great loss of life. Prompted by Churchill, Britain's PWD undertook work on fog dispersal for airfields, under FIDO (Fog Investigation and Dispersal Operation). Pre-war work on fog dispersal by moisture-absorbing chemicals, by refrigeration, by intense noise, and by electrical discharges, was superseded by direct heat methods. Some tests used lines of coke braziers, others raised petrol pipelines which were finally adopted with a trial airfield installation at Gravely. FIDO became operational at Woodbridge in June 1944. The pipelines each side of the runway carried petrol to burners at intervals along the pipe. When operating, the intense heat generated at the burners caused great up-draughts which cleared the fog locally. Disadvantages included the fuel cost, initial black smoke, and handling difficulties at final approach caused by the up-draughts and turbulence, while the flames themselves  1944 224 were a hazard to aircraft veering to one side. But FIDO could raise ground visibility from 100 yards to 2,000 yards, and gave Allied bomber crews confidence that they could return and land safely even in thick fog. At Woodbridge, it was to enable over 100 aircraft to land safely during one foggy night in January 1945, and the total there reached 1,200 by the end of the war. FIDO installations were made at 15 airfields in Britain, one in France and one (by US Navy CBs) on Amchitka Island in the Aleutians. + Ground-attack Developments The Decline of the
Node: 23373, Score: 0.0656126510164679, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0202.txt, Content: fend themselves adequately. They were withdrawn in August. Long-range Single-engine Escort Fighters; the P-51B Mustang Belatedly, in 1943 the Allies began using fighters with drop tanks for extended sweep and escort operations. The British introduced 108-gallon laminated plastic/paper tanks, but although the 8th AF in Britain also began using these on P-47s (on 28 July), the US Wright Field rejected the British tanks as unsuitable and began developing aluminium ones. For really long range, greatly increased internal fuel was also needed. Thus, the Soviets increased the internal tankage of the Yak-9, giving the Yak-9D with a radius of 700km. Needing a long-range escort fighter in Britain, US Gen. H.H. Arnold had three Spitfires specially modified and flown across the Atlantic in stages to Britain (the only single-seat fighters to do so) to try to convince the British to convert some of their under-utilized Spitfires as escorts for the US bombers [Webster and Frankland, Vol.II, 1961:43]. Thanks largely to Portal's scepticism that any long range escort could operate against short-range interceptors, and despite the proven long-range performance of PR Spitfires, the British did not respond, and left the US to develop its own long-range fighter. This appeared in December. The North American P-51B with drop tanks offered a combat radius of 880 miles, allowing fighter escort deep into Germany. The first escorted long-range mission, against Kiel 500 miles away, was flown on 13 December. The balance of power in the Western Front daylight air war was shifting dramatically. Allied Weather Reconnaissance to Support Bombing The weather over Europe being crucial for bombing operations, during 1943 the Allies introduced weather flights specifically to support the bomber offensive. In April, RAF Bomber Command's new 1409 Met Flight, with Mosquitos, began long-range meteorological sorties, code-named  1943 180 BOMBER SUPPORT 'Pampas', over enemy territory. Soon, each raid was preced
Node: 23296, Score: 0.0650186749512172, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0125.txt, Content: ted air to warm the engine. In addition they rolled the airstrip snow to compress it, aiding take-offs and suppressing snow clouds. By December, the Soviets were flying four times as many sorties as the Germans. Daylight Bombing British Daylight Raids: 'Circus' and 'Cloud Cover'; use of B-17 Fortress After 'Rhubarb' fighter sweeps had failed to draw significant Luftwaffe opposition, on 14 June the RAF began 'Circus' operations: short range escorted daylight missions into Northern France, with 2 Group Blenheim light bombers attacking airfields and industrial targets. Later, 'long range Spitfires with increased internal tankage allowed greater radius of action. But the raids were largely ineffective with substantial losses, and failed in the objective of drawing Luftwaffe squadrons from the Eastern Front. In December. the RAF began occasional small 'cloud cover' daylight raids ('Moling' for specific targets, 'Scuttle' for targets of opportunity), in weather which would allow the bombers to remain in cloud for most of the flight, emerging below or into gaps in the cloud to find and bomb the target. But of 190 Moling sorties by mid-1942, over half were abandoned due 117 to inadequate cloud cover; only five crews bombed their targets. To help develop the strategic bombing capability of the (officially still neutral) USA, a secret liaison with the British was implemented. USAAF personnel in civilian clothes were assigned to Bomber Command bases, observing and attending briefings. In 1941 Britain received twenty B-17C bombers, which by US theory would allow unescorted daylight bombing at high altitude. No.90 Squadron RAF, with the Fortress I bombers, was formed in May. The high-flying Fortresses being unpressurized and unheated, crewmen aged under 25 were specially selected after fitness and oxygen tests to ensure they could withstand the 30,000ft altitude and ambient air temperature of -50 degrees C. Raids began on 8 July, with three aircraft over Germany. US advisors tra
Node: 23207, Score: 0.0648046222577535, Chunk File: hecks_bombing/chunks/hecks_bombing_0036.txt, Content: and Farman 223 Elsewhere, even in the USA for the B-17, reliance was still mainly on hand-swivelled guns with ring and bead sights. Remotely-operated Gun Barbettes Some designers were already looking further ahead. The powered, manned gun turret was bulky and heavy, and compromised the bomber's weight distribution and aerody- namics. The alternative was to have powered but unmanned gun barbettes, sighted and operated remotely from some central crew position(s). Such a system would be complex. but the individual barbettes would be much smaller and lighter than turrets. They could be sited with greater freedom, and on smaller aircraft, and they would remove gunners from the gun noise, vibration, muzzleflash and air blast exposure of the typical turret. The first such barbettes were under development: in Germany, by Dipl. Ing. W. 43 Blume of Arado, with Rheinmettal Borsig; in Italy, for the outboard engine nacelles of the new Piaggio P.108 four-engined bomber; and in the USSR, for use from the pressure cabin of the BOK-7 high-altitude reconnaissance aircraft. Balloon Cable Cutters To counter the defensive barrage balloon hazard for low flying bombers, by 1938 an explosive cable cutter for aircraft had been developed in Britain by the Martin Baker Co., and tested at Farnborough by deliberately flying aircraft into balloon cables. In use, the cable cutter was mounted outboard on the (reinforced) wing leading edge. If the wing struck a balloon cable, the cable would slide outwards along the leading edge to the cutter's anvil, triggering a cartridge-fired chisel to sever the cable. The cutters were being fitted to RAF bombers before the war started; during the war, 250,000 sets were to be made. By 1941, the Germans were fitting similar Kuto-Nase cutters to their bombers. Bomb Equipment and Bombsights Bomb Mounting, Bomb Bays; Clusters Bombs were normally mounted to a bomb rack or carrier having a longitudinal beam with fore and aft pairs of bomb steadies, and one or two sh