Node: 28853, Score: -0.0008813787499473, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0332.txt, Content: might provoke a severe Chinese or Soviet response that might turn the conflict into another Korean War-or worse. Second, the Vietnamese Communists had already demonstrated great stamina in enduring the losses and punish- ment over the course of the ten-year war against France and would demonstrate the same resolve against the Americans over the next decade. While America was capable of bombing Vietnam back into the stone age, as Gen. Curtis LeMay's suggested in 1965, there is every indication the Vietnamese would have continued to fight. In any event the air war was executed far differently than the military wished. Instead of a sharp massive blow, civilian leaders gradually increased sorties and expanded the target list as Rolling Thunder moved slowly northward, not attacking targets in the key Hanoi-Haiphong area until June 1966. The decision makers established a thirty-mile buffer zone south of the Viet- nam-Chinese border and restricted zones centering on both Hanoi and Haiphong that could not be attacked without specific permission from the White House. Initially North Vietnamese airfields and SAM sites were left untouched, and throughout the war dikes and the population were off lim- its. Targets were authorized for two-week periods along with a specific number of sorties, and if the targets or sorties could not be serviced, the military had to go back to the White House for reauthorization, which was not always forthcoming ("use it or lose it"). There were also bombing halts ("pauses") for diplomatic purposes that permitted the North Vietnamese to rebuild, resupply, and regroup. This air campaign remains controversial. There are some (especially in the Air Force) who firmly believe that the bombing could have been decisive. "With the benefit of hindsight," a 1996 book boldly states, "it is clear that 'Rolling Thunder' could have been successful only if the civilian leaders in Washington had made a policy decision to use military power effectively"2 The milit
Node: 28852, Score: -0.0008564807716098, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0331.txt, Content: their aid to the insurgents in the south. The objectives of the bombing campaign were set out in a March 1965 memo from Assistant Secretary of Defense John McNaughton to Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara that stated that the pur- pose of Rolling Thunder was to (1) reduce North Vietnamese will, (2) improve the morale of the South Vietnamese, (3) provide a bargaining chip, (4) reduce North Viet- namese infiltration, and (5) show the world U.S. determination to help an ally. Seen here in November 1961 are (left to right) USAF Chief of Staff Curtis LeMay, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Lyman Leminitzer. McNamara served in this position under President Kennedy and President Johnson and was perhaps the country's most active, strongest, and most controversial secretary of defense. In war and peace, LeMay was the epitome of strategic bombing. (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) 217 Rolling Thunder The air war in Vietnam was long and enormous, during which the United States dropped almost two and half times the bomb tonnage in Southeast Asia as it did in World War II and Korea, and about the same ton- nage on North Vietnam as on Germany and Japan. Paradoxically the United States' major strategic weapon, the B-52, was used in South Vietnam against tactical targets, while fighter-bombers, F-105s and F-4s, were used in the North. It also should be noted that SAC was against using the B-52s in this war, arguing that this would expose its hardware and tactics to the Communists and diminish its effectiveness in its primary role, nuclear deterrence. American airmen applied air power with advanced technology, consider- able skill, and much courage, yet this effort was thwarted by a third-rate military power. makers feared such actions might provoke a severe Chinese or Soviet response that might turn the conflict into another Korean War-or worse. Second, the Vietnamese Communists had already demonstrated great stamina in enduring t
Node: 28970, Score: 0.001876010563109, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0449.txt, Content: nflict quick, extensive punishment, instead they meted out various degrees of death, pain, damage, and suffering that was diluted by time and geography, which lessened its impact. And while authors continue to argue whether the bombing increased or decreased the morale of the populations, this is irrelevant, for under authoritarian regimes people complied and worked to survive and thus the economies and societies in Germany and Japan continued to function. The second tenet, which held that bomb- ing the key points of a nation's economy would achieve victory, also floundered in the war, though certainly not for lack of trying. Poor choice of targets, duds, inad- equate accuracy, poor weather, ineffective bomb damage assessment that overestimated damage and delayed or excluded restrikes, and tough defenses that made bombing expensive and frequently impractical were all factors. In addition enemy economies proved flexible and resilient. The result was that these attacks hindered the war effort but were not decisive. However, the closing shots of the war, the nuclear attacks in August 1945, seemed to portend a different future. 32 The experience since World War II has not vindicated strategic bombardment. The wars that erupted after 1945 that involved the superpowers have been limited, hamper- ing strategic bombing and helping render these operations indecisive. Despite marked advances in equipment and considerable investment and effort, strategic bombing has been unable to force a decision. Although technical obstacles have been largely overcome, strategic bombardment remains shackled by political restraints and intel- ligence inadequacies. In fact these handicaps appear greater today as modern commu- nications make every bomb blast instantly known throughout the world and as governments and populations have become much more sensitive to the use of military force and especially to civilian casualties. Since World War II a number of factors have altered strategic bombin
Node: 28851, Score: 0.0023213918924036, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0330.txt, Content: was now directly engaged in the war. Within a week the Soviets backed down in the face of overwhelming American strategic and local tactical superiority and agreed to withdraw their missiles and medium bombers from Cuba.1 In turn the United States pledged not to invade Cuba and shortly withdrew similar missiles from Europe. We now know matters were even worse than believed at the time as the Soviets had already deployed nuclear warheads to the island and had given local commanders the authority to use them. This was the most visible impact of strategic bombardment on world events in the Cold War. The Cuban Missile Crisis scared both powers, led to the "hot line" and the above-ground nuclear test ban treaty, and drew a line that prohibited similar provocative situations in the future. Vietnam The goals of American intervention were unclear. Certainly they did not include a military victory over the North Vietnamese or an overthrow of that regime; this was not The second event took place a half a world away. The U.S. military built up its forces during the 1950s, reequipped with more  us ock CHAPTER 9 216 THE 1960S AND 1970S to be a total war akin to the "last good war," World War II. Apparently one objective was to show the Communist that military actions could not win, that wars of national liberation (the Communist catch phrase of the day) and guerrilla war tactics could be defeated. At the same time American leaders wanted to avoid a larger confrontation. In brief, then, the goals were negative: not to lose and not to get into a larger conflict. Throughout there was a difference between the objectives sought by the military leaders, who wanted to undermine Communist capacity for war, and the civilian leaders, who wanted to influence North Vietnamese leadership to end their aid to the insurgents in the south. The objectives of the bombing campaign were set out in a March 1965 memo from Assistant Secretary of Defense John McNaughton to Secretary of Defense Robert Mc
Node: 28969, Score: 0.0028507083293921, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0448.txt, Content: is clearly different than fat of the last century, with increasing questions elout its utility and vith smaller aircraft and ballistic missiles piring and sometimes World War II was certainly a suitable test of strategic bombardment. This was a total war between the major powers of the world allied in coalitions, that involved vast num- bers of both men and the most modern mil- itary equipment. In contrast to World War I, in which aircraft numbers were limited, as spplanting the traditional large strategic bomber. (U.S. Naval istitute Photo Archive) 297 296  298 CONCLUSION CONCLUSION 299 LIBRARIES ballistic missiles became operational in the early 1960s. Initially missiles supplemented the bombers, then replaced them as the nuclear delivery system of choice, a position they hold today. Concurrently a deter- rence system between the two superpowers emerged that kept matters under control despite some dangerous confrontations and an enormous buildup of nuclear weapons. There was neither a nuclear exchange nor a lesser war between the two nuclear super- powers as the balance of terror precluded such a conflict because the United States and Soviet Union understood and operated by the same rules. Although nuclear weap- ons have not been used since Nagasaki in 1945, the acquisition of nuclear weapons by states that may not follow the "rules of the road," and the instability of the international world order, does not give great confidence that this will continue. bombing would break civilian morale and force a nation to capitulate was shattered despite the horrendous hardships and heavy losses inflicted on civilians. Although the fliers made great efforts at consider- able cost, with a few notable exceptions (Hamburg, Dresden, Tokyo, Hiroshima, and Nagasaki), they could not inflict quick, extensive punishment, instead they meted out various degrees of death, pain, damage, and suffering that was diluted by time and geography, which lessened its impact. And while authors co
Node: 28901, Score: 0.0030012949008277, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0380.txt, Content: two American intermediate-range ballistic missiles, the Army's Jupiter and the Air Force's Thor (shown here). The two were similar in construction and performance. Both were deployed, the Jupiter in Italy and Turkey, and the Thor in Britain, and both were dismantled as part of the agreement that ended the Cuban Missile Crisis. (USAF) Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missiles Development of the Titan II was approved by the secretary of the Air Force in September 1959. It was considerably different than its predecessor: 10 percent At about the same time the Air Force began developing the Titan, the United States was HOR -  248 CHAPTER 10 however. The Jupiter was a mobile missile, and secondary sources list its CEP as .9 miles compared with the Thor's 2 miles. The Army turned over the first operational Jupiter to the USAF in August 1958 the same liquid-fueled Navaho engine. In 1951 the USAF, concerned over the vulner- ability of its Matador missile, ordered the development of a tactical-range (initially six hundred to one thousand miles, then in 1955 increased to twelve hundred to fifteen hundred miles) ballistic missile. The Air Force selected Douglas to build the missile in December 1955. To speed its progress the program used the Atlas' booster, guidance system, and reentry vehicle. This should have eased the road for the Thor, but the Air Force adopted the risky procedure of con- currency, as it had with both the Atlas and Titan, in the race to field the missile before its two rivals, the Russians and the Army. MISSILES 249 The two IRBMs were quickly deployed overseas. The British-based Thor became operational in June 1959, while the Jupiter became operational in Italy in July 1960 and in Turkey in April 1962.ยบ The missiles worked under a dual key arrangement, with the missile manned by crews of the host nation and the warheads under U.S. control. The two missiles were only briefly in service, for as part of the resolution of the Cuban Missile Crisis and with the intr
Node: 28900, Score: 0.0033822317080672, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0379.txt, Content: as the desire to get a nuclear-armed ballistic missile into service as rapidly as possible to reassure both the American public and American allies. Both programs built on the progress of other missiles and were similar, both using for launch.6 The "E" and "F" models were somewhat improved over the "D" with upgraded boosters, a more powerful war- head, and all inertial guidance system that made possible a CEP of two nautical miles over a distance of sixty-three hundred nauti- cal miles. The Atlas ended its alert duties in June 1965 and went on to serve as a booster for space operations. For all of its faults the Atlas did establish the United States in the strategic missile business. The Titan quickly followed. After calls in 1954 for an alternate ICBM, in April 1955 the secretary of the Air Force authorized development of a second and parallel ICBM program, granting Martin the contract that September. Although Titan was similar to the Atlas with its liquid fuel, silo emplace- ment,7 and above-ground fueling and launch, it was more sophisticated. It was a two-stage missile that was larger, capable of more reliably carrying twice the payload a longer distance, and required less mainte- nance than the Atlas. However, the missile did not have an easy path to deployment because critics saw the Titan as a costly duplication of the Atlas and not as impres- sive as the emerging Minuteman. The Sputnik crisis changed all that. Titan made its first flight in February 1959 and had mixed success in testing and harsh public criticism, although two-thirds of the missiles achieved full success through June 1961. The missile became operational in May 1962 and served until June 1965, when the transition to the Titan II was completed. The race to get ballistic missiles operational led to two American intermediate-range ballistic missiles, the Army's Jupiter and the Air Force's Thor (shown here). The two were similar in construction and performance. Both were deployed, the Jupiter in
Node: 28762, Score: 0.0037780983653639, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0241.txt, Content: t, it did lead to high absenteeism at the factories, rising to 12 percent in the undamaged aircraft plants and 40 percent in those damaged. And the bombing did have an impact on the think- ing of the top leaders. Therefore the most important contribution that the bombing campaign made to victory over Japan were connected with mining and morale. There are those who believe the bomb- ing could have defeated Japan without the planned invasion. These included not only top AAF leaders (Arnold and LeMay) but also the USSBS, which stated that "even without the atomic bombing attacks, air supremacy over Japan could have exerted sufficient pressure to bring about uncon- ditional surrender and obviate the need for invasion."24 The official AAF history quoted two Japanese decision makers who stated that the B-29 was the basis of the Japanese surrender. A more balanced view is that the bombing devastated Japan but did not win the war. Instead its greatest impact was to reinforce the blockade and depress Japanese morale. This is ironic in view of the prewar theories and wartime operations. Any critique of the bombing of Japan has to begin with the realization that the bombing was intended to support an inva- sion of Japan, which was to be the war win- ning blow. The authoritative United States Strategic Bombing Survey states that the Japanese economy was destroyed twice: first by the blockade and then by the bombing. It held that the blockade should have been given greater attention and that shipping and railroads should have been the focus. There are some who insist that the urban bombing was wrong and that precision bombing should have been pursued. The most vocal advocate of this view, during and after the war, was Haywood Hansell. He believed precision bombing was feasible and would have been less costly in civilian lives, although it would have taken months longer. Strategic Bombing and Morality Having discussed the strategic bombing of World War II, the mass deaths of civi
Node: 28576, Score: 0.0040530986783294, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0055.txt, Content: stopped by defensive aircraft. Thus he favored building as many bombers and as few fighters as possible. Also like Douhet he saw air superiority as the first goal of air forces. During World War I he pushed interdiction targets as the focus of British bombing, although he did see the importance of a number of strategic targets. He is best known for his emphasis on the effect of bombing on morale, which he ments that would prove to be in error. For example, he believed the power of antiair- craft artillery was limited, that firepower not speed would determine the aerial battle, that civilian aircraft could be converted into effective bombers, and that poison gas would be widely used. In addition he grossly overestimated bombing destruction.21 In an article published only a few days after his death in 1930, Douhet wrote that a future war between France and Germany would be over in a day. In brief, Douhet had broad, bold, imagi- native ideas on strategic bombing and put these into print early. Working on the lim- ited experience of World War I, he saw the 35 The Italian Giulio Douhet (1869-1930) remains the eminent strategic bombardment theorist. His classic book The Command of the Air appeared in 1921 and held that bombing could be decisive and civilian morale was the key target. This bust is appropriately located in the Air University Library in Montgomery, Alabama, the second site of the Air Corps Tactical School and the present location of the USAF's professional schools. (Air University Press) DOU  36 THE INTERWAR YEARS considered greater than on material targets. (This may have originated from bomb- ing's limited power against physical targets as contrasted with its terrifying impact on morale.) "Using a subjective and unprov- able statistic that earned him much (largely undeserved) ridicule," one author notes, "Trenchard stated that the psychological effects of bombing outweighed the material effects at a ratio of 20 to one."22 However, in 1928 Trenchard wrote
Node: 28577, Score: 0.00501671473422, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0056.txt, Content: rgely undeserved) ridicule," one author notes, "Trenchard stated that the psychological effects of bombing outweighed the material effects at a ratio of 20 to one."22 However, in 1928 Trenchard wrote of the need to target military objectives and avoid "indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terrorizing the civilian population."23 The RAF survived during the lean interwar years, due in large measure to Trenchard's skill in fighting and manipulat- ing the bureaucracy. During this period the RAF took two roads, one in the field and one in theory that enabled it to maintain its independence. In practical terms the RAF carved out a niche for itself by helping pac- ify colonial uprisings with the tactic of"air control," which used bombing to selectively Hugh Trenchard (1873-1956) (left) commanded British strategic bombers during World War I, fathered the RAF, and preserved it following the conflict. He saw bombers as an offensive weapon that were unstoppable and believed morale was the primary target. (National Museum of the USAF) 37 harass, intimidate, and coerce those who got out of line. Air control proved effective as well as far cheaper than conventional puni- tive expeditions, which fit the British quest for reducing their military budget. However, operations against tribesmen armed with rifles did not prepare an air force for an air war against a major power. Ironically, in view of what would transpire in World War II (and his role in promoting that tactic), Winston Churchill noted dur- ing World War I that he doubted "that any terrorization of the civil population which could be achieved by air attack would compel the Government of a great nation to surrender."24 At the same time the airmen developed a strategic bombing concept. Britain feared an aerial assault, the so-called "knock out blow," more than any other country. In 1924 the RAF estimated that based on World War I experience, one ton of bombs would inflict fifty casualties and that the F
Node: 28856, Score: 0.0059185481227856, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0335.txt, Content: ikes and people were not deliberately attacked. When the bombing stopped in mid- 1968, America had been defeated. While the indigenous insurgency in the South had been beaten, increased numbers of North Vietnamese took up the slack while the American will for the war had been 219 shattered. The considerable American bombing of North Vietnam (during Roll- ing Thunder the United States dropped three-quarters of the tonnage it unloaded on Germany and Japan during World War II) had not achieved McNaughton's five objectives. North Vietnamese morale did not decline, on the contrary it was enhanced by the bombing. South Vietnamese morale may have been helped, but not enough to positively affect the war effort. The bombing proved to be an ineffective bargaining chip; in fact, it was turned against the United States in both domestic and international politics. Infiltration was reduced from what it might have been, but the Communist supply requirements were meager and they demonstrated their ability to mass resources in the country-wide Tet Offensive in early 1968. Finally, Rolling Thunder may have shown U.S. determination, but to many it showed a wrong-headed policy. Along with the draft, American casualties, critical news coverage, and an apparent lack of progress, the bombing made the war increasingly unpopular. If anything, North Vietnam appeared stronger in body and mind during and after the bombing. A CIA report noted that it cost the United States eight dollars (in operating costs and aircraft lost) for every dollar of damage it inflicted in the North. More important, another intelligence report concluded that for every dollar of damage the North Vietnamese suffered, the Chinese and Soviets shipped in six dollars of assis- tance. A December 1968 study concluded that while Rolling Thunder had caused severe strain in the North, overall it was a net benefit to the government. Linebacker I The Vietnam War was just a bad memory for most Americans by the early 1970s. The U.S
Node: 28858, Score: 0.0064154301402324, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0337.txt, Content: nter attacks. There was some movement in July toward hitting airfields and later rail yards in the North, but SAC presented a wider plan in September. As the Communist drive stalled, diplomatic activity increased and the wider bombing was put on hold. the Soviets in Moscow in May, thus the fear of Chinese or Soviet intervention was largely removed. On the other hand the American people had no stomach for war in 1972; clearly the United States would not commit ground forces. Therefore the American reaction would be air power or nothing. President Richard Nixon exclaimed, "The bastards have never been bombed like they're going to be bombed."3 Initially he suggested a three-day bomb- ing campaign against Hanoi and Haiphong. After the JCS disappointed him with a plan he called "too timid," the president's assistant, Gen. Alexander Haig, came up with a wider air campaign that included the long-sought- after mining of North Vietnamese ports. The air effort was code named Linebacker, later Linebacker I, and would last from May 10 to October 22, 1972. Linebacker I differed from Rolling Thunder in two ways. For one, it had clear goals: It was aimed at North Vietnam's ability to make war, its army in the field, its supplies, and its transportation infrastructure. Another difference was that the various prohibited zones were reduced. Neverthe- less the bulk of the targets were interdic- tion. There were few strategic targets, and because of fears of collateral damage and the resulting bad press, a number of prime targets were not attacked. As the Commu- nist ground offensive stalled, interest on both sides shifted to the diplomatic arena and in late October the United States stopped bombing north of the twentieth parallel. In May the Navy planted mines that blockaded North Vietnamese ports. Mean- while the United States rapidly reinforced its air forces in Southeast Asia, including sending over half its B-52s to Guam and Thailand and boosting B-52s from 42 aircraft and 57 crew
Node: 28728, Score: 0.0070390323659037, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0207.txt, Content: recision bombing. Changing Views on How to Fight in the Pacific Theater When war erupted in Europe, airmen thinking about the Pacific problem thought in terms of the American strategic bombers as a deterrent. In September 1939 Lt. Col. Carl Spaatz sent a paper to Hap Arnold that proposed dispatching heavy bomber groups to the Philippines which he believed would restrain Japan from interfering with U.S. national interests. But the United States had few bombers and few bases, and its focus centered on Europe. In early 1940 Claire Chennault, a fighter plane advocate now serving the struggling Chinese, wrote Arnold about the potential of incendiaries against Japanese cities. The Air Corps chief rejected this idea, championing the virtues of precision bombing and insisting that U.S. national policy was against the use of incen- diaries. This did not discourage Chennault, who recommended a force of five hundred bombers crewed by Americans to "burn out the industrial heart of the Empire with fire-bomb attacks on the teeming bamboo ant heaps of Honshu and Kyushu."7 While the American airmen rejected Chennault's proposals, President Roosevelt was more receptive and ordered a top-level investi- gation of the concept, an action in sharp Deterrence became the American military policy in the Pacific by neces- sity because it was considered a secondary theater and because of inadequate American military forces. In the spring of 1940 the United States left the fleet in Hawaii as a deterrent, instead of returning it to the West Coast as had been the pattern. This move did not deter the Japanese but encouraged them to attack Pearl Harbor. To be clear, the root cause of the American-Japanese conflict was the continuing Japanese war in China. After Japanese actions led to a complete American trade embargo, they were faced with either ending the war with China without victory or seizing the resources they required. The Japanese bet on a wider war and the lack of American will for victo
Node: 28888, Score: 0.0076179884865761, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0367.txt, Content: , a policy called "massive retaliation."These changes coincided with President Eisenhower's desire to balance the budget by cutting government spend- ing. He focused on the military, slashed conventional forces (Army and Navy), and emphasized the USAF in his "New Look" strategy. Nuclear warfare requires fewer 237  shi 238 CHAPTER 10 MISSILES 239 men, machines, and money than conven- tional warfare. Thus the defense share of federal spending dropped from 64 percent to 47 percent, and personnel fell from 3.5 million to 2.5 million. This was the period of Air Force, SAC, and bomber dominance. Another aspect of the 1950s was the rise of civilian theorists of nuclear policy and the corresponding decline of military influence on the theoretical level.1 The peak of this strategy is perhaps indicated by the Febru- ary 1961 Single Integrated Operational Plan (SIOP, the U.S. nuclear targeting plan), which called for the launch of all of Ameri- ca's nuclear weapons (2,164 megatons) with a projected death toll of 175 million Rus- sians and Chinese. addition to hitting Russian military forces ("damage limitation"). As the Soviets neared nuclear parity this grew into a policy of mutual assured destruction, with both adversaries having the capability to destroy the other, with the fitting but unfortunate acronym, MAD. This involved deploying a force that could weather a first strike from the Soviets with the ability to counter and destroy (or mortally wound) the Soviets. (The goal has been variously stated to ensure the destruction of half to two-thirds of Soviet industry and one-fifth to one-third of their population.) Today U.S. policy is based on nuclear deterrence and the ability to absorb a first strike and retaliate with an overwhelming counterblow. year. (USAF) (Right) The United States cautiously added intercontinental missiles to its inventory and initially was more comfortable with cruise rather than ballistic missiles, as they shared many of the characteristics of manne
Node: 28979, Score: 0.0082731871895914, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0458.txt, Content: : University of Kentucky, 2006). On the Chaco War, see Dan Hagedorn and Antonio Sapienza, Aircraft of the Chaco War, 1928-1935 (Atglen, Pa .: Schiffer, 1997). The best covered of the interwar conflicts is the Spanish Civil War, well treated in Angelo Ghergo, Wings over Spain (Milan, Italy: GAE, 1997); E. R. Hooton, Phoenix Triumphant (London: Brockhampton, 1994); and Hugh Thomas, The Spanish Civil War (New York: Harper and Row, is useful. 1961). On the Russo-Finnish War, William Trotter, A Frozen Hell (Chapel Hill, N.C .: Algonquin, 1991), The best on doctrine is Robert Futrell's classic and massive Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine: Basic Thinking in the United States Air Force, 1907-1960 (Maxwell AFB, Ala .: Air University, 1989), and the more recent study by Tami Biddle, Rhetoric and Reality in Air Warfare: The Evolution of British and American Ideas about Strategic Bombing, 1914-1945 (Princeton, N.J .: Princeton University Press, 2004). There are three key essays on the three most prominent air power theorists in Phillip Meilinger, ed., The Paths of Heaven (Maxwell AFB, Ala .: Air University, 1997). Giulio Douhet's writings are set out in his study The Command of the Air (New York: Coward-McCann, 1942). British doctrine is also well treated in the official Royal Air Force his- tory, Charles Webster and Noble Frankland, The Strategic Air Offensive Against Germany, 1939-1945, vol. 1 (London: HMSO, 1961) (hereafter cited as Webster and Frankland, SAOAG). Much was written by and on Mitchell. The most important biography remains Alfred Hurley's Billy Mitchell (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1975). Mitchell wrote numerous magazine articles and three books: Winged Defense (New York: Putnam, 1924); Skyways (Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1930); and Our Air Force (New York: Dut- ton, 1931). Some of the key works on the Air Corps Tactical School and U.S. doctrine are Martha Byrd, Kenneth N. Walker (Maxwell AFB, Ala .: Air University, 1997); Craven and Cate, AAFWWII, vol. 1; Ro
Node: 28763, Score: 0.0082812270131606, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0242.txt, Content: ould have been less costly in civilian lives, although it would have taken months longer. Strategic Bombing and Morality Having discussed the strategic bombing of World War II, the mass deaths of civilians and the attacks on Hamburg, Dresden, Tokyo, Hiroshima, and Nagasaki, the issue of morality must be addressed. Strategic bombing kills civilians because noncom- batants are frequently intermixed with combatants, aircrews make errors, munitions  CHAPTER 6 Chapter 7 and bombing systems malfunction, and key strategic targets are usually in or near cities and populations in the enemy's homeland. In addition sometimes civilians are directly targeted to attack their morale. Does intent alter the equation? That is, does the goal of the bombing matter? Is the killing of civil- ians while aiming at a military or economic targets justified? Is it acceptable to aim at the population with the intent of terrorizing civilians to break or lower their morale? In any event, are all civilians innocent? Certainly babies are. But are war workers, be they men, women, or even children? Are those who support the war with their labor, taxes, voices, and votes innocent? What of the citizens of the conquering nation who benefit from the wars, or those who acqui- esce in their government's actions? Are these people anymore innocent than draftees in the military? Moralists critical of strategic bombing should consider the results of the World War I Allied blockade that starved to death 800,000, certainly mostly women, children, and old men. (Strategic bombing in World War II probably killed at least 600,000 in a war in which 50 million or so were killed.) While this does not excuse the situation, it provides some context. That is, the great evil is not strategic bombing but war itself. Lead- ers should consider the proportionality of their acts, that the hoped for destruction of a target is both probable and worth the death of, or risk to, nearby civilians. Numbers do count, but what is the p
Node: 28722, Score: 0.0084400801853407, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0201.txt, Content: loaded 78,000 tons on Britain and the Soviets some 6,700 tons on mainly Finnish and Hungarian cities.) Americans and British losses were high. The Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces lost eighty-seven hundred (downed, missing, and written off) bombers, forty-two hundred (downed, missing, and written off) fighters, and suffered seventy-three thousand casual- ties; Bomber Command lost ninety-two  CHAPTER 5 Chapter 6 Razing Japan THE ZENITH OF WORLD WAR II STRATEGIC BOMBING the GAF from attacking friendly forces. But as Noble Frankland, one of the premier historians of Bomber Command, makes clear, there was no revolution in warfare. In contrast to the air power theorists, World War II was attritional warfare extended to the skies. One air power historian concludes his treatment of this subject by writing that strategic bombing "vindicated the treasure expended on it. If in the final analysis it accomplished its ends more by brute force than by elegant precision, the fault lay in the unrealistic assumptions of prewar doctrine as to wartime accuracy, the vagaries of Euro- pean weather, and the limitations of radar technology."37 Strategic bombing made a major yet expensive contribution to the Allied victory in Europe. It also was to have a major impact on the Pacific war. NO SME WITHIN n many respects the bombing of Japan was in sharp contrast to the American bombing of Germany. It began later in the war, was of a shorter duration, and employed the most advanced bomber of the conflict. The Pacific campaign was waged over much great distances, mostly over water, and encountered even greater weather problems than those found in Europe. On the other hand Japanese defenses proved weaker than the German's, and thus most of the American bomber losses were not caused by the defenders. These differences led to tactics that varied from the prewar American strategic bombing theory and those initially employed over Europe. It ended with the use of the atomic bomb, what appeared to be t
Node: 28987, Score: 0.008615211118874, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0466.txt, Content: ed at the facility, another states that one-third of sixty thousand died. 29. The British considered firing a barrage of antiaircraft guns into an air space upon radar warn- ing of a missile launch. However, they calculated it would take 320,000 shells to down one missile, and that 2 percent of these shells would be duds raining down on British soil. 30. Dwight Eisenhower, Crusade in Europe (Garden City, N.Y .: Doubleday, 1961), 276. Chapter 4. British Strategic Bombing Data on British bombers are drawn primarily from Peter Lewis, The British Bomber since 1914 (London: Putnam, 1967); Owen Thetford, Aircraft of the Royal Air Force since 1918 (London: Putnam, 1968); and Wil- liam Green's two-volume Famous Bombers of the Second World War (Garden City, N.Y .: Doubleday, 1959; UK: Hanover House, 1960). On the Mosquito also see Edward Bishop, Mosquito: Wooden Wonder (New York: Ballantine, 1971), and Edward Shacklady, De Havilland Mosquito (Bristol, UK: Cerberus, 2003). The official account of Bomber Command is the four-volume history by Charles Webster and Noble Frankland, The Strategic Air Offensive Against Germany, 1939-1945 (London: HSMO, 1961) (hereafter cited as Webster and Frankland, SAOAG). This is supplemented by Report of the British Bombing Survey Unit (London: Cass, 1998); Sebastian Cox, ed., Dispatch of War Operations, 23 February 1942 to 8 May 1945, Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur T. Harris (London: Cass, 1995); Arthur Harris, Bomber Ofensive (London: Collins, 1947); Max Hastings, Bomber Command (New York: Dial, 1998); and Robin Neillands, The Bomber War (New York: Overlook, 2001). Statistics are pulled from United States Strategic Bombing Survey, Statistical Appendix to Over-all Report (European War), Feb. 1947, Air University Library, Montgomery, Ala. (hereafter cited as AUL); and Webster and Frankland, SAOAG, vol. 4. The impact of the bombing is drawn from the various reports of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, particularly Over-all Report (Europea
Node: 28887, Score: 0.0089001658084471, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0366.txt, Content: the SAC was never ending, demanding, as realistic as possible, and strictly scrutinized. The objective was to ensure getting the weapons accurately on the target, despite weather, mechanical difficulties, and enemy defenses. The command attempted to instill realism into its training and evaluations with no-notice inspections and simulated exercises.16 Concerns with safety and incon- veniencing the American public (by using Missiles he story of strategic bombard- ment is dominated by aircraft. Aircraft were the first delivery system and have delivered essentially all of the warheads aimed at cities, people, and factories over the history of this mode of warfare. More recently two other systems (ballistic and cruise missiles) have emerged and pushed bombers into a subordinate position, at least for strategic targets, espe- cially for the delivery of nuclear weapons. However, while missiles have increas- ingly armed powers large and small, and become increasingly important in a deter- rent role, they have seen little combat. T Nuclear Strategy Before proceeding further some context is required. Immediately following World War II there were few nuclear weapons in the U.S. arsenal and U.S. war policy was little A changed from that of World War II. War plans called for a combination of nuclear strikes along with a conventional strategic bombing campaign based on the World War II experience. Nuclear weapons were seen as just bigger bombs. But this changed when the Soviets got nuclear weapons and as the Americans both acquired grow- ing numbers of weapons and developed enhanced atomic bombs (1951) and hydrogen bombs (1952) that dramati- cally increased power from the Hiroshima bomb's 15 kilotons to many megatons. The strategy became one of mass nuclear strikes, mostly of cities, a policy called "massive retaliation."These changes coincided with President Eisenhower's desire to balance the budget by cutting government spend- ing. He focused on the military, slashed conventio
Node: 28581, Score: 0.0096806752781805, Chunk File: werrell_death/chunks/werrell_death_0060.txt, Content: of strategic bombing at the Air Corps Tactical School. The Tac School occupied this central posi- tion because it was the airmen's highest educational establishment and was where most of the United States' top air leaders of World War II served as either instructors or students during the interwar years. William What were his ideas? It is clear that Mitchell did not contribute new concepts. He was familiar with Douhet and went along with the major thrust of his ideas, although Mitchell was less extreme than the Italian. His thinking evolved over the years from first emphasizing control of the air and (Right) William "Billy" Mitchell (1879-1936) is best known for bombing tests that sank battleships, his 1935 court-martial (seen here), and as a strident promoter of an independent air arm. Mitchell was a prolific writer who advocated an air force built around bombers and the attack of "vital centers." (U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive) Sherman, one of the instructors at the school, set out the thinking of the American airmen in a book based on his lectures at the school. He noted approvingly that Marshal Ferdinard Foch, the top French general of World War I, saw "the possibility of bringing such pressure to bear on civilian populations as to end war through the action of the air force alone."28 Sherman wrote that aircraft were purely an offensive weapon and that a vigorous offensive was the best defense. Reflecting on the lessons of the air war, he 39 observed that while night bombing was done in comparative safety, day bombing, despite tight formations and improved gun- nery, required escort. He observed that anti- aircraft guns were ineffective and nothing more than a drain on resources. As for the bombing of civilians, he held that "among peoples in whom the spirit of sport has been strongly inculcated [Western Europeans and former British colonials?], it is peculiarly abhorrent to contemplate the waging of war on unarmed civilians of all ages and sexes."29  CHAPT