Node: 16480, Score: 0.0701981899503431, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0058.txt, Content: man resistance: At one point a twelve ship squadron of ME 109 fighters swept around in a wide U-turn and began to attack in pairs of fours. A shining object sailed past over our right wing. I recognized it as a main door. Seconds later, a dark object came hurling through the formation, barely missing several props. It was a man, clasping his knees to his head, revolving like a diver in a triple somersault. I didn't see his chute open. A B-17 turned gradually out of the formation to the right, maintaining altitude. In a split second, the B-17 completely disappeared in a brilliant exposition from which the only remains were four balls of fire, the fuel tanks, which were quickly consumed as they fell earthw ard.6 1 Many of the predictions had been overly optimistic. Furthermore, the belief that B-17's could take care of themselves on deep penetrations in Axis territories proved to be incorrect. Obviously, the 8th Air Force could not endure these losses and sustain deep penetration raids into Germany. Of the 146 B-17s that left for Regensburg, 24 never returned. German defenders shot down another 36 of 230 bombers at Schweinfurt. This double mission cost more than 550 crewmen, leaving the 8th Air Force crippled for weeks. Consequently, such raids were suspended until 6 0 . Schaffer, Wings of Judgment. 64. 6 1 . Schaffer, Wings of Judgment. 65. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 59 --- 52 February 1944, which, in turn, allowed Germany breathing space to recover and restore production. The attack on the German aircraft industry also began in the sum m er of 1943. These attacks disrupted aircraft production for a short time, but, as in the ball bearing raids, no decisive results were achieved. This series of air operations deeply impressed American commanders. For the first time, American air leaders had to face the limitations of the technology in which they had pla
Node: 16455, Score: 0.0582929927824076, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0033.txt, Content: ment of the B-17 in 1935. The chief obstacle to the B-17's development was its cost and the belief that a twin-engine bomber could accomplish the same task at a much lower cost. From 1935 to 1936, the General Staff attempted to limit, if not eliminate, funding for the B-17 program. Originally, 65 of the B-17 bombers were ordered on October 1, 1935; however, after the crash of a prototype on October 30, procurement was slowed down. In November, the order was cut back to 13 B-17's and 80 Douglas B-18's two engine bombers. In June 1936, the General Staff concluded th at "until the international situation indicates the need fo ra  long range bomber, no more of that type should be procured except for experimental purposes." And further, the General Staff insisted "that a medium range bombardment type 25. Greer, 102-103. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 36 --- 2 9 such as the B-18 model will fulfill all reasonable requirements and can be justified from the standpoint of initial cost."2 6 After 1937, however, the international situation began to change dramatically and some of the restrictions on production were removed. The key to the success of the B-17 was the support of the administration in a White House conference in September 1938. Arguments for the B-17 were made in a memo by R. A. Lovett, who acted as a liaison between the Air Corps and White House.2 7 Arguments such as heavy bombers are more economical in men and materials, easier to maintain, had greater range, served as a better gun platform, and, more important, were the only weapons which could be used against Germany and Japan in the early stages of any war were all presented to assure the White House and Congress that the B-17 was the right choice.2 8  But success was not taken for granted. In September 1941, the Air Corps was still justifying the mass building of the B-17. While the struggle for th
Node: 16499, Score: 0.0559652032743827, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0077.txt, Content: comings, was a testament to American productive and engineering capabilities. The genesis of the B-29 came in October 1938 when the Air Corps Board recommended a bomber with a minimum radius of 1,500 miles. In June 1940, Boeing was awarded the contract for the XB-29 for just more than 3.5 million dollars. Boeing's experience in developing large aircraft gave the company the edge in the competition for the project. The new plane came with a number of innovations such Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Gen. Handy," (May 12, 1944), Reel 172, File 4. s 2 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to FDR," (October 18 1944), Reel 178, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 76 --- 6 9 as pressurized cabins, remote fire control, new engines, and radar for navigation. All of these innovations would cause major production and training problems. The W right R-3350 engines proved to be the most troublesome system throughout the B-29's development and operation. These engines turned out to be a three billion dollar disaster. Of the many technical problems encountered, the most serious was the failure of the reduction gears and exhaust valves and cooling system. The engine went through 2000 changes up to November 1943 and eventually attracted the attention of then Senator Truman's Investigating Committee for its poor production and quality. Added to this difficulty were problems of labor, supply, and a shortage of subcontractors. Arnold invested a great deal of time and energy as well as political capital in getting the B-29 developed and produced. In his typical manner, he pushed and berated his people to overcome all the hurdles associated with a new weapons system. The B-29 seems to be running true to form with every other new project There are more reasons why this or that cannot be done. This makes no sense at all to me. I was told that our engine production is picking up very rapidly. Th
Node: 16479, Score: 0.0528905295615496, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0057.txt, Content: of missions flown, tonnage dropped, airplanes shot down, and factories and city blocks demolished. Arnold's forces were ready to begin the long awaited strategic offensive against Germany by the end of June 1943. As early as October 1942 Arnold's staff had identified the aircraft industry as a main target. Arnold was convinced that "Germany can be defeated most rapidly if immediate steps are taken to prevent her from rebuilding her air force."5 9  With the defeat of the GAF, the Continent would be open to an invasion, and the Nazi regime would be unable to protect German cities. A secondary target was the German ball bearing industry. Consequently, submarines were dropped from first priority and the aircraft and ball bearing industries were 5 S . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Eaker," (June 15, 1943), Reel 173, file 4. 5 9 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Hopkins," (October 1942), Reel 163, file 4. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 58 --- 51 substituted. In a series of raids beginning August 17, approximately 12,000 tons of bombs were dropped on Schvveinfurt, a major producer of anti-friction ball bearings. Significantly, this was the AAF's first attempt to carry out the Industrial Web Theory developed in the mid 1930s and planned in the sum m er of 1941. These raids lasted through the fall of 1943 and ultimately caused a decline in production of 35 per cent. To achieve these results, however, the 8th Air Force suffered its first serious losses. In a September raid, 36 out of 200 planes were lost, and on October 14, 62 out of 228 were lost and another 138 damaged.6 0  Colonel Berne Lay, who flew on the Regensburg mission, sent his commander a report of the ferocious German resistance: At one point a twelve ship squadron of ME 109 fighters swept around in a wide U-turn and began to attack in pairs of fours. A shining object sailed past over our right wing. I recogniz
Node: 16498, Score: 0.04321806756974, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0076.txt, Content: nders found themselves competing with both Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek and General Joseph Stillwell for limited supplies which had to be flown over the Burma hump. Every tim e supplies over the Burma hump would increase, the generals would increase their demands, thus leaving the AAF short. With so many competing priorities, it was not long before Arnold 8 0 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold's Journal, Trip to Southwest Pacific," (September 1942), Reel 42 File 42. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 75 --- 68 concluded th at sustained B-29 operations would have to be launched from elsewhere.8 1 The main weapon of the AAF against Japan was the B-29 Super Fortress long- range bomber. It would be a mistake to assume that the B-29 was a much larger version of the B-17, which had been under development since the early 1930's. The B-29 was a totally new plane with many innovations which the B-17 did not possess. Arnold himself put the need for the larger, more sophisticated aircraft directly to FDR: "I wish to advise you that the B-29 is the only bombardment type which can reach Japan . . . because our present B-24's and B-17's do not have sufficient range."82 The development of any new weapon system is a time consuming and costly process. This is especially true for aircraft. One of America's advantages over Japan and Germany was its ability to design and produce new aircraft in a relatively short period of tim e. Both Japan and Germany came up short in this respect. Japan failed to design any new aircraft during the war, and although the Germans did design new aircraft, they could not produce them in numbers to affect the outcome of the war. The B-29, even with its many shortcomings, was a testament to American productive and engineering capabilities. The genesis of the B-29 came in October 1938 when the Air Corps Board recommended a bomber with a minimum radius of 1,500
Node: 16497, Score: 0.0402560912389879, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0075.txt, Content: me and be made ready for action. Politically, the AAF had to rely on the Navy to do the bulk of this transportation. The Navy, of course, had its own ideas on how to conduct a war in the Pacific, priorities which did not always coincide with the AAF. The Navy had its own system of supply and organization based on long experience, whereas Arnold's forces were modern and represented new concepts of warfare that Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 74 --- 6 7 were alien to naval thinking. Reliance on the Navy's supply system would become a constant irritant throughout the Pacific w ar.8 0 However, the supply situation was not the only obstacle to waging modern war in the Pacific. Unlike Europe, there were few modern facilities from which to stage air operations. In England, the AAF operated out of a highly advanced industrialized nation with bases, expertise, and a modern infrastructure for support, all of which were lacking, save for Australia, in the Pacific. Airfields would have to be carved out of jungles, built on coral reefs, and improvised in pre-modern societies such as India and China. The P 40, an aging design even in 1941, was kept in production well into 1944 because of its adaptability to the pre-modern conditions of the Pacific. Before island bases in the Pacific became available, Arnold attem pted to operate against the Japanese from bases in China and India. Much effort was wasted in this endeavor, however, as the AAF could never solve the logistical and political problems. The backwardness of the Chinese and Indian infrastructure as well as the vulnerability of the supply lines continually frustrated Pacific commanders. Furthermore, in China, air commanders found themselves competing with both Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek and General Joseph Stillwell for limited supplies which had to be flown over the Burma hump. Every tim e supplies over the Burm
Node: 16478, Score: 0.039818162449655, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0056.txt, Content: ber of airplanes cannot be held on the ground for weeks at a time without subjecting us to severe criticism.5 7 Arnold was fully aware of the complexity of putting large numbers of bombers in the air. Eaker and Stratemeyer had to deal with a long list of problems, including maintenance, personnel, modifications, and training. Arnold tried to address all of these difficulties by securing more resources from Washington. He would not, however, allow his commanders to use these problems as excuses: " I am not so 5 6 .Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Hopkins," (January 8, 1943), Reel 168 file 3. S 1 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Stratemeyer," (February 26, 1943), Reel 173, file 4. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 57 --- 50 sure that all of these changes (modifications) are absolutely necessary and in certain instances somebody may be leaning over backwards trying to get 100%  perfect planes when 90%  perfect will do."5 8  Arnold was confronted with the same problem faced by all modern commanders since W W II; he was desperate to establish a relevant force, a force which would have an immediate impact on the war. Although he had the advantage of deploying this weapon system against a highly developed industrial nation, an advantage he would not have in the Pacific, Arnold was still facing severe time constraints to produce results. The political consensus for his program was limited, a fact about which he continually fretted. Arnold needed to prove that his revolutionary system was relevant. Future commanders in Vietnam, Bosnia, and Albania would have considerably less success. For the politicians, results had to be measured in concrete terms such as high body counts, number of missions flown, tonnage dropped, airplanes shot down, and factories and city blocks demolished. Arnold's forces were ready to begin the long awaited strategic offensive against Germany by the end
Node: 16505, Score: 0.0380529684365112, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0083.txt, Content: odities and miscellaneous manufacturing plants mentioned above, the available targets either constitute such a small percentage of total Japanese productive capacity, or her stock piles are so substantial that they do not offer attractive targets for strategic bombing.8 9 Although Arnold's report in November emphasized the vulnerability of Japanese cities to incendiary bombing, this report suggested that there were other ways to destroy Japan's industrial production. Specifically, steel output could be more easily restricted through destruction of coke ovens with precision attacks rather than hitting the steel installations in the congested urban areas. Shipping was another vital section that could be attacked. At this point, Japan was already losing 70,000 tons of shipping a month greater than her construction capacity. Hence, Japan was already accumulating a deficit which it could not overcome. Therefore, any increase in her losses would constitute a direct blow to Japan's war production. In the final analysis, the report concluded that "shipping and coke ovens, together with those urban areas which can be attacked in connection with coke ovens, appear to constitute the most profitable available targets. Specifically, the report advocated attacks on such shipping targets as Bangkok, Hong Kong, Kelung, Saigon, and the coke ovens Anshah, Manchuria, Kyashua in Yawata, and Kensiho in Korea.9 0  This report was prepared before the U.S. had secured a number of air bases closer to Japan and, therefore, represented a limited spectrum of possibilities. Its main thrust, however, was still valid. It was not necessary to destroy the industrial core of Japan to drastically curtail its war production. The above list of targets suggests that the AAF and Navy could have paralyzed Japan by isolating its home industries and various 8 9 . Arnold Papers , "Fowler Hamilton, Chief Operations Analysis Section to Brigadier General Charles B Stone," (February, 1944), Reel 178, File 3. 90.
Node: 16500, Score: 0.0378831922219596, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0078.txt, Content: true to form with every other new project There are more reasons why this or that cannot be done. This makes no sense at all to me. I was told that our engine production is picking up very rapidly. The only thing I can think of is the lack of will to do . . . the engine people say it's the fault of the airplane people, the airplane people say it's the fault of the engine people. Personally, I don't believe its due to any of these things . . .  I believe we can do this job just as soon as we are convinced that it can be done . . . knock the idea out of your fellows head that it might be done home to the production people as well as the operating and training people. Get airplanes and engines together, get airplanes and engines together, get them out into service and start organizing units.8 3 8 3  Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Brigadier General K.B. Wolf," (October 27, 1943), Reel 178, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 77 --- 70 The task Arnold was taking on was monumental. The B-29 was a new design which had to be refined and produced, had to have crews trained, units organized, bases established, and, finally, its payload delivered over Japan. And all of this organization had to be accomplished in a very short span of time. After all of this effort, Arnold expected that his field commanders would use this weapon system to its fullest extent. He had staked his as well as the service's reputation on it. Speculation about the form that a future air w ar with Japan would take began in the early 1930's. The vulnerability of the Japanese cities was demonstrated by the 1923 earthquake and subsequent fire. The fires started by the quake raged for three days in Tokyo and cost the lives of about 110,000 people and destroyed 20 per cent of the buildings. AAF leaders speculated that with a few tons of well-placed incendiary bombs large areas of Japanese cities coul
Node: 16516, Score: 0.0352819749390915, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0094.txt, Content: he opportunity to show the world what the B-29 could do. Thus, as in Europe, most of the devastation would come after the outcome of the conflict had been decided. Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Kenney," (December 15th  1944), Reel 176, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 91 --- 84 In his usual fashion, Arnold applied pressure to his commanders to get bombers over Japan. Although for the most part his commanders had operational control, Arnold did concern himself from  tim e to time with the minute details of their command. Arnold expected detailed reports, and when he did not like what he got, he was never afraid to let his subordinates know. After receiving reports on bomb loads on the B-29, Arnold commented, "From the beginning, our concept of the B-29 was of an airplane that would carry very heavy loads for very long range." Although the distances had been achieved, the bomb loads had not. The difficulty was one of training pilots to fly under the heavy conditions. "There has been a tendency to plan missions so that the weakest pilot will be assured of a safe gasoline reserve for return to base. With the B -29 this tendency must be eliminated completely. Pilots that are weak must either be replaced or trained to the point where they can obtain the maximum from their airplane."1 0 S  Arnold sent a similar message to Hansell in an even harsher tone.1 0 6  As Hansell, who was the commander of the XXI bomber group would soon learn, those who did not perform up to Arnold's expectations would be replaced. In another communication to Hansell, Arnold complained about the lack of reaction to enemy attacks. "I cannot understand Jap planes coming over in the daytime and apparently making several passes at the field during a period of 45 minutes with no mention m ade of our own fighters even attempting to prevent such strafing. Just what do our fighters do out ther
Node: 16483, Score: 0.0348734923676163, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0061.txt, Content: rmission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 61 --- 5 4 Germany, and the Low Countries. Eisenhower's plan was to prevent German reserves from reaching the front. However, to redirect the mission of the heavy bomber command, would, of necessity disregard, if not destroy, Arnold's long-term goal of POINTBLANK the strategic assault on Germany's industrial complex, particularly that which was supplying aircraft and fuel. The architects of POINTBLANK, Harris and Spaatz, protested against the change in emphasis. They insisted that continued attacks on aircraft and oil would support the objectives of both OVERLORD and POINTBLANK. If the heavy bombers were to change from these objectives, they argued, it would allow the Germans to recover their production. Spaatz, true to the early air theorists, believed that given 30 clear operational days, he could finish the war on his own. Spaatz and Harris won the day by gaining the support of Churchill, Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal, Chief of the Im perial Staff Alan Brock, and Arnold. During this period, the P-51 long range escort came into service, greatly reducing losses. With these new escorts, Spaatz undertook a series of raids guided by radar against Berlin.6 3  The intent of these raids was to draw the GAF out and destroy it before the allies landed in France. Arnold, as always, wanted his bombers back in the air. The GAF could not be drawn out if they only flew on clear days, which, in any case, are few during the winter months. Radar provided a tool to continue bombing during cloudy days. Arnold had already given his approval for such bombing back in November on those days when the clouds prevented target identification. Radar- “ . Eldridge, Chris, "Electronic Eyes for the Allies: Anglo-American Cooperation On Radar Development During World War II,History and TechnologyU  (January 200 0 ), 1-2 0. Reproduced with permission of the copyright
Node: 16451, Score: 0.0347877168437884, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0029.txt, Content: e RAF when he wrote, "it appears from God knows where, dropping their bombs on God knows what, and going off -°. A. Boyle, Trenchard, Man of Vision (London, 1952), 12. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 32 --- 25 again to God knows where."2 1  However, it was the speed and unpredictability of these attacks which proved so effective. The RAF could control a vast area with few resources and minimal loss of life. Hence, Britain saved millions of pounds by substitution of aircraft for columns of troops. This approach, of course, went a long way in making an impression upon cost-conscious British ministers in the hard economic times of the 1920's and 1930's. American government officials were just as cost-conscious, and, as we will see, American air leaders began to define their mission to terms of cost-cutting. The substitution policy of the American Air Service can most clearly be seen in its struggle with the Navy. In the early 1930's, the Army Air Force took great pains to show the advantages of the airplane over traditional coastal defense. In several reports to Congress, air leaders pointed out the advantages in cost and range over traditional forms of coastal defense such as shore batteries, cruisers, and battle ships. The Air Service argued that it could save the taxpayer millions while providing a more effective frontier defense.2 2 This argument for cost effectiveness came in the context of providing a mission for the Army Air Corps. On the one hand, as we have seen, air leaders viewed their force  as an offensive weapon. The difficulty lay in the fact that in the 1920's and early 1930's there was no obvious enemy to be found. America was not preparing for an aggressive war nor was she, like Britain, threatened by air attack from the Continent. The only attack that theorists could envision during this period was one borne by a fleet of carrier-based plane
Node: 16452, Score: 0.0343749184383114, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0030.txt, Content: aggressive war nor was she, like Britain, threatened by air attack from the Continent. The only attack that theorists could envision during this period was one borne by a fleet of carrier-based planes. The coastal defense mission provided 2 1 . Boyle,Trenchard: Man of Vision 383. ~. The Collected Papers o f H.H. Arnold,  "Report to Congress," Library of Congress, Washington D.C. (October 1935), Microfilm, Reel 180, File 1. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 33 --- 2 6 justification for maintaining an independent air arm to guard against such a threat, especially because it was believed that only air power could stop an attack from the air. The weapon of choice for this task was the four-engine bomber because of its range. The real advantage for the Air Service was that such a machine could also be used for offensive purposes in a future war. In short, although Army air leaders were arguing for costal defense, they were building the foundation for an offensive air arm that would be independent of ground commanders. The struggle to build such a force was long and hard. It began with Billy Mitchell's demonstration of bombing tactics against obsolete ships in 1921 and 1923. The conclusion drawn by Mitchell from these attacks was that the Air Service should be granted a prominent role in coastal defense.2 3  The Navy, of course, did not come to the same conclusion as it clearly saw the building of a mass air fleet as a threat to its own programs. The debate raged until 1941. Hitler's rise to power and the forming of the Axis alliance among Germany, Italy, and Japan had a clarifying effect upon American strategic thinking. The emphasis on coastal defense no longer seemed so relevant in an increasingly dangerous world. Although the general staff still fought vehemently against the procurement of heavy bombers, strategic thinkers were becoming more interested in a we
Node: 16482, Score: 0.0336058463545385, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0060.txt, Content: the overall strategic objectives were being endangered for short term political gains. As a result of political pressure, the heavy losses soon put Arnold on the defensive as he faced a sustained outcry from the newspapers. Arnold's response was just as political as the political pressure brought upon him. In a January 1944 report to the Secretary of War, Arnold refused to give in to his pressure. "Our attack on Schweinfurt was the most perfect example in history of accurate distribution of bombs over a target. It was an attack that will not have to be repeated for a very long time, if at all."6 2 However, the truth was that these raids represented the loss of American initiative over Germany. Arnold could not suffer many more of these "victories" and still maintain his consensus among political and military leaders for his bombing offensive. Arnold's declaration of victory was clearly a political attempt to buy more time. It is within this context that Arnold, Eaker, and Spaatz began to view less risky area bombing in a more favorable light while planning the 1944 campaign. Much of the spring and early summer of 1944 were taken up with support for operation OVERLORD. At this time, the future of strategic bombing was very much in question as there began a controversy over the control of heavy bombers. Eisenhower wanted control of the Eighth Air Force (now headed by Carl Spaatz) and Chief Marshal Arthur Harris's Bomber Command. The planners in Eisenhower headquarters, aided by civilian specialists, including British air expert Professor Zuckerman, had worked out a scheme to attack railroad networks in France, Western s:. John Winant Papers,  "A Report of Commanding General of the Army Air Forces to Sec of War." FDR Library Hyde Park New  York, Box 183. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 61 --- 5 4 Germany, and the Low Countries. Eisenhower's plan was to prevent
Node: 16469, Score: 0.0332581410591612, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0047.txt, Content: develop aircraft such as the P-51 Mustang and the B-29 Bomber, whereas the Germans failed to bring such weapons as the M 262 Jet, V -l and V -2 rockets, and four-engine bombers to bear in sufficient numbers to affect the outcome of the war.4 3 From the beginning, Arnold was cognizant of what was required to keep a strategic force operational. Arnold was determined not to repeat the mistakes of the Germans. During the first phase, 1939 to 1943, his main concern  was to establish a credible force. In early 1941, Army Regulation 95-5 gave the Army Air Force 4:. Arnold Papers,  "An Appraisal of the German Air Force," (1943 ), Reel 169, File 1. 4 3 . William Green, Warplanes of the Third Reich (New York, Galahad Books, 1990), 63. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 49 --- 4 2 considerable autonomy. Arnold now had the full authority to shape his forces according to his conceptions. In August 1941, he stated his organizational objectives: It must be apparent to everyone that essentially our problem is three-fold. First, to build our combat units to full operating strength with personnel & equipment; and second to obtain the maximum degree of combat efficiency while accomplishing the first objective, and third, to eliminate from our active ranks, misfits and others who are impeding our progress. 4 4 Arnold was never shy about making his demands known. He threw himself into the myriad of details to accomplish the above objectives. Arnold kept pressure on his commanding officers to quickly enact the procedures necessary to build up his forces. To General Echols: "In my opinion our modification program is still far from satisfactory. There is too much lag, too much uncertainty, and too much interference with the people that are carrying out modifications."4 5  In a memo to General Stratemeyer, Arnold pointed out that it was useless to teach men how to operate the ball tur
Node: 16470, Score: 0.0326113654674767, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0048.txt, Content: y, and too much interference with the people that are carrying out modifications."4 5  In a memo to General Stratemeyer, Arnold pointed out that it was useless to teach men how to operate the ball turret if there was no personnel to repair them. "It appears to me that we are still thinking in terms of pennies when we should be thinking in terms of millions of dollars. Our training people must raise their sights and do it at once."4 6 Another advantage Arnold had over the Germans is that he had the authority to carry out his conception of air power, whereas German leaders such as Milch, Udet, and Goering had to go through the Nazi apparatus to enact change. By the time Albert Speer was able to bring efficiency to the aircraft production system, it was too late. In late 1944, Germany could produce the planes, but there was no fuel to fly 4 4 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to General Martin," (August 12 1941), Reel 179, File 5. 4 5 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Echols,"(February 22 1943), Reel 169, File 3. i6. Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to General Stratemeyer," (August 2 1942), Reel 171, File 5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 50 --- 4 3 them and no personnel to fix or operate them. From the beginning Arnold was able to address these issues. He was able to build up his forces slowly, always making sure that the logistical support for a sustained bombing campaign was in place. Arnold's careful preparations meant that the allies were not fully able to respond to the initial German assault until the summer of 1943. By the fall of 1944 into the Spring of 1945, the British and American air forces had excess capacity to a point that Arnold began to cut back training and production programs. This development accounts for the fact that the bulk of the damage to German cities was done after the outcome of the war had already been decided. The force that Arnold had built took on
Node: 16481, Score: 0.0313390023425862, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0059.txt, Content: results were achieved. This series of air operations deeply impressed American commanders. For the first time, American air leaders had to face the limitations of the technology in which they had placed so much faith. War had become much more than target folders and complicated economic studies. The AAF was not yet ready in the fall of 1943 to take the war to the heart of Germany. Out of the hardship came reflection. Although precision bombing was not abandoned, area bombing tactics could now be contemplated. In late 1943 General Eaker found his command in a difficult position. On the one hand, he wanted to fulfill the wishes of his superiors in Washington and send out increasingly larger forces more frequently against objectives in Germany. The pressure to accomplish ever increasing attacks was constant and came from Arnold and the political sectors both in Washington and London. Arnold wanted to see reports about factories so smashed that it was more expedient for the Nazis to build new ones rather than repair the old. Politically, Eaker needed to provide Arnold with evidence that the heavy bomber was making a considerable contribution to the war effort. On the other hand, Eaker had to keep in mind his overall objectives in light of the devastating losses of the late summer and fall of 1943. If he were to accomplish his goal of sustained attacks on Germany, Eaker could not continue the all-out assault he had planned against the enemy. Repeated attacks on the same target would weaken AAF forces and deplete experienced crews. When Washington asked Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 60 --- 5 3 him to return to the same targets, Eaker could not help but think that the overall strategic objectives were being endangered for short term political gains. As a result of political pressure, the heavy losses soon put Arnold on the defensive as he faced a sustained outc
Node: 16514, Score: 0.0307536935426707, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0092.txt, Content: isadvantage was that he had to rely on the other services to do that. Kenney formed his impressions from the front and was far away from the political maneuvering in Washington. Arnold was not only pushing the B-29 because he believed it could have a decisive impact on the war, but because it would have such an influence on the future of his service. From February to September 1944, it was becoming clear that effective Japanese resistance on the sea and in the air was weakening. Although Japan had more airplanes than a year earlier, Kenney pointed out th at "he has lost his element, flight squadron and group leaders and his hastily trained replacements haven't the skill or ability to compete with us."1 0 2  In the past, U. S. attacks on Japanese air fields were met by 35 to 40 fighters; now only 15 or 20 came up to intercept. When they did intercept, Japanese pilots were far less effective than a year ago. Japan was clearly losing the war, its main army in China was increasingly isolated, and land forces on the islands could only hold out in isolated, beleaguered spots all over the map until they were killed or starved out. In the meantime, U.S. forces were closing in on Japan and getting stronger by the day. Japanese forces could still mount an effective defense, but they no longer had the initiative. Kenney and Arnold were beginning to think that the war might be over sooner than first thought. Kenney went so far as to suggest that air units from Europe not be brought over because it would be too much trouble to adapt them to the Pacific.1 0 3 Arnold's and his staff's reaction to these reports from Kenney "caused a great deal of serious consideration, some heated discussion and strong reaction." Generally, IK. Arnold Papers,  "Kenney to Arnold," (Septem ber 17th  1944), Reel 176, File 5. ,w. Arnold Papers,  "Kenney to Arnold," (Novem ber 15 1944), Reel 176, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permissio
Node: 16501, Score: 0.0299537271272927, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0079.txt, Content: o and cost the lives of about 110,000 people and destroyed 20 per cent of the buildings. AAF leaders speculated that with a few tons of well-placed incendiary bombs large areas of Japanese cities could be reduced. Claire Chennault became an early advocate for the fire bombing of Japanese cities, an ironic switch from his early opposition to strategic bombing. In early 1940, Chennault wrote Arnold about the potential use of incendiaries against Japan. At this time Arnold was still fixated on the doctrine of precision bombing and saw little value in such attacks. Roosevelt, however, was delighted by the proposal, in contrast to the stance he had taken in September 1939. Now FDR was searching for ways to put pressure on Japan and support the Chinese. Fire bombing seemed to be a credible weapon to do just that. Once the B-29 program became more advanced, Arnold would come to see fire bombing as a way for the AAF to make a spectacular contribution to the w ar.3 4 8 4 . Werrell, Blankets of Fire, 41. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 78 --- 71 The fire bombing of Japan also attracted the attention of the press. In an October 31, 1941 US News & World Report article entitled, "Bomber Lanes to Japan," details on how Japan could be attacked through the air were presented. At Osaku is concentrated most of the natural munitions industry. Hastily expanded during the last three years, the arms factories are built of wood. Acres upon acres  of these wooden buildings in and near the city present a highly vulnerable threat for incendiary bombs.8 5 The magazine also provided details about possible bases and distances to potential targets. It is interesting that the press had received such detailed information at such an early date. The B-29 was still two agonizing years away from deployment. This suggests that the shift away from the doctrine of precision attacks against Japan
Node: 16493, Score: 0.0294794904893435, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0071.txt, Content: on as possible. They had allowed themselves to be drawn into a 7 5 . Ibid. 7 7 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Spaatz," (January 14th, 1945), Reel 174, fileZ. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 70 --- 6 3 terror campaign while at the same tim e still bombing legitimate military targets. Through it all, the Americans wanted to maintain good public relations. The raids on Dresden came in the context of Operation Thunderclap. After a period of long study, Spaatz issued a new set of priorities: first, oil targets: second, Berlin, Leipzig, Dresden, and associated cities; third, communications.7 8  Thunderclap was in a long series of operations designed to be the most decisive operation of the war. When the AAF could not carry out precision attacks against military targets, cities behind the retreating German armies would be hit. Because precision attacks were difficult in the winter, it m eant that the majority of attacks would be area blind bombing. Thunderclap was in line with the increased pressure exerted by Arnold to keep flying regardless of conditions until the enemy's will was broken. There were a number of factors which caused planners to attack eastern cities in the latter stages of the war. Planners wanted the roads clogged with civilians fleeing cities and towns, thereby preventing the resupply of German troops facing the Soviets. Some of the planners also thought that these raids would impress the Soviets with the effectiveness of allied air strength. Finally, eastern German cities such as Dresden had assumed a new strategic importance given the collapse of the Eastern Front in the late winter/spring of 1945. In these cities, German transportation facilities now became the focal point for supply. If these cities could be crippled, throwing their populations into the streets and countryside, the German will to resist could not help but collapse. The Allies