Node: 16550, Score: -0.013019037472331, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0128.txt, Content: r. New York: Macmillan Publishing Co, 1973. Werrell, Kenneth. Blankets of Fire. Washington D .C .:  Smithsonian Institutional Press, 1995. Willcocks, Raymond. The Ethics of Bombing Dresden. Carlisle Barracks, Pa,: U.S. Army W ar College, 1998. Wilson, Donald. "Origin of the Theory for Strategic Bombing." Aerospace Historian,  18 March 1971. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 124 --- 11 7 Questions Do two Questions. The first essay is due by October 24. 1. In a well written essay using class discussion and assigned readings, discuss and analyze the causes of the Second World War in Europe and the Pacific. 2. In a well written essay using class discussion and readings, discuss and analyze the origins of American air theory. What were the major influences on American thought and the limitations on the American air program from 1918 to 1941? 4. In a well written essay using class discussion and assigned readings, discuss and analyze the air war in either the Pacific and European theaters. What were the forces which led America to move away from Pin Point to area bombing? 5. In a well written essay discuss and analyze the gap between the air doctrine developed by the American planners and its application in both theaters. 6 . In a well written essay discuss and analyze moral implications brought on by the development of air doctrine from 1918 to 1941 and its application in the 1930's and 1940's Case Studies Case studies will be assigned during class time asking students to examine the moral implications of American bombing. Grading: 1. (A) An "A" essay shall: Show good organization, have a beginning, middle and end; Have enough detail to answer the stated question; Show evidence of the readings and class discussions; Be devoid of confusion or factual error; Show insight into the issues raised. W hat I mean by this is, that you must demonstrate that you understand t
Node: 16529, Score: -0.0128076759398214, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0107.txt, Content: ssion of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 103 --- 96 prevented him from doing the same when it came to black squadrons. It was only after much political pressure that the all black, Tuskegee airmen came into being. Therefore, racial attitudes must be taken into account when considering the incendiary bombing raids on Japan. The racially charged atmosphere of the war and American society had effects upon behavior. Ultimately, racism dehumanizes a group of people which, in turn, adds to a justification for oppressing a particular group. Today, although racism is present, the consensus in American society is not to judge individuals or groups of people based upon race. During the Second World War, however, it was a common practice. With racist attitudes already ingrained in the American culture, it was hardly a stretch to view the Japanese within a racist context. The internment of Japanese Americans was influenced more by racist attitudes than by security needs. Arnold used his influence on several occasions to prevent release of American Japanese for labor purposes.1 2 1  Once the Japanese were dehumanized, it was far easier to justify massive incendiary raids against their cities. Whereas steps were taken to justify similar raids against Germany, it was given almost no thought at all with respect to the Japanese. The racially charged atmosphere in the Pacific was all-encompassing. The racism in the lower ranks can be seen by review of World War Two soldiers' stories. One is struck by the absolute hatred the average soldier had for the enemy, a hatred that went beyond w hat was present in Europe. The island fighting was often to the death ,zl. Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to John McCloy assistant to Sec of War," (June 16th 1943), Reel 175, File 5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 104 -
Node: 16458, Score: -0.0100975366724439, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0036.txt, Content: s concentration on such targets was the 1943 attacks on the Romanian oil fields. If Germany's war machine were deprived of oil, supporters of this view held, it would come to a halt. As we will see, however, there were m any practical shortcomings in the concept of precision bombing, which in turn led to a gradual switch to area bombing tactics against civilians in Europe and the Pacific. Although focusing upon industrial and military targets, air strategists did not lose sight of the moral effects of the bombing. Donald Wilson, an instructor at the Air Corps Tactical School, in a 1971 article commented on the moral effect of the World War I I  bombing campaign. In his lectures, Wilson pointed out that while "air force relies principally upon the destruction of physical means of waging war, . . .  [it also] takes advantage of moral effect.": Modern industrial nations are susceptible to defeat by interruption of this web, which is built to permit the dependence of one section upon many or all other sections, and further that this interruption is the primary objective for an air force . . . possible that the moral collapse brought about by the breaking of this closely knit web will be sufficient, but closely connected therewith is the industrial fabric which is absolutely essential foe modern war.3 2 3 1 . Carl Spaatz, "Strategic Air Power in the European War" in Emme 229. 3 -. Donald Wilson, "Origins of a Theory for Air Strategy", Aerospace Historian 18 (March 1971): 21. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 39 --- 3 2 Wilson argued that room was left in the theory for area bombing. If a specific target could not be hit due to air opposition or weather, area bombing could be directed against industrial areas in general or even against workers, because they were an integral part of the web. Thus, it is easy to see that in the heat of battle distinctions could becom
Node: 16432, Score: -0.0088339320313037, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0010.txt, Content: ork. FDR was responsible for clearing objections to the building of the long range bomber from the Army and Navy leadership. FDR's attitude toward terror bombing is important since he certainly was in a position to halt such attacks. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 14 --- 7 PEDAGOGICAL The pedagogical aspect of this study is directed toward the military school environm ent but it could also be applied to any undergraduate course in military or general history. This investigator shows how the introduction of the long-range bomber made it possible to attack population centers well behind the fighting fronts, thereby blurring the distinction between combatants and noncombatants. As stated, my focus will be on the attitudes of American air leaders toward the use of terror bombing. Students will be asked to examine the moral implications of the bombing of noncombatants. Should the bombing of civilians be treated in a purely amoral sense in which war is war no matter if a child or soldier is killed? Should a military planner be held to a humanitarian standard of responsibility for the deaths of innocent civilians? Another question raised by this study is how can we apply the lessons of the bomber to new technical developments. For instance, what of the development of the cruise missile? Does the pinpoint accuracy of this weapon now allow for "clean" wars where few, if any, civilians are killed in battle? These are just some of the thought-provoking questions I hope to raise in a general discussion at the end of the course. The primary method of instruction will be lecture and group discussion. Background material will be presented with lectures and moral issues will be discussed in small groups. The material will all be presented in a course entitled American Air Policy in World W ar Two. Over a course of a semester, lectures will be given dealing with the origin
Node: 16548, Score: -0.0072556321162426, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0126.txt, Content: duction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 121 --- 1 1 4 Objectives Upon completion of the course students will: 1. Understand the historical events from 1919 to 1939 that led to World War Two from the British, French, German, and American perspective. 2. Understand the historical circumstances that led America to become involved in the Second World War in both the European and Pacific Theaters. 3. Understand the air doctrine developed after World W ar One by the British, American and Italian air theorists. 4. Understand the development of American Air doctrine in the 1930's. 5. Understand the application of American air doctrine from 1941 to 1945 in the European and Pacific Theaters. 6 . Understand the factors involved in the greater use of terror bombing as the war deepened. 7. Understand the moral implications of American terror bombing. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 122 --- 11 5 Mount Saint Mary College American Air Policy in World W ar II Fall 2001 Office located in Con Ed Newburgh N.Y. E-Mail Mott@MSMC.Edu Required Readings: Werrell, Kenneth. Blankets of Fire. Washington: Smithsonian, 1996. Schaffer, Ronald. Wings of Judgment. New York: Oxford University Press, 1985. Handouts Optional Morgan, Kenneth, The Second War , New York: Oxford University Press, 2000. Evaluation: 1. Two take home exams, Quiz 50% 2. Term Paper 30% 2. Class Participation, attendance, Assigned Reading Case studies 20% One take home is due by October 19 the second by December 5. The Paper is due by December 9th. You may e-mail your papers or turn in a hard copy. If you e-mail please follow these guide lines: 1. Must be in a word perfect or MS word document. That is a .doc 2. You must have put your name and question num ber in the title of your e-m ail file. August 29th  Introduction Sept 3r d /8 th  World W ar I Werrell, 1-36 Sept 10th /1 5  Ri
Node: 16547, Score: -0.0072354351493628, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0125.txt, Content: be held out to the public and to the rest of the military establishment. And again the limitations of this promise were just as apparent in the 1940's as in the 1990's, as most recently observed in the Kosova conflict. The contradiction between promise and reality often came out when innocent civilians were killed and their images were beamed around the world. This study is limited in scope in that the researcher does not fully address the political aspect of the strategic bombing campaign. Although I discuss the importance of Roosevelt's backing of strategic bombing, an expanded study is needed to detail the relationship between the administration, particularly Roosevelt's view of war, and the military's conception of strategic bombing. Furthermore, the study would benefit from the inclusion of Carl Spaatz's and Curtis LeMay's papers. Also, a more through examination of the implications of how technology influenced the institutional behavior of the Army Air Force would be beneficial. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 120 --- 113 Pedagogical The material contained in this paper will be presented in the context of a upper level college level course on American involvement in World W ar Two. The instructor's purpose in the course is to give undergraduate students a better understanding of American involvement in World w ar Two with particular emphasis on the American strategic bombing campaign. The instructor will present the material in lecture format and assign appropriate readings. Students will also take part in case studies of area bombing to explore the moral aspects of American terror bombing. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 121 --- 1 1 4 Objectives Upon completion of the course students will: 1. Understand the historical events from 1919 to 19
Node: 16553, Score: -0.0063239965174195, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0131.txt, Content: . Garrett, Stephen. Ethics and Air power in World War II. The British Bombing of German Cities. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1993. Gaston, James. Planning The American Air War: Four Men and Nine Days in 1941. Washington. D.C.:  National Defense University Press. 1982. Gat, Azat. "Futurism: Proto-Fascist Italian Culture and the Sources of Dcuhetism." War and Society  15 (May 1997): 37-66. Gooch, John. Air Power Theory and Practice. London: Frank Cass, 1995. Green, William. Warplanes of the Third Reich. New York: Galahad Books. 1970. Greer, Thomas. The Development of Air Doctrine in the Armv Air Arm 1917-1941. Washington D.C., USAF Historical Division, Research Studies Institute Air University, 1955. Groves, P.R.C. "For France to Answer." The Atlantic Monthly  29 (February 1924): 145-153. Hallion, Richard. Strike from the Skv. Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989. Heaton, Colin. "Interview: Luftwaffe Eagle Johannes Steinhoff." World War I I  (May 1998): 28-34. Hewitt, Kenneth. "Place Annihilation: Area Bombing and the Fate of Urban Places." Annals o f the Association of American Geographers 73  (June 1983):257-284. Holsken, Dieter. V-Missiles of The Third Reich-The V -l and V -2. Sturbridge, Mass: Monogram Aviation Publications, 1994. Hormuz, Edward. Arming the Luftwaffe. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1976. Howard, Michael. "The Battle in the Air Ministry," History  49 (August 21 1998): 10. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 127 --- 120 Huston, John. "The Impact of Strategic Bombing in the Pacific." The Journal o f American-East Asian Relations A  (Summer 1995): 169-179. Hurley, Alfred. Air Power and Warfare. USAF Academy: 8th Military History Symposium, 1978. Kennett, Lee. A History Of Strategic Bombing. New York: Charles Schribner's Sons 1982. Launius, Roger. "World War II Military Aviation in the Rockies." Journal o f the West 32 (Ap
Node: 16551, Score: -0.0059263272847353, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0129.txt, Content: w evidence of the readings and class discussions; Be devoid of confusion or factual error; Show insight into the issues raised. W hat I mean by this is, that you must demonstrate that you understand the material. 2. (B) An "B" essay shall: Show good organization, have a beginning middle and end; Have good detail; Show some evidence of the readings and class discussions. There can be some confusion and factual problems but not so much as to distract; Show the beginning of some insight into the issues. 3. (C) An "C" essay should give me some organization related to the question but generally show problems in this regard: There is usually a lack of appropriate detail. There is confusion and factual problems but these still should not distract from the overall essay; Usually lacks insight; Need to show some effort. 4. (D) An "D/F" essay shows; Lack of effort ;Lack of organization; Lack of appropriate detail; Absolutely no insight into the issues or any evidence that you even bought the book. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 125 --- 1 1 8 Bibliography Acosta, Fredric. "Bloody Proving Ground." Popular Aviation,  1 January 1938, 10-13. Arnold, H.H. Global Mission. New York: TAB Books Inc, 1989. _________ . and Ira Eaker. Winged Warfare. New York: Harper & Brothers, 1941. Asada, Sadao. "The Shock of the Atomic Bomb and Japan's Decision to Surrender: A Reconsideration." Pacific Historical Revievj  67 (1998): 477-512. Boyle, A. Trenchard: Man of Vision. London: Collins, 1952. Baumbach, W erner. The Life and Death of the Luftwaffe. New York: Coward-McCann, 1949. Cairncross, Alec. Planning in Wartime. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1974. Chander, Alfred. The Papers of Dwight David Eisenhower. Baltimore: John Hopkins Press, 1970. Churchill, Winston. The Gathering Storm. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1948. Clodfelter, Mark. "Pinpointing Devastation: American Air Campaign Plann
Node: 16528, Score: -0.0053147042369973, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0106.txt, Content: o win the war as quickly and efficiently as possible. FDR was well aware of the AAF activities and never acted to impose limits on them. The attitude displayed by Arnold and FDR inevitably led to the deaths of workers and civilians in Germany and Japan. In examining the war against Japan, one cannot help but be struck by the racial overtones of the war, which likely led to more civilian deaths in the Pacific theater. General racist attitudes were present from the highest to the lowest ranking personnel in the armed forces. In general, it can be said that America's top military leaders held views which can only be described as racist by present-day standards. Men like Eisenhower, Bradley, Patton, Kenney, and Arnold were greatly influenced by the predominant racial views of their era and class, which can clearly be seen in the ever-present controversy over the use of "Colored Troops." The Army found itself in a difficult position because of the predominantly racist attitudes of its officers and men as well as society in general. Eisenhower and the Army supported segregation in the military as the natural order of things and as a way to reduce open conflicts between white and black troops. 1 1 9  As a result, many American officers refused to use black troops and Eisenhower himself was wary of the use such troops in combat. Arnold fought against the use of black airmen in his organization whenever he could. Arnold generally believed that black troops were inferior.1 2 0  Although Arnold fought hard to form and maintain a political consensus for women ferry pilots, his racial attitudes " 9. Alfred Chandler, The Papers of Dwight D. Eisenhower (Baltimore: The John Hopkins Press, 1970), 2, 209. l2 °. Arnold Papers,  "Journal," (July 1945), Reel 3, File 5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 103 --- 96 prevented him from doing the same when it came to black squadrons.
Node: 16556, Score: -0.0052188550197904, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0134.txt, Content: int.pdf --- Page 129 --- Vita Date o f Birth: Elementary School: Date Graduated: High School: Date Graduated: Baccalaureate Degree: Date Graduated: Other Degrees: Date Graduated:April 20, 1961 Westfield Academy and Central School Westfield, New York June, 1974 Westfield Academy and Central School Westfield, New York June, 1980 Bachelor of Arts Alfred University Alfred, New York June, 1984 Master of Arts Penn State University University Park 1987 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
Node: 16530, Score: -0.0050636315896273, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0108.txt, Content: to Sec of War," (June 16th 1943), Reel 175, File 5. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 104 --- 97 with few, if any, prisoners taken. The common soldier viewed the enemy as subhuman, as able to endure unthinkable privation and inflict the sam e.1 2 2 These views were not confined to the lower ranks. General George Kenney wrote to Arnold that "the Jap is undoubtedly a low order of humanity, but is clever and knows how to fight. At home he can't indulge in his Mongol liking for looting, arson, massacre, and rape. In the army he can look forward to all four". The tendency to assign such characteristics to Asians was common among the American leadership. Arnold, Kenney, MacArthur, and LeMay were fully capable of realistic appraisal of the Japanese fighting capabilities, but their racist attitudes tended to cause them to believe that a higher degree of violence would be needed to defeat the Japanese. As Kenney continued, "he can probably take a death toll of ten million the last of them in the streets of Tokyo, before he quits. If we kill five for one we still have a death roll to face."1 2 3  The belief that Japan could "take a death toll" would suggest to the American high command that extraordinary and brutal methods would have to be used to defeat the Japanese. American leaders easily extrapolated the experiences American soldiers were having in the brutal island campaigns to the average women and children in the streets of Tokyo. If the common Japanese soldier fought to the death, then their women and children would do the same. In July 1945, during another fact-finding trip to the Pacific, Arnold became caught up in similar racist attitudes. During this trip, Arnold reacted to the destruction caused by the Japanese occupation of the Philippines as he had in Britain during the darkest days of 1942. Arnold became filled with a inner rage against the enemy. See,
Node: 16430, Score: -0.0049331817170608, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0008.txt, Content: ds about strategy, and it is through their frank exchanges, which we will examine later in this paper, that we can gain a deeper insight into Arnold's views on the war in the Pacific. Arnold, Spaatz, Eaker, Walker, Hansell, LeMay, and Kenney were seven men who directed American air operations and collectively formulated American air doctrine. What is of interest to this researcher are their ideas and actions in relation to the topic of terror bombing. Did they view terror bombing as just another form of war intended to bring about an early capitulation? Moreover, what role did institutional goals play in the escalating terror bombing toward the end of the German and Japanese campaigns? To answer these questions, we must use traditional research methods as we examine writings, letters, journals, speeches, reports, and memos of the seven giants of American air power. PREVIOUS RESEARCH AND SOURCES There is a wide range of secondary sources that deal with the bombing of Germany and Japan during World War II. Arnold produced two works, Global Mission and Winged W arfare, which still shed light on his ideas about the use of air power. In these works, however, he does not deal directly with the issue of terror Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 12 --- 5 bombing but instead publicizes the role of the Air Corps in the w ar effort. Two authors who do focus on this issue are Ronald Schaffer in his Wings of Judgment and Kenneth Werrell Blankets of Fire. Although both writers offer a comprehensive view of the terror bombing issue, they do not shed much light on attitude of the individual commanders. In the same vein, Richard Davis's Carl A. Spaatz and the Air War in Europe is a massive work in which he details Spaatz's entire career. The book is a blow-by-biow account of Spaatz's actions as the commander of the 8th Airforce. Again, however, there is little insight into his
Node: 16426, Score: -0.0028576029465433, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0004.txt, Content: ....................... 113 Objectives ................................................................................................... 114 BIBLIOGRAPHY ................................................................................................ 118 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 8 --- The purpose of this researcher is to examine the rationale for the targeting of civilians during World War II by the U.S. Army Air Corps. In the years leading up to the Second W ar, terror (or area) bombing had been rejected by all of the major powers despite lively speculation from a number of politicians, futurists, and military theorists about the desirability of employing this new method of waging war. In the early stages of the war, Britain and Germany avoided the bombing of civilians. When the United States entered the war, American stated policy was to bomb only military and industrial targets. As the war progressed, however, there developed an increasing tendency toward the use of terror bombing by all combatants. It is my intention in this essay to determine why, contrary to initially stated policy, terror bombing became a prominent instrument of war. I will concentrate on the attitudes of seven American military leaders who were responsible for air operations during the Second World War. Henry "Hap" Arnold was America's most important air leader during the war. As an early pioneer of flight who was taught to fly by the Wright brothers, he is one of the truly great men in American air history. After graduating from West Point and being passed over for a commission in the cavalry, the young Arnold turned toward the sport of flying, in part perhaps to fulfill the need for adventure. In 1911, he became one of the founding fathers of the new Army Air Corps. Arnold's career stretches from the birth of the Air Corps to its full maturity as an equal partner with the
Node: 16488, Score: -0.0023131956979722, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0066.txt, Content: l November 1944. The basic dilemm a stemmed from the summer of 1941 when Hansell and his team formulated their strategic concept. It was argued that terror bombing couid be used at the right moment to break the morale of the people. The Balkans seemed to some policy makers vulnerable to terror. Certainly, Balkan ties to the Nazi regime were precarious. The question was: How much violence was necessary to push them over the edge? The only way to answer this question was to bomb civilians. Once extreme violence is used, however, it becomes difficult to control the consequences. There is a fine line between defeatism, the indented result, and a renewed resoluteness against a hated enemy. Allied air leaders would attem pt to find the formula throughout the rest of the war. As the war deepened and relations between the allies and Soviet Union became strained, the impulse to use extrem e violence increased. With the successful allied landing and the advance of Soviet armies in the East, American and British air leaders continued to search for ways to force Germany out Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 66 --- 5 9 of the war. The search for the precise ratio of terror to pinpoint destruction continued. In the fall of 1944, there were a number of proposals designed to shake German morale to its core. In September 1944, Arnold wanted six or seven days of attacks throughout Germany striking at military objectives. The concept was the same as General Sherman's march through Georgia. Every citizen must see the power of the allied air forces. Once they saw this power, surely they would lose all hope and become a defeated nation. CLARION, the code name for this operation, was not designed as an obliteration attack to kill the German population. When Arnold asked for comments, Spaatz proposed instead an alternative operation, SHATTER, which he described as a plan to attack t
Node: 16554, Score: -0.0019115925017765, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0132.txt, Content: ory Symposium, 1978. Kennett, Lee. A History Of Strategic Bombing. New York: Charles Schribner's Sons 1982. Launius, Roger. "World War II Military Aviation in the Rockies." Journal o f the West 32 (April 1993): 86-93. Meilinger, Phillip. "Trenchard and Moral Bombing: The Evolution Of Royal Air Force Doctrine Before World War II." The Journal of M ilitary History  60 (April 1996): 243-270. _________ . "U.S. Air Force Leaders: A Biographical Tour." The Journal of Military History  62 (October 1998): 833-870. "Naval War in the Pacific: How the U.S. Plans to Win." U.S. News & World Report,  8 August 1941, 10-12. Neufeld, Michael. The Rocket and the Reich:Peenemunde and the Coming of the Balistic Missile Era. New York: The Free Press, 1995. Overy, R.J. " The German Pre-War Aircraft Production Plans: November 1936-April 1939. The English Historical Review  (October 1975): 7 7 8 -7 9 7 . _________ . "From Uralbomber to Amerikabomber": the Luftwaffe and Strategic Bombing." The Journal o f Strategic Studies 1  (January 1978): 154-178. Richards, Denis. The Hardest Victory. New York: WW. Norton & . Company, 1994. Roland, Alex. "Science Technology and War." Technology and Culture  36 (April 1995): 16-38. Parton, James. Air Force Spoken Here. Bethesda: Adler 8t Adler, 1986. Schaffer, Ronald. "American Military Ethics in World W ar II: The Bombing Of German Civilians" The Journal of American History  67 (Septem ber 1980): 319-334. _________ . Wings of Judgment: American Bombing in World War I I . New York: Oxford University Press, 1985. Schiner, John. "The General and the Subcommittee: Congress and U.S. Army Air Corps Chief Benjamin Foulois." The Journal o f M ilitary History  55 (October 1991): 487-505. Segre, Claudio. "Giuiio Douhet: Strategist, Theorist, Prophet?" Journal of Strategic Studies  15 (September 1992): 110-143. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 128 --- 121 S
Node: 16509, Score: -0.0014444899581278, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0087.txt, Content: apan. Arnold believed such a commander would have close contact with Washington which, in turn, would give him a more global perspective. One of Arnold's constant reminders to his commanders was that theirs was not the only theater of operations and that their concerns had to be prioritized in relation to the global war. The hope for a supreme com m ander was only a dream on Arnold's because neither MacArthur nor Nimitz would subm it to such a commander 9 4 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold's Journal Trip to the Pacific," (September 1942), Reel 42, file 13. 9 5 . Ibid. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 85 --- 78 unless they were the one in charge. The idea of a Supreme Commander was also hampered by the fact th at the distances in the Pacific worked against a centralized command. The compactness of the European theater compelled at least a measure of cooperation between the services and allies. In the Pacific, Americans did not have to trouble themselves, for the most part, with allies. Hence, they were free to give full reign to their inter-service wrangles. Furthermore, the Joint Chiefs were tolerant of disagreement among subordinates, and they did the only thing they could do, compromise. They gave MacArthur one force, the Navy another, and Arnold commanded the new 20th Air Force. In practice the dividing of resources meant that there was no overall strategy to defeat Japan in the Pacific. The Army pursued island hopping, the Navy attacked the Japanese Navy and Arnold prepared for the strategic bombing campaign against Japan. This set-up was not as fractious as it appeared. Although there was certainly duplication of effort and dubious operations, in the end as the ring closed around Japan the services were drawn into closer cooperation.9 6 By 1943, Arnold and his staff could get down to planning the destruction of Japan. There were still many frustrations to be d
Node: 16433, Score: -0.0013731273426473, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0011.txt, Content: be discussed in small groups. The material will all be presented in a course entitled American Air Policy in World W ar Two. Over a course of a semester, lectures will be given dealing with the origin and development of American air doctrine and its application in the European and Pacific theaters. Furthermore, the moral implications of the application of American Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 15 --- air doctrine will be examined as well as future implications. Case studies will employed to explore the moral implications of the use of American air power. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 16 --- 9 CHAPTER I Background The foundation of air doctrine was laid on the battlefields of World War I. The seemingly pointless land war, which led to millions of deaths, caused military strategists and others to search for technological alternatives to the stalemate of trench warfare. Innovations such as the tank and poison gas were intended to overcome this stalemate. The rapid development of aeronautical technology opened up many possibilities in the minds of young air theorists for the use of air power in future warfare. By the end of the conflict, the role of air warfare had drastically increased to the point that strategists were beginning to contemplate the possibility of long-range strategic bombing campaigns. These new possibilities also generated conflicts with the traditional m ilitary establishment. The consensus among the traditional military establishment directly after the war was that air power ought to be limited to a tactical support role for land forces. However, those airmen who had been directly involved with air operations during the war argued for a much more vigorous and independent role for the airplane. In America, the most prominent ear
Node: 16518, Score: -0.0010355816466685, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0096.txt, Content: many ways Arnold and LeMay were similar. LeMay drove his subordinates just as hard as Arnold, although not with the same ruthlessness. In Europe, LeMay had been a middle-level commander. Grand strategy was beyond his province. What concerned LeMay was fashioning his command into an effective fighting machine. He was far too busy to worry about strategy. His main concern was locating resources, maintaining his men's fighting spirit and dealing with personnel problems. In this LeMay, like Arnold, was no slave to doctrine. The job at hand was to get the B-29’s 1 0 7 . Arnold Papers,  "Arnold to Hansell," (December 19th  1944), Reel 178, File 3. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 93 --- 86 over Japan. Arnold was not going to quibble about how this task was accomplished. As LeMay stated, "the main thing was to have enough energy to get off your ass and do something."1 0 8 As 1945 began, the pressure to perform intensified. The conflagration to which Arnold alluded in his November 1944 report to FDR had not yet occurred. Arnold was still not getting the number of B-29's over Japan that he wanted. "We have crews that have been thoroughly trained and should be able to make the trip. We have maintenance personnel which have been specially trained. We have the whole Air Force to draw, yet we seldom, if ever, have more than 70 airplanes in commission for a trip against Japan."1 0 9  Arnold was afraid that the B-29 would become just another tactical weapon instead of the special decisive system it was intended to be. He could not justify the expense of this weapon system unless he could show concrete results to the public and top leadership. The only acceptable result was burning Japanese cities. This point was driven home to Arnold's Chief of Staff, General Barney Giles. If we have produced 2000 B-29’s then why aren't they over Japan? Only 60-80 out of 2000 planes are o
Node: 16545, Score: -0.0003749705278072, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0123.txt, Content: , the desire to punish the German and Japanese population for their support for their respective governments increased. These attitudes were buttressed by feelings of hatred and racism, spurred on by the U.S. government. One of the important issues raised by this researcher was the role played by the forces- social, institutional, political, and technical-which caused  Arnold and the top air leadership to move away from precision bombing to area or terror bombing. I argue that in the end, the institutional goals of Arnold and the AAF were more important than strategic doctrine. Arnold had expended much political and economic capital on the air war, to a point that it became unthinkable that the force  not be employed to its fullest extent. If it became necessary to bomb civilians to maintain the momentum of the air w ar, then so be it. Arnold was not going to allow some bad press to interfere with a whoie career devoted to the conception of air power. Thus, we see a distinction between the theory and the practical application of the theory. There were a sizeable num ber of factors ranging from the political to the technological which created the gulf between theory and application. For the historian, it is difficult to pin down which of these factors caused the American air leaders to engage in terror bombing. However, it stands to reason that throughout with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibitedwithout permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 118 --- I l l the war and especially toward the end of the war there was constant and increasing political pressure to perform . The technical limitations caused Arnold to rethink his strategy in light of the political pressures. My argument, as is the case of much historical analysis, is based on inference, because there exists no definitive document which could conclusively prove my viewpoint. One could say the same for my argum ent that racism was a factor in the Pacific for the emplo
Node: 16539, Score: 7.855210770257859e-05, Chunk File: lucien_pinpoint/chunks/lucien_pinpoint_0117.txt, Content: t. In the former, the shock attacks, Speer admitted, the effects were more dramatic and crippling, though only tem porary.1 3 8  In Italy and Eastern Europe where commitment to the war was not as strong, heavy attacks on civilians were more effective in disrupting moral. In the end, however, the report concluded that "there is no evidence that any sizable body of German workers ever lay down their u s. Ibid. IJ 7 . Ibid. ,3 S . Ibid. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 112 --- 10 5 tools because of allied bombing."1 3 9  In fact, it appears that morale improved in Germany and Japan as the population became more accustomed to air raids. It is safe to conclude th at bombing directed against civilians did not have a Douhetian outcome. Save for a few isolated instances, the civilian population did not break under the strain of bombing. This is not to say, however, that these raids did not significantly disrupt the German and Japanese war efforts. In both theaters, the allied bombing campaign made it increasingly difficult to operate the war economies effectively. In many cases although production levels continued to increase, the ability to deliver and operate equipm ent was severely limited. This outcome was especially true in the case of aircraft production and operation. In both Germany and Japan, production levels were never higher than in the latter stages of the war. Much of this production, however, was wasted due to lack of trained personnel and shortage of fuel. Moreover, attem pts to design and produce new equipment was severely limited by the above factors. ,3 9 . Ibid. Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- lucien_pinpoint.pdf --- Page 113 --- 10 6 Some Concluding Thoughts When the war began, American leaders portrayed the conflict as one between good vs. evil. The new world orde