Node: 28422, Score: 0.0290137377248251, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0073.txt, Content: ent of workers from other industries or from a given reservoir of unemployed workers, the labor unions are unable to raise wage rates above those paid without them. But as soon as the physical force of labor, with tacit consent or open pro- motion by the state, makes it impossible to replace the strik- ers, the labor unions can do as they like. The workers of "es- sential" enterprises then can freely determine their wage rates. They could raise them as high as they please were it not necessary to be mindful of public opinion and the senti- ment of workers in other industries. At any rate, all labor unions have the power temporarily to raise wage rates above those the economic situation would determine without union intervention. Anyone who would deny protection to workers willing to work must raise the question of how excessive labor demands can be dealt with. It is no answer to refer to a sen- sible conduct of workers or to entrust committees of em- ployers and employees with the power of decision. Com- mittees with equal representation of both sides can come to an agreement only if one side makes the concessions. But if the decision is to be made by the state, either as judge with the power of binding arbitration or by the committee member representing the state, the solution again is that of etatism, the very thing that was to be avoided. A social order that refuses to protect those willing to work lacks vitality and must disintegrate in short order. This is why all political systems, no matter how they collaborate with the unions, must finally oppose union coercion. To be sure, prewar Germany never managed to legislate govern- ment protection to those willing to work; an attempt failed on account of the resistance by Brentano and his School. But it should be noted that prewar Germany could easily have quashed a strike in essential enterprises by calling the strik- ers to active military duty. Postwar republican Germany no longer has this power at its disposal. A
Node: 28505, Score: 0.0257016155375051, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0156.txt, Content: aw and administration to workers willing to work. In fact, it is irrelevant for our analysis whether the apparatus of coercion imposing the controls is the "legiti- mate" state apparatus or a sanctioned apparatus with public power. If a minimum wage that exceeds the unhampered market rate is imposed on a particular industry, its costs of production are raised, the price of the final product must rise, and correspondingly, sales must decline. Workers lose their jobs, which depresses wages in other industries. Up to this point we may agree with the wage fund theory on the effects of nonmarket wage boosts. That which the workers in one industry are gaining is lost by the workers in other industries. In order to avoid such consequences, the imposition of minimum wages must be accompanied by the prohibition to dismiss workers. The prohibition in turn reduces the industry's rate of return because unneeded workers must be paid, or they are used and paid in full pro- duction while their output is sold at a loss. Industrial activ- ity then tends to decline. If this, too, is to be prevented, government must intervene again with new regulations. If the minimum wage is not limited to a few industries, but is imposed on all industries of an isolated economy, or on the world economy, the rise in product prices caused by 148 it cannot lead to a reduction in consumption.2 The higher wages raise the workers' spending power. They can now buy the higher-priced products coming to the market. (To be sure, there may be shifting within the industries.) If en- trepreneurs and capitalists do not want to consume their capital they must limit their consumption since their money income has not risen and they are unable to pay the higher prices. To the extent of this reduction in consumption, the general wage boost has given the workers a share of entre- preneurial profits and capital income. The workers' real raise is visible in that prices do not rise by the full amount of the wage boost beca
Node: 28370, Score: 0.024071986483616, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0021.txt, Content: te with the Atlantean indus- try through lower labor costs. It is obvious that in addition to the declining capital return of industry in Atlantis, and the declining land rent in Thule, wage rates in both coun- tries must fall. The decline in income corresponds to the de- clining social product. But Atlantis is a "social" country. Labor unions prevent a reduction in wage rates. Production costs of Atlantean in- dustry remain at the old pre-import-duty levels. As sales in Thule decline Atlantean industry must discharge some workers. Unemployment compensation prevents the flow of unemployed labor to agriculture. Unemployment thus be- comes a permanent institution.7 The exportation of coal from Great Britain has declined. Inasmuch as the unneeded miners cannot emigrate-be- cause other countries do not want them-they must move to those British industries that are expanding in order to com- pensate for the smaller imports that follow the decline in ex- ports. A reduction in wage rates in coal mining may bring about this movement. But labor unions may hamper this unavoidable adjustment for years, albeit temporarily. In the end, the decline in the international division of labor must bring about a reduction in standards of living. And this re- duction must be all the greater, the more capital has been consumed through "social" intervention. Austrian industry suffers from the fact that other coun- tries are raising their import duties continually on Austrian products and are imposing ever new import restrictions, 7. On the question of how collective bargaining can temporarily raise wage rates see my essay "Die allgemeine Teuerung im Lichte der theoretischen National- ökonomie" [The high costs of living in the light of economic theory] in vol. 37 of Ar- chiv, p. 570 et seq. On the causes of unemployment see C. A. Verrijn Stuart, Die heu- tige Arbeitslosigkeit im Lichte der Weltwirtschaftslage [Contemporary unemployment in the light of the world economy], Jena, 1922, p. 1 et
Node: 28412, Score: 0.022086868047218, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0063.txt, Content: re very high relative to proportional costs, disregarding even the costs of interest and amortization). There is only one way out of the difficulty: to shut down entirely; only then can further losses be avoided. Of course the situation may not always be so simple. There is hope, perhaps, that the prod- uct price will rise again. In the meantime, production is con- tinued because the disadvantages of the shutdown are thought to be greater than the operating losses during the bad time. Until recently most unprofitable railroads were in this situation because automobiles and airplanes entered the competition. They counted upon an increase in traffic, hoping to earn profits some day. But if such special condi- tions do not exist, production is shut down. Enterprises la- boring under less favorable conditions disappear, which establishes the equilibrium between production and de- mand. Schmalenbach's error lies in his belief that the cutback in production, necessitated by the decline in prices, must take place through a proportionate cutback of all existing opera- tions. He forgets that there is yet another way, namely, the complete shutdown of all plants working under unfavorable conditions because they can no longer stand the competi- tion of plants producing at lower costs. This is true espe- cially in industries producing raw materials and staples. In finishing industries, where individual plants usually manu- facture various items for which production and market con- ditions may vary, a cutback may be ordered, limiting output to the more profitable items. This is the situation in a free economy unhampered by government intervention. Therefore, it is utterly erroneous to maintain that a rise in fixed costs denies our economy the ability to adjust production to demand. It is true that if government interferes with this adjust- ment process through the imposition of protective tariffs of appropriate size a new possibility arises for producers: they can form a cartel i
Node: 28411, Score: 0.0217949866920517, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0062.txt, Content: an simply con- clude from the continuous formation of new capital and progressive application of machines and equipment- which is undoubtedly true in a capitalist economy-that the ratio of fixed costs will rise. But he must prove first that this is actually the case for the whole economy, not just for indi- vidual enterprises. In fact, continuing capital formation leads to a decline in the marginal productivity of capital and an increase in that of labor. The share that goes to capital de- clines, and that of labor rises. Schmalenbach did not con- sider this, which negates the very premise of his thesis.9 But let us also ignore this shortcoming and examine Schmalenbach's doctrine itself. Let us raise the question of 7. Ibid., p. 242 et seq. 8. Ibid., p. 243. 9. See Adolf Weber, Das Ende des Kapitalismus [The end of capitalism], Munich, 1929, p. 19. 64 65  whether a relative rise in fixed costs can actually precipitate entrepreneurial behavior that deprives the economy of its ability to adjust production to demand. Let us look at an enterprise that either from the start or be- cause of a changed situation does not come up to its earlier expectations. When it was built its founders hoped that the investment capital not only would be amortized and would yield the going rate of interest but, in addition, would pay a profit. Now it has turned out differently. The product price has fallen so much that it covers only a part of produc- tion costs-even without allowance for the costs of interest and amortization. A cutback in output cannot bring relief; it cannot make the enterprise profitable. The less it pro- duces, the higher will be the production costs per unit of output and the greater the losses from the sale of each unit (pursuant to our assumption that the fixed costs are very high relative to proportional costs, disregarding even the costs of interest and amortization). There is only one way out of the difficulty: to shut down entirely; only then can further losses
Node: 28362, Score: 0.0213784823098174, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0013.txt, Content: s. The purpose of the theorists of free trade was not to demonstrate that tariffs are impractical or harm- ful, but that they have unforeseen consequences and do not, nor can they, achieve what their advocates expect of them. What is even more significant, as they observed, protective tariffs as well as all other production restrictions reduce the productivity of human labor. The result is always the same: a given expenditure of capital and labor yields less with the restriction than without it, or from the beginning less capi- tal and labor is invested in production. This is true with protective tariffs that cause grain to be grown in less fertile soil while more fertile land is lying fallow, with class restric- tions of trade and occupation (such as the certificates of qualification for certain occupations in Austria, or the fa- vored tax treatment of small enterprises) which promote less productive businesses at the expense of more productive ac- 21  tivity, and, finally, with the limitation of labor time and of the employment of certain labor (women and children), which diminishes the quantity of available labor. It may very well be that government would have inter- vened even with full knowledge of the consequences. It may intervene in the belief that it will achieve other, not purely economic, objectives, which are thought to be more impor- tant than the expected reduction in output. But we doubt very much that this would ever be the case. The fact is that all production restrictions are supported wholly or partially by arguments that are to prove that they raise productivity, not lower it. Even the legislation that reduces the labor of women and children was enacted because it was believed that only entrepreneurs and capitalists would be handi- capped while the protected labor groups would have to work less. The writings of the "Socialists of the Chair" have been rightly criticized in that, in the final analysis, there can be no objective concept of productiv
Node: 28369, Score: 0.020007516104524, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0020.txt, Content: over the means of produc- tion in their hands. Obviously, the consumption of capital in the end reduces wage rates. If the market wage structure is unacceptable the whole private property order must be abolished. Wage controls can raise rates only temporarily, and only at the price of future wage reductions. The problem of wage controls is of such great importance today that we must analyze it in yet another way, taking into consideration the international exchange of goods. Let us suppose that economic goods are exchanged between two countries, Atlantis and Thule. Atlantis supplies industrial products, Thule agricultural products. Under the influence of Friedrich List,* Thule now deems it necessary to build its own industry by way of protective tariffs. The final outcome of Thule's industrialization program can be no other than that fewer industrial products are imported from Atlantis, and fewer agricultural products exported to Atlantis. Both countries now satisfy their wants to a greater degree from domestic production, which leaves the social product smaller than it used to be because production conditions are now less favorable. This may be explained as follows: in reaction to the im- port duties in Thule the Atlantean industry lowers its *Editor's note: A nineteenth century (1789-1846) German advocate of the use of pro- tective tariffs to stimulate national industrial development. 27  wages. But it is impossible to offset the whole tariff burden through lower wages. When wages begin to fall it becomes profitable to expand the production of raw materials. On the other hand, the reduction in Thulean sales of agricultural products to Atlantis tends to lower wages in the Thulean raw material production, which will afford the Thulean in- dustry the opportunity to compete with the Atlantean indus- try through lower labor costs. It is obvious that in addition to the declining capital return of industry in Atlantis, and the declining land rent in Thule, wage rates in
Node: 28399, Score: 0.0191725890586983, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0050.txt, Content: as J. M. Clark, he too sympathizes with interventionism. Every line of his work, which seeks to analyze theoretically the wage problems of intervention- ism,25 clearly reflects his desire to acclaim as much as possi- ble social policy in general and labor union policies in par- ticular. All Strigl's statements are carefully worded in the same manner that authors of previous centuries worded theirs in order to escape inquisition or censure.26 But all the concessions which his heart grants to interventionistic thinking concern only secondary matters and the formula- tion of doctrine. Regarding the problem itself, Strigl's per- ceptive analysis comes to no conclusion other than that drawn in scientific economic analysis. The gist of his doc- trine is visible in the sentence: "The greater the service a worker can render, the more he will earn, provided his ser- vice is useful in the economy; it does not matter whether his wage is determined in the free market or agreed upon by collective contract."27 It obviously grieves him that this is so, but he cannot and will not deny it. Strigl emphasizes that artificial wage increases create un- employment. 28 This is undoubtedly the case where wages are raised in individual industries only, or in individual countries only, or where they are raised unevenly in differ- ent industries and countries, or where monetary policies are used to stem a general rise in prices. Undoubtedly Strigl's case is important for an understanding of present-day con- ditions. For a thorough understanding of the problem, how- ever, we must rely upon another basic assumption. To have universal validity our analysis must assume that the rise in wages occurs evenly and simultaneously in different indus- tries and countries, and that monetary factors do not inter- vene. Only then can we completely understand interven- tionism. 25. See Strigl, Angewandte Lohntheorie. Untersuchungen über die wirtschaftlichen Grundlagen der Socialpolitik [Applied wage theory.
Node: 28501, Score: 0.0182646784057339, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0152.txt, Content: coincide. The number of potential buyers willing to pay the market price is large enough for the whole market supply to be sold. If government lowers the price below that which the unhampered market would set, the same quantity of goods faces a greater number of potential buyers who are willing to pay the lower official price. Supply and demand no longer coincide; demand exceeds supply, and the market mechanism, which tends to bring supply and demand to- gether through changes in price, no longer functions. Mere coincidence now eliminates as many buyers as the given supply cannot accommodate. Perhaps those buyers who come first or have personal connections with the sellers will get the goods. The recent war with its many attempts at price controls provided examples of both. At the official price, goods could be bought either by a friend of the seller or by an early bird in the "polonaise." But government can- not be content with this selection of buyers. It wants every- one to have the goods at lower prices, and would like to avoid situations in which people cannot get any goods for their money. Therefore, it must go beyond the order to sell; it must resort to rationing. The quantity of merchandise coming to the market is no longer left to the discretion of sellers and buyers. Government now distributes the avail- able supply and gives everyone at the official price what he is entitled to under the ration regulation. But government cannot even stop here. The intervention mentioned so far concerns only the available supply. When that is exhausted the empty inventories will not be replen- ished because production no longer covers its costs. If gov- ernment wants to secure a supply for consumers it must pronounce an obligation to produce. If necessary, it must fix the prices of raw materials and semimanufactured products, 144 145  and eventually also wage rates, and force businessmen and workers to produce and labor at these prices. It can thus be readily seen that it
Node: 28421, Score: 0.0166677619036171, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0072.txt, Content: in agriculture], Stuttgart and Ber- lin, 1904, p. 21. 74 75  in a few points from the socialism of the Communist Mani- festo and the Erfurt Program. What is essential alone is its position on the problem of private property in the means of production. Inasmuch as the Socialists of the Chair repre- sented etatism, and inasmuch as they demanded the nation- alization of large enterprises and government supervision and control of all other enterprises, they engaged in socialis- tic politics. But not all Socialists of the Chair were etatists. Lujo Bren- tano and his School promoted a syndicalistic program, al- though in many questions of daily politics they joined ranks with the other Socialists of the Chair and, together with the Social Democrats, fought against liberalism. As set forth, their syndicalism is no more definite and straightforward than any other program. As a matter of fact, it is so contra- dictory and leads to such absurd consequences that it could never be unswervingly advocated. Brentano carefully veiled his position, but nevertheless it was syndicalism. It became visible in his position on the problems of labor union coer- cion and strike, and the protection of workers willing to work. If employees receive the right to shut down an enterprise as long as its owner rejects their demands, the control over production, in final analysis, has been placed in the hands of labor unions. The problem must not be obscured by the confusion between free collective bargaining-the workers' freedom to organize-and the impunity of workers guilty of breach of contract. The protection of workers willing to work is an entirely different matter. As long as the work stoppage of the workers of one enterprise or in an entire in- dustry can be rendered ineffective through employment of workers from other industries or from a given reservoir of unemployed workers, the labor unions are unable to raise wage rates above those paid without them. But as soon as the physical force o
Node: 28361, Score: 0.0138194741143304, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0012.txt, Content: rders. By "means of production" we mean all goods of higher order, including the merchants' inventories of ready goods which have not yet reached the consumers. We must distinguish between two groups of such orders. One group directly reduces or impedes economic produc- tion (in the broadest sense of the word including the loca- tion of economic goods). The other group seeks to fix prices that differ from those of the market. The former may be called "restrictions of production"; the latter, generally known as price controls, we are calling "interference with the structure of prices." 3 3. There may be some doubt about the suitability of a third group: interference by taxation which consists of expropriation of some wealth or income. We did not allow for such a group because the effects of such intervention may in part be iden- tical with those of production restrictions, and in part consist of influencing the distribution of production income without redirecting production itself. 20 3. Restrictions of Production Economics need not say much about the immediate effect of production restrictions. Government or any organization of coercion can at first achieve what it sets out to achieve through intervention. But whether it can achieve the re- moter objectives sought indirectly by the intervention is a different question. And it must further be determined whether the result is worth the cost, that is, whether the in- tervening authority would embark upon the intervention if it were fully aware of the costs. An import duty, for in- stance, is surely practical, and its immediate effect may correspond to the government's objective. But it does not follow at all that the import duty can realize the govern- ment's ultimate objective. At this point the economist's work commences. The purpose of the theorists of free trade was not to demonstrate that tariffs are impractical or harm- ful, but that they have unforeseen consequences and do not, nor can they, achieve what their
Node: 28503, Score: 0.0137430438786517, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0154.txt, Content: cy. Again and again, governments have tried to enforce old prices in spite of coin debasement and expansion of circulat- ing money. They did so again in the most recent and great- est of all inflation periods, during the World War. On the very day printing presses were put into the service of gov- ernment finance, rising prices were fought with criminal law. Let us assume that this at first succeeded. And let us disregard the fact that the supply of goods was reduced by the war, which affected the exchange ratio between eco- 146 nomic goods and money. Let us further ignore increased demand for money due to delayed money delivery or clear- ing system limitations and other restrictions. We merely wish to analyze the consequences of a policy that aims at stabiliz- ing prices while the quantity of money is enlarged. The ex- pansion of money creates new demand that did not exist be- fore, "new purchasing power," as it is called. When the new buyers compete with those already in the market, and prices are not permitted to rise, only a part of demand can be satisfied. There are potential buyers who are willing to pay the price, but cannot find a supply. Government, which is circulating the newly created money, is seeking thereby to redirect commodities and services from previous uses to more desirable uses. It wants to buy them, not to commandeer them, which it certainly could do. Its intent is that money, only money, shall buy everything, and that potential buyers shall not be frustrated in their search for economic goods. After all, government itself wants to buy, it wants to use the market, not destroy it. The official price is destroying the market on which com- modities and services are exchanged for money. Wherever possible, the exchange continues in other ways. For in- stance, people resort to barter transactions, that is, to ex- change without the interaction of money. Government, which is ill-prepared for such transactions because it owns no exchangeable goods, ca
Node: 28476, Score: 0.0136514698625117, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0127.txt, Content: ing the nineteenth century, grew from a worldwide shifting of production to areas with more favorable production con- ditions. If there had been complete freedom of movement, a part of the German population would have emigrated, for German agriculture and some branches of industry could no longer compete with newly opened, more fertile countries offering more favorable production conditions. For national political reasons Germany sought to prevent this emigration through tariff policies. We cannot elaborate here why this attempt was doomed to failure. 19 The migration problem is the third form of the practical political problem for Germany. Germany lacks territory for its excess population. And again, the prewar theory of Ger- man nationalism discovered no better solution than vio- lence through conquest of suitable territory. In Europe, tens of millions of people live poorly who would do much better in America and Australia. The differ- ence in the living conditions between a European and his descendants overseas continues to grow. European emi- grants could find overseas what their native countries failed to offer: a place at the banquet of nature. But they are too late. The descendants of those who, one, two, or three generations ago chose the New World over Europe, do not welcome them. The organized laborers of the United States and the British Commonwealth countries permit no addi- tion of new competitors. Their labor union movement is not aimed at employers, as the Marxian doctrine prescribes; they are waging their "class war" against European workers whose immigration would reduce the marginal productivity of labor, and thus wage rates. The labor unions of the An- glo-Saxon countries favored participation in the Great War in order to eliminate the last remnants of the liberal doctrine of free movement and migration of labor. This was their war objective, which they adhered to completely. Countless Germans living abroad were uprooted, deprived of their posses
Node: 28410, Score: 0.0133416313053601, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0061.txt, Content: omic order to the new one." "The old great era of the nineteenth century, the epoch of free enterprise, was possible only when pro- duction costs generally were proportional in nature. It ceased to be possible when the proportion of fixed costs be- 6. Schmalenbach, "Die Betriebswirtschaftslehre an der Schwelle der neuen Wirt- schaftsverfassung" [The doctrines of business administration at the dawn of a new economic constitution] in Zeitschrift für Handelswissenschaftliche Forschung [Journal for trade research], 22nd year, 1928, p. 244 et seq. came ever more significant." Since the growth of fixed costs has not yet stopped and will probably continue for a long time, it is obviously hopeless to count on a return of the free economy.7 Schmalenbach at first offers proof for the relative rise in fixed costs with the remark that the continuous growth of enterprise size "is necessarily connected with an expansion, even a relative expansion, of the department that is heading the whole organization."8 I doubt that. The superiority of a larger enterprise consists, among other things, in manage- rial costs lower than those of smaller enterprises. The same is true for the commercial departments, especially the sales organizations. Of course, Schmalenbach is completely correct when he emphasizes that the costs of management and many other general costs cannot be reduced substantially when the en- terprise works only at one-half or one-fourth of its capacity. But as management costs decline with the growth of the en- terprise, calculated per unit of output, they are less signifi- cant in this age of big business and giant enterprises than formerly in the age of smaller operations. But Schmalenbach's emphasis is not here; it lies on the rise in capital intensity. He believes that he can simply con- clude from the continuous formation of new capital and progressive application of machines and equipment- which is undoubtedly true in a capitalist economy-that the ratio of fixed costs
Node: 28413, Score: 0.013250683693622, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0064.txt, Content: t is true that if government interferes with this adjust- ment process through the imposition of protective tariffs of appropriate size a new possibility arises for producers: they can form a cartel in order to reap monopolistic gains through reductions in output. Obviously, the formation of cartels does not result from some development in the free economy, but is rather the consequence of the government interven- tion, i.e., the tariff. In the case of coal and brick, the trans- portation costs, which are so high relative to product value, may, under certain conditions and without government in- tervention, lead to the formation of cartels with limited local effectiveness. A few metals are found in so few places that even in a free economy the producers may attempt to form a world cartel. But it cannot be said too often that all other cartels owe their existence not to a tendency in a free econ- omy, but to intervention. International cartels generally can be formed only because important production and con- sumption areas are sheltered from the world market by tariff barriers. The formation of cartels has nothing to do with the ratio of fixed to proportional costs. The fact that the cartel forma- tion in the finishing industries is proceeding more slowly than in staple industries is not due to the slower rise in fixed costs, as Schmalenbach believes, but to the complex manu- facture of goods nearer to consumption, which is too intri- cate for cartel agreements. Furthermore, it is due to the dis- persal of production over numerous enterprises that are more vulnerable to competition by outsiders. The fixed costs, according to Schmalenbach, prod an en- terprise to embark upon expansion in spite of lacking de- 66 67  mand. There are facilities in each plant that are used very little; even at full plant operation they are working with de- gressive costs. To utilize these facilities better the plant is enlarged. "Thus whole industries are expanding their capac- ities wit
Node: 28360, Score: 0.0130937900881519, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0011.txt, Content: te property or its "limitation." All this is insignificant for our discussion and, therefore, does not concern us here. 2. Partial socialization of the means of production is no intervention in our sense. The concept of intervention as- sumes that private property is not abolished, but that it still exists in substance rather than merely in name. Nationaliza- tion of a railroad constitutes no intervention; but a decree that orders an enterprise to charge lower freight rates than it otherwise would is intervention. 3. Government measures that use market means, that is, seek to influence demand and supply through changes of 19  market factors, are not included in this concept of interven- tion. If government buys milk in the market in order to sell it inexpensively to destitute mothers or even to distribute it without charge, or if government subsidizes educational in- stitutions, there is no intervention. (We shall return to the question of whether the method by which government ac- quires the means for such actions constitutes "interven- tion.") However, the imposition of price ceilings for milk signifies intervention. Intervention is a limited order by a social authority forcing the owners of the means of production and entrepreneurs to employ their means in a different manner than they otherwise would. A "limited order" is an order that is no part of a socialist scheme of orders, i.e., a scheme of orders regulating all of production and distribution, thus replacing private prop- erty in the means of production with public property. Par- ticular orders may be quite numerous, but as long as they do not aim at directing the whole economy and replacing the profit motive of individuals with obedience as the driv- ing force of human action they must be regarded as limited orders. By "means of production" we mean all goods of higher order, including the merchants' inventories of ready goods which have not yet reached the consumers. We must distinguish between two groups
Node: 28504, Score: 0.0126749043447376, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0155.txt, Content: stance, people resort to barter transactions, that is, to ex- change without the interaction of money. Government, which is ill-prepared for such transactions because it owns no exchangeable goods, cannot approve of such a develop- ment. It is coming to the market with money only, and therefore is hoping that the purchasing power of the mone- tary unit is not further reduced by the money holders' in- ability to get the goods they want with their money. As a buyer of commodities and services itself, government can- not adhere to the principle that the old prices must not be exceeded. In short, government as issuer of new money cannot escape the consequences described by the quantity theory. If government imposes a price higher than that deter- mined by the unhampered market, and prohibits the sale at lower prices (minimum prices), demand must decline. At the lower market price supply and demand coincide. At the 147  official higher price demand tends to trail supply, and some goods brought to the market cannot find a buyer. As gov- ernment imposed the minimum price in order to assure the sellers profitable sales, the result was unintended by gov- ernment. Therefore, it must resort to other means, which again, step by step, must lead to complete government con- trol over the means of production. Especially significant are those minimum prices that set wage rates (minimum wages). Such rates may be set either directly by government or indirectly by promoting labor union policies that aim at establishing minimum wages. When, through strikes or threats of strikes, labor unions en- force a wage rate that is higher than that determined by the unhampered market, they can do so only with the assistance of government. The strike is made effective by denying the protection of the law and administration to workers willing to work. In fact, it is irrelevant for our analysis whether the apparatus of coercion imposing the controls is the "legiti- mate" state apparatus or a sanction
Node: 28395, Score: 0.0123312748626377, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0046.txt, Content: ect. If wages are freely determined in the labor market, no raise in wages above the market rate can occur as a result of interventions, such as the shortening of labor time, mandatory insurance of workers at the expense of employers, regulations of work- shop conditions, vacations of workers with full pay, et cetera. All these costs are shifted to wages and are borne by 17. See my Gemeinwirtschaft, Jena, 1922, p. 382 et seq. [English-language edition: Socialism (London: Jonathan Cape, 1936), p. 391 et seq. ], also my Liberalismus, Jena, 1927, p. 80 et seq. [English-language edition: The Free and Prosperous Common- wealth (New York: D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc., 1962), p. 92 et seq.]. 18. Clark, op. cit., p. 455. 48 49  the workers. This fact could be overlooked because such social interventions were introduced mainly at a time when real wages were rising and the purchasing power of money was falling. Thus, net wages paid to workers continued to rise in terms of both money and purchasing power despite the ever-rising social costs placed on the employer. His calculations include not only the workers' wages, but also all costs resulting from their employment. Clark's further remarks have no bearing on our problem. He believes that wage increases, like other interventions on behalf of workers, "may prove self-sustaining through rais- ing the level of personal efficiency, through furnishing an added stimulus to the employer's search for improved methods, and through hastening the elimination of the least efficient employers and transfering their business to those who will conduct it more efficiently." 19 All this can also be said about an earthquake or any other natural catastrophe. Professor Clark is trained too well in theory and is too per- ceptive not to notice how untenable his reasoning actually is. He concludes, therefore, that the question of whether or not a given intervention is a "violation of economic law" is ba- sically "a question of degree." In the final ana
Node: 28368, Score: 0.0122682453953821, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0019.txt, Content: labor union coercion were ineffec- tive, the unemployed would exert a labor market pressure that would reduce the artificially raised wages to the nat- ural market rate. But this escape has been closed. Unem- ployment, a friction phenomenon that soon disappears in an 6. It should be noted that we are not dealing here with the question of whether or not wage rates can be raised permanently and universally through collective bar- gaining, but with the consequences of a general wage boost achieved artificially through physical coercion. To avoid a theoretical difficulty pertaining to money, namely that a general rise in prices is impossible without a change in the ratio be- tween the quantity of money and its demand, we may assume that together with the boost in wages a corresponding reduction in the demand for money takes place through a reduction in cash holdings (e.g., as a result of additional paydays). 26 unhampered market order, becomes a permanent institu- tion in interventionism. As government did not mean to create such a condition, it must intervene again. It forces employers either to rein- state the unemployed workers and pay the fixed rate, or to pay taxes that compensate the unemployed. Such a burden consumes the owners' income, or at least reduces it greatly. It is even conceivable that the entrepreneurs' and owners' income no longer can carry this burden, but that it must be paid out of capital. But if nonlabor income is consumed by such burdens we realize that it must lead to capital con- sumption. Capitalists and entrepreneurs, too, want to con- sume and live even when they are earning no incomes. They will consume capital. Therefore, it is unsuitable and illogical to deprive entrepreneurs, capitalists, and land owners of their incomes and leave control over the means of produc- tion in their hands. Obviously, the consumption of capital in the end reduces wage rates. If the market wage structure is unacceptable the whole private property order must b
Node: 28506, Score: 0.0115007147415269, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0157.txt, Content: eneral wage boost has given the workers a share of entre- preneurial profits and capital income. The workers' real raise is visible in that prices do not rise by the full amount of the wage boost because of the entrepreneurs' and capital- ists' cutback in consumption. That is, the rise in consumer prices is less than that of wages. But it is well known that even if all property income were divided among the work- ers, their individual incomes would rise very little, which should dispel any illusion about such a reduction in prop- erty income. But if we were to assume that the wage boost and rise in prices should allocate a large part, if not all, of the real income of entrepreneurs and capitalists to workers, we must bear in mind that the former want to live and will therefore consume their capital for lack of entrepreneurial income. Elimination of capital income through coercive wage boosts thus merely leads to capital consumption, and thereby to continuous reduction in national income. (By the way, every attempt at abolishing capital income must have the same consequence unless it is achieved through all- round nationalization of production and consumption.) If again government seeks to avoid these undesirable effects, no alternative is left, from the etatist point of view, but to seize control over the means of production from the owners. Our discussion applies only to those price controls that endeavor to set prices differing from those of the un- hampered market. If the controls should seek to undercut monopolistic prices, the consequences are quite differ- ent. Government then may effectively intervene anywhere 2. We are ignoring the monetary forces' exerting their influence on prices. 149  in the range between the higher monopolistic price and the lower competitive price. Under certain conditions price con- trols may deprive a monopolist of specific monopolistic gains. Let us assume, for instance, that in an isolated econ- omy a sugar cartel is holding sugar