Node: 28349, Score: -0.0337288247744301, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0000.txt, Content: NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 3 3433 07717757 8 A  The New York Public Library BETOR ATION AND TILDIEN FOUNDATIONS JLE 78-1356 [3]  A CRITIQUE OF INTERVENTIONISM  A CRITIQUE OF INTERVENTIONISM LUDWIG von MISES A RLINGTON HOUSE · PUBLISHERS NEW ROCHELLE, NEW YORK 10801  The New York Public Library ATOR HỢPICH AND TILOBNI FOUNDATIONS Originally published in 1929 as Kritik des Interventionismus and republished in 1976 under the same title and incorporating the essay "Nationalization of Credit?" Copyright C 1929 and 1976 by Gustav Fischer Verlag. "Nationalization of Credit?" first appeared in the Journal of National Economics, vol. I, 1930 (copyright Springer- Verlag, Wien). Translation copyright C 1977 by Margit von Mises All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced without written permission from the publisher except by a reviewer who may quote brief passages in connection with a review. Manufactured in the United States of America Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data Von Mises, Ludwig, 1881-1973. A critique of interventionism. Translation of Kritik des Interventionismus. 1. Austrian school of economics. 2. Economics. I. Title HB98. V6313 1977 330.15'7 77-24186 ISBN 0-87000-382-8 CONTENTS FOREWORD, Margit von Mises 7 INTRODUCTION, Hans F. Sennholz 9 PREFACE 13 INTERVENTIONISM 15 1. Interventionism as an Economic System. 2. The Nature of Intervention. 3. Restrictions of Production. 4. Interference with Prices. 5. Destruction Resulting from Intervention. 6. The Doctrine of Interventionism. 7. The Historical and Practical Arguments for Interventionism. 8. Recent Writings on the Problems of Interventionism. THE HAMPERED MARKET ECONOMY 57 1. The Prevailing Doctrine of the Hampered Market Economy. 2. The Thesis of Schmalenbach. SOCIAL LIBERALISM 71 1. Introduction. 2. Socialism of the Chair. 3. Liberalism and Social Liberalism. 4. Control or Economic Law? 5. The Methodenstreit. 6. The Economic Doctrines of Social Liberalism. 7. The Concept and Cris
Node: 28401, Score: -0.0312051949638987, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0052.txt, Content: over economics." In social journals and economic literature, the discussion of the problems of the eight-hour day, and the intensity of labor reveals a slow but steady progress in economic under- standing. Even writers who do not hide their bias for inter- ventionism, admit the cogency of the most important argu- ments against interventionism. Seldom do we still meet the blindness in a fundamental understanding of such matters that characterized our literature before the war. Surely, the supremacy of the interventionist school has not yet been overthrown. Of Schmoller's state socialism and etatism and of Marx's egalitarian socialism and communism only the names have survived in political life; the socialist ideal itself has ceased to exert a direct political effect. Its fol- lowers, even those who were willing to shed blood to bring it about a few years ago, have now postponed it or given up entirely. But interventionism as Schmoller and Marx advo- cated it-Schmoller, as a foe of all "theory," quite unhesitat- ingly; Marx with bad conscience about its insoluble contra- diction to all his theories-now dominates the climate of opinion. We need not examine here whether the political condi- tions are ripe for the German people and other leading nations to turn away from interventionistic policies. An im- 54 55  THE HAMPERED MARKET ECONOMY 1. The Prevailing Doctrine of the Hampered Market Economy With a few exceptions contemporary commentators on economic problems are advocating economic intervention. This unanimity does not necessarily mean that they approve of interventionistic measures by government or other coer- cive powers. Authors of economics books, essays, articles, and political platforms demand interventionistic measures before they are taken, but once they have been imposed no one likes them. Then everyone-usually even the authori- ties responsible for them-call them insufficient and unsat- isfactory. Generally the demand then arises for the replace- ment of
Node: 28463, Score: -0.0309065686632722, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0114.txt, Content: r more unit ing individuals to association. Society is division and asso- ciation of labor. In the final analysis, there is no conflict of interest between society and the individual, as everyone can pursue his interests more efficiently in society than in isola- tion. The sacrifices the individual makes to society are 8. See Dietzel, "Individualismus," in Handwörterbuch, 4th ed., ch. V, p. 408 et sen A. Pribram, Die Entstehung der individualistichen Sozialphilosophie [The develop- ment of individualistic social philosophy], Leipzig, 1912, p. 1 et seq. For a critique of this view, see L. von Wiese, "Dietzel's 'Individualism' " in Kölner Vierteljahrs- hefte für Sozialwissenschaften [Cologne quarterly for social sciences], Munich and Leipzig, vol. II, 1922, p. 54 et seq. 112 merely temporary, surrendering a small advantage in order to attain a greater one. This is the essence of the often cited doctrine of the harmony of interests. The etatistic and socialistic critique never understood the "preestablished harmony" of the free trade school from Smith to Bastiat. Its theological appearance is not essential for the doctrine. Utilitarian sociology seeks to explain the development of society since man's presumably hermitic ex- istence in prehistoric times, or since his less developed cooperation in known history. It seeks to explain man's so- cial ties throughout history, and hopefully his future prog- ress toward association, from principles that are active in each individual. In accordance with teleological considera- tions, association is thought to be "good" and laudable. A faithful soul seeking an understanding of social develop- ment views the principle of association as a wise arrange- ment of God. It could not be different: goodness, namely, the division of labor now and in the future, emanates from human nature. It follows that the division of labor is a good means in view of its good results, even if from different points of view it should be viewed as evil, wea
Node: 28441, Score: -0.0283684091893636, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0092.txt, Content: es the private property and the public property orders. He mocked all attempts at a third order as "bourgeois." The position of etatism is different. From the start it did not seek to under- stand, but to judge. It brought along preconceived ethical opinions: "It shall be!" and "It shall not be!" All things were chaotic as long as the state did not intervene. Only govern- ment intervention could put an end to the arbitrariness of self-seeking individuals. The idea that a social order could be based on a constitution under which the state would do nothing but protect private property in the means of pro- duction seemed utterly absurd to it. It only had ridicule for the "enemies of the state" who believed in such a "pre- established harmony." The etatists thought it utterly illogical to reject every government "intervention" in economic life, as this would lead to anarchism. If government intervention for the protection of private property is permissible, it is il- logical to reject all further intervention. The only reasonable economic order is a social order in which private property exists in name, but actually is abolished, the state holding the final reins over production and distribution. The state of affairs at the zenith of liberalism could come into exis- 93  tence only because the state neglected its duties and granted too much freedom to individuals. With such a point of view, the development of a catallactic system is unnecessary, in- deed illogical. The best example for the ideology of the welfare state is the balance of payments theory. A country may lose all its monetary metal if the state does not intervene, so runs the older, mercantilist version. The classical economists demon- strated, however, that the danger so dreaded by the mercan- tilists does not exist, because forces are at work that, in the long run, prevent the loss of money. This is why the quan- tity theory was always so objectionable to etatists. They fa- vored the Banking School. The vi
Node: 28379, Score: -0.0281232701483826, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0030.txt, Content: d law. Society can exist only 35  if buyer and seller observe justice and fairness. Government must intervene in order to avoid the evil that flows from an arbitrary deviation from the "just price." This opinion pre- vailed in all remarks on social life until the eighteenth cen- tury. It appeared for the last time in all its naiveté in the writings of the mercantilists. The anticapitalist writers are emphasizing that classical economics served the "interests" of the "bourgeoisie," which allegedly explains its own success, and led the bour- geois class to its successes. Surely, no one can doubt that the freedom achieved by classical liberalism paved the way for the incredible development of productive forces during the last century. But it is a sad mistake to believe that by oppos- ing intervention classical liberalism gained acceptance more easily. It faced the opposition of all those whom the feverish activity of government granted protection, favors, and privi- leges. The fact that classical liberalism nevertheless could prevail was due to its intellectual victory, which check- mated the defenders of privilege. It was not new that the victims of privilege favored their abolition. But it was new that the attack on the system of privilege was so successful, which must be credited exclusively to the intellectual victory of classical liberalism. Classical liberalism was victorious with economics and through it. No other economic ideology can be reconciled with the science of catallactics. During the 1820s and 1830s, an attempt was made in England to use economics for dem- onstrating that the capitalist order does not function satis- factorily, and that it is unjust. From this Karl Marx then created his "scientific" socialism. But even if these writers had succeeded in proving their case against capitalism, they would have had to prove further that another social order, like socialism, is better than capitalism. This they were not able to do; they could not even prove
Node: 28374, Score: -0.0280098450953746, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0025.txt, Content: neurs is scorned as a hireling of injurious special inter- ests or, at best, is treated with silent contempt. Even in a discussion of the methods of interventionism, he who does not want to jeopardize his reputation and, above all, his ca- reer must be very careful. One can easily fall under the sus- picion of serving "capital." Anyone using economic argu- ments cannot escape this suspicion. To be sure, public opinion is not mistaken if it scents cor- ruption everywhere in the interventionist state. The corrup- tibility of the politicians, representatives, and officials is the very foundation that carries the system. Without it the sys- tem would disintegrate or be replaced with socialism or cap- italism. Classical liberalism regarded those laws best that afforded least discretionary power to executive authorities, 31  thus avoiding arbitrariness and abuse. The modern state seeks to expand its discretionary power-everything is to be left to the discretion of officials. We cannot here set forth the impact of corruption on pub- lic morals. Naturally, neither the bribers nor the bribed real- ize that their behavior tends to preserve the system which public opinion and they themselves believe to be the right one. In violating the law they are conscious of impairing the public weal. But by constantly violating criminal laws and moral decrees they finally lose the ability to distinguish be- tween right and wrong, good and bad. If finally few eco- nomic goods can be produced or sold without violating some regulation, it becomes an unfortunate accompaniment of "life" to sin against law and morality. And those individ- uals who wish it were different are derided as "theorists." The merchant who began by violating foreign exchange con- trols, import and export restrictions, price ceilings, et cetera, easily proceeds to defraud his partner. The decay of busi- ness morals, which is called "inflation effect," is the inevi- table concomitant of the regulations that were imposed o
Node: 28431, Score: -0.02759582729586, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0082.txt, Content: community of liberals still needs to be created and brought along." 27 Thus, the picture of what fully developed capitalism can achieve is incomplete at best, even if we reflect upon British society at the zenith of capitalism when liberalism was leading the way. It is popular today to blame capitalism for anything that displeases. Indeed, who is still aware of what he would have to forego if there were no "capitalism"? When great dreams do not come true, capitalism is charged imme- diately. This may be a proper procedure for party politics, but in scientific discussion it should be avoided. 26. Ibid. 27. Ibid., p. 16. 84 4. Control or Economic Law? Among the many mistakes to which the Socialists of the Chair of all varieties tenaciously cling is their faith in lim- ited government interventions in economic life. They are convinced that, except for syndicalism, there are three con- ceivable possibilities of control over the means of produc- tion in a society based on the division of labor. Besides public property and private property, there is the third possibility of private property that is subject to government regulation. The possibility and conceivability of this third system will be discussed in this section on the antithesis of "control or economic law." For the Socialists of the Chair this question had special political significance. They could maintain their claim of an impartial middle position between the Manchester School and communism only if they favored a social ideal that ap- parently was "equally distant" from the ideals of the two competing movements. They rejected as irrelevant for their ideals all criticism leveled at the socialistic ideal. They could do so as long as they ignored the fact that limited interven- tions in the private property order fail to achieve their objec- tives, and that the desired etatist objectives can be achieved only when private property exists in name only and a central authority regulates all production. Moeller obser
Node: 28486, Score: -0.0243402426814991, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0137.txt, Content: of socialism. 2. Valuation of social conditions and adoption of a rational ideal necessarily correspond to the recogni- tion of moral freedom, the freedom to strive for a realm of objectives with one's own strength, and the faith in the possibility of its realization. 3. Ideal and freedom inevitably give birth to an aspi- ration for realizing the ideal, a movement, born in freedom, from the historically given to the rationally desired. But every confession of socialism means a renunciation of motive power, that is, from the view- point of the individual it means: obligation, sacri- fice, limitation of the particular. 29 There can be only one reason why Sombart chooses this detour, instead of retaining the proven and only viable defi- nition of socialism: his aversion toward dealing with the genuine economic problems of socialism, an aversion that permeates his whole work and constitutes its greatest defi- ciency. The fact that Sombart never raises the question of whether or not a socialistic order is possible and realizable is even more serious than his renunciation of a clear defini- 29. Emphasis added. Ibid., vol. I, p. 12 et seq. 131  tion of socialism. For only this question can provide the foundation for an understanding of socialism and the social- istic movement. But Sombart does not want to deal with socialism in gen- eral; he wants to analyze proletarian socialism, or Marxism. However, his definition is unsatisfactory even for proletar- ian socialism which, according to Sombart, is merely an intellectual sediment of the modern so- cial movement as I have defined it since the first edi- tion of this book. Socialism and social movement are . . . the realization of that future social order that is adjusted to the interests of the proletariat, or the at- tempt at its realization. Socialism seeks its realiza- tion in the world of thought, the socialistic move- ment in the world of reality. All theoretical efforts toward revealing the desired goal to the aspirin
Node: 28455, Score: -0.0227020249222718, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0106.txt, Content: evelopment of theoretical knowledge in recent decades. Wherever they sought to deal with it critically, they could not get beyond the old errors already fully dealt with by Menger and Böhm- Bawerk. But all this has not weakened the socialistic and syndical- istic ideology. Today, it is swaying the minds of people more than ever before. The great political and economic events in recent years are seen almost exclusively from its viewpoint, though of course it has failed here also. What Cassau said about the ideology of proletarian socialism ap- plies also to that of Socialism of the Chair: All experiences of the last decade "passed by the ideology without influenc- ing it. Never did it have more opportunities for expansion, and scarcely ever has it been as sterile as during the debates on socialization."56 The ideology is sterile, and yet it is reigning. Even in Great Britain and the United States, classi- 56. Cassau, op. cit., vol. I, p. 152. 104 105  cal liberalism is losing ground every day. To be sure, there are characteristic differences between the teachings of Ger- man etatism and Marxism on the one hand, and the new doctrine of salvation in the United States on the other. The phraseology of the Americans is more carefully worded than that of Schmoller, Held, or Brentano. But the Americans' as- pirations basically concur with the doctrines of the Socialists of the Chair. They also share the mistaken belief that they are upholding the private property order. ANTI-MARXISM' When, by and large, socialism and syndicalism are in a stagnate state, when we notice some retreating steps on the road to socialism are taken, when thought is given to a limi- tation of labor union power, the credit can be given neither to the scientific perception of economics nor the prevailing sociology. For but a few dozen individuals all over the globe are cognizant of economics, and no statesman or politician cares about it. The social ideology even of those political parties that call t
Node: 28353, Score: -0.0226051404790051, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0004.txt, Content: ttacks against mainstream economics." He neither defines nor de- scribes these attacks, which he repels with a four-line ges- ture of disgust after he announces them in a boldface title. With selfishness, ignornace, and malice "there is not much intellectual arguing that can be done" (p. 847). He devotes half a page to the "Chicago School Libertar- ianism" of men like Frank Knight, Henry C. Simons, Fried- rich Hayek, and Milton Friedman. And like the Socialists of the Chair, he merely labels pleas for individual freedom and the private property order as "provocative negations." His favorite target, Milton Friedman, is dispatched with an ugly joke: "If Milton Friedman had never existed, it would have been necessary to invent him" (p. 848). But the champions of all-round government ownership or control in the means of production are treated with utmost courtesy and respect. He devotes eight pages of text supple- mented by eight pages of appendix to "eminent," "compe- tent," and "eloquent" advocates of radical economics from Karl Marx to John G. Gurley. He quotes extensively from their writings without refuting any of their arguments. To Samuelson, as to the Socialists of the Chair, Karl Marx "was as much a philosopher, historian, sociologist, and revolu- tionist. And make no mistake. He was a learned man" (p. 855). In fact, Samuelson echoes Engels: "Marx was a genius the rest of us were talented at best" (p. 853). If this is the middle of the road, or "mainstream econom- ics," the future of the American private property system is overshadowed by the dark clouds of Marxian doctrine and policy. This is why Ludwig von Mises' Critique of Interven- tionism is as pertinent and timely today as it was half a cen- tury ago. HANS F. SENNHOLZ 10 11  PREFACE The fighting between nations and states, and domesti- cally between political parties, pressure groups, and cliques, so greatly occupies our attention that we tend to overlook the fact that all the fighting parties, in spite
Node: 28405, Score: -0.0223556840318726, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0056.txt, Content: o transfer the postulate of "equal conditions" from the rules of sport or from the arrangement of scientific and technological experiments to economic policy. In so- ciety, not only in the capitalist order, but in every conceiv- able social order, there is competition among individuals. The sociologists and economists of the eighteenth and nine- teenth centuries demonstrated how competition works in the social order that rests on private property in the means of production. This was an essential part of their critique of the interventionistic policies of the mercantilistic police and welfare state. Their investigations revealed how illogical and unsuitable interventionistic measures were. Pressing further they also learned that the economic order that corre- sponds best to man's economic goals is that built on private property. Surely the mercantilists wondered how the people would be provided for if government left them alone. The classical liberals answered that the competition of business- men will supply the markets with the economic goods needed by consumers. In general they couched their de- mand for elimination of intervention in these words: the freedom of competition must not be limited. With the slo- gan of "free competition" they demanded that the social function of private property not be hampered by govern- ment intervention. Thus the misunderstanding could arise that the essence of liberal programs was not private prop- erty, but "free competition." Social critics began to chase a nebulous phantom, "genuinely free competition," which was nothing more than a creature of an insufficient study of the problem and occupation with catchwords. 1 1. See the critique of such errors, Halm, Die Konkurrenz [Competition], Munich and Leipzig, 1929, especially p. 131 et seq. The apology for interventionism and the refutation of the critique of interventions by economic theory are taken much too lightly with the assertion, e.g., by Lampe, that this cri- tique is justi
Node: 28384, Score: -0.0219480079305938, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0035.txt, Content: specially since the beginning of the second decade of this century, this mix of university teaching and politics became objectionable. The public began to hold the official repre- sentatives of science in contempt, because they made it their task to confer the blessings of "science" on the party pro- grams of their friends. And the public would no longer tol- erate the nuisance that each political party appealed to its favorite judgment of "science," that is, to a university pro- fessor marching in its footsteps. When Max Weber and some of his friends demanded that "science" should re- nounce value judgments and the universities should not be misused for political and economic propaganda, they met with almost universal agreement. Among those writers who agreed with Max Weber, or at least did not dare contradict him, were several whose whole record stood in open contradiction to the principle of objec- tivity, and whose literary efforts were nothing but para- phrases of certain political programs. They interpreted "ab- sence of value judgment" in a peculiar way. Ludwig Pohle and Adolf Weber had touched upon the basic problems of interventionism in their discussions of the wage policies of labor associations. The followers of the labor-union doc- trines of Brentano and Webb were unable to raise any perti- nent objections. But the new postulate of "value-free science" seemed to rescue them from the embarrassment in which they found themselves. Now they could haughtily re- ject anything that did not suit them, on grounds that it did not square with the dignity of science to interfere with the squabbling of political parties. In good faith, Max Weber had presented the principle of Wertfreiheit for a resumption of scientific inquiries into the problems of social life. In- stead, it was used by the Historical-Realistic-Social School as protection from the critique of theoretical economics. Again and again, perhaps intentionally, some writers re- fuse to recognize the diffe
Node: 28404, Score: -0.0213605090264981, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0055.txt, Content: nomic policy simply to the spirit of the age surely expect very little from a scien- tific explanation of interventionism. The capitalist spirit is said to have been replaced by the spirit of the hampered economy. Capitalism has grown old and, therefore, must yield to the new. And this new is said to be the economy that is hampered by government and other intervention. Anyone who seriously believes that such statements can re- fute the conclusions of economics regarding the effects of import duties and price controls truly cannot be helped. Another popular doctrine works with the mistaken con- cept of "free competition." At first, some writers create an ideal of competition that is free and equal in conditions- like the postulates of natural science-and then they find that the private property order does not at all correspond to this ideal. But because realization of this postulate of "competition that is really free and equal in conditions" is believed to be the highest objective of economic policy, they suggest various reforms. In the name of the ideal, some are demanding a kind of socialism they call "liberal" because they apparently perceive the essence of liberalism in this ideal. And others are demanding various other interven- tionistic measures. But the economy is no prize contest in which the participants compete under the conditions of the 59  rules of the game. If it is to be determined which horse can run a certain distance in the shortest period of time, the con- ditions should be equal for all horses. However, are we to treat the economy like an efficiency test to determine which applicant under equal conditions can produce at lowest costs? Competition as a social phenomenon has nothing in common with competition in play. It is a terminological confusion to transfer the postulate of "equal conditions" from the rules of sport or from the arrangement of scientific and technological experiments to economic policy. In so- ciety, not only in the capitalist
Node: 28372, Score: -0.0211985326575964, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0023.txt, Content: ntervention- ism has been the gist of politics in all countries in Europe and America. The economic layman only observes that "interested par- ties" succeed again and again in escaping the strictures of law. The fact that the system functions poorly is blamed ex- clusively on the law that does not go far enough, and on cor- ruption that prevents its application. The very failure of interventionism reinforces the layman's conviction that pri- vate property must be controlled severely. The corruption of the regulatory bodies does not shake his blind confidence in the infallibility and perfection of the state; it merely fills him with moral aversion to entrepreneurs and capitalists. But the violation of law is not an evil that merely needs to be eradicated in order to create paradise on earth, an evil that flows from human weakness so difficult to uproot, as etatists so naively proclaim. If all interventionist laws were really to be observed they would soon lead to absurdity. All wheels would come to a halt because the strong arm of gov- ernment comes too close. Our contemporaries view the matter like this: farmers and milk dealers conspire to raise the price of milk. Then comes the state, the welfare state, to bring relief, pitting common interest against special interest, public economic view against private point of view. The state dissolves the "milk cartel," sets ceiling prices, and embarks upon criminal prosecution of the violators of its regulations. The fact that milk does not become as cheap as the consumers had wished is now blamed on the laws that are not strict enough, and on their enforcement that is not severe enough. It is not so easy to oppose the profit motive of pressure groups that are injurious to the public. The laws must there- fore be strengthened and enforced without consideration or mercy. In reality, the situation is quite different. If the price ceil- ings were really enforced, the delivery of milk and dairy products to the cities would soon
Node: 28462, Score: -0.0211066744898557, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0113.txt, Content: arxian social doctrine in Germany. 7. See B. H. Kelsen, Sozialismus und Staat [Socialism and state], 2nd ed., Leipzig, 1923. 111  The theological-metaphysical social doctrine explains and postulates society from a point of view that lies beyond hu- man experience. God, or "nature," or an objective value, want society in a certain form to reach a desired destiny. Man must follow this command. It is assumed that submis- sion to the social body imposes sacrifices on the individual. for which he will receive no compensation other than the awareness that he has acted well, and perhaps will be re- warded in another world. The theological doctrines and some metaphysical doctrines trust that providence will guide willing men on their proper paths, and force the recal- citrants through blessed men or institutions acting on behalf of the reigning God. Individualism opposes such a social doctrine. It demands to know from both the religious and the metaphysical posi- tions why the individual is to be sacrificed to society. The ensuing argument that touches the foundation of the theo- logical-metaphysical social philosophy, corresponds to the distinction so popular in Germany between the collectivistic (universalistic) social doctrine and the individualistic doc- trine.8 But it is a crucial mistake to believe that this classifi. cation has made room for all conceivable social doctrines. It has especially failed to affect modern social philosophy that was built on eighteenth century utilitarianism. The utilitarian social doctrine does not engage in meta- physics, but takes as its point of departure the established fact that all living beings affirm their will to live and grow The higher productivity of labor performed in division of Ja- bor, when compared with isolated action, is ever more unit ing individuals to association. Society is division and asso- ciation of labor. In the final analysis, there is no conflict of interest between society and the individual, as everyone can
Node: 28376, Score: -0.0209109147132653, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0027.txt, Content: prop- erty is useful to all, and that human society with its division of labor could not be organized in any other way, then it must be safeguarded so that it can serve its function in the best possible way. We need not here discuss the confusion that must arise about all moral concepts if law and moral precepts disallow, or at least revile, something that must be preserved as the foundation of social life. And why should anything be prohibited in the expectation that the prohibi- tion will be largely circumvented? Anyone defending interventionism with such arguments is undoubtedly seriously deluded regarding the extent of the productivity loss caused by government interventions. Surely, the adaptability of the capitalist economy has ne- gated many obstacles placed in the way of entrepreneurial activity. We constantly observe that entrepreneurs are suc- ceeding in supplying the markets with more and better prod- ucts and services despite all difficulties put in their way by law and administration. But we cannot calculate how much better those products and services would be today, without expenditure of additional labor, if the hustle and bustle of government were not aiming (inadvertently, to be sure) at making things worse. We are thinking of the consequences of all trade restrictions on which there can be no differences of opinion. We are thinking of the obstructions to produc- tion improvements through the fight against cartels and trusts. We are thinking of the consequences of price con- trols. We are thinking of the artificial raising of wage rates through collective coercion, the denial of protection to all those willing to work, unemployment compensation, and, finally, the denial of the freedom to move from country to 33  country, all of which have made the unemployment of mil- lions of workers a permanent phenomenon. Etatists and socialists are calling the great crisis from which the world economy has been suffering since the end of the World War the crisis
Node: 28351, Score: -0.0208622230771498, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0002.txt, Content: F. Sennholz, whom I asked to do the transla- tion, for his brilliant work. He has done a remarkable job of transposing the lengthy, complicated sentences-so typical of the German language of the 1920s-into fluent and ele- gant English. I am proud to see my husband's work pre- sented in this form to a new audience, and I hope it will be read widely. MARGIT VON MISES 7  INTRODUCTION We may grow in knowledge of truth, but its great princi- ples are forever the same. The economic principles that Lud- wig von Mises expounded in these six essays during the 1920s have endured the test of time, being as valid today as they were in the past. Surely, the names and places have changed, but the inescapable interdependence of market phenomena is the same today, during the 1970s, as it was during the 1920s, and as valid for present-day Americans as it was for the Germans of the Weimar Republic. And yet, most social scientists today are as ignorant of this interdependence of economic phenomena as they were during the 1920s. They are statists, or as Professor Mises preferred to call them, "etatists," who are calling upon gov- ernment to assume ever more responsibilities for the eco- nomic well-being of its citizens. No matter what modern economists have written about the general validity of eco- nomic laws, the statists prefer their ethical judgments over economic principles, and political power over voluntary cooperation. Without government control and regulation, central planning and authority, they are convinced, eco- nomic life would be brutal and chaotic. In this collection of essays Ludwig von Mises emphasizes again and again that society must choose between two sys- tems of social organization: either it can create a social order that is built on private property in the means of production, or it can establish a command system in which government owns or manages all production and distribution. There is no logical third system of a private property order subject to governmen
Node: 28393, Score: -0.020172892573022, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0044.txt, Content: call this practice "unjust," an interventionist charge so naively and resent- fully made against monopolists. However, we need not be concerned with the ethical justification of intervention. From a scientific point of view, we merely must observe that there is room for government intervention in the case of monopoly. But there is also a differential treatment of the various classes of buyers that runs counter to the interests of mo- nopolies. This may be the case where the monopoly is man- aged as a part of a larger enterprise in which the monopoly serves objectives other than greatest profitability. Let us disregard all cases in which the monopolist either is a com- pulsory association or acts under its influence, seeking to achieve certain national, military, or social objectives. Freight rates, for instance, may be set to accommodate for- eign trade, or municipal services may be priced according to customers' income. In all such cases the interventionists approve of the differentiation. To us, only those cases are significant in which the monopolist resorts to differentia- tion that runs counter to his profit interests. It may be that he takes into consideration the interests of his other enter- prises that are more important to him. Or he wants to disad- vantage a buyer for personal reasons, or force him to do or not to do something. In the United States, railroads have favored individual shippers through concessions of lower freight rates, which often forced their competitors to close their businesses or sell them at depressed prices. The public generally censured such practices because they promoted industrial concentration and formation of monopolies. Pub- lic opinion viewed the disappearance of competition in in- dividual industries with great alarm. It failed to recognize that competition takes place among producers and sellers not only within each individual branch of production, but also between all related goods, and in the final analysis, between all
Node: 28429, Score: -0.0201325819538112, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0080.txt, Content: an "enemy of the state." Both Herkner and Wiese21 expressly emphasize that liber- alism has nothing to do with capitalism. Passow tried to show that the ambiguous terms "capitalism," "capitalistic economic order," et cetera, are political slogans that, with but few exceptions, are not used objectively to classify and comprehend the facts of economic life. Instead, they are used to criticize, accuse, and condemn phenomena that are more or less misunderstood.22 If this position is taken, it is clear that he who appreciates liberalism, no matter how he defines it, seeks to protect it from labels that are felt to be derogatory, defamatory, and abusive. However, if we agree with Passow's observation that for most writers who have given the term "capitalism" a definite meaning, its essence is the development and expansion of larger enterprises,23 we must admit that liberalism and capitalism are closely re- lated. It was liberalism that created the ideological condi- tions that gave rise to modern large-scale industrial produc- tion. If we should use the term capitalism to identify an economic method that arranges economic activity according to capital calculation,24 we must come to the same conclu- sion. But no matter how we define capitalism, the develop- ment of capitalistic methods of production was and is possi- ble only within the framework of a social order built on private property in the means of production. Therefore, we cannot agree with Wiese's contention that the essence of liberalism was obscured by "its historical coincidence with large-scale capitalism." 25 That which makes capitalism appear "unliberal," accord- ing to Wiese, is "its insensitivity toward suffering, the bru- 21. See Herkner, vol. I, p. 38; Wiese, "Gibt es noch Liberalismus?" [Is there still liberalism?], vol. I, p. 22. 22. See Passow, Kapitalismus [Capitalism], Jena, 1918, p. 1 et seq. 23. Ibid., p. 132 et seq. 24. See my Gemeinwirtschaft, Jena, 1922, p. 110 et seq. [English-language edition
Node: 28380, Score: -0.0199787510670261, Chunk File: mises_interventionism/chunks/mises_interventionism_0031.txt, Content: ving their case against capitalism, they would have had to prove further that another social order, like socialism, is better than capitalism. This they were not able to do; they could not even prove that a social order could actually be built on public property in the means of production. By merely rejecting and ostracizing any discus- sion of the problems of socialism as "utopian" they ob- viously did not solve anything. Eighteenth century writers then discovered what had al- ready been published by earlier writers on money and prices. They discovered the science of economics which re- placed the collection of moral maxims, the manuals of police regulations, and the aphoristic remarks on their successes and failures. They learned that prices are not set arbitrarily, but are determined within narrow limits by the market situation, and that all practical problems can be accurately analyzed. They recognized that the laws of the market draw entrepreneurs and owners of the means of production into the service of consumers, and that their economic actions do not result from arbitrariness, but from the necessary ad- justment to given conditions. These facts alone gave life to a science of economics and a system of catallactics. Where the earlier writers saw only arbitrariness and coincidence, the classical economists saw necessity and regularity. In fact, they substituted science and system for debates on police regulations. The classical economists were not yet fully aware that the private property order alone offers the foundation for a so- ciety based on division of labor, and that the public prop- erty system is unworkable. Influenced by mercantilist thought, they contrasted productivity with profitability, which gave rise to the question of whether or not the social- ist order is preferable to the capitalist order. But they clearly understood that, except for syndicalism which they did not see, the only alternatives are capitalism and social- ism, and that "interven