Node: 26260, Score: 0.0519180261629472, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0096.txt, Content: the time, whereas you [the Prussians] are always ready to fire." (3) Against the massed Austrian formations protected by few skirmishers, its effects were terrible. Åt the battle of Nachod the Prussian advanced guard, six and a half battalions, held back twenty-one Austrian battalions for  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 108 RET RISE OF PRUSSIA two hours and inflicted five times their own losses on them. At Trautenau it was much the same, for though the Austrians were successful they lost four times as many men as the Prussians. Again at Königgrätz, though for seventeen hours Benedek fought on the defensive with odds of five to three in his favour, yet the Austrians lost 18,000 killed and wounded to the Prussian 9,000. Of Trautenau Friedjung writes : " Seldom in military history has it happened that combatants who lost three or four times as heavily as their adversaries were yet victorious. This alone shows that it would have been impossible to go on fighting with the muzzle-loader against the needle gun; in victory as well as in defeat the Austrians always lost three or four times as many men as the Prussians, while their rapidity of fire was by the same proportion less." (4) Though the needle gun is quite sufficient to account for the failure of the Austrian cavalry, it must not be overlooked that against infantry its terrible effects were largely due to the excellence of the Prussian musketry training and minor tactics. Nevertheless in combined tactics the Prussians had much to learn. Their General Staff had studied the 1859 campaign with respect to infantry, but they had failed to take any notice whatever of the French artillery tactics. " The theory of making use of forces piece by piece, until the last intact reserve is reached [the methodical attack], with all its con- sequences, amongst which may be especially noted the splitting up of the artillery and the employment of the artillery mass for the first time in the final act of decision, was considered as the o
Node: 26278, Score: 0.0503741299581623, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0114.txt, Content: eir lesson, but from this campaign the French learnt nothing. Sedan was the greatest artillery battle of the war ; all the French attacks were brought to a standstill by gun fire, and most of them at 2,000 yards' distance, that is, outside effective rifle fire. At this battle " A French officer who was taken prisoner described the German fire as 'five kilometers of artillery.' " (16) Cavalry steadily lost ground. Only one successful cavalry charge was made, namely, that of Bredow's brigade at Vionville. The French were, however, short of ammunition, yet in spite of this Bredow's losses were 33 per cent., and in some regiments 50 per cent. At 125 Sedan, General Gallifet attempted a most gallant charge with his brigade of " Chasseurs d'Afrique ; " but a single volley shattered it. Archibald Forbes gives a graphic and, I think, truthful picture of this exploit. He writes : " Not a needle-gun gave fire as the splendid horsemen crashed down the gentle slope with the velocity of an avalanche. I have seen not a few cavalry charges, but I never saw a finer one. . . . It was destined to a sudden arrestment, and that without the ceremony of the trumpets sounding the ' halt.' The horsemen and the footmen might have seen the colour of each other's moustaches . . . when along the line of the latter there flashed out a sudden simultaneous streak of fire. Like thunder claps sounding over the din of a hurricane, rose the measured crash of the battery guns, and then a cloud of white smoke drifted away towards the chasseurs, enveloping them for the moment from one's sight. When it blew away there was visible a line of bright uniforms and grey horses struggling prostrate among the potato drills, or lying still in death. So thorough a destruc- tion by what may be called a single volley probably the oldest soldier now alive never witnessed." (17) Defensive field works were a novelty to the Germans ; but, on account of the tremendous power they added to the defence, they were not long in
Node: 26276, Score: 0.0426969151803311, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0112.txt, Content: e same ; but at Gravelotte it is RETO CONSOLIDATION OF GERMANY 123 otherwise : The German Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Corps held the French front whilst the French right wing was attacked in flank by the Guard and Twelfth Corps with the Tenth in reserve ; this attack being prepared by the fire of massed artillery. Sedan, in its turn, was essentially an artillery battle, a battle in which the German infantry played but a subordinate part. On this question of artillery a German writer says : " It was just the same later on, as regards the Republican levies, whenever the terrain in any way enabled artillery to be used. On every occasion when the infantry fight with its successive efforts was predominantly employed, as at Spicheren, Fifth Corps at Wörth, Third Corps at Vionville, Eighth and Ninth Corps at Gravelotte, the result was the complete dissolution of the body of troops engaged, divisions as well as corps, and extraordinary losses." (10) The reason for this failure in the methodical attack, exept when purely a holding operation, was that fronts had become inviolable, and, as Colin says, " the Germans never succeeded in taking a position by a frontal attack, and still less so the French." (11) So does Boguslawski indirectly say the same thing when he writes : " In the greatest battles of the war, those of Gravelotte and Sedan, the turning tactics came prominently forward "(12) that is, they are by far the more important. As regards the infantry soldier there was little to choose between the courage of French or German. Psychologically, the Frenchman develops his fighting qualities better in attack than in defence, and the German the other way round. Prince Hohenlohe asserts that " the German infantry is the most perfect that has yet been seen, or that can be imagined." (13) Hönig more honestly says that when they lost their officers they lost their heads; and Meckel that the German dislikes dispersion, " he is confused by disorder, and by the withdrawal of his accu
Node: 26261, Score: 0.0424520425094219, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0097.txt, Content: on- sequences, amongst which may be especially noted the splitting up of the artillery and the employment of the artillery mass for the first time in the final act of decision, was considered as the only valid one and as being alone suited to the nineteenth century." (5) At Nachod the Prussians fought almost entirely without artillery, the guns being placed at the tail of the attacking corps. At Skalitz it was the same ; then the General Staff awoke to reality, a reality so well known to Frederick the Great and Napoleon. At Königgrätz the manœuvre battle replaced the methodical attack. To prepare the way the guns were brought forward 109 and massed, and under cover of their fire the infantry advanced. Yet after the war the old theory fought hard for its existence, and though the breech-loader had disturbed all previous calculations, as Colonel Maude says : "No one stopped to inquire what would have happened had both sides been armed with similar weapons. Everyone put down the comparative immunity the Prussian Infantry had enjoyed to the fact that they fought as skirmishers-and not to the accident that they were able to load lying down." (6) DECAY OF THE BRITISH ARMY In 1864, when Prussia invaded Holstein, England could do nothing. By treaty she was bound to support the Danes ; but this was impossible, for her military forces, though not insignificant, were incapable of taking the field. In 1865 her Regular Army numbered 184,768, of which 66,130 were at home, supported by a Militia of 138,727 and a Volunteer army of 178,963 ; but efficiency had sunk almost to zero. The infantry were untrained, the army reserve numbered only 2,081 and was not liable for foreign service. Of the cavalry, Sir Henry Havelock writes : " We have just succeeded in knocking on the head and virtually abolishing for all good effect the small modicum of rifle instruction which had with infinite labour and fight against prejudice been intro- duced into our partially rifle-armed cavalry . . . pro-
Node: 26319, Score: 0.0409586655820585, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0155.txt, Content: war of entrenchments. The spade will be as indispensable to a soldier as his rifle. ... All wars will of necessity partake of the character of siege operations . . . soldiers may fight as they please ; the ultimate decision is in the hand of famine. . .. Unless you have a supreme navy, it is not worth while having one at all, and a navy that is not supreme is only a hostage in the hands of the Power whose fleet is supreme." He realized that in a war between the Triple and the Dual Alliances " there would be ten millions of men under arms," and that battle frontages would become so enormous that command would be impossible. That battles would grow longer and longer in duration, and more and more costly, costing at least £4,000,000 a day should the five nations of the two Alliances declare war on each other. Cavalry he considered useless, the day of the bayonet past and gone, and artillery the predominant arm. The only soldier of note who troubled himself to criticise this book, one of the most remarkable ever written on war, was the veteran-General Dragomiroff. He condemned it because it failed to prove that the bayonet was still supreme. RET CHAPTER IX THE LAST OF THE WARS OF EXPANSION, 1899-1905 The South African War, 1899-1902. Lessons of the War. The Russo-Japanese War, 1904-1905. Outline of the War. Tactics of the War. THE SOUTH AFRICAN WAR, 1899-1902 WHILST European nations were wrangling this way and that, and whilst Russia, that pseudo-European empire, was slowly and irresistibly moving towards the rising sun, Great Britain strove to maintain the status quo in the East. Anxiously she watched her vast Indian possessions which under the pressure of industrial development were beginning to become heated with self-consciousness. Then a new empire began to take form. Far distant, in the southern extremity of Africa, one man, Cecil Rhodes, the Clive of his age, a man who as a statesman had sprung into prominence during the Bechuanaland annexation of 1884, dreamt o
Node: 26275, Score: 0.0401587691026524, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0111.txt, Content: Belfort. Paris has for centuries been the idol of France. In 1870, as to-day, it was not the political centre only but the greatest road and railway centre in the country. He who holds Paris, it has been said, holds France. Paris was inhabited by 2,000,000 civilians and defended by 400,000 armed men ; yet, on September 19, when the investment began, the German besieging force num- bered but 200,000 rising to 240,000. At Versailles, "There was the King's staff, with princes innumerable ; and there was the Crown Prince's staff, with ever so many more princes. . . . There was the Casino, there were the cafés .. . . "(9) In the distance could be seen the Mamelon of Montmartre, the towers of Notre-Dame, the Pantheon, the domes and spires and the Arc de Triomphe. Within the city was General Trochu, governor and commander of the garrison, Gambetta having escaped in a balloon on October 10. On October 31 a desperate sortie was made at Le Bouget, only to be beaten back. On December 17, the German bombardment was opened, in which much damage was done to the fortifications and still more to the nerves of the civil population. On January 28, 1871, an armistice was signed, and the following day, Paris, for two hundred years the centre of European politics, capitulated and Berlin for a while took her place. THE TACTICS OF 1870-71. Turning now to the art of war as experimented with during this period. On the part of the German Army we see a rapid progression from the methodical fight, as laid down in the text-books, to the manœuvre battle as de- manded by ever-increasing artillery power. At Spicheren, owing to the fact that reinforcements arrived gradu- ally, and that on the whole the terrain was unsuited to artillery, the attack was pushed in stages. At Colomby- Borny it was much the same ; but at Gravelotte it is RETO CONSOLIDATION OF GERMANY 123 otherwise : The German Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Corps held the French front whilst the French right wing was attacked in flank by th
Node: 26345, Score: 0.0398940131992744, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0181.txt, Content: , whilst the French did not-they were too intel- ligent. (6) Such were the theories propounded between 1905 and the outbreak of the World War ; and of the two armies it was certainly the German which had learnt most from the Manchurian struggle. Both sides, however, missed the main lesson : The preponderance of the pro- jectile, bullet or shell, on the defensive, and its logical consequence-field entrenchments. Neither could see that on account of the bullet a war between millions instead of hundreds of thousands of men must become a war of entrenchments, and that a war of entrenchments must result in an enormous increase of artillery and of shell ammunition. A French writer says : 189 " In a war between France and Germany we do not anticipate a battle of such a nature [i.e., an entrenched battle]. The fortified places are already quite numerous, and an army that would shut itself up in a permanent defensive position would be inviting destruction. "The defence will always be only temporary and consequently will be made in a position hastily established, which the enemy will have to take quickly otherwise the motives which imposed a temporary defence will have soon ceased and the force on the defensive will pass to the offensive. " Battles in entrenched camps as occurred at Plevna or Mukden will never take place in a war with the French army."(?) This forecast should be compared with M. Bloch's picture given at the end of Chapter VIII. It is also of interest to compare with it the following outline of how the French looked upon the next great European conflict : " The war will be short and one of rapid movements, where manœuvre will play the predominant part ; it will be a war of movement. The battle will be primarily a struggle between two infantries, when victory will rest with the large battalions; the army must be an army of personnel and not of matériel. The artillery will only be an accessory arm, and with only one task-to support the infantry attack. For this
Node: 26246, Score: 0.039305067851532, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0082.txt, Content: s adminis- trative base of operations-its food supply. This stupendous project was put into force on May 5, 1864. Rapidly Grant moved forward, and battle after battle took place in Virginia-in the Wilderness, at Spottsylvania, North Anna, Totopotomoy and Cold Harbour, the last being fought on June 3. With con- sumate skill Lee defended himself ; then, on June 15, Grant, with an audacity seldom equalled, swung across his enemy's front, bridged the James river and lay siege to Petersburg. Meanwhile Sherman moved forward, entered Atlanta on September 2, carried out a campaign against General Hood, marched through Georgia and occupied Savannah on December 21. Grant, having been held up before Petersburg during the autumn and winter of 1864, in the spring of the 95 following year, as Sherman was approaching from the south, determined to move south of Petersburg and so prevent Lee from joining up with the forces opposing Sherman. This brought about the withdrawal of Lee and, on April 9, 1865, the surrender of his army at Appo- mattox Court House. Such was the general strategy of the campaign, a vast encircling movement, and the eventual attrition physical, moral and economic of the entire Confederacy, a condi- tion such as we do not meet with again until 1918. THE TACTICS OF THE WAR Tactically this war is an interesting one. Fighting opened much as it had done in the wars which followed the French Revolution, the Federals attempting to imitate regular soldiers and the Confederates naturally taking to a loose order of fighting. Throughout the war the rifle proved the dominant factor, the bayonet was little used and assaults proved increasingly costly. After Shiloh practically every battlefield was entrenched, and in the later stages of the war in Virginia field defences assumed an aspect similar to that seen fifty years later in north-eastern France. Thus did the defensive grow in& strength. Colonel Lyman writes : " Put a man in a hole and a good battery on a hill behind h
Node: 26234, Score: 0.0392812172131133, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0070.txt, Content: ckness consistent with order by the example of the dashing Zouave . . . and by the natural intelligence of the French recruit ; "(23) and Moltke says : " The French distinguished themselves by tactical skill, good use of ground, and above all by a vigorous offen- sive," (24) which, in the circumstances, was undoubtedly correct, seeing that the Austrians were utterly lacking in energy and initiative. While the French, since the close of the Napoleonic wars, had occupied themselves little with the science of tactics, and had cultivated a high sense of leadership in Algeria, the Austrians fought their battles in accordance >with the rules of the methodical fight as recommended in German military literature. According to this school of thought the firing line was to be gradually nourished until the decision arose and an assault could be made. " But," as one critic truly says, " this moment never arrives, because the ' nourishing' the fight causes new 83 brigades to be brought up from the reserves, and the latter consequently dwindled so, that in spite of all the original superiority, nothing remained at the end to deliver the decisive blow with." (25) This writer further adds that the French tactics " were neither entangled in theories, nor were they cleared up by definite maxims ; it was simply the natural emanation of their military skill which had been greatly increased by experience."(26) In short, the soldier will fight better left to himself than when trained under obsolete dogmas. Out-of-date theories have consistently proved the ruin of armies.  RETU FIRST OF MODERN WARS CHAPTER IV THE FIRST OF THE MODERN WARS, 1861-1865 The Origins and Nature of the American Civil War. The Grand-Strategy of the War. The Strategy of the War. The Tactics of the War. Military Inventions. Influences of the War on European Armies. THE ORIGINS AND NATURE OF THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR. BARELY had the thunder of the guns died down at Solferino than the war clouds gathered in the West ; and
Node: 26334, Score: 0.0386935035700027, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0170.txt, Content: true reason for it, which was superiority of artillery fire. Major J. M. Home, a British officer attached to the Japanese Army, was one of the first to realize this. He says : " The denser the formation of infantry when launched to the attack the better, pro- viding the attacking guns can keep down the fire of the defence until they have to cease fire for fear of hitting their own infantry." (12) The true reason, then, is to be found in the superiority of gun fire which compelled 179 the Russians to keep down in their trenches and so slacken their rifle fire, coupled with the fact that the closer an attacker can advance the more nervous the defender becomes. Guns and earthworks are the two main characteristics of this war, and not bayonets and bullets. For though bullet casualties still vastly out-numbered those caused by shell-fire, whenever the guns were well handled (and in this war the quick-firing field-gun was first used), victory in nine cases out of ten was assured. The gun in its turn forced the infantry to entrench, and the entrenched infantry forced the attacking guns to take cover behind sky-lines and make use of indirect laying, that is, of defiladed fire. Defiladed fire demanded telephone communications, trenches demanded wire entanglements, and for enfilading purposes machine-gun fire, whilst cavalry in battle faded out of the picture. There is not one cavalry action of importance recorded ; yet in fairness to this ancient arm it must not be over- looked that the Japanese were but poor horsemen and the Russian Cossacks a mounted canaille. It is true that the bayonet figured more conspicuously than it did in 1870-71. The reasons for this are to be found in the fact that the broken and hilly country often made small surprise attacks possible, and as the plain lands were frequently covered with kaoliang (millet), which grows to a height of from eight to twelve feet, small parties of men and sometimes entire firing lines encountered each other unawares.
Node: 26247, Score: 0.0384032118295847, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0083.txt, Content: d an aspect similar to that seen fifty years later in north-eastern France. Thus did the defensive grow in& strength. Colonel Lyman writes : " Put a man in a hole and a good battery on a hill behind him, and he will beat off three times his number, even if he is not a good soldier ; "(8) and Frank Wilkeson, a private soldier, says : " Before we left North Anna I discovered that our infantry were tired of charging earthworks. The ordin- ary enlisted men assert that one good man behind an earthwork was equal to three good men outside it." (7) Battles may be said to have been ultra modern in their character. Here is a graphic description by Colonel Lyman of a " 1914" battle fought in 1863 : " I had taken part in two great battles, and heard the bullets whistle both days, and yet I had scarcely seen a Rebel save killed, wounded or prisoner ! I remember how even line officers, who  96 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETU FIRST OF MODERN WARS were at the battle of Chancellorsville said : ' Why, we never saw any Rebels where we were ; only smoke and bushes, and lots of our men tumbling about'; and now I appreciate this most fully. The great art is to conceal men ; for the moment they show, bang, bang, go a dozen cannon, the artillerists only too pleased to get a fair mark. Your typical ' great white plain,' with long lines advancing and manœuvring, led on by generals in cocked hats and by bands of music, exist not for us. Here it is, as I said : ' Left face-prime-forward !'-and then wrang wr-rang, for three or four hours, or for all day, and the poor bleeding wounded streaming to the rear. That is a great battle in America." (8) " A fire fight between attacking and defending infantry almost always ended in the success of the latter." (9) Colonel Henderson once asked a veteran of the war " whether men could be got to advance shoulder to shoulder," and the answer he received was : "No, God don't make men who could stand that." (10) Battles grew more and more prolonged, in truth
Node: 26270, Score: 0.0378036328673613, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0106.txt, Content: ng peace training. This, the first major battle of the war is an interesting one. It was a chaotic jumble, and though the French could have massed a superior force they failed to do so. An account of the fighting was given to Archibald 117 Forbes, the well-known British war correspondent, by an eye-witness ; this man said : "The German is a man of method and of stubborn pith. Under this death hail the dressing seemed as systematic as on the parade at Düsseldorf, the touch of man to man as accurate. Ever as a shell crashed through a company, or the mitrailleuse opened a lane and strewed it with dead and wounded, the men flanking the gap closed in with grim coolness which impressed one with the conviction that men who could act so could not be beaten." (3) But this order soon melted away. The French under Frossard withdrew leaving the Germans in such inextricable confusion-the last fruits of the unlimited offensive-that no pursuit was pos- sible. After Weissenburg it had been much the same-there was no pursuit, and touch was lost with the French under MacMahon. Then, on the 6th, it was regained, the advanced guard of the Third Army coming up with the enemy at Wörth. Once again, directly the guns were heard there was a general stampede towards the scene of action. The French stood on the defence, and from time to time delivered a counter-attack. For example, at Elsasshausen : ". . . the fire became heavier, and a regiment of Turcos (Algerians), firing and yelling, came bounding through the smoke. This was too much for even Prussian grenadiers, and away they all went, followed by the Turcos."(4) Overwhelmed by a superiority of nearly three to one, with both flanks turned, the French yielded, and MacMahon losing some 40 per cent. of his men escaped under cover of darkness, all touch with him being lost, for once again the German attacks ended in complete confusion. The disasters at Spicheren and Wörth threw the Imperial Headquarters at Metz into a panic, and an order was
Node: 26381, Score: 0.0370002749468063, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0217.txt, Content: o them war meant killing, and, consequently, hunting in England was considered the highest form of military training. In 1907 Colonel F. N. Maude, a thinking soldier who had not hypnotized himself on the bayonet point, wrote : " It is Science and Science alone that supplies the power now daily driving us towards a cycle of wars . . . trade-hunger created by inventions is now impelling us towards armed collision."(1) Consequently, if science was driving the world towards war, science would of a certainty drive the world through this war, and therefore to science must the soldier turn in order to win it. Earlier still, in 1883, General von der Goltz had said : " The day will come when the present aspect of war will dissolve, when forms, customs and opinions will again be altered. Looking forward into the future, we seem to feel the coming of a time when the armed millions of the present will have played out their part. A new Alexander will arise who, with a small body of well-equipped skilled warriors, will drive the impotent hordes before him ; when, in their eagerness to multiply, they shall have overstepped all proper bounds, have lost cohesion, and, like the green-banner army of China, have become transformed into a numberless, but effete, host of Philistines." (2) 0  226 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET CHANGING NATURE OF WAR These words were read by soldiers but, like the seed on the rocky soil, they fell upon petrified minds. Alone in the army of Great Britain was quality rather than quantity aimed at. Musketry had been reduced to an art as high as that of archery during the Hundred Years War. But then there were great generals who understood war as a progressive art. Edward III was no traditionalist. he created a new tactics, whilst the British generals of 1914 copied an old. They, like the French, German, Russian and Austrian, were prepared for war. But what kind of war ? That was the question. TRADITIONAL WARFARE The war opened on sound, traditional lines. T
Node: 26344, Score: 0.0368947661486466, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0180.txt, Content: In their Infantry Regulations we read : " At the break of day the fire of the infantry and machine guns in concert with that of the artillery will oblige the enemy to burrow in his trenches. One will thus be able to proceed with the destruction of the obstacles and deliver the assault." (5) The French theory was based on the doctrines of Ardant du Picq : To move forward under controlled fire to 400  188 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET TURMOIL OF THE NATIONS yards' range, at which point no aimed fire being possible losses will diminish ; then to advance and take the position with the bayonet. Both General Staffs studied carefully the artillery tactics of the Manchurian War. The French considered the reports on the preponderance of the Japanese artillery exaggerated, and the Germans learnt definitely that the artillery duel and the infantry attack are not two separate acts of battle but one. Both believed in the advantages of indirect laying for all guns not immediately supporting the infantry attacker ; but the Germans on the whole disliked defiladed fire, believing that, as their artillery was numerically superior to that of the French, by opening fire .from all guns simultaneously from uncovered positions they would be able the more rapidly to crush their antagonist. The main difference lay in their respective outlooks on the howitzer. After Plevna the Germans had adopted the light howitzer, after Manchuria they adopted the heavy. The French did not like howitzers ; they considered their 75-mm. field guns all- sufficient. The heavy howitzer, they said, was a cumber- some weapon unsuited for mobile warfare, and though the Germans acclaimed the tremendous moralizing effect of its heavy shells, the French answer was : that German troops required to be stimulated by noise, whilst the French did not-they were too intel- ligent. (6) Such were the theories propounded between 1905 and the outbreak of the World War ; and of the two armies it was certainly the German which
Node: 26272, Score: 0.036873100385306, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0108.txt, Content: ck Paris would revolt. Whereupon, on August 9, ordered to halt, and the fortress was to be held at all costs. This resulted in a separation of forces, for whilst the plan was changed, all troops east of Metz were capital the Government declared that if the army fell Meanwhile the German Second Army moved on made a frontal attack and lost thirty per cent. of their men, Canrobert's corps in two days (August 16-18) expending 2,000,000 rounds of rifle ammunition, or more than the whole of the number fired by the Prussian On the German left, at St. Privat, the Prussian Guards at Amanvillers, and so began the desparate battle of Corps suddenly fell upon the centre of the French line with the result that, on the 18th, the German Ninth arriving, the whole of the Second Army moved north, Mars-la-Tour. Then, on the 17th, reinforcements decided to attack. On the 16th he did so at Vionville- to hide his weakness this determined Prussian general In spite of being outnumbered by three to one, in order Consequently Alvensleben instead of finding him in retreat found him with his five corps on his right flank. Moltke, considering that the French were in full 119  WAR WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 120 RETO CONSOLIDATION OF GERMANY Army in 1866. Though on the German right a preliminary bombardment prepared the attack, yet when the Germans issued from the woods, " they suddenly found that the French artillery and mitrailleuses had by no means been silenced-about two hundred pieces opening on them with fearful effect, while at the same time the whole crest blazed with a deadly fire from the ' chassepot ' rifles. Resistance like this was so unexpected by the Germans that it dismayed them ; and first wavering a moment, then becoming panic-stricken, they broke and fled, infantry, cavalry, and artillery coming down the slope without any pretence of formation, the French hotly following and pouring in a heavy and con- stant fire as the fugitives fled back across the ravine towards Gravelotte
Node: 26303, Score: 0.0365503137599154, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0139.txt, Content: een appreciated to-day, that the fighting power of an army is the product and not the sum of the arms composing it. GERMAN AND FRENCH REACTION Every war is a grim reality, and tactically every modern war, that is a war since 1850, has been a war of surprises. The leading lesson of 1870-71 was the stupendous importance of fire power. Meckel, an acute observer, said : " The foundations of success in the infantry combat consists in fire action, but the laurels of victory still hover on the points of the bayonets." (2) Fire power for full development means manœuvre and control ; manœuvre demanding intel- ligence and sound tactical handling on the part of the subordinate leaders, and control, intelligence and strategical insight on the part of their commanders. As armies grew in size, as they did during these years, numbers demanded simplicity and intelligence was obscured by method. After the 1866 war a writer had said that " the correct course for infantry to follow was to fight in future 'like a horde of savages !'" (3) What he really meant was, in controlled and intelligent disorder. But disorder is antipathetic to the pro- fessional soldier, especially to the German ; and even in 1871, before Paris had fallen, " the Germans were drilling in their spare hours with redoubled intensity," (4) and immediately after the war, William I, not liking the loose order as it was difficult to control, in the revised 15I German Drill Book of 1873 did his utmost to discourage it. As masses of men in close order can move only forwards or backwards, Scherff, in 1872, to overcome, as he thought, the complexities of command, established a most pernicious maxim, namely : "You can never be too strong when making an attack," a maxim which, as we have seen, was exposed as a dangerous fallacy during the Crimean War. Then he added : " An attack made with only part of your force at once awakens the idea of the possibility of non-success," (5) as if to provide against mishap were a detriment i
Node: 26268, Score: 0.0363060630174584, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0104.txt, Content: wrecked even more rapidly ; for, on July 16-17, the Southern German States threw in their lot with Prussia and so annulled at one stroke the French triumphal march inco Bavaria. The Prussian forces were organized in three armies : The First, General Steinmetz, 60,000 ; the Second, Prince Frederick Charles, 131,000; and the Third, the Crown Prince, 130,000, and a general reserve of 63,000. On July 22 the French Army, about 250,000 strong, organized in seven corps and the Guard stretched from Belfort to Strassburg, still awaiting transport and supplies. A word must now be said as regards armaments, especially because this was the first war in which breech- loader was to meet breech-loader, a war in which " killing by accident " was to become more important than " killing by intention." Further, a new weapon was to be used, namely, the mitrailleuse, a machine gun ; but its success was limited by misuse, the French employing it as a field gun. In brief, the French rifle tactics were based on long range fire, so that the superiority of the chassepot might be fully developed ; then to dig in, await the enemy, and crush him by fire before attacking with the bayonet. These tactics compelled Moltke to assume the tactical offensive, which he had hoped to avoid, and he generally did so by holding his enemy's front and simul- taneously attacking a flank. Every tactical group from the company upwards was instructed to remain always on the offensive so as to give the French no breathing space-to hold by fire, attack by fire, outflank by fire and never cease fighting. BATTLES AND SIEGES The campaigns which now opened may be divided into two main periods : that between the declaration of war and the fall of the French Empire, and that under  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 116 RETO CONSOLIDATION OF GERMANY the Third Republic. Both of these periods may be divided into two series of operations : the first into the battles of the frontier and the overthrow of the French Army, and the se
Node: 26263, Score: 0.036112683423536, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0099.txt, Content: replaced the Enfield, and this same year the Ordnance Committee actually tested out a new cannon at Woolwich Arsenal. It was a small piece strapped broadside on across a horse's back. The horse was tied to a post, the Com- mittee standing on one side. The fuse was lit, where- upon the horse, somewhat startled, turned round, pointing the muzzle at the heads of the interested spectators. "Not a moment was to be lost ; down went the chairman and members, lying flat and low on their stomachs. The gun went off ; the shot passed over the town of Woolwich, and fell in the Dockyard ; the horse being found lying on its back several yards away. The Committee were fortunately unhurt, and gradually recovered their equilibrium, but reported unanimously against any further trial." (10) However, as we shall see later on, the British Army was on the eve of a great reformation. THE PRUSSIAN AND FRENCH ARMIES Though in the year year 1866 Prussia had accomplished what she had set out to do, her General Staff, unlike the French after 1859, did not rest. Imbued with the III spirit of Clausewitz they examined the war in the light of his doctrines. In 1869, Moltke issued a series of Instructions for Superior Commanders of Troops. In them we read : " Very large concentrations of troops are in themselves a calamity. The Army which is concentrated at one point is difficult to supply and can never be billeted ; it cannot march, it cannot operate, it cannot exist at all for any length of time : it can only fight. "To remain separated as long as possible while operating and to be concentrated in good time for the decisive battle that is the task of the leader of large masses of troops. . . . Little success can be expected from a mere frontal attack, but very likely a great deal of loss. We must therefore turn towards the flanks of the enemy's position." (11) The chaos of Königgrätz had terrified him, but the success of the great flank attack had elated him. Whilst Napoleon Bonaparte's idea had
Node: 26306, Score: 0.0351482145120998, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0142.txt, Content: greatest intensity delivered. The portions of the reserve that are available are advanced. . . . The battalion 153 in second line in the meantime gradually advances closer. The advance is made by successive rushes followed by a quick fire of short duration. The fighting line reinforced by the reserves, and if necessary by the battalion in second line, gradually reaches to within 150 or 200 metres of the enemy. At this distance magazine fire is commenced, and all available reserves, and if necessary the second line, close up for the assault. At a signal from the Colonel the drums beat, and bugles sound the advance, and the entire line charges forward with cries of ' en avant, à la baïonette.' " (7) Reality is now completely lost in the clouds of romance. In these Regulations skirmishers virtually disappear and a return is made to linear warfare. The argument runs as follows : If skirmishers do the fighting, would not it be better to put all the rifles into line from the start ? The 1895 Regulations answer " Yes " ; consequently whole battalions shoulder to shoulder in single rank lines are called " skirmishing lines," and behind them whole brigades, or divisions, are held back for the decisive attack, and are called " troupes de choc " and " masse de manœuvre." (8) In the German Regulations of 1889 we find a similar madness. We read : " Generally, however, the commander of the fighting line should bear in mind that the order for assault shall be given by him, and at the right time. When the fighting line has arrived to within short range of the enemy, and, having been sufficiently reinforced, has paved the way for the assault by the highest attainable fire action, the bodies of troops écheloned in rear should be brought up to the foremost line without a halt, and together with it should deliver the final blow. The drums of all closed bodies commence beating from the moment that the advance to the assault can no longer be concealed from view. Whether the closed bodie
Node: 26370, Score: 0.0348087967436782, Chunk File: fuller_civilization/chunks/fuller_civilization_0206.txt, Content: dered that Russia could be supported with profit, and the true meaning of America entering the war was not appreciated. What the Entente Powers lacked was imagination, because they had no single head which could think clearly. Further, the colossal failures of the Verdun and Somme battles, during 1916, might have suggested to them the un- likelihood of Germany, even when rid of Russia, being able to break through the Western Front were it carefully prepared to meet her onslaught. This spring offensive, which was to consist in a dual attack-one from the direction of Arras eastwards, and one from the direction of Rheims northwards-was strategically unsound because the prospective battlefields were too far apart. It was also taccically unsound in that the frontage of each battlefield was too restricted. 215 The Germans smelling out this attack, for lengthy preparation had polluted the air, on February 25 they began to fall back from the river Ancre and by April 5 had completed their retirement to the Hindenburg (Siegfried) line. This strategically threw out of joint the Arras operations ; nevertheless the battle of Arras was launched on April 9 and continued until May 4, during which period the British Army lost 155,000 in casualties. On April 16 the French began the Second Battle of the Aisne which ended, four days later, in a complete fiasco. Out of these quite uncalled for opera- tions some good, however, emerged. On May 15 General Nivelle was succeeded by General Pétain as Commander- in-Chief, and General Foch was made Chief of the General Staff of the French Ministry of War. Thus, what many Conferences had been groping after for over a year was eventually attained through disaster. Failure is always the most expensive of masters ; and later on we shall again meet with this grim pedagogue. One factor of importance which became noticeable during the French offensive was the low point to which French morale had fallen. This was largely due to political intrigue, the