Node: 29518, Score: 0.0211075437708478, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0066.txt, Content: was still dominant; to show that the scions of the counting house and the factory owed nothing to those of the landed gentry when it came to a masculine aggressiveness, martial valour and dedication to the national cause. Historians and political scientists who try to explain the First World War simply in terms of the accumulation of capitalist rivalries and capitalist search for markets are like the drunk in the story who, when asked why he was searching for his lost watch under a street lamp rather than further up the road where he had dropped it, explained that it was because there was more light there. For Karl Marx and his followers there was no problem. For them the pacific protestations of the Manchester School had been merely a device by which the capitalists had sought to establish their ascend- ancy and erode that of the aristocracy. Once established, they would fight to preserve that ascendancy against the workers and against one another. The bourgeoisie therefore simply replaced the aristocracy as the ruling class with a vested interest in war, and their overthrow would in turn be necessary before the peoples of the world could live together in peace. For them capitalism, no less than feudalism, inevi- tably meant war.25 The Socialist creed thus differed little in essentials from that of Tom Paine, and by the end of the nineteenth century radical liberals and socialists were virtually united in their analysis of the situation. They differed only as to whether peaceful political action would remedy it before it was too late, or whether the disease would yield only to the surgery of violent revolution. Both groups found equally persuasive the famous thesis of J.A. Hobson, if only because it explained the phenomenon that whereas 24 See particularly Clive Trebilcock, 'The British Armaments Industry 1890- 1914: False Legend and True Utility' in G. Best and A. Wheatcroft, eds., War, Economy & the Military Mind (London 1976). 25 Silberner, op. cit. pp. 267 ff.
Node: 29468, Score: 0.0183862152857692, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0016.txt, Content: lem. Both considered it to be an entirely rational activity in the absence of a common tribunal to which nations could appeal. 'Want of a common judge with authority puts all men in a state of nature', wrote Locke; 'force without right, upon a man's person, makes a state of war, both where there is, and is not, a common judge.' Since states were in a 'state of nature' with respect to one another, governments had not only the right, but the obligation to 'employ the force of the community ... abroad to prevent and redress foreign injuries and se- cure the community from inroads and invasions.'17 By the beginning of the eighteenth century political thinkers in general saw war as a necessary evil arising from a social organisation which itself was necessary to keep in check yet greater evils. During the course of that century this view became subtly modified. War might well be the consequence of social organisation, but this was to be seen as a reason for condemning society; not for justifying war. At the very beginning of L'Esprit des Lois (1750) Montesquieu made the point that war was un-natural, since, contrary to Thomas Hobbes' famous reconstruction of the pre-societal condition, man in a state of nature was too timid to make war. As an individual he was the most defenceless of all the animals. But 'as soon as man enters 17 John Locke, An Essay Concerning the Original Extent, and End, of Civil Government, Part II, Chap. 3, in Peter Laslett, ed. Locke's Two Treaties of Government (Cambridge 1960), p. 296. See also Richard H. Cox, Locke on War and Peace (Oxford 1960). I3 a state of society he loses the sense of his own weakness; equality ceases, and then commences the state of war. Each particular society begins to feel its strength, whence arises a state of war between dif- ferent nations.'18 Montesquieu himself accepted this as inevitable and drew much the same conclusions as had Thomas More: 'The law of nations is naturally founded on this principle, that differen
Node: 29532, Score: 0.0176408264727795, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0080.txt, Content: conflict in which we are now engaged ... [and] being in ... we must win.' Two days later it expressed the hope that 'barbarism ... is fighting its last battle.' At the end of September it printed an edito- rial by the great liberal journalist A.G. Gardiner to the effect that Britain now stood for 'the spirit of light against the spirit of dark- ness.'2 About the same time H.G. Wells coined the phrase 'the war to end war'. By November, when the German armies were exerting the last reserves of their strength to break through the British lines in the First Battle of Ypres, most liberals would probably have endorsed G.M. Trevelyan's view that 'this war is life or death'.3 1 Grey of Falloden, Twenty-Five Years (London 1925), vol. II, p. 306. 2 All quotations from L.W. Martin, Peace Without Victory (Yale University Press 1958), pp. 46-50. 3 See above, p. 11. Most, but not all. Charles Trevelyan, as we have seen, was among 65 those who resigned from the government rather than condone Brit- ish participation in the war. Ramsay MacDonald maintained the opposition to which he had given solitary voice in the Commons. Together with the two prolific publicists Norman Angell and E.D. Morel, with MacDonald's colleague in the Labour Party, Philip Snowden, and one other upper-class recruit, the former diplomat Arthur Ponsonby, these men met within a few days of the outbreak of war to set up the Union for Democratic Control. It was not their object to oppose the war: a German victory was not likely to advance the cause they had at heart. It was to preserve clarity of thought about a foreign policy while the war was being fought, and to work towards the emergence after the war of an international system more in accordance with their ideals; to ensure, in fact, that this would really be a war to end wars. The views of the Union for Democratic Control were set out in a pamphlet by its most active member, E.D. Morel, The Morrow of the War. This expounded the orthodox liberal doctrine abo
Node: 29500, Score: 0.0139636548640209, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0048.txt, Content: e but that it was necessary and might be splendid, and found in the concept of their Nation a cause for which they really were prepared to die. This is not the place to seek to explore the sociological roots of this nationalism or to explain why the destruction of the monarcho- feudal order in France should have released such a torrent of martial energy, canalised and focused by the concept of a nation to which all its citizens owed a total loyalty and for which they had, if called upon, to lay down their lives. For the French the army was the na- tion, and the nation founded itself in war: war first to liberate itself, 40 Joseph Mazzini, Life and Writings (London 1890), vol. III, p. 257-8. 41 Quoted in R.J. Vincent, Non-Intervention and the International Order (Princeton U. P. 1974), p. 61. 39 then to liberate others. Initially the French nation had defined itself in opposition to the monarchy which it first shackled, then destroyed. "The principle of all sovereignty resides essentially in the Nation,' ran the Declaration of the Rights of Man.42 'No body or individual may exercise any authority which does not proceed directly from the Na- tion.' But very quickly the nation came to define itself in relation and opposition to foreigners. In Germany it had never been anything else. Before the Revolution had begun, Herder had been preaching the excellence of diversity and the need for nations to rediscover and re-emphasise their unique Volksgeist.43 After the disaster of Jena in 1860 Fichte urged Germans to find strength in the deep wells of their national culture to enable them to resist the invader, morally as much as physically: and so far from this movement being directed against their own rulers, the German liberals beseeched their dynasties to put themselves at its head. The apotheosis of German liberalism, as of German nationalism, came when the King of Prussia allowed himself to be made Emperor of Germany, at Versailles in January 1871, after a war fought, cons
Node: 29540, Score: 0.0128112188935042, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0088.txt, Content: comprehensive and striking presenta- tion yet of a liberal programme, almost exactly endorsing the aims of the British radicals.'16 'Peace without victory', 'peace between equals': this presup- posed the kind of civilised discourse between rational men on which 14 Beales, op. cit. p. 290. 15 L.W. Martin, Peace without Victory, pp. 124-125. 16 Ibid. p. 161. 71 Bentham had founded his hopes of the international system. But once the United States began fighting the mood changed. Wil- son took the Americans into the war in the crusading spirit of the French Revolution, a spirit which Tom Paine would certainly have applauded, the spirit of guerre aux châteaux, paix aux chaumières. It was a crusade which the men of the Peace Movement endorsed up to the hilt. 'This war,' declared the American Peace Society, 'is not a war of territory, of trade routes or of commercial concerns, but of eternal principles.' 'There can be no end of war until after the collapse of the existing German imperial government.' The Trustees of the Carn- egie Endowment stated in April 1917 that 'the most certain means of instituting a durable peace among the nations is to pursue the War against the Imperial German Government until the final victory of democracy.'17 And this Wilson promised to do: 'There can be but one issue. The settlement must be final. There can be no compromise. No half-way decision would be tolerable. No half-way is conceivable.'18 This view was argued with the characteristic wit and ferocity by the radical social thinker Thorstein Veblen, on the eve of America's entry into the war. Veblen considered that peace would come only when the upper classes, not only of Germany, but also of Britain had been effectively wiped out, since the chances of a successful set- tlement 'appear to be very largely bound up with the degree of vul- garisation due to overtake the several directorates of the belligerent nations.'19 Peace could be made only on the basis of 'unconditional surrender of the
Node: 29499, Score: 0.012147237788479, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0047.txt, Content: great uniform masses, resulting from a spontaneous popular impulse ... New nationalities 38 Hobson, op. cit. p. 326. 39 Hobson, op. cit. p 326.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 38 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 prepare everywhere to form ... Which statesmen of yours occupies his thoughts with those configurations of the future whose signs are already on the horizon?'40 Cobden's doctrine of non-intervention, Mazzini condemned as 'abject and cowardly ... atheism transplanted into international life, the deification of self-interest'.41 In the great, inevitable struggle between the forces of liberty and those of oppres- sion, every man of good-will should stand up and be counted. So the wave of the 'Peace Movement', which by the middle of the century seemed to be gathering such irresistible momentum, was met head on by an equally strong current of bellicose nationalism. There is little indication in the works either of the utilitarian philosophers or of the Quaker pamphleteers that they had even begun to under- stand the causes which had set the Revolutionary Wars on foot or the consequences they had had for European society. Cynics might explain British participation in these wars in terms of traditional upper-class obsession with martial glory and middle-class greed or colonial markets, but none of this accounted for the passionate zest with which French armies-and armies composed not of obedient professional soldiers but of French people in arms-flung themselves on their neighbours, overturned their constitutions, and followed Bonaparte to Vienna, to Berlin, to Madrid and to Moscow. Nor did it explain the reaction which this gigantic eruption set on foot in Germany, in Italy, in Russia and in Spain. For the first time millions of men discovered that war was terrible but that it was necessary and might be splendid, and found in the concept of their Nation a cause for which they really were prepared to die. This is not the place to seek to explore the sociologica
Node: 29465, Score: 0.0118910434117711, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0013.txt, Content: Christian, than Erasmus, but he understood that the horrors of war were not to be averted simply by complaining about them. He realised that war would be a problem even for Utopians. He accepted, as thinkers of the next two hundred years were to accept, that European society was organised in a system of states in which war was an inescapable process for the settlement of differences in the absence of any higher common jurisdiction. That being the case, it was a requirement of humanity, of religion and of common sense alike that those wars should be fought in such a manner as to cause as little damage as possible. Soon the details of this philosophy were to be fleshed out by the great international lawyers of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries: Grotius, Pufendorf, and Eméric Vattel. For better or worse, war was an institution which could not be eliminated from the international system. All that could be done about it was, so far as possible, to codify its rationale and to civilise its means. 13 Nearly two hundred years were thus to pass without any great outcry being made against the institution of war, and one may well wonder why. Perhaps on the continent of Europe scholars and men of letters were too dispirited by the black horrors sardonically chroni- cled by Grimmelshausen in Simplius Simplicissimus, while in Eng- land warfare was too much part of a lucrative process of competitive commercial expansion, fought very largely outside Europe, to arouse much humanitarian concern. But some voices rose above the clamour of the Thirty Years War. Grotius opened his De Jure Belli ac Pacis (1625) with a denunciation of the 'license in making war', which he observed all about him, 'of which even barbarous nations would have been ashamed.'14 The French monk Eméric Crucé, whose Nouveau Cynée published in 1623 is remembered chiefly for its pioneer propos- 12 Ibid. p. 211. 13 See J.T. Johnson, Ideology, Reason and the Limitation of War: Religious and Secular Concepts 1200-
Node: 29485, Score: 0.011615545057093, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0033.txt, Content: cumstances in which for some people it did pay. 'Conquests made by New Zealanders,' he admitted, 'have some sense in them.' So would conquests made by a modern despot on the continent of Europe: 'The new property, being contiguous, is laid on his old property,' wrote Bentham, a decade before Bonaparte began his career of conquest. 'The inhabitants, as many as he thinks fit to set his mark on, go to increase his armies; their substance, as much as he thinks fit to squeeze from them, goes into his own purse."6 By this criterion the wars not only of Bonaparte, but of Hitler, were perfectly rational. But how, in that case, could they have been checked by an international Court of Judicature? And why should such despots permit any outside body to decide what should or should not be pub- lished within their domains? It might have been expected that the experience of the Napoleonic Wars would have discredited the ideas of Bentham and the philos- ophes. The destruction of the feudal 'establishment' and the advent of popular democracy in France, so far from ushering in a new era of peaceful co-operation, unchained a bellicose regime, which had in- flicted on Europe the worst wars that the Continent had experienced for two hundred years. It is hardly surprising that in 1815 European statesmen should have seen the best hope of peace to lie in the recon- stitution of exactly those diplomatic mechanisms and balances, those confidential understandings and assurances, which liberals believed to be one of the major causes of war. Yet the experiences of 1792 to 1815 led liberal thinkers in France and Britain, and to a growing extent in the United States, not to re-examine their diagnosis of the causes of war, but to intensify their search for a cure along the lines which had already become for them almost traditional. It is indeed from the end of the Napoleonic Wars that one can date the beginning of what was to become known as 'the Peace Movement'; that is, the political organisati
Node: 29504, Score: 0.01142870523574, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0052.txt, Content: té, which, in contrast to their own more sedate and traditional organisation, regarded the satisfaction of revolution- ary and nationalist aspirations as the essential pre-requisite for the 49 e.g. Kossuth: 'Should the Czar once more threaten the oppressed humanity, violate the sovereign rights of nations and their independence ... humanity expects that Britannia will shake her mighty trident and shout a mighty STOP!' A.J.P Taylor, op. cit. p. 599. 50 Hobson, op. cit. p. 33. 51 L.B. Namier, '1848: The Revolution of the Intellectuals' in Proceeding of the British Academy, XXX (London 1944). 52 Hobson, op. cit. p. 177. 53 Beales, op. cit. p. 111.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE Chi 10 F 42 establishment of a lasting peace. At the first meeting Garibaldi was the guest of honour, and the League laid down, as 'the bases of a permanent peace', the need everywhere to substitute democracy for monarchy, to separate Church from State, and to proceed to the creation, on republican lines, of a United States of Europe;54 and which recognised that these objectives might have to be achieved by war. Only then would Mazzini's vision be realised, of a Universal Republic of free nations, each adding a distinctive voice to the uni- versal harmony, working out their destinies in peaceful co-operation. The objective of the liberal visionaries remained the same-perpetual and universal peace; but there seemed to be, on the continent of Eu- rope at least, a growing belief that this could be brought about only through further just and necessary wars. 3 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 The middle decades of the nineteenth century saw the return of large- scale warfare to Europe after forty years of peace. In 1859 France defeated Austria and liberated Italy. In 1864 Prussia and Austria defeated Denmark and 'liberated' Schleswig-Holstein. In 1866 Prus- sia defeated Austria and created the North German Confederation. And in 1870-1 Prussia and her allies defeated France and established
Node: 29524, Score: 0.0106068007211811, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0072.txt, Content: he same to them whether they live under German troopers or French troopers ... commit a sophism which by its very absurdity makes refutation difficult. The truth is that wherever there are countries, that is historical groups having a consciousness of their continuity and their unity, any attack on the freedom and integrity of those countries is an attack against civilisation, a relapse into barbarism.37 For the German socialists, Bebel had said much the same; The soil of Germany, the German fatherland, belongs to us the German masses as much and more than to the others. If Russia, the champion of ter- ror and barbarism, went to attack Germany to break and destroy it ... we are as much concerned as those who stand at the head of Germany.38 And the Englishman Brailsford agreed: 35 George Haupt, Socialism and the Great War (Oxford U.P. 1972), p. 11. 36 James Joll, The Second International (London 1955), p. 153. 37 Ibid., p. 112. 38 Loc. cit.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 58 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 59 Chi 10 F The right of every nationality to defend its liberty and its identity against conquest is a right which Socialism has always been the first to respect and will be the last to abandon. The general adoption of Hervé's theories by the more advanced nations would be merely an invitation to the less advanced to conquer and enslave them ... The country which had the most socialists would be the first to be devoured and exploited by its neighbours. 39 The working classes, then, were depicted by their leaders as being no less patriotic than any other section of the community. Was there any reason to suppose that they were in practice more passionately attached to the cause of peace? We have seen how disillusioned Cob- den had become as a result of the Crimean War. During the Boer war his successors had fared no better. Objectors to the war were vilified in the popular press, had their meetings broken up, were subjected to physical attack. After that
Node: 29480, Score: 0.0102959589802382, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0028.txt, Content: TIONALISM 1789-1870 By the end of the eighteenth century a complete liberal theory of international relations, of war and peace, had thus already developed. Tom Paine's synthesis of the views of the Enlightenment in The Rights of Man provided a gospel which was to be preached virtually without alteration by many Western liberals until our own day. According to this doctrine, mankind would naturally live in a state of perfect har- mony if it were not for the vested interests of governments-of what William Cobbett was soon to term 'The Establishment'. The whole 'war system' was contrived to preserve the power and employment of princes, statesmen, soldiers, diplomats and armament manufactur- ers, and to bind their tyranny ever more firmly upon the necks of the people. Break the power of the Establishment, introduce a political system in which popular interests were truly represented, demol- ish all artificial barriers to international intercourse, and the whole nightmare would quickly disappear. International differences would be resolved by appropriate institutions as smoothly as domestic ones. Peace was therefore fundamentally a question of the establishment of democratic institutions throughout the world. That such a belief could survive not only the revolutionary and Napoleonic wars and the subsequent struggles for 'national libera- tion' which disturbed Europe during the nineteenth century, but also the gigantic holocausts of the twentieth-a period during which the power of the old aristocratic establishment was progressively con- stricted where it was not totally destroyed, and when popular pres- 23  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 24 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 sure upon and participation within governments steadily increased, all without noticeable reduction in the incidence of wars-is in itself a legitimate subject for the historian's attention. That it did survive was largely due to a process of diversification and adaptation. The original view of the
Node: 29481, Score: 0.0102661645418016, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0029.txt, Content: n in the incidence of wars-is in itself a legitimate subject for the historian's attention. That it did survive was largely due to a process of diversification and adaptation. The original view of the eighteenth-century philosophes, that inter- national disputes could be settled without violence, by reasoned dis- cussion and agreement between men of good will, has remained the basis of most liberal Western thinking about international relations. The view held by Tom Paine, that such reasoned discussion would be possible only after revolutions had destroyed the old systems of government and brought reasonable and disinterested men to power, was also to thrive with appropriate modifications, and remains to- day the basis of most socialist thinking about international politics, but during the nineteenth century there emerged a third variant of the liberal teaching. According to this view, peace between nations would be possible only when those nations fully and freely existed. It was a necessary condition of peace that 'the people'-naturally by definition peace-loving-should come first to self-consciousness through struggle. Before co-operation must come self-realisation, which meant an emphasis on diversity rather than on community. This process would involve just and necessary wars to make possible ultimate peace. The description attached to the red, black and gold of the German tricolour would be appropriate for all the new national flags: durch Blut und Nacht zum Licht. That is the attitude to war and international politics, which, by and large, is now adopted by many of the nations of the 'Third World', and is now the rationale behind struggles for 'national liberation'. Let us first consider what happened to the first of these views; the belief that once the underlying laws binding men together by com- mon interest were fully understood the problem of war would disap- pear. The most influential formulation of this doctrine was to be that of Jeremy Bentham, whose
Node: 29482, Score: 0.009637196210233, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0030.txt, Content: ng laws binding men together by com- mon interest were fully understood the problem of war would disap- pear. The most influential formulation of this doctrine was to be that of Jeremy Bentham, whose Plan for a Universal and Perpetual Peace appeared in 1789, on the eve of the French Revolution. Bentham saw the problem of war and peace purely in terms of sensible action by governments responding to the free expression of public opinion. Like so much that Bentham wrote, the work was smug, parochial and simplistic, making sweeping generalisations on the basis of minimal 25 knowledge. The necessary condition, in his view, for a universal and perpetual peace was for Britain and France to stop fighting one an- other about colonies. If it were not for colonial rivalries, he asserted, Europe 'would have had no wars but for the feudal system, religious antipathy, the rage of conquest and the uncertainties of succession. Of these for causes, the first is happily extinct everywhere, the second and third almost everywhere-and at any rate in France and England the last might, if not already extinguished, be so with great ease."1 So if Britain and France abandoned their foreign dependencies, reduced their navies to police proportions, foreswore discrimination in their trade and abandoned all alliances, foundations would be laid for the establishment of universal and perpetual peace. Bentham thus applied the general prescription of the philosophes to the particular case of his own country and devised a programme which was to become the foundation of the British liberal foreign policy until the eve of the First World War. Peace would come through the abandonment of colonial ambitions, through reduction of armaments, through freedom of trade, and through detachment from continental entanglements; to which Bentham added some pointed remarks about secret diplomacy, which were to remain an intrinsic part of the liberal creed. 'Secrecy in the operations of the Foreign Department in Engl
Node: 29601, Score: 0.0092952597556658, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0149.txt, Content: because the creation of nation states was a nec- essary condition for peace, it would also be a sufficient one. At the root of this dilemma of liberal thinkers lies the habit, far older even than Erasmus, of seeing war as a distinct and abstract entity about which one can generalise at large. It was this habit of thought that made possible the ludicrous confusion of the interwar years when liberals declared themselves passionately opposed to 'war' but in fa- vour of 'military sanctions' to enforce collective security or, even more strongly, in favour of 'resistance to Fascism'. It has made it possible for enthusiasts in our own day to declare their opposition to war but their support for struggles for national liberation. But 'war' is simply the generic term for the use of armed force by states or aspirants to state- hood for the attainment of their political objectives. One may support the use of force to attain certain objectives but not others. One may support the use of force by some actors in the international system but not by others. One may support the use of certain kinds of force but not others. Only those absolute pacifists who, like Gandhi, totally renounce the use of force to defend themselves or their societies can claim to be opposed to war. And if they do so renounce the use of force while others do not, then not only their own survival but that of their value-system can be at a very high risk. This does not mean that the liberal tradition in thinking about war and peace has been totally self-deluding and false. It has certainly been a tradition often marred by naiveté, by intellectual arrogance, by ignorance, by confused thinking and sometimes, alas, by sheer hypocrisy. But how can one fail to share the aspirations of those who carried on this tradition, or deny credit to their achievements? It is thanks to the patient work, over nearly two centuries, of the men and women who have been inspired by the liberal conscience that so much progress has be
Node: 29531, Score: 0.0091194882328654, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0079.txt, Content: material force we might have at the end, it would be of very much value in the face of the respect we should have lost. And I do not believe, whether a great Power stands outside this war or not, it is going to be in a position at the end of it 63  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 64 ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 to exert its superior strength ... to prevent the whole of the West of Europe opposite to us-if that had been the result of the war-falling under the domination of a single Power.1 So underlying the issue of the public law of Europe there lay the harsh calculations of that 'foul idol', the balance of power. But under- lying those again was an ideological element which was to increase in strength as the war went on and became the dominant theme in liberal justifications of war in the twentieth century. Germany had to be fought not simply to punish a breach of international law, or to maintain a continental balance. She had to be fought because she was in the grip of a militaristic and destructive philosophy which had to be destroyed if the world was to be made 'safe for democracy'. It took only a very few days for British liberal opinion to come to this conclusion. On 31 July 1914 the Manchester Guardian was still crying a plague on both the belligerent houses and voicing its fear 'lest by some hidden contract England has been technically commit- ted behind her back to the ruinous madness of a share in the wicked gamble of a war between two militaristic leagues on the Continent.' A week later, (6 August) another liberal organ, the Daily News, reluc- tantly accepted a fait accompli: 'It would have been just and prudent and statesman-like for England to have remained neutral ... [but] a mistaken course of policy, pursued over ten years, has led us to the terrible conflict in which we are now engaged ... [and] being in ... we must win.' Two days later it expressed the hope that 'barbarism ... is fighting its last battle.' At the end of September it printed an e
Node: 29523, Score: 0.0089053512227526, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0071.txt, Content: en, finding the people of Lancashire 'growing conservative and aristocratic with their prosperous trade' felt it necessary for the Peace Movement to look to the common people. 'After all, our business must be with the masses-keep them right and we can't go wrong.' [W.H. Dawson, Cobden & Foreign Policy, p.143.] Bright in 1878 had declared, 'If the Trade Unions would speak out for peace, there would be no war. There are men and classes to whom it is sometimes gain; to the working man it is only loss.' [Beales, History of Peace, p. 157.] demanded of a rally in Brussels on the eve of the war; 'Masses of men who collectively love peace and abhor war!'35 At the meeting of the International at Basel in November 1912 the proletariat was declared to be 'the herald of world peace'. The crisis provoked by the First Balkan War enabled the Socialist parties of Europe to organise a series of impressive mass demonstrations in favour of peace, includ- ing one in Berlin on 20 October allegedly attended by over 250,000 people-which lent some credibility to the warnings issued from Basel that the proletariat would not permit themselves to be dragged into war. 'The International is strong enough to speak in this tone of command to those in power and if necessary follow up their words with deeds. War on war, peace for the world, hurrah for the worker's international!'36 Nevertheless the proposal, put forward by the Frenchman Gustav Hervé, that the workers should protest against the outbreak of war by an immediate general strike, was not accepted. The proletariat may have been international, but it was not supra-national. In liberal thought the strands of nationalism and internationalism were still intertwined. Jaurés wrote in 1911: Those Frenchmen, if there are any left, who say it is all the same to them whether they live under German troopers or French troopers ... commit a sophism which by its very absurdity makes refutation difficult. The truth is that wherever there are countries,
Node: 29501, Score: 0.0087669060461494, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0049.txt, Content: ead. The apotheosis of German liberalism, as of German nationalism, came when the King of Prussia allowed himself to be made Emperor of Germany, at Versailles in January 1871, after a war fought, consciously and willingly, not by any mere alliance of independent states but by a united German nation. As for freedom of trade promoting peace, the Prussian econo- mist Friedrich List (1789-1846) argued, as many other have since, that 'Under the existing conditions of the world the result of general free trade would not be a universal republic but on the contrary, a universal subjection of the less advanced nations to the supremacy of the predominant manufacturing, commercial, and naval power.' Commercial protection, pointed out List, was 'a natural consequence of the striving of nations for guarantees of their permanency and prosperity or predominant power.' And war itself could be a factor in economic growth; not only by inducing agrarian states to indus- trialise themselves, but in general by promoting social mobilisation among belligerent peoples. Finally, such wars need not be purely de- fensive: 'it must not be ignored,' wrote List, 'that the rounding up of 42 Quoted in Carlton Hayes, The Evolution of Modern Nationalism (New York 1931), p. 35. 43 Ideen zur Philosophie der Geschichte der Menschheit (1784). See Hayes, op. cit p. 29, and Elie Kedourie, Nationalism (London 160), p. 55.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 40 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 the national territory must be reckoned among the most important requirements of nations, that striving to attain it is legitimate, that in some cases it is indeed a legitimate cause of war.'44 Until they were part of a nation, then, how could men be free? How could they, in Rousseau's phrase, 'each, uniting with all, never- theless obey only themselves and remain as free as before'?45 The path to freedom, argued the nationalists, could lie only through creation, or rather the liberation, of the nations to which men s
Node: 29584, Score: 0.0084439581449762, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0132.txt, Content: like that of the British, was probably the revival of German power; but he saw little prospect of dealing with this simply by co-operat- ing with bourgeois States whose fundamental hostility to the Soviet Union he saw no cause to question. In a world with no certain allies it was clearly wise to extend one's frontiers by unilateral action and consolidate one's power as far to the west as possible; certainly as far as the frontiers of the Russian Empire as they had existed before the Treaty of Brest Litovsk. Stalin had made his intentions clear to the British as early as December 1941; and embarrassing as they were to the nation whose guarantee to uphold the integrity and independence of Poland had brought them into the war in the first place, the British realised that there was little they could do about them. In the division of Eastern Europe into 'spheres of influence' which Stalin and Churchill, in one of the most blatant acts of old-style realpolitik since the French Rev- 6 British official thinking can be traced in the records of the Post-Hostilities Planning Committee for 1943-45 in the Public Records Office, CAB 81. 7 Of the numerous works by American and British sovietologists I would single out Adam B. Ulam, Expansion and Co-Existence; the History of Soviet Foreign Policy 1917-1967 (London 1968) as the most persuasive.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 106 HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 olution, had made in the autumn of 1944, the British laid no claim to influence in Poland at all. But for the United States the situation was intolerable. It was made so not simply by the problem of the ethnic vote at home, as Roosevelt explained to an apparently sympa- thetic Stalin at Tehran. The principle was all important. 'I am afraid,'8 Averill Harriman, American Ambassador in Moscow, explained to President Truman in June 1945, 'that Stalin does not and never will understand our interest in a free Poland as a matter of principle. He is a rea
Node: 29466, Score: 0.008170712636068, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0014.txt, Content: ose Nouveau Cynée published in 1623 is remembered chiefly for its pioneer propos- 12 Ibid. p. 211. 13 See J.T. Johnson, Ideology, Reason and the Limitation of War: Religious and Secular Concepts 1200-1740 (Princeton 1975), pp. 208-258. 14 Hugo Grotius, De Jure Belli ac Pacis, ed. William Whewell (Cambridge 1853) vol. 1, p. lix. al for a United Nations Assembly to settle international differences by compulsory arbitration, went further. He denounced war in truly Erasmian terms. The life of warriors he considered to be unworthy of civilised peoples: We must abandon these barbaric habits and show mankind the way of humanity and true honour, that they may cease to live in so brutal a fashion.'15 Like Erasmus, but unlike More and Grotius, he did not consider that there could ever be a just cause for war. Wars arose from the twin vices of arrogance and brutality: aban- don those, he suggested, and wars would forever cease. Crucé, however, had thought more deeply about the causation of war than this simplistic analysis might suggest. He was one of the first scholars to realise that the incidence of war might be connected with the structure of society, and that this structure might be changed. Wars occurred, he considered, because 'men, particularly men of war, are naturally impatient of repose'. The way to abolish them was therefore to alter the balance of the social structure by encouraging the peaceful occupations-agriculture, commerce, the mechanical and liberal arts. The 'warrior spirits', Crucé admitted, could probably not be eliminated altogether; but they could be put to service in a small professional army whose main function would be to make war on pirates and 'savages'. (As with Thomas More, the unfortunate inhabitants of the extra-Eu- ropean world were excluded from his irenical intentions.) Finally, these peaceful pursuits would be best encouraged by total freedom of trade. Peace would encourage trade; trade would nurture peace. 'Conditions of intercourse must
Node: 29515, Score: 0.0077385012092512, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0063.txt, Content: Democracy and Reaction (London 1904), pp. 157, 165. 18 H.N. Brailsford, The War of Steel and Gold (London 1914), p. 174. 19 A.J.A Morris, Radicalism against War 1906-1914 (London 1972), p. 352. 20 H. Weinroth, 'Radicalism and Nationalism' in Morris, Edwardian Radicalism, pp. 226 ff. peoples might be expected to do, began immediately to fight one another, was swiftly overtaken by the even greater catastrophe of the Great War. Liberal publicists thereafter were more cautious in their advocacy of unrestricted national self-determination. This almost unconscious acceptance of the medieval concept of the just war, at least where emerging nationalities were concerned, did not interrupt liberal denunciations of the war-preparations of the Great Powers themselves, for which the arguments of the eighteenth- century rationalists continued to provide ammunition. The conflicts of the Powers, as opposed to those of the emergent nationalities, were still considered to be rooted in the determination of ruling classes concerned to maintain their prestige and their political ascendancy and to increase their financial profits. But during the later part of the nineteenth century those arguments became significantly modified. It had, as we have seen, been almost common ground among the economists of the earlier part of the nineteenth century that the increasing power and influence of the middle and lower classes, of what Saint-Simon and his followers called les industrieux, would, by replacing the vested interests of the aristocracy, almost automatically bring about a more peaceful condition of international relations. Up to a point their expectations were justified. After the upheavals of the mid-century the Great Powers remained at peace for a further forty years during which, as we have seen, the transnational flows of commerce, communications and capital created an increasingly integrated European society. But it was a society in which, in spite of the Peace Movement, the warrior