Node: 29581, Score: -0.0336879128975794, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0129.txt, Content: edging them to the creation of a new world order: that world of which liberals had dreamed for two hundred years, a world of freedom of speech and assembly and religion, of freedom of movement and of trade. Of course it was seen as a world in which the United States and its citizens would flourish and enrich themselves, and historians of the revisionist school have seen in such aspirations no more than a cloak for American capitalist-imperialistic designs for the domination of the world.4 The same accusations had been made, with as much justification, against Cobden and the Manchester School, whose teaching provided the inspiration for the thinking of Roosevelt's Secretary of State, Cordell Hull. But like Cobden, Hull and colleagues could see no incompatibility between the welfare of their own countrymen and that of everyone else. It was, after all, fun- damental to the liberal creed that there was no necessary conflict of interests among the diverse nations of the world. Neither commerce nor politics were zero-sum games, and what was good for Manches- ter, or Detroit, was almost by definition good for mankind. The converse of this amiable creed, unfortunately, was that if this hidden hand of Providence did not operate, it must be the fault of ei- ther ignorance or of interested malice on the part of those concerned. Confronted by disagreement, by an apparently flat incompatibility of interests and views, it was all too easy to pass from reasoned argument 3 Robert Divine, Second Chance: the Triumph of Internationalism in World War II (New Jersey 1967), pp. 70, 73. 4 Especially Gabriel Kolko, The Politics of War: Allied Diplomacy and the World Crisis of 1943-5 (London 1969).  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 104 HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 through puzzled exasperation to denunciation of one's adversary as being, in some cosmic sense, malevolent, dangerous and wrong; and this of course was to happen with tragic rapidity after the war in
Node: 29492, Score: -0.0310449850278884, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0040.txt, Content: ussing how to develop their missionary activities, also stressing in their resolutions the advantages of Temperance as facilitating 'reasonableness' in time of crisis.18 Five years later, in 1848, a Peace Congress met in Brussels, and thereafter such Congresses were convoked annually in a different European city; increasingly impressive affairs, gaining the respectful attention of governments, despatching and receiving fraternal delegates, pass- ing eloquent resolutions in favour of disarmament, arbitration and the brotherhood of man. Then in 1854 came the Crimean War and the enterprise for the time being collapsed.19 Meanwhile the activities of the Peace Movement had been en- riched and strengthened by those of the Free Trade Movement, and it is not always easy to distinguish between the two. The moralism of the first and the utilitarianism of the second very broadly overlapped. The great English political leader who united the two streams was Richard Cobden. For him they were 'one and the same cause.'20 But his motives were briskly utilitarian. As his biographer John Morley said of him, 'it was from the political, and not from the religious or humanitarian side, that Cobden sought to arouse men to the crimi- nality of war.'21 Cobden himself put it in 1846, 'the present system 17 A.C.F. Beales, The History of Peace (London 1931), pp. 46-53. Brock, op. cit. p. 345. 18 Beales, op. cit. p. 67. 19 Beales, op. cit. p. 74-81. 20 W.H. Dawson, Richard Cobden and Foreign Policy (London 1926), p. 131. 21 John Morley, The Life of Richard Cobden (London 1881), vol. II, p. 70. 33 corrupts society, exhausts its wealth, raises up false gods for hero- worship, and fixes before the eyes of the rising generation a spurious if glittering standard of glory ... If we can keep the world from actual war, and I trust railroads, steamboats, cheap postage and our own example in Free Trade will do that, a great impulse will from this time be given to social reforms.'22 Cobden was not, as he
Node: 29602, Score: -0.0293959063521033, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0150.txt, Content: n, or deny credit to their achievements? It is thanks to the patient work, over nearly two centuries, of the men and women who have been inspired by the liberal conscience that so much progress has been made in the creation of a global 23 Frantz Fanon, The Wretched of the Earth (London 1965). I19 community of nations; that values are today asserted as universal to which all states, virtually without exception, pay at least lip-service; that it is recognised, even if only in principle, that states have com- munal obligations and duties within a freely-accepted framework of international society. The danger lies in forgetting that each actor in this society of states, including those who have not yet achieved statehood, embodies distinct cultural perceptions and values; that it is ultimately concerned quite inevitably and properly with its own survival; and that it is unwilling, whatever declarations may be made to the contrary, totally to rely on the power and will of the interna- tional community as a whole to protect it. We have thus not yet escaped from the world of power politics and raison d'état. Nor does an increasing multiplicity of national ac- tors in itself guarantee a more peaceful and a better-ordered world. Kant was right when he said that a state of peace had to be 'estab- lished'. What perhaps even he did discern was that this is a task which has to be tackled afresh every day of our lives; and that no formula, no organisation and no political or social revolution can ever free mankind from this inexorable duty.
Node: 29579, Score: -0.0293032680719451, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0127.txt, Content: o one. Even that severest of critics, Mr A.J.P. Taylor, concluded his account of it by saying that it was a 'good war'.1 Nowhere was this sense of a successful crusade stronger than in the United States. In a unique sense these values were precisely what America was all about; the values to which the Founding Fathers had dedicated their country and which had ever since provided the criteria by which they judged the policy of others and incited their own to be 1 A.J.P. Taylor, The Second World War (London 1975), p. 234. IOI  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE IO2 HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 judged. In his fascinating book To the Farewell Address? Dr Felix Gil- bert has shown how explicitly George Washington and his generation associated themselves with the ideas of the liberal philosophers of the eighteenth century, with their belief in freedom of opinion and free- dom of trade as the guarantees of perpetual peace; and how explicitly they dissociated themselves from the world of balance of power and secret diplomacy and aristocratic militarism which those philosophers denounced. The United States indeed, virtually alone among nations, found and to some extent still finds its identity not so much in ethnic community or shared historical experience as in dedication to a value system: and the reiteration of these values, the repeated proclamation of and dedication to the liberal creed, has always been a fundamental element in the cohesion of American society. In this respect the United States has always resembled rather a secular church, or perhaps a gigantic sect, than it has the nation- states of the Old World. Like those sects which played so large a part in its foundation, the original concern of the United States had been to keep itself unspotted from the infections of the world, to create an inward-looking community whose members could practise and bear witness to their faith. And again like those sects, which- as we have seen with Qua
Node: 29452, Score: -0.0282011003516077, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0000.txt, Content: DELGALLO War and Liberal the Conscience MICHAEL HOWARD TH AL NEW EGREWORD  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY VERE The Archibald Cary Coolidge Memorial  Columbia University Press Publishers Since 1893 New York Copyright @ Michael Howard, 2008 ort bas wsW All rights reserved Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 19198000 Howard, Michael Eliot, 1922- War and the liberal conscience / Michael Howard. p. cm. Includes index. ISBN 978-0-231-70048-1 (pbk. : alk. paper) 1. Peace-History-20th century. 2. World politics-To 1900. 3. World politics-20th century. 4. War-History-20th century. 5. Liberalism. 6. Europe-Politics and government. I. Title. JZ5560.H75 2008 303.6'6-dc22 2007044192 CONTENTS Foreword to the 2008 Edition vi Introduction: George Macaulay Trevelyan 1 1. The Growth of the Liberal Conscience 1500-1792 5 2. War, Peace and Nationalism 1789-1870 23 3. The Coming of the First World War 1870-1914 43 4. Arms and the Covenant 1914-1935 63 5. The Challenge of Fascism 1936-1945 83 6. The Challenge of Communism 1945-1975 101 Index 121 Columbia University Press books are printed on permanent and durable acid-free paper. This book is printed on paper with recycled content. Printed in India 00 p 1098765 4 3 2 1 References to Internet Web sites (URLs) were accurate at the time of writing. Neither the author nor Columbia University Press is responsible for URLs that may have expired or changed since the manuscript was prepared. 565124 V  vi FOREWORD Foreword All histories bear the imprint of the time that they are written. The lectures from which this book is derived were delivered in 1977, when the United States was still recovering from the trauma of the war in Vietnam. She had entered that war in the belief that she was fighting to defend the Free World-that is, a world governed by the values of liberal democracy-against the incursions of totalitarian tyranny. She ended with the awful suspicion that America herself was now suppressing a peo
Node: 29596, Score: -0.0255407527761267, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0144.txt, Content: he appalling suspicion began to grow among American liberals that the United States, the very embodiment of democratic and peaceful values, might, as it approached the end of its second century, be waging a murderously oppressive war against a small people struggling to be free. It would not be relevant to our subject to dwell on the irony of America's rescue from her predicament by a European-born ad- mirer of Metternich, Dr Henry Kissinger: a man whose name was to become synonymous with power politics, secret diplomacy, and all the apparatus of international manoeuvre which American liber- als hoped they had put behind them forever. Kissinger set himself the astonishing task of transforming the Manichean confrontation of the past thirty years into a global equivalent of the Old Concert of Europe, wherein the Great Powers would collaborate in preserving the framework of an orderly international system which would en- able them to pursue their own interests within tacitly accepted limits imposed by the generally accepted need to avoid dangerous confron- tation: a system within which the military power of the adversary was recognised and accepted as an essential and legitimate element in the II5 maintenance of international stability. American liberals watched this process with a kind of stunned bewilderment, but since it was so self-evidently preferable to what had gone before they made only muted protests; except when, in a particularly brutal exhibition of Machtpolitik, Kissinger extended the conflict to Cambodia. Only now is President Carter reasserting more traditional American values in foreign policy. Whether he will succeed in creating a synthesis between the universalist liberal values which he professes and the framework of power politics which he has inherited yet remains to be seen. What conclusions are we to draw form this melancholy story of the efforts of good men to abolish war but only succeeding thereby in making it more terrible? Let us look again
Node: 29554, Score: -0.0254998590482377, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0102.txt, Content: a futile war, or to make a permanent enemy of a nation that lies athwart our main line of communication to the Far East. These were the arguments of the old system-exactly those calcu- lations based on the balance of power which the liberal conscience found so immoral. Attlee had already expressed his concern about 49 Considering that barely ten weeks had elapsed since Hoare had at Geneva declared that Britain stood 'for the collective maintenance of the Covenant in its entirety and particularly for steady and collective resistance to all acts of unprovoked aggression', this was the least he could say. (Waley, British Public Opinion, p.38.) 50 S.W. Roskill, Hankey, Man of Secrets (London 1974), vol. III, p. 187.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 82 them in the Hosue of Commons. What has distrubed me in recent years,' he said in July 1935, 'is that in all these discussions about the position of Abyssinia and so forth, what has concerned us most has been, not so much what is right, as what will be the effect on something else in connection with foreign affairs.'51 Attlee and his colleagues had no doubts as to what was right, and the extent to which public opinion supported them was revealed over the affair of the Hoare-Laval Pact. This attempt to pacify Italy by concessions at the expense of Abyssinia aroused a storm of protest which provides an interesting contrast with the wave of relief that swept the coun- try when Mr Chamberlain negotiated a very similar settlement at Munich three years later. A bewildered Samuel Hoare was sacrificed (rather briefly) to appease it; but it was to be the view of Hankey and his colleagues that prevailed. Thus, over the Abyssinian crisis we find the two concepts we have been discussing, collective security and balance of power, in direct confrontation. The first commanded the support of most articulate public opinion; the latter was to prevail. But it was the first, the voice of the liberal conscience, that now counselled war; the sec
Node: 29496, Score: -0.025301669705386, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0044.txt, Content: at home.'32 He watched in particular the agitation on behalf of Italian independence, which commanded so much Liberal support, with a thoroughly jaundiced eye. "The truth is,' he wrote in 1856, 'it must again be told the English public and the world that our aristocratic politicians make political capital out of the Italians, Poles, Circassians, etc. for purpose of their own, and not with an intent of promoting liberty anywhere. And this game will go on so long as the English public allow them to parade their sympathies for the grievances of foreigners instead of doing the work of liberty at home.'33 == In his belief that England would best be occupied in minding her own business Cobden probably reflected the views of a large number of his countrymen. It was a philosophy which had behind it a respectable ancestry, going back through William Cobbett to 30 Ibid. 31 Hobson, op. cit. p. 82. 32 Dawson, op. cit. p. 97. 33 Ibid. p. 100.  36 WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 Charles James Fox.34 Certainly, as the franchise widened, British statesmen showed an increasing reluctance to play a leading role in European affairs, or to intervene on behalf of far away peoples of which they knew nothing. But in other respects Cobden and Bright found themselves swimming against, and ultimately swept away by, a tide of popular opinion which cast very grave doubt on the central thesis of the entire liberal creed: that it was only the ruling classes that wanted war, and that 'the people,' if only they were allowed to speak for themselves, would opt enthusiastically for peace. The experience of the Crimean War was an ominous one for the Peace Movement. Lord Aberdeen's government faced the prospect of war against the Russian Empire with great reluctance, but there was no doubt whatever about the enthusiasm of British public opin- ion, as expressed by every conduit open to it.35 Cobden had received a hint of what to expect at the Great Exhibition of 1851
Node: 29544, Score: -0.0252920198332597, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0092.txt, Content: o Taylor, The Troublemakers, pp.176-7.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 74 U ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 It was difficult indeed to fit French policy towards Germany into any conventional sterotype. The popular support so clearly enjoyed by M. Poincaré in his punitive treatment of the defeated Germans could hardly be explained in terms of capitalism, imperialism, or the machinations of a traditional ruling class. Brailsford concluded that 'in spite of Republican forms, a nation of small peasant-owners and small investors never will be Liberal in the British sense of the word.'29 That was the trouble: so very few people, outside Britain. Scandinavia and United States, were liberal 'in the British sense of the word'. Could nothing be rescued from the wreck of the Versailles settle- ment? Certainly: there was the League of Nations, whose Covenant embodied all the aspirations of lovers of peace for the past two hund- red years. There were those, Charles Trevelyan among them, who regarded the League as being no more than an alliance of capitalist, imperialist powers to enforce an unjust peace, and who despaired, as E.D. Morel had despaired, of seeing good fruit from so rotten a tree; but most agreed that it was the best that could be expected under the circumstances. 'Democratic control of the Society of Nations,' J.A. Hobson had written during the war, 'as of the several nations, is the only full security for peace and progress, but that is no ground for refusal to support the best beginnings of that international society which under the existing cisrcumstances are attainable.'30 The general hope of liberal thinkers was that the League would at least provide a basis on which to build a new world order. 'Belief in the League of Nations as a substitute for swollen armaments and rival alliances,' said Ramsay Muir, 'should henceforth be the pivot of British foreign policy.' Gilbert Murray suggested, in the true spirit of Bentham, that 'wars caused, or made more likely, b
Node: 29580, Score: -0.0239080475501205, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0128.txt, Content: potted from the infections of the world, to create an inward-looking community whose members could practise and bear witness to their faith. And again like those sects, which- as we have seen with Quakers-as they grew in wealth and power moved out into the world to evangelise and transform it, so did the United States gradually involve itself in an international system within which it could operate with a clear conscience only it if could remake that system in its own image. The first attempt to do so, by Woodrow Wilson, saw the humiliating failure of a man whose lack of understanding of the international environment was paralleled by his lack of skill in manipulating domestic politics. Franklin Roo- sevelt could not be faulted on the latter count, whatever one may feel about the former; but in any case, American public opinion had moved fast and far since the days of Senator Lodge. By the end of 1942 a Gallup Poll revealed that nearly seventy-five per cent of the population favoured American participation in a post-war interna- 2 Felix Gilbert, To the Farewell Address: Ideas of Early American Foreign Policy (Princeton 1961). 103 tional organisation to keep the peace; and this proportion remained stable until the end of the war.3 But the assumption-and one constantly reiterated by American politicians and publicists at every level-was that this organisation would not be the old balance of power system, the old Concert of Europe writ large. It would be the framework of a new world of peace under law. The successive declarations to which American statesmen and their allies had set their hands, from the Atlantic Charter to the Yalta Declaration on Liberated Europe, were seen not as vague statements of intent but as morally binding obligations on all par- ties concerned, pledging them to the creation of a new world order: that world of which liberals had dreamed for two hundred years, a world of freedom of speech and assembly and religion, of freedom of movement and of
Node: 29458, Score: -0.0237764856806016, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0006.txt, Content: inspiration today. I have chosen the term 'liberal conscience', for the word 'conscience' implies not simply a belief or an attitude but also an inner compulsion to act upon it. And by 'liberals' I mean in general all those thinkers who believe the world to be profoundly other than it should be, and who have faith in the power of human reason and human action to change it, so that the inner potential of all human beings can be more fully realised. This excludes on the one hand those conservatives who accept the world as it unalterably is and adjust to it with more or less of good grace; and on the other those disciples of Karl Marx and other determinists who see men as trapped in predicaments from which they can be rescued only by historical processes, which they may understand but are powerless to control. It is a definition which today would probably cover almost the entire range of political thinkers in Britain and the United States. But it was a doctrine which sprang from obscure roots and took many centuries to grow to its present maturity. 2 Garibldi's Defence of the Roman Republic (London 1907). Garibaldi and the Thousand (London 1909). Garibaldi and the Making of Italy (London 1911). England under Queen Anne, 3 vols (London 1930-34). 4 Trevelyan papers, loc. Cit. 3 Quoted in G.M. Trevelyan, John Bright (London 1913) p.332.  pavisam 1 THE GROWTH OF THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 1500-1792 It is likely that ever since the origins of human society, men-or at least some men, and most women-have intermittently lamented the existence of war, except among those societies which have been able to convert it to pure ritual or pure gain. But even those who saw it as evil normally considered it a necessary evil; one for which responsi- bility lay elsewhere, which was part of God's purpose for the world, or an indispensable activity in preserving or extending one's creed and culture. Such has been in general the position of the Christian Church throughout most of its history. T
Node: 29503, Score: -0.0231382456065044, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0051.txt, Content: Writings, vol. I, pp. 106 ff. 47 Ibid. p. 121. 48 Quoted in Kenneth N. Waltz, Man, the State and War (New York 1959), p. 110. 41 These appeals, like those of the Greeks in 1821, the Poles in 1831 and 1864, and the Hungarians in1849,49 were regarded by Cobden and his colleagues in the Peace Movement with embarrassment and impatience. 'Patriotism, or nationality,' said Cobden, of the Poles in 1831, 'is an instinctive virtue, that sometimes burns the brightest in the rudest and least reasoning minds; and its manifestation bears no proportion to the value of possessions defended and the object to be gained.'50 In 1849 John Stuart Mill observed how, 'in the backward parts of Europe and even ... in Germany, the sentiment of nationality so far outweighs the love of liberty that the people are willing to abet their rulers in crushing the liberty and independence of any people not of their race and language', while a year later the economist Nas- sau Senior spoke of 'this barbarous feeling of nationality [which] has become the curse of Europe.'51 In 1856 Cobden denounced the vari- ous nationalist pressure groups in England: 'they have their scheme of foreign intervention, the wildest and most anarchical of all, for it sets aside the allegiance to treaties and international obligations and would set up a universal propaganda of insurrection and rebellion.'52 While in 1864 his friend and colleague Henry Richard, who devoted his life to the running of the British Peace Society, declared that 'this idea of nationality is a poor, low, selfish, unchristian idea, at variance with the very principle of an advanced civilisation.'53 Richard and his colleagues understandably looked with little pleasure on the foundation, in Paris in 1867, of a Ligue Internatinale de la Paix et de la Liberté, which, in contrast to their own more sedate and traditional organisation, regarded the satisfaction of revolution- ary and nationalist aspirations as the essential pre-requisite for the 49 e.g. Ko
Node: 29479, Score: -0.0230240955509002, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0027.txt, Content: The fault, he stated, following Rousseau, lay in .... the system of government on the old construction, [for] the animosity which Nations reciprocally entertain is nothing more than what the policy of each of their governments excited to keep up the spirit of the system. Each government accuses the other of perfidy, intrigue and ambition, as a means of heating the imagination of their respective Nations and incensing 36 Thomas Paine, Collected Writings (London 1894), vol. I, pp. 413, 424. 37 Ibid. p. 454. 38 Ibid. p. 456. 21 them to hostilities. Man is not the enemy of man but through the medium of a false system of government.39 The hope, Paine believed, following Montesquieu and Kant, lay in the institution of Republics. 'The instant the form of government was changed in France,' he wrote in 1791, 'the republican principles of peace and domestic prosperity and economy arose with the new government; and the same consequences would follow in the case of other nations'. A year later he believed that the dawn was break- ing. 'There is a morning of reason rising upon man on the subject of government, that has not appeared before. As the barbarism of the present old governments expires, the moral condition of nations with respect to each other will be changed. Man will not be brought up with the savage idea of considering his species his enemy.'40 Within a few months of these words being published France and her neighbours plunged into twenty-five years of continuous and ferocious warfare, which aroused between the different nations of Europe a deeper hatred than anything else that had yet been seen. Whatever morning was being heralded by the French Revolution, it was certainly not that of Reason, let alone of peace. 39 Ibid., p. 388. 40 Ibid., p. 453.  2 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 By the end of the eighteenth century a complete liberal theory of international relations, of war and peace, had thus already developed. Tom Paine's synthesis of the views of the E
Node: 29536, Score: -0.0228254024341586, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0084.txt, Content: sociates did, with great courage and consist- ency, continue to draw a doubtfully tenable distinction between Ger- man militarism and the German people. They assumed that if only the German people knew the facts and could make their wishes felt, all differences between them and their neighbours could be peace- fully resolved. It was therefore a firm plank in their platform that Germany should not be humiliated and destroyed, but that after her defeat (and presumably after the advent of a 'democratic' government 6 Morel, op. cit. 7 Bertrand Russell, The Foreign Policy of the Entente (London 1914).  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 68 to power) she should be treated as a full member of the society of nations. It led them to press an embarrassed Government to make declarations of peace aims, whose moderation would make clear to the German people the extent to which they had been misled by their own leaders. 8 At the same time they showed a reserve towards the claims of smaller nation states which was in significant contrast to the enthusiasm some of them had displayed at the time of the First Balkan War. The support for 'Gallant Little Serbia' in the popular press at the beginning of the war, and the later attempts by the Allied governments to stir up racial strife within the Austrian Empire were in themselves enough to make the liberals reconsider some of their own presuppositions. Bernard Shaw was predictably contemptuous of the claims of the small nations: 'I hold no brief for small States as such,' he wrote,' 'and most vehemently deny that we are in any way bound to knight errantry on their behalf as against big ones ... They multiply frontiers, which are nuisances, and languages, which have made a confusion since the building of Babel.' More surprising was the venom with which the gentle Goldsworthy Lowes Dickinson, writing after the war, was to express himself on the subject. Serbia he described as a 'little primitive, barbarous, agg
Node: 29543, Score: -0.0227171488215943, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0091.txt, Content: has closed with an imperialist peace to per- petuate national injustice and armaments.24 On this Trevelyan spoke for the UDC liberals as a whole, and at the end of the war this group transferred their loyalties en masse to the Labour Party: Norman Angell and Arthur Ponsonby, Charles Trevelyan and E.D. Morel, Noel Buxton, Goldsworthy Lowes Dic- kinson and Leonard Woolf.25 Their old associates H.N. Brailsford and J.A. Hobson had already preceded them. Henceforward the liberal conscience was to speak primarily, though by no means exc- lusively, through the organs of the Labour Party. 'The Labour Party,' in Leonard Woolf's words, 'inherited its foreign policy from Cobden and Bright through Gladstone Liberalism.'26 Rejection of the injustice of the Versailles diktat became one of the earliest and most fundamental principles of Labour, as it was of Liberal foreign policy. It was, declared the Executive of the Indepen- dent Labour Party, 'a capitalist, imperialist and militarist imposition. It aggravates every evil which existed before 1914. It does not give the world peace, but the ceratainty of other and more calamitous wars.'27 Labour critics picked specifically on the injustice of subjecting mil- lions of Germans to alien rule in Czechoslovakia; on the proposed annexation to France of the Saar; on the annexation to Poland of German areas of West Prussia; and on the prohibition, in defiance of the wishes of the population, of any Anschluss between Austria and Germany.28 Sympathy for the Germans was whole-hearted and generous, but there was less affection wasted on the French. 24 Charles Trevelyan, From Liberalism to Labour (London 1921), p. 43. 25 Miller, Socialism and Foreign Policy, p. 83. 26 Quoted by Miller, op. cit., p. 252. 27 Miller, op. cit., p. 93. 28 Loc. cit. Also Taylor, The Troublemakers, pp.176-7.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 74 U ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 It was difficult indeed to fit French policy towards Germany into any conventional sterotype
Node: 29564, Score: -0.02244517145903, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0112.txt, Content: ian Bell, ed. We Did Not Fight, quoted in Hynes, op. cit. p. 195.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 90 HARVARD COLLEGE (IBR &SV THE CHALLENGE OF FASCISM 1935-1945 The most active and ardent war resisters-at least among my own genera- tion and those of military age-are more likely to take the line of revolution- ary action than conscientious objection ... Those of us who care about the human race and what happens to it have come to believe that only effective action counts ... I believe that the war resistance movements of my genera- tion will in the end succeed in putting down war-by force if necessary. So these young men went to Spain as their elders had gone to Flanders two decades earlier: to die in a war against war. For the techniques and activities of the traditional Peace Move- ment these radicals had no sympathy whatever. Kingsley Martin attended a Rassemblement universelle pour la Paix in Brussels in Sep- tember 1937 and wrote of it afterwards:17 I quite lost my temper at this preposterous conference. I looked at Lord Cecil's superb profile in the chair, and at Philip Noel Baker at his side, drafting, translating, dauntless and always optimistic; I heard professional League of Nations speakers talking about the value of congresses helping us 'to appreciate each other's difficulties and points of view' and courageously pretending that there was still such a thing as collective security ... The Congress even invented a Peace Day, a Peace Fair, and a Peace Party . There was a Peace Oath too, but the Oath, like everything else, carefully avoided the only question that mattered-whether pacifists would or would not fight against aggressions ... For the radicals therefore, 'peace' became a dirty word, and 'ap- peasement' of course, a dirtier one. To stand aside from this struggle was at best to show oneself to be blind to its implications, at worst to conspire with the enemy. And stand aside from the struggle was of course exactly what the British Government tried t
Node: 29506, Score: -0.0213749794850286, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0054.txt, Content: t peace. On paper the record for the years 1870 to 1914 looked extremely good. Innumerable functional links were established in the fields of trade, travel and communications, which broadened the common culture of Europe from a thin aristocratic crust deep into the mid- dle classes.1 Political manifestations of good-will and co-operation abounded. Arbitration, something for which the Peace Movement had worked since its foundation, achieved a spectacular victory with the Alabama award in 1872, made against Britain by a court whose members were selected by the United Kingdom, the United States. Italy, Switzerland and Brazil. Thereafter 194 treaties containing provision for arbitration were signed before 1914, and arbitration procedures were successfully employed in 90 cases. By 1900, accord- ing to one historian of the Peace Movement, there were 425 Peace Organisations in being throughout the world, though their distribu- tion was revealing: 46 in Britain, 72 in Germany 16 in France, 15 in the United States, 1 in Russia, and no less than 211 in Scandinavia, 2 Universal Peace Congresses were held annually from 1892. An In- ternational Parliamentary Conference was established in 1889 and became institutionalised as the Inter-Parliamentary Union; while of the Hague Conferences held in 1899 and 1907 and of all the hopes attached to them (which were given physical expression in the Palace of Peace, opened in the Hague in 1913 in preparation for a third Hague Conference planned for 1915) it is hardly necessary to speak. The abolition of war, that dream of the eighteenth-century philosophers, seemed almost within reach, and by the means ad- vocated by those philosophers-the civilised intercourse of rational men, representing the aspirations of the broad, peace-loving masses of the world. 101 290 1 A good account is to be found in F.S.L. Lyons, Internationalism in Europe 215| 1815-1914 (Leyden 1963). 2 Ibid. p. 239iqmal gıdads Yet all this civilised intercourse raised an issu
Node: 29570, Score: -0.0212367361826387, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0118.txt, Content: alists who were now prepared to think in these terms. As Norman Angell was ruefully to confess in his autobiography, al- though 'Balance of Power had a bad smell with nearly all Liberals, including this one ... later on [they] came to see that power politics were the politics of not being overpowered.'27 Gladstonian Liberals could again feel that the public law of Europe was at stake, challenged as much by Hitler's domestic atrocities as by his infringements of the rights of other sovereign States; and that an obligation rested upon the United Kingdom to act even if there existed no Concert of Pow- ers to condemn him. For the latter-day Mazzinians, no clearer case could have been presented than the destruction of Czechoslovakia, and later of Poland, for the need to defend the independence of small nations. For the defenders of democracy and the cause of the work- ers against Fascism it was simply an extension of the struggle which had been gathering momentum since the murder of Matteotti, and in which so many of them had already died in Spain. Only those stalwarts of the British Communist Party who uncritically followed 26 Ibid. 27 Norman Angell, After All (London 1951), p. 137. 95 the directives of Moscow adhered to the line, abandoned now even by Cripps and Trevelyan, that this was simply another imperialist struggle arising out of the contradictions of capitalism. By doing so they forfeited all serious influence on British public opinion for a quarter of a century to come. So yet again the liberal conscience endorsed a national struggle as a just war. There were some radicals who found themselves ill at ease in the traditionalist company they had to keep, who felt that there was something wrong in being taught how to fight for democ- racy by drill-sergeants on the barrack square, under an officer-class which expressed little sympathy for their political views. This, they sometimes felt, was not really their war. One or two felt it so strongly that they preferred
Node: 29557, Score: -0.0211956547402486, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0105.txt, Content: ive military strength of the dispu- tants, but by the impartial conciliation or decision of those who are not party to the dispute. In such an ordered society of nations ... it is essential that each nation should look for security against aggression, not to the strength of its own arms and allies ... but to the whole society of nations, the collective guarantee and pooled security of all nations.'4 This was the philosophy behind the 'Peace Ballot' of 1934, the view endorsed by both the Labour and Liberal Parties and appar- ently adopted by the National Government in the election of 1935; only to be betrayed a few months later by the Hoare-Laval Pact. The evil old philosophy, that looked to armaments, power-balances 2 See E.H. Carr, The Twenty Year Crisis, p. 34-6. Ibid. p. 203. 3 4 Leonard Woolf, The Intelligent Man's Way to Prevent War (London 1933), p. 12. 85 and secret diplomacy to keep the peace and which had so repeatedly failed, now appeared in spite of all the hopes of the 1920s, in spite of the Covenant of the League and the Kellogg Pact, to be as firmly in the saddle as ever. Thereafter, the brief consensus which had united the Govern- ment and its opponents disappeared. The Abyssinian crisis, as Kings- ley Martin was to write, 'marks the dividing line in the Thirties. After that the one hope that England would stand for a constructive world policy came to an end.'5 On this the perception of the liberals was quite correct. Whereas they were trying to create a new rule of law, the government was indeed attempting to create a balance of power, an alignment of status-quo orientated powers which would, they hoped, hold in check the revisionist claims of Germany and Japan. The first course meant condemning Italy, the second conciliating her. The first course involved at least a risk of war with Italy, though many of its advocates preferred to overlook it; but for the govern- ment, such a conflict would be, as was later to be said (under very comparable circumst
Node: 29590, Score: -0.021110277035125, Chunk File: howard_conscience/chunks/howard_conscience_0138.txt, Content: me 'defence establish- ment' on a scale beyond precedent in American history; and up till 15 Truman, op. cit. p. 351.  HARVARD WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE IIO THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 June 1950 there was little sign that the American people, whatever their noble intentions, were prepared to pay the price of being a world power.16 Korea changed all that. Defence appropriations were quadrupled almost overnight and continued to soar. The Republicans in Congress attacked the Truman Administration, not for doing too much, but for not doing enough and for not having done it earlier. The moderates in the State Department who refused to see the con- flict in Manichean terms, even that hardened power-politician Dean Acheson, were accused of being 'soft on Communism' if not indeed covert members of the Communist Party. If this was indeed a just war, then it was a crusade in which there could be no compromise, no substitute for victory. The Republican Party in the Presidential Elections of 1952 promised that: we shall again make liberty into a beacon-light of hope that will penetrate the dark places. It will mark the end of the negative, futile and immoral pol- icy of 'containment' which abandons countless human beings to a despotism and godless terrorism which in turn enables their rulers to forge the captives into a weapon for our destruction ... The policies we espouse will revive the contagious, liberating influences which are inherent in freedom.17 It is not likely that this rhetoric was any more effective in bringing the Republicans to power than were the simultaneous and contradic- tory promises by the Presidential candidate, General Eisenhower, that he would end the now stalemated and expensive war in Korea and restore financial normalcy. But the managers of the Republican Party would hardly have used such language if they had not good reason to suppose that it would pay political dividends, and although Eisenhower's own foreign policy was in fact to be