Node: 14144, Score: 0.0765056055497039, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0843.txt, Content: of bad weather LeMay’s bombers went on alone, bereft of fighter escort and of the diversion which the succeeding force was to supply. Only hours later could the Schweinfurt group make its strike. Enemy fighters took an awful toll of the two American forces. Sixty bombers were downed, and as always during the war, attrition also took other forms—loss of some of the best crews, battle damage to dozens more aircraft, irretrievable time lost when the North African bases could not service LeMay’s planes.  To the bomber commander losses on a given day may mean relatively little. What depleted Eaker’s force was the high level of attrition endured for two months more, capped by the Black Week in October, when 148 Flying Fortresses succumbed, 60 alone in one day’s dual assault on Schweinfurt, along with six hundred crewmen killed or captured. The Eighth had, in the words of the official history, “for the time being lost air superiority over Germany.”24 In fact, it never really had achieved such superiority, and its position was much like what it had been a year earlier. Although the scale of operations was far vaster in 1943 and the penetration far deeper, the considerable damage done to the enemy seemed almost incidental to the issue of the Eighth’s sheer survival.  The Eighth’s bomb strikes had been heavy and punishing, particularly when incendiaries struck delicate equipment used in ball-bearing manufacture. The strikes triggered panic in the German high command. Yet the Nazis never suffered seriously from shortages of antifriction ball bearings; fighter output dipped slightly for a while, then rose again. This is not to say that production reached the level it would otherwise have sustained or that production alone measured enemy strength. But American success primarily took subtle, indirect forms: the strain on the Luftwaffe, particularly the depletion of its best crews, encountered in prolonged combat with the day bombers; lost production time as factories were disper
Node: 14141, Score: 0.06711945496816, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0840.txt, Content: re to be synchronized to divide and confuse enemy fighters, LeMay’s to go in first, then fly across the Alps to a base in North Africa. But because of bad weather LeMay’s bombers went on alone, bereft of fighter escort and of the diversion which the succeeding force was to supply. Only hours later could the Schweinfurt group make its strike. Enemy fighters took an awful toll of the two American forces. Sixty bombers were downed, and as always during the war, attrition also took other forms—loss of some of the best crews, battle damage to dozens more aircraft, irretrievable time lost when the North African bases could not service LeMay’s planes.  To the bomber commander losses on a given day may mean relatively little. What depleted Eaker’s force was the high level of attrition endured for two months more, capped by the Black Week in October, when 148 Flying Fortresses succumbed, 60 alone in one day’s dual assault on Schweinfurt, along with six hundred crewmen killed or captured. The Eighth had, in the words of the official history, “for the time being lost air superiority over Germany.”4 In fact, it never really had achieved such superiority, and its position was much like what it had been a year earlier. Although the scale of operations was far vaster in 1943 and the penetration far deeper, the considerable damage done to the enemy seemed almost incidental to the issue of the Eighth’s sheer survival.  The Eighth’s bomb strikes had been heavy and punishing, particularly when incendiaries struck delicate equipment used in ball-bearing manufacture. The strikes triggered panic in the German. high command. Yet the Nazis never suffered seriously from shortages of antifriction ball bearings; fighter output dipped slightly for a while, then rose again. This is not to say that production reached the level it would otherwise have sustained or that production alone measured enemy strength. But American success primarily took subtle, indirect forms: the strain on the Luftwaffe
Node: 14423, Score: 0.0630911971587635, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1122.txt, Content: missions, takeoff alone posed peril, for the planes were so heavily loaded with bombs and gasoline that the slightest mechanical or human failure could abort a mission or destroy a bomber. Then came the long flight whose success depended on the most careful calculations of altitude, speed, and fuel consumption. Even in October 1944, when the enemy’s air defenses were still formidable, LeMay’s crews operating out of China found that “take-off .. . is the high point of any flight. All crews, in discussing a mission, invariably talk about their take-off and not about flak, fighters, or other enemy opposition.” Likewise crews operating from the Marianas “began to fear their own aircraft and our field orders more than the devices of the enemy.” Ditching was frequent on B-29 flights of some fourteen hours, especially when winds of 150 miles sabotaged calculations of fuel consumption, and in the Pacific the downed flier was often never found and rescued. As Ernie Pyle reported, “They were over the empire for only twenty minutes to an hour. ... What gave the boys the willies was ‘sweating out’ those six or seven hours of ocean beneath them on the way back,” often at night. By the spring of 1945, crewmen in the B-29s faced greater risk from the hazards of flying than they did from the enemy, who accounted for only one-fifth of the B-29s downed. In those circumstances it was no wonder that the airmen Pyle talked with showed little strong feeling about the enemy.®2  Conditions within the bomber created a curious sense of unreality and alienation. On B-29s, a thirty-foot tunnel, just big enough to crawl through, was the only way to traverse the length of the plane, adding to the claustrophobia sometimes felt on long missions. On the other hand, comforts could make war seem remote—men could smoke, eat, sleep, and wear regular clothing because the B-29 was pressurized and heated. Adding to the sense of unreality was the public relations policy of the Twentieth Air Force. Crews w
Node: 14425, Score: 0.0596581246692734, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1124.txt, Content: ut even more because of demands of aviation that arose outside of combat. Flying itself posed many of those demands, particularly for the men of the Twentieth Air Force, who were required to make round trips of up to four thousand miles, often across the treacherous heights of the Himalayas or the trackless expanses of the Pacific. On those missions, takeoff alone posed peril, for the planes were so heavily loaded with bombs and gasoline that the slightest mechanical or human failure could abort a mission or destroy a bomber. Then came the long flight whose success depended on the most careful calculations of altitude, speed, and fuel consumption. Even in October 1944, when the enemy’s air defenses were still formidable, LeMay’s crews operating out of China found that “take-off .. . is the high point of any flight. All crews, in discussing a mission, invariably talk about their take-off and not about flak, fighters, or other enemy opposition.” Likewise crews operating from the Marianas “began to fear their own aircraft and our field orders more than the devices of the enemy.” Ditching was frequent on B-29 flights of some fourteen hours, especially when winds of 150 miles sabotaged calculations of fuel consumption, and in the Pacific the downed flier was often never found and rescued. As Ernie Pyle reported, “They were over the empire for only twenty minutes to an hour. ... What gave the boys the willies was ‘sweating out’ those six or seven hours of ocean beneath them on the way back,” often at night. By the spring of 1945, crewmen in the B-29s faced greater risk from the hazards of flying than they did from the enemy, who accounted for only one-fifth of the B-29s downed. In those circumstances it was no wonder that the airmen Pyle talked with showed little strong feeling about the enemy.®2  Conditions within the bomber created a curious sense of unreality and alienation. On B-29s, a thirty-foot tunnel, just big enough to crawl through, was the only way to traverse
Node: 14117, Score: 0.0587951387359227, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0816.txt, Content: usand-plane raids, remained massive assaults with incendiaries on urban areas. By 1943, the technique had much advanced because new tactics and devices aided target identification, the control of bomber operations, and confusion of enemy defenses. Harris first waged the widely touted Battle of the Ruhr but achieved his greatest and most revealing suc- cess in four furious assaults on Hamburg during late July and early August.  At Hamburg, everything came together for Harris. The city’s location by water gave it a vivid profile to the eyes of men and radar, one rarely possible in the air war on Germany. Bomber Command addressed the chronic problem of “creep-back”—the tendency of aerial “fringe merchants” to bomb short of the aiming point and thereby disperse the whole bombing pattern—simply by turning it into a virtue: exploiting the tendency by laying out a carpet of bomb drops. Most critically, the RAF finally introduced “Window”—bundles of aluminum-coated strips which overwhelmed enemy radar. Earlier withheld for fear that the Germans would copy it—they did, since few technical advances in the war waited long for mimicry—Window temporarily blinded fighter defenses. Even the weather cooperated: hot and dry. The second Hamburg raid ignited the war’s first great firestorm.  It was a meteorological phenomenon in its own right. Dropped by 731 attacking bombers, incendiaries started thousands of fires while high explosives blasted open paths by which they could rapidly travel. As they merged and intensified, their greed for oxygen sucked in the fresher air from the fringes of the cauldron, the bellowslike draft creating terrific winds that sent bodies, trees, and parts of buildings flying through air heated to 800° centigrade. Naturally centripetal, a fire that “ ‘drew’ like a giant chimney,”!2 the storm nonetheless expanded as “creep-back” widened the area de- manding its gaseous fuel.  The firestorm erupted so rapidly that the population caught in it was trapped. Meas
Node: 14430, Score: 0.058365066288522, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1129.txt, Content: Lie Way Lack,  often at night. By the spring of 1945, crewmen in the B-29s faced greater risk from the hazards of flying than they did from the enemy, who accounted for only one-fifth of the B-29s downed. In those circumstances it was no wonder that the airmen Pyle talked with showed little strong feeling about the enemy.£°  Conditions within the bomber created a curious sense of unreality and alienation. On B-29s, a thirty-foot tunnel, just big enough to crawl through, was the only way to traverse the length of the plane, adding to the claustrophobia sometimes felt on long missions. On the other hand, comforts could make war seem remote—men could smoke, eat, sleep, and wear regular clothing because the B-29 was pressurized and heated. Adding to the sense of unreality was the public relations policy of the Twentieth Air Force. Crews were “picking up news on their radios, when only halfway home, that their bombing mission had been announced in Washington. All the world knew about it, but they still had a thousand miles of ocean to cross before it was finished”—as if announcement of their attack were more important than their fate and missions had an abstracted reality apart from what men did.81  Grappling with the environment in and around the plane was as consuming as engaging the enemy. On the older bombers in service in Europe, cold and fatigue posed special problems. More men were disabled by frostbite than by combat wounds, especially when men came on board wet or sweaty or perspired heavily or urinated in their suits during the stress of combat. Anoxia from shortages of oxygen both compounded the perils of frostbite and posed a serious danger in and of itself.82 The men also had to cope with damage or malfunctions of the plane, often performing herculean feats to get a plane back to base, in the face of unpredictable changes in weather—an unexpected headwind, a target shrouded by bad weather, a home base sunny when they took off and socked in when they returned
Node: 14145, Score: 0.0536769137648679, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0844.txt, Content: k subtle, indirect forms: the strain on the Luftwaffe, particularly the depletion of its best crews, encountered in prolonged combat with the day bombers; lost production time as factories were dispersed and reorganized, often into less efficient operations; other demands on German sources—not just aircraft and crews, but the two million soldiers and civilians tied down in ground-based air defense. In short, progress came through grim attrition of the enemy, and in the battle of attrition no clear winner had yet emerged. Even indirect gains had paradoxical effects—dispersal interrupted production but also made enemy factories harder to strike in the long run.  The AAF’s troubles derived in part from three miscalculations recurrent in the air war. Allied intelligence usually overestimated damage, especially the long-run disruption it would cause. It also underestimated Germany’s resilience. In turn, these Allied miscalculations obscured the virtues of relentless return to the same targets. By the end of October, Eaker’s bombers were in no position to be relentless anyway. Yet there is little evidence that air commanders saw the need for early follow-up against ball-bearing manufacture.25 On a tactical level, lessons were learned better. Opinion was unanimous that the American bomber offensive could not continue without long-range fighter escort. The primacy of the unescorted bomber had always been a boast by the youthful air force, politically useful but not strategically essential. Its weakness had long caused concern, too, but in a war of vast operations and demands only the utmost urgency would counteract prevailing policy. That came only in the summer and fall of 1943, yielding an improved P-51 Mustang fighter that was to play a decisive role in the air battles of 1944.  Meanwhile, OVERLORD, the Allied invasion of France, was fast approaching, and the time fast diminishing before RAF and AAF bombers would be transformed by invasion into little more than a glorifi
Node: 14649, Score: 0.0535472060149339, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1348.txt, Content: little raid) and the destruction of the Japanese air force before beginning a full-scale strategic campaign. Trouble arose long before the B-29s got off the ground. Hansell repeatedly had to delay the mission because of bad weather. Moreover, his senior wing commander questioned the readiness of the 21st Bomber Command to attack such a distant and well-defended target in daytime. Worse yet, Arnold raised similar doubts, a warning “coming from the very area in which I had expected firmest support.” Hansell later explained Arnold’s expression of concern as a political act necessary to protect the AAF: with a mighty force of newsmen in the Marianas to look on, Arnold wanted no inaugural disaster. If Hansell, not Wash- ington, made the decision to go ahead to Tokyo by day, “the ill effects” of any disaster “would be less severe on the future of the Air Forces.”  The mission finally got off on November 24, with the feared disaster averted—Japan’s air defenses would never match Germany’s—but scarcely the achievement implied by newsreels proclaim- ing “B29’s Rule Jap Skies,” “Tokyo aflame,” and the “setting sun of Japanese aggression.”4 Only a fraction of the bombers hit the designated target.  For a first effort, it was not a bad one. Dedicated to precision bombing, Hansell and other officers would do much to improve accuracy by new methods of crew training, especially in use of electronic equipment. But one obstacle would plague B-29 commanders for the next nine months. They could not change the weather. At high altitudes, the newly discovered jet stream, with winds of 150 miles per hour or more, disrupted formations, sabotaged fuel calculations, deflected bombs, and forced bombers either to race past targets downwind or lumber dangerously over them if they flew into its teeth. At times, when attempts were made to bomb upwind, it seemed that “the damn target backed right off the radar; we were going backward over ground.”> Foul weather also limited opportunities for visu
Node: 14396, Score: 0.0527476135538557, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1095.txt, Content: enced and inexperienced crews were mown down as impartially as the boys who walked into the German machine gun nests in the battle of the Somme in 1916.” Dyson attributed this to failures in the gunnery system of the British bombers, failures he waged a futile battle to correct. A colleague also discovered that the escape rate of British bomber crews—their chances of bailing out from damaged or malfunctioning bombers and surviving—was less than half that for American bomber crews, again because of a technical failure difficult to correct due to “the entrenched inertia of the military establishment.” No wonder that RAF fliers found that “the line between the living and the dead was very thin,” as one wrote: “it is as if those who have gone have merely caught an earlier train to the same destination.” American bomber crews at least had the satisfaction of a declining loss rate as they gained experience, plus the probability that 50 percent of their numbers would escape from bombers downed in operations.§©  Even for them, however, the emotional toll was exacting, and doctors who treated serious emotional problems among crewmen found themselves in “a wasteland in which to wander, filled with shadows of theories, dusty slogans, and dire predictions.” Lack of experience in the stresses of combat aviation was one problem. The flight surgeon also served clienteles with conflicting interests: the operational commander trying to increase missions, the combat crew needing protection from a comrade’s dangerous behavior, and the individual flier, who might underestimate his capacity to fly or, just as dangerous, overestimate that ability. The doctor’s uncertain middle course between these claims “was to help the men carry on to the limit of their capacity, and then perhaps fly a few more missions.” A punitive attitude toward emotional problems was widespread in the armed forces, but it was mitigated by the real affection of some commanders for their men and by the enormous inves
Node: 13545, Score: 0.052096497594551, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0244.txt, Content: proved un- able to sink it, and finally left it to the Coast Guard to finish off. Such a miserable performance badly embarrassed the Air Corps in its attempt to supplant the navy as the first line of coast defense.  The stormiest incident involving aviation in the early thirties, the air mail fiasco of 1934, also left the impression that military aviation, at least in American hands, was a frail instrument of war. The episode began when President Franklin Roosevelt canceled contracts issued to private business to carry the mail and ordered the Army Air Corps to do the job. Benjamin Foulois, the Chief of the Air Corps, was all too eager to prove that his organization could do so. As the New York Times commented, “The proponents of a separate Air Force for defense purposes see for the first time an opportunity to obtain their objective.” But Foulois overplayed his hand. Equipped with obsolete planes and hampered by the inadequate facilities funded by a parsimonious Congress, the aviators found their worst enemy in some unusually severe winter weather. Disaster and embarrassment resulted, as planes crashed, pilots died, and congressmen and journalists mourned the poor boys  Page 45 of 368 1%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  The Decline of Danger  During the 1930s, the attractions of air power that prevailed during happier days persisted, though in somewhat altered forms. Despite increasing world tensions and spreading use of the bomber in several conflicts, expectation that the United States might go to war, particularly that it would do so with the bomber as its foremost weapon, diminished for a time. The airmen’s new doctrine of precision bombing, public debate about air power theories, and American responses to the bomber’s use abroad all made danger appear remote. In turn, remoteness allowed technology and planning to proceed with important questions left unanswered, or even unasked.  PUBLIC IMAGE AND PROFESSIONAL DOCTRINE  As aviation
Node: 14152, Score: 0.0520690134477809, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0851.txt, Content: ss any symptoms of impending German air collapse,” and Eaker offered reassurances about “the last final struggles of a monster in his death throes” and “our teeth in the Hun Air Force’s neck”—echoes of the unwarranted optimism of a year earlier. Arnold avoided those particular catchphrases before the press, choosing to emphasize the precision of the attack on Schweinfurt and implying paralyzing damage to the German war economy. “Now we have got Schweinfurt,” he said with soldierly simplicity and overstatement. Like Eaker’s private comments to Arnold, Arnold’s public statements fended off anticipated criticism only by increasing expectations still further.2!  Meanwhile, more substantive responses to the autumn crisis went forward. Strategists of air war had long maintained that losses would decline and damage increase in geometrical rather than arithmetical proportion to increases in bomber strength. They redoubled their efforts to bring the Eighth Air Force bombers and crews up to planned strengths, which had never been met. By December, the Eighth could send out over seven hundred heavies on missions, and it was joined by then by the Fifteenth Air Force based in Italy. Pending arrival of effective long-range fighter escorts, however, these two forces largely marked time.  By this stage in the war, production lines and training camps ground out the interchangeable parts of the war machine with such efficiency that supply no longer posed formidable problems. Differing strategic and political interests were timeless, however, and still mounting as England and the Mediterranean became an impenetrable tangle of bases, competing commands, overlapping jurisdictions, and baroque lines of authority. Plenty only made this tangle more dense and ambitions more intense. In the fall of 1943, the Allies made one last attempt to unscramble it, with only partial success. A renewed effort to streamline target objectives and tighten Anglo-American coordination fell victim to the diff
Node: 14645, Score: 0.052040194691125, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1344.txt, Content: repeatedly had to delay the mission because of bad weather. Moreover, his senior wing commander questioned the readiness of the 21st Bomber Command to attack such a distant and well-defended target in daytime. Worse yet, Arnold raised similar doubts, a warning “coming from the very area in which I had expected firmest support.” Hansell later explained Arnold’s expression of concern as a political act necessary to protect the AAF: with a mighty force of newsmen in the Marianas to look on, Arnold wanted no inaugural disaster. If Hansell, not Wash- ington, made the decision to go ahead to Tokyo by day, “the ill effects” of any disaster “would be less severe on the future of the Air Forces.”  The mission finally got off on November 24, with the feared disaster averted—Japan’s air defenses would never match Germany’s—but scarcely the achievement implied by newsreels proclaim- ing “B29’s Rule Jap Skies,” “Tokyo aflame,” and the “setting sun of Japanese aggression.”4 Only a fraction of the bombers hit the designated target.  For a first effort, it was not a bad one. Dedicated to precision bombing, Hansell and other officers would do much to improve accuracy by new methods of crew training, especially in use of electronic equipment. But one obstacle would plague B-29 commanders for the next nine months. They could not change the weather. At high altitudes, the newly discovered jet stream, with winds of 150 miles per hour or more, disrupted formations, sabotaged fuel calculations, deflected bombs, and forced bombers either to race past targets downwind or lumber dangerously over them if they flew into its teeth. At times, when attempts were made to bomb upwind, it seemed that “the damn target backed right off the radar; we were going backward over ground.”> Foul weather also limited opportunities for visual sighting of targets to a precious few days a month—at that, days not anticipated with the accuracy possible in Europe, where prevailing weather patterns first passed ove
Node: 14142, Score: 0.051819625638491, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0841.txt, Content: production reached the level it would otherwise have sustained or that production alone measured enemy strength. But American success primarily took subtle, indirect forms: the strain on the Luftwaffe, particularly the depletion of its best crews, encountered in prolonged combat with the day bombers; lost production time as factories were dispersed and reorganized, often into less efficient operations; other demands on German sources—not just aircraft and crews, but the two million soldiers and civilians tied down in ground-based air defense. In short, progress came through grim attrition of the enemy, and in the battle of attrition no clear winner had yet emerged. Even indirect gains had paradoxical effects—dispersal interrupted production but also made enemy factories harder to strike in the long run.  The AAF’s troubles derived in part from three miscalculations recurrent in the air war. Allied intelligence usually overestimated damage, especially the long-run disruption it would cause. It also underestimated Germany’s resilience. In turn, these Allied miscalculations obscured the virtues of relentless return to the same targets. By the end of October, Eaker’s bombers were in no position to be relentless anyway. Yet there is little evidence that air commanders saw the need for early follow-up against ball-bearing manufacture.25 On a tactical level, lessons were learned better. Opinion was unanimous that the American bomber offensive could not continue without long-range fighter escort. The primacy of the unescorted bomber had always been a boast by the youthful air force, politically useful but not strategically essential. Its weakness had long caused concern, too, but in a war of vast operations and demands only the utmost urgency would counteract prevailing policy. That came only in the summer and fall of 1943, yielding an improved P-51 Mustang fighter that was to play a decisive role in the air battles of 1944.  Meanwhile OVFRTARD the Allied invasion of France
Node: 13590, Score: 0.0516282069576775, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0289.txt, Content: h the air scare, this said nothing about how dictatorships would respond to war’s horrors. In any event, no one worked out the en- suing chain of events in any detail. Even the references to panic in World War I that peppered writings in the 1920s largely disappeared.  Indeed, numerous flaws in American air doctrine went largely unexamined. The invincibility of the unescorted bomber formation was an article of faith; Flying Fortress was no idle choice of name for the B-17. In theory, bombing by daylight permitted the necessary precision, while the bomber’s speed, thick skin, bristling armament, and high altitude provided the requisite defense. But unexpectedly strong enemy air defenses, in conjunction with foul weather and human error and all the other things that can go wrong in war, would disrupt navigational precision. Only a slight disruption in the air would translate into gross inaccuracies on the ground, especially inasmuch as Air Corps calculations on bombing accuracy already rested on shaky probability theory. And if planes nonetheless found and bombed targets accurately, their destruction still might not achieve the expected effect if the targets chosen were in fact not critical to the functioning of the enemy state, or if they had been dispersed by an enemy in anticipation of attack, or if they possessed unused capacity (slack, it was later called) so that only a surviving remnant met critical needs. By the same token, a damaged target might be repaired quickly, or some alternative to the critical bottleneck might be jerryrigged—an alternative rail line expanded, a vital material imported, a new industrial process substituted. The Air Corps recognized that target selection involved an extraordinary economic sophistication that it lacked. The resourcefulness of combatants in World War I—albeit under conditions that seemed leisurely to visionaries of air war—might have argued for more caution on this matter. And these uncertainties, the stuff of countless l
Node: 14143, Score: 0.0509193136196119, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0842.txt, Content: That came only in the summer and fall of 1943, yielding an improved P-51 Mustang fighter that was to play a decisive role in the air battles of 1944.  Meanwhile OVFRTARD the Allied invasion of France was fast annrnaching and the time fast diminishing hefore RAF and AAF hamhers would he transformed hv invasion into little more than a  Page 154 of 368 36%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Now, too, Eaker had a respectable torce—three hundred or more bombers could be sent out with some regularity, and only shortages ot crews prevented a higher rate of attack. He was also running  out of excuses acceptable to Arnold for failing to make effective attacks on Germany. Curtis LeMay, Eaker’s most promising combat commander, later wrote with typical sarcasm that the new offensive “was the outgrowth of a search by those intellectual souls in Plans and Intelligence to find an easy way of winning the war in Europe. That’s just about like searching for the Fountain of Youth—there is no such thing; never was.” But the doctrine behind the summer offensive had been the airmen’s own creation. Combined with political pressures, it led Eaker, who earlier had expanded his operations cautiously, to campaign recklessly.23  From late July through much of October, Eaker’s bombers flew in desperate assaults on German factories, particularly those supplying the Luftwaffe fighter force. On August 17 came the first of two peak efforts. Divided into two forces, 376 B-17s were to strike far into Germany, LeMay’s group at the Messerschmitt factory at Regensburg, another at the ball-bearing complex at Schweinfurt. The two forces were to be synchronized to divide and confuse enemy fighters, LeMay’s to go in first, then fly across the Alps to a base in North Africa. But because of bad weather LeMay’s bombers went on alone, bereft of fighter escort and of the diversion which the succeeding force was to supply. Only hours later could the Schweinfurt group make its strike. Ene
Node: 14390, Score: 0.0495973148887755, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1089.txt, Content: sheerest whim of fate, . . . the ‘survivor’s guilt’ haunts the individual; he is ‘ghosted,’ as one man put it, by his dead friends, who will not leave him alone or give him peace of mind.  The burden of comrades’ fate was one reason why the morale of heavy bomber crews tended to drop more steeply once combat missions began than it did for fighter pilots. Fighter pilots also benefited from lower casualty rates and less time in the air, without the attendant fatigue and tension bomber crews experienced and had no way to release. And simply because the fighter pilot did not need to maintain formation and had sole control over his aircraft, his sense of controlling his fate was much stronger.S5  For British bomber crews, a sense of helplessness took on a peculiar dimension in 1944 because loss rates failed to decrease as men flew more missions, destroying the crewmen’s hope that they gained mastery of their fate as they accumulated skill and experience. As Freeman Dyson, who made the statistical findings at the time, observed, “Experienced and inexperienced crews were mown down as impartially as the boys who walked into the German machine gun nests in the battle of the Somme in 1916.” Dyson attributed this to failures in the gunnery system of the British bombers, failures he waged a futile battle to correct. A colleague also discovered that the escape rate of British bomber crews—their chances of bailing out from damaged or malfunctioning bombers and surviving—was less than half that for American bomber crews, again because of a technical failure difficult to correct due to “the entrenched inertia of the military establishment.” No wonder that RAF fliers found that “the line between the living and the dead was very thin,” as one wrote: “it is as if those who have gone have merely caught an earlier train to the same destination.” American  Page 202 of 368 46%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Fat TT rn rn rrr enn rn etn sey rr re rg ee enon yy
Node: 14161, Score: 0.0494176004389164, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0860.txt, Content: echoes of the unwarranted optimism of a year earlier. Arnold avoided those particular catchphrases before the press, choosing to emphasize the precision of the attack on Schweinfurt and implying paralyzing damage to the German war economy. “Now we have got Schweinfurt,” he said with soldierly simplicity and overstatement. Like Eaker’s private comments to Arnold, Arnold’s public statements fended off anticipated criticism only by increasing expectations still further.2!  Meanwhile, more substantive responses to the autumn crisis went forward. Strategists of air war had long maintained that losses would decline and damage increase in geometrical rather than arithmetical proportion to increases in bomber strength. They redoubled their efforts to bring the Eighth Air Force bombers and crews up to planned strengths, which had never been met. By December, the Eighth could send out over seven hundred heavies on missions, and it was joined by then by the Fifteenth Air Force based in Italy. Pending arrival of effective long-range fighter escorts, however, these two forces largely marked time.  By this stage in the war, production lines and training camps ground out the interchangeable parts of the war machine with such efficiency that supply no longer posed formidable problems. Differing strategic and political interests were timeless, however, and still mounting as England and the Mediterranean became an impenetrable tangle of bases, competing commands, overlapping jurisdictions, and baroque lines of authority. Plenty only made this tangle more dense and ambitions more intense. In the fall of 1943, the Allies made one last attempt to unscramble it, with only partial success. A renewed effort to streamline target objectives and tighten Anglo-American coordination fell victim to the differing bombing methods of the two air forces and to their wish to continue informal coordination that allowed each largely to go its own way. A truly unified effort threatened to subordinate on
Node: 14157, Score: 0.0484975028064417, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0856.txt, Content: n Schweinfurt and implying paralyzing damage to the German war economy. “Now we have got Schweinfurt,” he said with soldierly simplicity and overstatement. Like Eaker’s private comments to Arnold, Arnold’s public statements fended off anticipated criticism only by increasing expectations still further.3!  Meanwhile, more substantive responses to the autumn crisis went forward. Strategists of air war had long maintained that losses would decline and damage increase in geometrical rather than arithmetical proportion to increases in bomber strength. They redoubled their efforts to bring the Eighth Air Force bombers and crews up to planned strengths, which had never been met. By December, the Eighth could send out over seven hundred heavies on missions, and it was joined by then by the Fifteenth Air Force based in Italy. Pending arrival of effective long-range fighter escorts, however, these two forces largely marked time.  By this stage in the war, production lines and training camps ground out the interchangeable parts of the war machine with such efficiency that supply no longer posed formidable problems. Differing strategic and political interests were timeless, however, and still mounting as England and the Mediterranean became an impenetrable tangle of bases, competing commands, overlapping jurisdictions, and baroque lines of authority. Plenty only made this tangle more dense and ambitions more intense. In the fall of 1943, the Allies made one last attempt to unscramble it, with only partial success. A renewed effort to streamline target objectives and tighten Anglo-American coordination fell victim to the differing bombing methods of the two air forces and to their wish to continue informal coordination that allowed each largely to go its own way. A truly unified effort threatened to subordinate one part to another. Simplification of priorities made little headway, and interest in a combined command for all Anglo-American strategic air forces was never serious. F
Node: 14094, Score: 0.0482941935789211, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0793.txt, Content: staken belief that the Luftwaffe was on the wane and the chance for decisive air attack on Germany was near, if only they could stop those diversions.  But the toll of enemy fighters soon shriveled when intelligence officers sifted through the overlapping claims submitted by green crews. “We were living in a fool’s paradise, far as that stuff was concerned,” Curtis LeMay later recalled, and postwar scrutiny indicated that even the revised figures were grossly optimistic.? Raids against highly fortified German submarine pens on France’s western coast—critical targets with the Battle of the Atlantic hanging in balance—showed disappointing results. Other raids into France and Holland were little more than combat training missions. As the new year approached, AAF leaders were jittery about the future of the daylight campaign.  The disappointments were not solely the AAF’s responsibility, although they were exacerbated by its misleading claims on the Eighth’s initial accomplishments. Weather, always the greatest impediment to success, played havoc with every aspect of operations, TORCH gutted the Eighth’s ranks and often diverted what bombers remained to support of North African operations. With rarely even one hundred bombers operational, Eaker could counter his detractors by pointing out that they were proving themselves right by denying him sufficient force. However, before the Casablanca conference not even Arnold and Eaker knew the depth of Churchill’s desire to convert the AAF into a night-bombing force like Bomber Command or of his sneering attitude toward the Americans’ “most obstinate perseverance in this [daylight bombing] method.”2  By the time Roosevelt and Churchill met at Casablanca on January 14, 1943, Arnold had heard of Churchill’s intentions. Never squeamish about putting a subordinate on the line, Arnold rushed Eaker from England to defend daylight strategic operations. Eaker personally took his case to Churchill, assembling the arguments for the dayli
Node: 13713, Score: 0.0482095022954943, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0412.txt, Content: hop-window air force whose number of front- line planes hid weaknesses in training, reserves, and industrial capacity. Hitler’s Luftpolitik, designed for home consumption as well as intimidation abroad, aggravated Anglo-French fears. Visitors to Germany like the RAF’s Hugh Trenchard and America’s Charles Lindbergh confirmed high-level expectations of sudden, irresistible destruction at the Luftwaffe’s hands. Lindbergh, though technically astute, failed to realize that the Luftwaffe’s primary orientation was tactical; correctives provided by obscure American military attachés received little attention.  Yet the decisive factor in the nail-biting summer of 1938 was not these exaggerated reports or the artful Nazi threats but the credulity of the audience that received them. Memories of panic during the Great War, years of scare literature, and distrust of the masses all came together in the Munich crisis. Perhaps there was even a measure of satisfaction in the fear of German attack, inasmuch as it had long been a promise of air power that “the very magnitude of the disaster . .. may prove to be a restraining influence,” that is, that the bomber’s frightfulness might deter war itself.4 In Eng- land and France, a war-scarred generation welcomed as much as it feared the notion of a devastating air attack from Germany, lest Europe plunge again into the horrors experienced in World War I.  Roosevelt had played only a marginal role in the drama of Munich. But he observed keenly, learned quickly, and snatched the promise of American air power out of the debacle. For months he had received occasional reports on the apparent disparity between the Luftwaffe and the air forces of Germany’s opponents and on the decisive role that disparity was coming to play. They came from American aircraft manufacturers, from foreign visitors to the White House, and most of all from Lindbergh and his intermediaries with the White House, Joseph Kennedy (FDR’s ambassador to Eng- land) and Bullitt