Node: 14458, Score: -0.0413456206247677, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1157.txt, Content: lly in the new elite of airmen. “It is an interesting paradox,” they concluded, “that the most powerful representative of the democratic faith in the present war consciously has endeavored to foster political sterility among the personnel of its armed services.”2° In one way, the historians were wrong: if the men they observed lacked evident convictions about the war, they zealously pursued the perfection of institutions and techniques that carried important political implications. Technological zeal differed from political zeal, but it too had a political content, if one not so easily recognized. Indeed, the “political sterility” they observed, accompanied by technological prowess, could be a frightening combination.  Page 215 of 368 49%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON on the last five missions as “an unnecessary tragedy” and their practice of torming Lucky Bastard clubs which awarded certificates to crews completing their duty. The contract spelled out their duties  but also their rewards—assured status, transfer out of combat duty, the promise of advancement in military or civilian life.27  Sanctioned by the air force, the contractual perception of the airman’s duty strengthened the disjunction between means and ends characteristic of the air war. Duty involved the performance of technical tasks. The ethic was not a military one bound to the achievement of victory as it was for most other servicemen, but a professional one, related of course to war but both more finite than the war and transcending it because so many of the rewards were to carry over into the peace. Other men in combat performed tasks—bayoneting an enemy soldier, operating a machine gun—which had little or no counterpart in civilian life, whose only utility lay in war itself. They were simply warriors. To a considerable degree, airmen were technicians and professionals who happened to be wa- ging war.  This model of service in air combat, recognizable as still another
Node: 14350, Score: -0.037328622349911, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1049.txt, Content: murderous” methods arose from a war begun “in a spirit of comradeship and self-sacrifice,” or how unclean the German cause was even at war’s end—how many Germans still killed subject peoples rather than defend the homeland, how their leaders could be more blunderingly wasteful of their own men than Bomber Command was with its cannon fodder. In his own peculiar manner, however, Dyson charted the ethical ambiguity which many civilian experts sustained through the war: their difficulty in ascertaining just what made their cause the right one or sometimes even in making the attempt.4”  To be sure, unlike Bowles, Perera, and Stearns, men like Dyson, Ball, and Galbraith tried to set an ethical compass by pitting themselves against generals and admirals. They found military bureaucracy stifling and the military mind parochial and self-serving, its methods brutal and wasteful. Yet they recount with such pleasure the various struggles they waged that their claimed distaste for wartime service seems disingenuous. They enjoyed violating military protocol just as the airmen did with the older services; both groups came across a bit like small boys enjoying pranks against their elders. Berating airmen for the wastefulness of their bombing methods and their blindness to the civilians’ rational findings, these experts presented themselves, as Ball did in commenting on arguments over targeting in 1944, as “interested only in making as objective an assessment as possible.”48 Yet the tone and substance of their arguments suggested they desired something more: rec- ognition of their status and the superiority of their minds in the making of war.  “Command turned simple men into prima donnas,” Zuckerman complained of his military superiors, but he did not recognize that war might do much the same to men like himself. Zuckerman’s own parochialism mirrored what he attacked in others. “Operational problems, I discovered [after the war], savoured more of the characteristics of biological e
Node: 14252, Score: -0.0361045293483689, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0951.txt, Content: sloppy uniforms, slatternly salutes, and general shoddiness,” practices which indeed had official sanction in air force policy.? Disinterest in military tradition and in strategic doctrine went hand in hand. When LeMay and Arnold wrote their memoirs, neither said much about strategy; their memoirs faithfully reflected the focus of their wartime experience.  Similarly, LeMay and Arnold lacked a strong sense of the political and ideological meaning of war, the one being fought in 1944 or the ones that might come in the future. Fascism, genocide, hegemony, freedom, national interests—these were simply not in their vocabularies. The task, not the purpose, of winning governed. Much the same was true for other Americans also during the war as well as for ranking officers in other services. But the parochial nature of the air officer’s experience exacerbated that tendency—their remoteness from high political circles, the complex demands of the technology they operated, their distance from the fields of combat and the furnaces of mass killing.  At times, this parochialism left the airmen refreshingly free of ideological biases. LeMay recounted with evident appreciation the assistance he received from Mao’s communists during the war. When he wrote his memoirs, these men had become the nation’s enemies, yet LeMay bore no retrospective animosity, only a casual sense of history’s irony, which he also felt about the twists of history that found him first leveling Japan’s cities, only to receive an award from the Japanese government at the height of the cold war, and then to drive a Honda in retirement. For men like Arnold and LeMay, it was as if other nations were bad because they were enemies, not the other way around. They rarely articulated how ideology or national interest was at stake. Their job was to win a war.  Such an attitude did not prevent a certain involvement in politics. Air force generals fought relentlessly for the resources necessary to do the job as they saw
Node: 15202, Score: -0.0354286046842617, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1901.txt, Content: that people will contribute to the solution of the problem until they are aware of their ability to take part in the solution.”2 Much the same holds true today.  Finally, instruction can be gained from the moral agony some Americans have felt about their nation’s use of the atomic bomb in 1945. That agony often represented a wish to minimize accountability. Since August 1945, concerned Americans have focused on the “decision” to use the atomic bomb as the moment of supreme moral choice. By doing so, they telescoped years of moral action into one instant of responsibility. There has been comfort in establishing neat boundaries to the choice supposedly made. If sin lay in the discrete choice of a few men at a definable moment, then the nation as a whole was not responsible. Circumscribed, the act of moral failure became retrospectively almost reversible: if only Truman had known such and such, if only Stimson had realized this or that. Reversible, the act need not be repeated in the nuclear age Americans entered: the next time, the moment of decision might go the other way.  It is almost as if we could reverse our mental film of the summer of 1945 and give Hiroshima the happy outcome that Kurt Vonnegut so compellingly proposed for Dresden. Billy Pilgrim saw that city’s fate backward:  Page 360 of 368 82%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON backed off less at the appearance of their enemy’s superiority than at the prospect of nuclear war itself.  Or—to anticipate another objection—it may seem dangerous to think of nuclear explosives merely as weapons of war. To do so seems almost to belittle them or even to accept their employment in war. But it has been one theme of this book that the failure to view aerial weapons as instruments of war that kill and destroy—the habit of looking away from those obvious consequences—has contributed to their growth and encouraged their use. An appreciation of their destructiveness, although seemingly the easiest
Node: 14256, Score: -0.034139070494474, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0955.txt, Content: ss, acknowledgment of superiors, and close-order drill and delighted in the air force’s “reputation for sloppy uniforms, slatternly salutes, and general shoddiness,” practices which indeed had official sanction in air force policy.” Disinterest in military tradition and in strategic doctrine went hand in hand. When LeMay and Arnold wrote their memoirs, neither said much about strategy; their memoirs faithfully reflected the focus of their wartime experience.  Similarly, LeMay and Arnold lacked a strong sense of the political and ideological meaning of war, the one being fought in 1944 or the ones that might come in the future. Fascism, genocide, hegemony, freedom, national interests—these were simply not in their vocabularies. The task, not the purpose, of winning governed. Much the same was true for other Americans also during the war as well as for ranking officers in other services. But the parochial nature of the air officer’s experience exacerbated that tendency—their remoteness from high political circles, the complex demands of the technology they operated, their distance from the fields of combat and the furnaces of mass killing.  At times, this parochialism left the airmen refreshingly free of ideological biases. LeMay recounted with evident appreciation the assistance he received from Mao’s communists during the war. When he wrote his memoirs, these men had become the nation’s enemies, yet LeMay bore no retrospective animosity, only a casual sense of history’s irony, which he also felt about the twists of history that found him first leveling Japan’s cities, only to receive an award from the Japanese government at the height of the cold war, and then to drive a Honda in retirement. For men like Arnold and LeMay, it was as if other nations were bad because they were enemies, not the other way around. They rarely articulated how ideology or national interest was at stake. Their job was to win a war.  Such an attitude did not prevent a certain involvement in
Node: 15205, Score: -0.0329275279395665, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1904.txt, Content: un in very narrow channels, may be closed off. In different ways, that potential was shown at the dawn of the air age by H. G. Wells and in its twilight by Jonathan Schell. Even if experts devise good solutions, they make little headway in complex political structures accustomed to channeling or eviscerating the novel, unless supported by larger political forces. “I do not think,” Robert Oppenheimer said in November 1945, “that one may expect that people will contribute to the solution of the problem until they are aware of their ability to take part in the solution.”? Much the same holds true today.  Finally, instruction can be gained from the moral agony some Americans have felt about their nation’s use of the atomic bomb in 1945. That agony often represented a wish to minimize accountability. Since August 1945, concerned Americans have focused on the “decision” to use the atomic bomb as the moment of supreme moral choice. By doing so, they telescoped years of moral action into one instant of responsibility. There has been comfort in establishing neat boundaries to the choice supposedly made. If sin lay in the discrete choice of a few men at a definable moment, then the nation as a whole was not responsible. Circumscribed, the act of moral failure became retrospectively almost reversible: if only Truman had known such and such, if only Stimson had realized this or that. Reversible, the act need not be repeated in the nuclear age Americans entered: the next time, the moment of decision might go the other way.  It is almost as if we could reverse our mental film of the summer of 1945 and give Hiroshima the happy outcome that Kurt Vonnegut so compellingly proposed for Dresden. Billy Pilgrim saw that city’s fate backward:  American planes, full of holes and wounded men and corpses took off backwards from an airfield in England. Over France, a few German fighter planes flew at them backwards, sucked bullets and shell frag- ments from some of the planes and crewmen. The
Node: 14463, Score: -0.0322759794726036, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1162.txt, Content: present war consciously has endeavored to foster political sterility among the personnel of its armed services.”22 In one way, the historians were wrong: if the men they observed lacked evident convictions about the war, they zealously pursued the perfection of institutions and techniques that carried important political implications. Technological zeal differed from political zeal, but it too had a political content, if one not so easily recognized. Indeed, the “political sterility” they observed, accompanied by technological prowess, could be a frightening combination.  The Sources of Technological Fanaticism  THE DISTANT COMMAND  After November 1942, Lieutenant General Henry Harley Arnold ran the Army Air Forces from his office in the new Pentagon building. This labyrinthine structure, with its “narrow stairways that seemed to end in No Exit passageways suitable for disappearances of Alice’s white rabbit,” quickly came to symbolize the centralization of American military power. Whereas countless bureaus and commands previously had been scattered all about the Washington area, ““The Pentagon thinks’ and ‘The Pentagon says’ soon became familiar in by-lined stories and ‘inside’ columns.”  In time, and with reason, the Pentagon came to stand for something else. Its confusion of corridors and commands also evoked a bureaucratic maze in which power swirled about in ways that baffled even insiders. From the start, even physical concentration of power was compromised, for the navy declined to install its high command into the new structure, any more than it would countenance unification of the armed forces. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, too, met elsewhere, in the Public Health Building, its presence away from the Pentagon a fitting indication of the legal limbo of this wartime improvisation.  Roosevelt was, of course, commander in chief. But by 1944, his declining energies were devoted to the election campaign and a few issues of paramount urgency. His once firm grip on st
Node: 14374, Score: -0.0321804704703477, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1073.txt, Content: ractitioners have also sought immortality through escape from that world, a world so often associated with women and femininity. By their colloquial language, the men at Los Alamos hinted at such aspirations. They asked themselves before the Trinity test “the question whether the first complete atom bomb would be a ‘dud’ or a success, or as they said at Los Alamos, a ‘girl’ or a ‘boy’.”5” Femininity was weakness, masculinity was the power to transcend nature and its mortal reality. If these men entertained a male fantasy of ultimate potency, it was perhaps not coincidence that they gave their bombs masculine names (Fat Man, Little Boy).  Aspirations for ultimate power seem to have been especially intense among three Hungarian scientists. Von Karman’s loftiest dreams were for space travel, and he also involved himself deeply in nuclear strategy and weaponry after the war. Teller was the driving promoter of the super-bomb, as the hydrogen bomb was called during the war. John von Neumann, the foremost intellect behind the modern computer and game theory, wartime consultant on everything from weather forecasting to the most forbidding calculations on chain reactions, completed the trinity. All three sought power in several forms. They shared a deep hostility to the Soviet Union during the war and welcomed using the latent or actual power of nuclear weapons against it. All admired and worked eagerly with military officials and actively courted status and position through work on weapons and strategy during and after the war. Yet these mundane forms of power may have been inseparable from aspirations of immortality. His biographer recounts von Neumann’s description of “a subconscious feeling of extreme insecurity in individuals, and the necessity of producing the unusual or facing extinction.” Von Neumann quipped after Hiroshima that mankind, “having failed to solve the problem of living together, had at least succeeded in achieving togetherness by cosmic suicide.” Perhap
Node: 14846, Score: -0.0312150080103023, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1545.txt, Content: the atomic bomb’s novelty, which he had conveyed to Roosevelt and now made emphatic to Truman: “The world in its present state of moral advancement compared with its technical development would be eventually at the mercy of such a weapon. In other words, modern civilization might be completely destroyed.” Yet Stimson still did not connect the issue for mankind raised by the bomb with the immediate conduct of the war against Japan. He and most others who thought about the bomb overlooked the moral issue at hand and its connection to the larger matter of mankind’s fate: the possibility that the bomb’s use against Japan might establish a precedent for future use and intensify an international arms race. That connection was suggested only by those on the fringes of nuclear policy, among the Chicago scientists, and by that somewhat mysterious gadfly to Roosevelt, Alexander Sachs.125  As Stimson later suggested, no one at his level questioned the assumption that the bomb would and could be used against the enemy: “At no time, from 1941 to 1945, did I ever hear it suggested by the President, or by any other responsible member of the government, that atomic energy should not be used in the war. ... The entire purpose was the production of a military weapon; on no other ground could the wartime expenditure of so much time and money have been justified.” And yet Stimson’s recollections on this point were confusing, for he also claimed that “the first and greatest problem was the decision on the use of the bomb—should it be used against the Japanese, and if so, in what manner?” Clearly, given unquestioned acceptance of the bomb’s use, any “decision” about use was no decision at all. Without some event or realization suddenlv intruding uvon official deliberations. leaders could onlv reaffirm an assumption long held.126  Page 291 of 368 66%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON 1H MUMENL UN UF UEOLKUCLIUIN However destructive, the March fire raids produced
Node: 13605, Score: -0.0288035090509156, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0304.txt, Content: nable harm to humanity. Of course, the promise of air power had always inhered in its capacity to bring terror. Precision bombing did not entirely divorce the two, but it pushed terror so far into the background, placed so much distance between the act and the result, that it had much the same effect. Like the strategy of economic blockade practiced by both English and Germans in World War I, it proposed to attack the enemy population indirectly, by disrupting and starving it rather than by blasting and burning. But if no quick victory came and the enemy’s will remained the objective, then airmen might have to strike at it through systematic rather than selective destruction, that is, by direct attacks on the civilian popula- tion. If that possibility remained alive, then both the moral and practical case for precision bombing became vastly more problematic.  Mostly out of view, these tensions and potentialities in the theory of air power emerged more starkly in contemplation of war with Japan. His court-martial having cut the last bonds of discretion, Mitchell gave such contemplation a more fanciful and menacing twist than he had in the 1920s. Now he regarded American action in the Far East as an instrument of American expansion. “It is westward that our course of empire will take its way,” he grandly pronounced. He also portrayed Japan as scheming to attack not only American possessions but the United States itself, construct- ing secret “air fortresses” from which huge fleets of aircraft would bomb American cities. The Japanese, he warned in one of the last speeches he wrote, considered the United States “a decadent military power” and believed that “we will be as easy to attack as a large jellyfish.”24  More menacing than ever, Japan also appeared more vulnerable. Submarines could destroy Japan’s commerce, and its cities were attractive targets: “These towns are built largely of wood and paper to resist the devastations of earthquakes and form the greatest aeria
Node: 14070, Score: -0.0287815814978669, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0769.txt, Content: been hypocritical for a Truman or an Eisenhower to dis- honor an Arnold, Eaker, or LeMay for actions so broadly sanctioned. But if they had, a different course of history might have resulted.s5  It might have in another, even more far-reaching way. What moral debate that did occur about bombing focused on the near-term danger of harm to the enemy. Almost invisible was the danger it posed to those who triumphantly unleashed it. Briefly, it caught the eye of the New Yorker: “Once again, in their collective reaction to the destruction of Berlin, New Yorkers have demonstrated that they don’t know what fear is.” The magazine agreed with other commentary arguing that “it serves the bastards right... that it was a necessary action, efficiently and economically carried out... that each individual should shoulder his share of the moral responsibility for it.” But the New Yorker added ominously:  One implication, however, is still, as far as we know, fluttering around untrapped. Nobody has pointed out that the destruction of Berlin established the fact that it is now possible to destroy a city and that every city, but for the hairline distinction between the potential and the actual, is afire, its landmarks gone and its population homeless. From where we sit, the flames are clearly visible.S*  Chanoad he eultura nolitice canaranhy and tha nature of air ur the dictanca fram urhich Amoricane viaurad tha hambina nat any anhancead ite attrantivanace in tha immoadinata ctruaala hit hlindod  Page 141 of 368 32%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON the incentive to employ air power there more intense.!  At the same time, pressure to employ air power was not strong enough to lead the Roosevelt administration into an exclusive reliance on it. Alarm about casualties did not always push policymakers toward expanding the strategic role of bombers. With the invasion of Europe imminent, 1944 opened with widespread “anticipation of vast American losses.”®2 Insofar as
Node: 14370, Score: -0.0277544862942773, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1069.txt, Content: ern science has aspired to unlock the secrets of the natural world. Often its practitioners have also sought immortality through escape from that world, a world so often associated with women and femininity. By their colloquial language, the men at Los Alamos hinted at such aspirations. They asked themselves before the Trinity test “the question whether the first complete atom bomb would be a ‘dud’ or a success, or as they said at Los Alamos, a ‘girl’ or a ‘boy’.”>” Femininity was weakness, masculinity was the power to transcend nature and its mortal reality. If these men entertained a male fantasy of ultimate potency, it was perhaps not coincidence that they gave their bombs masculine names (Fat Man, Little Boy).  Aspirations for ultimate power seem to have been especially intense among three Hungarian scientists. Von Karman’s loftiest dreams were for space travel, and he also involved himself deeply in nuclear strategy and weaponry after the war. Teller was the driving promoter of the super-bomb, as the hydrogen bomb was called during the war. John von Neumann, the foremost intellect behind the modern computer and game theory, wartime consultant on everything from weather forecasting to the most forbidding calculations on chain reactions, completed the trinity. All three sought power in several forms. They shared a deep hostility to the Soviet Union during the war and welcomed using the latent or actual power of nuclear weapons against it. All admired and worked eagerly with military officials and actively courted status and position through work on weapons and strategy during and after the war. Yet these mundane forms of power may have been inseparable from aspirations of immortality. His biographer recounts von Neumann’s description of “a subconscious feeling of extreme insecurity in individuals, and the necessity of producing the unusual or facing extinction.” Von Neumann quipped after Hiroshima that mankind, “having failed to solve the problem of living togeth
Node: 13600, Score: -0.0275828738444414, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0299.txt, Content: gas war “can do to civilians is slight in comparison with the terror that it is capable of spreading,” and he compared this mode of war with the ones practiced in World War I: “Which method then actually is the most humane? The millions of widows, orphans, and maimed from the World War could give the most convincing answers.” A leading proponent of precision bombing argued that “a determined air armada... may actually prove to bea more convincing argument against war than all the Hague and Geneva Conventions put together.” If ethical arguments were neither profound nor sustained, they were unavoidable. Scenarios of quick victory simply implied a moral justification that needed little explicit statement.2°  As in World War I, morality and utility remained discrete but closely related categories in debate about air war. Moral means were not necessarily useful, and useful means were not necessarily moral, but for the airmen, a measure of moral validity adhered to methods of war that achieved quick victory and minimized prolonged suffering. In this regard, the historical significance of the doctrine of precision bombing was not its repudiation of moral concerns but its role in quieting consciences anxious about the future of air war. Proponents of precision bombing believed that it would reap the long-standing promise of air power without inflicting unreasonable harm to humanity. Of course, the promise of air power had always inhered in its capacity to bring terror. Precision bombing did not entirely divorce the two, but it pushed terror so far into the background, placed so much distance between the act and the result, that it had much the same effect. Like the strategy of economic blockade practiced by both English and Germans .in World War I, it proposed to attack the enemy population indirectly, by disrupting and starving it rather than by blasting and burning. But if no quick victory came and the enemy’s will remained the objective, then airmen might have to strik
Node: 14455, Score: -0.0270506791446273, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1154.txt, Content: s, transfer out of combat duty, the promise of advancement in military or civilian life.”  Sanctioned by the air force, the contractual perception of the airman’s duty strengthened the disjunction between means and ends characteristic of the air war. Duty involved the performance of technical tasks. The ethic was not a military one bound to the achievement of victory as it was for most other servicemen, but a professional one, related of course to war but both more finite than the war and transcending it because so many of the rewards were to carry over into the peace. Other men in combat performed tasks—bayoneting an enemy soldier, operating a machine gun—which had little or no counterpart in civilian life, whose only utility lay in war itself. They were simply warriors. To a considerable degree, airmen were technicians and professionals who happened to be wa- ging war.  This model of service in air combat, recognizable as still another expression of air war’s inseparableness from a civilian context, placed airmen in the vanguard of a historical transformation in definitions of military service. Traditionally defined, such service was different and apart from the broader society, undertaken by men with a higher sense of duty, whose loyalty lay with the organization, whose objective was to win wars, and whose rewards could not be justified by the civilian marketplace. They had not merely ajob but a calling if professionals, an obligation if conscripted. The status, rewards, and duties of combat airmen moved them toward an entrepreneurial or occupational model of service. Self-interest was defined as distinct from the war-winning purpose of the organization; rewards were defined by and carried over into the civilian marketplace; the rituals of military life were subordinated to the attainment of skills and status useful in a larger world. And because the distinction from the civilian world was eroding, civilians performed many tasks once assumed only by military men,
Node: 14856, Score: -0.0268861075976131, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1555.txt, Content: t become “impossible . . . to reconcile the Japanese to us... rather than to the Russians.”132  The nub of the matter was the connection Stimson made in his own mind between power and morality. For him, power was not just a necessary evil, but a potential way to serve moral ends, victory over Japan and a reordering of international relations. Little in Stimson’s long record of government service had led him to doubt that connection. But firebombing and the atomic weapon threatened to sever it, for their destructiveness created an evil that might overwhelm any good that could come from them. At the same time, Stimson could not resist the temptation to employ them for desired short-run gains. He wriggled free of this dilemma by his ritual of scrutinizing air force bombing policy and preserving Kyoto. That ritual was not meaningless: if it sanctioned a course of bombing whose nature Stimson refused to acknowledge, it also preserved the residue of moral concerns that might be acted upon later, foreshadowing the final breakdown of the connection between power and morality which Stimson had so long confidently posited. For Japan, however, the ritual offered scant protection.  Page 292 of 368 67%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  eS ee Be nn ne RR Rn ee Sy Src rn ne en ce nr oo  In military terms, s, the most relevant event was the firebombing of Tokyo. Its success might have raised questions about the need to use the bomb: was not LeMay achieving roughly the same effect with his incendiaries that the atomic scientists could promise? Conversely, it might have stilled residual moral concern about the bomb’s use: had not the very horror of the March 10 conflagra- tion made the bomb’s legitimacy a moot point? Contemporary records leave unclear the extent to which these questions were raised in the spring of 1945. Because the orders for Tokyo's firebombing had not come from Stimson’s level and because the nuclear bomb’s use was largely unquestioned t
Node: 13688, Score: -0.0258097380428919, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0387.txt, Content: d tactical air forces.”63 The image of air power as a fascist weapon obscured the paradox, concealing the Anglo-Americans’ developing interest in strategic air war and muting their concern about the morality of that interest.  The association of air power with fascism was one reason why the ethical issues posed by air war received little attention in the 1930s. Of course, fascist bombing elicited vigorous moral condemnation, but it was largely reflexive. Few defined what was immoral about bombing cities beyond the fact that it involved killing “the wrong people” and was done by fascists, who were, ipso facto, immoral in method and intent. This simplicity of judgment was part of a larger problem, as Michael Howard has commented: “The liberal conscience in the mid-thirties was equally revolted by war and by Fascism, and so found it easy to believe that the two were one and the same.” In the case of air war, labeling the fascists’ bombing of civilians as murder was surely valid, but morally it was not very instructive, for much of war is murder. In retrospect, the American State Department’s vigorous condemnations provide a kind of moral yardstick by which the later crumbling of American standards can be judged. At the time, reflexive condemnation offered no distinctions from other kinds of murder that even democracies practice—by siege, shelling, or economic blockade, for example —and few guidelines for the future handling of the bomber. It was unclear whether the nature of the victim or the intent of the attacker determined the moral status of bombing, and thus whether a “supreme emergency” for the democracies might sanction their own resort to the kind of bombing they had condemned.®  To those who gave these ethical issues extended consideration, few recourses were apparent. Bombing, John Fischer Williams recognized, came with fewer twinges of conscience because the assailant’s “hands physically have no blood upon them.” Rules of war might be useful, Eliot argued, n
Node: 14074, Score: -0.0255554004960082, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0773.txt, Content: laim to be the lawgiver and arbiter of mankind,” as Hans Morgenthau complained in 1950. Likewise, the air force’s shining image and dominance in strategy during the postwar years would have been more difficult to maintain. Whether such outcomes be regarded as baneful or desirable, they surely would have made a difference. Whether they might have happened is indicated by the contrasting British experience. After the war, what Walzer calls “The Dishonoring of Arthur Harris,” the RAF’s Bomber Commander, “at least went some small distance toward reestablishing a commitment to the rules of war and the rights they protect.” Although a declining Britain cast its lot with strategic air power after the war, attitudes derived from the war in part accounted for British pressures upon the United States not to use the bomber in various cold war crises. As Walzer says, dishonoring a man seems a “cruel” way to establish standards. As it was for Churchill in Harris’s case, it would have been hypocritical for a Truman or an Eisenhower to dis- honor an Arnold, Eaker, or LeMay for actions so broadly sanctioned. But if they had, a different course of history might have resulted.s&  It might have in another, even more far-reaching way. What moral debate that did occur about bombing focused on the near-term danger of harm to the enemy. Almost invisible was the danger it posed to those who triumphantly unleashed it. Briefly, it caught the eye of the New Yorker: “Once again, in their collective reaction to the destruction of Berlin, New Yorkers have demonstrated that they don’t know what fear is.” The magazine agreed with other commentary arguing that “it serves the bastards right ... that it was a necessary action, efficiently and economically carried out... that each individual should shoulder his share of the moral responsibility for it.” But the New Yorker added ominously:  One implication, however, is still, as far as we know, fluttering around untrapped. Nobody has pointed out that t
Node: 14376, Score: -0.0252091230455027, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1075.txt, Content: ialism and war.” Oppenheimer, like many scientists, also preserved an image of his own restraint and humaneness by measuring these virtues against the aggressive designs attributed to the military. He wanted the bomb made and tested, said a colleague, so that it would not “become a secret of the military which they could use to control the government with after the war.” The running battle with General Leslie Groves and the military command engaged in by some scientists reinforced the scientists’ sense of moral and intellectual superiority. For some, too, not even this war shattered their faith in an international community of science rescuing the world from stubborn nationalism.  But the most powerful protection against experiencing doubt was immersion in fascinating and demanding work, just as doubt arose when scientists were removed from the mainstream of work on the bomb—among the Chicago scientists, whose more theoretical work had been completed earlier. By contrast, few scientists at Los Alamos, working at fever pitch until the very last  mamoant falt thay had timatn anactinn A chaar daolichtin nrahlam calwina eanciwmad tham haichtanad hu tha annarmane nraceura wndar uthich thaw laharad hy tha euddan laan inta antarnrica af ouch  Page 201 of 368 46%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  welcomed the opportunity te seize the very powers of the gods themselvas, Ii science, ircedcin alc Krivwicupe iad diways cee inseparable from control—te unlock the secrets of nature is alsote sub due and seize its power. It hardly could have been otherwise for the men at Los Alamos.  What makes such speculation hard to confirm is the reticence of men who “let Oppenheimer take protective custody of their emotions”*4 and the difficulty of interpreting those revelations they did offer. Too, the relationship between scientist and invention was far different in the 1940s from what it had been even a few decades earlier, when nothing stood between inventor and
Node: 15135, Score: -0.0251124621801502, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_1834.txt, Content: ure of atomic bombs,” complete with orbiting satellites for spying, moon-based rockets with nuclear warheads, and computer guidance controls.128 At State, Byrnes immediately plunged into an experiment in nuclear diplomacy with the Soviets that quickly failed. Few had much to say about Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In the air force, Arnold and LeMay were unrepentant. Though not inclined to think the bomb necessary for winning the war, they were content in its use even if it had shortened the war only by a few days, and they embraced its entry into the American arsenal.  In the Pentagon, the most deeply worried man was Stimson. He never expressed regret about the bomb’s use, although he did about the failure to issue assurances on the emperor. Yet he had long pondered the implications of nuclear energy, and in the knowledge of imminent retirement he cleared his agenda of other matters and focused on the nuclear question. Too, the results from Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which Stimson received in great detail, must have at last undercut his illusions about the air force’s targeting. On the eighth, he noted how Truman “mentioned the terrible responsibility that such destruction placed upon us here,” and his statements to the press on the bomb, in contrast to the prideful style of the president, stressed that “any satisfaction we may feel must be overshadowed by deeper emotions. The result of the bomb is so terrific that the responsibility of its possession and its use must weigh heavily on our minds and on our hearts.”122  Looking forward instead of backward, Stimson betrayed his change of mood only indirectly, first as he tried to clear away the remaining obstacles to the war’s quick termination. On the eighth he told Truman, “ ‘When you punish your dog you don’t keep souring on him all day after the punishment is over; if you want to keep his affection, punishment takes care of itself.” The Japanese “are a smiling people and we have to get on those terms with them.” The comment
Node: 14248, Score: -0.0246296117628008, Chunk File: sherry_armageddon/chunks/sherry_armageddon_0947.txt, Content: arly, LeMay and Arnold lacked a strong sense of the political and ideological meaning of war, the one being fought in 1944 or the ones that might come in the future. Fascism, genocide, hegemony, freedom, national interests—these were simply not in their vocabularies. The task, not the purpose, of winning governed. Much the same was true for other Americans also during the war as well as for ranking officers in other services. But the parochial nature of the air officer’s experience exacerbated that tendency—their remoteness from high political circles, the complex demands of the technology they operated, their distance from the fields of combat and the furnaces of mass killing.  At times, this parochialism left the airmen refreshingly free of ideological biases. LeMay recounted with evident appreciation the assistance he received from Mao's communists during the war. When he wrote his memoirs, these men had become the nation’s enemies, yet LeMay bore no retrospective animosity, only a casual sense of history’s irony, which he also felt about the twists of history that found him first leveling Japan’s cities, only to receive an award from the Japanese government at the height of the cold war, and then to drive a Honda in retirement. For men like Arnold and LeMay, it was as if other nations were bad because they were enemies, not the other way around. They rarely articulated how ideology or national interest was at stake. Their job was to win a war.  Such an attitude did not prevent a certain involvement in politics. Air force generals fought relentlessly for the resources necessary to do the job as they saw it. But even in the 1960s, when LeMay gained national visibility for defending the manned bomber, resisting civilian authority, and wanting to bomb Vietnam back to the Stone Age (as he was famous for saying), his politics were highly circumscribed, focused on resentment over being denied the tools to do his job and protect his men. His denunciations of “pacifists,