Node: 29785, Score: 0.0202824928618086, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0182.txt, Content: he growth of community in the nineteenth century was a result of what the French and English doctrinaires did to the conception of "nature." Adam Smith's nature was after all a rather benign old beldam with a very respectable lineage-he was not a Scottish professor of moral philosophy for nothing. It was a very different sort of "nature" that fixed, for Ricardo, "the natural price of labor" at bare subsistence level, and decreed that wages should never rise above it. The absence of any corresponding limit to rents and profits (James Mill) clearly showed where nature's purpose lay. The invisible hand threw off the velvet glove to ad- minister an iron law. If the landlord's share appeared at times excessive, rents "were a most real and essential part of the whole value of the national property, and placed by the laws of nature where they are" ( Malthus). Nature, following the merest of hints from Adam Smith, modeled her nineteenth-century garb on the  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 134 "well-contrived machine." Legislation, if Mirabeau and Bentham were right, was to degenerate from an art to a science; and po- litical economists stood ready to show you the works. J. S. Mill was expressing the faith of 1830 when he wrote, "the laws and conditions of the production of wealth partake of the nature of physical truths." Mill lived long enough to defy the god of the machine; but his American disciple John Bates Clark, in 1890 nailed the thesis to the door of the steel age: "It is the purpose of this work to show that the distribution of the income of society is governed by a natural law, and that this law, if it worked with out friction, would give to every agent of production the amount of wealth which that agent creates." 10 Trade-unions were fric- tion: minimum wage laws were friction: the well-contrived ma- chine, if only it were let alone, would produce not only goods -but justice! It was that idea, embodied in the very phrase "social science." which rendered orthodox economics
Node: 29913, Score: 0.0183217178340318, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0310.txt, Content: loot in the world, it was probable, it was even cer- tain, that in t the end we also should be attacked. It is this realization which accounts for the sudden change of policy after March 15th. .. We would attain to such gigantic power that even the British fleet might be unable to restrain him. German armies might reach Istanbul and push on to the very confines of India Hor 250 years and more the British people have known instinctively that their safety depended upon preventing the continent of Europe, and therefore their sea communications, from falling under the dom- imation of a single Power. It was this instinct which prompted them ( at great cost to themselves ) to fight Spain, Holland, Louis XIV, Napoleon od William II. They called this instinct by varying names. Sometimes they called it "The Balance of Power"; at other, and more sentimental moments, they called it "The protection of the smaller Nations." Yet whatever names they may have given to the instinct it was there as a durable, firm and recurrent element in their national destiny; it is a sound biological instinct; it is the instinct of self-preservation. It is conditioned by hard and inescapable facts.3 The preservation of what Britain has organized and accom- plished in this world is a motive that needs no apology; it is a cause in which the people of the Empire will offer their lives whenever occasion requires, and in which Americans may most honorably stand and fall beside them. There might perhaps, on a most searching historical analysis, be valid and unselfish reasons why the United States, as a nation, should resist involvement; there could be no reason for Americans to deceive themselves as to the nature of the enterprise. Nor should they be allowed to. Any nation that deliberately embarked on an ideological or re- ligious war would be guilty of a crime against civilization; and a stupid crime at that, since ideas are not to be disposed of, as are human beings, by the use of high explosive. 3.
Node: 29775, Score: 0.0168444273734096, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0172.txt, Content: e new policy. And when the final strain approaches, it is the artisans who are the conservatives, looking for justice to a state that used to protect them, only to find that state now in possession of the radicals, their masters. The same long process is at work in the development of the anti- combination laws. Before the industrial revolution combination is one thing-an upsetting of the order of the well-regulated state: after it, quite another-a questionable interference with the wise conduct of industry by the employers. The Bill of Conspiracies of 1548 was aimed primarily, like earlier laws, at illicit disturbing of the price level: whether by craft gilds or journeymen's associa- tions. But when the London feltmakers get into trouble in 1698,2 or the couchmakers in 1716,3 or the tailors in 1721,4 or the weavers in 1756,5 the issues are essentially those only too well known to- day as "industrial disputes." 2. Unwin, George, Industrial Organization in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries, Appendix A. 3. Unwin, George, The Gilds and Companies of London, p. 348. 4. Galton, F. W., Tailoring Trade, p. 75. 5. Lipson, Ephraim, History of the English Woollen and Worsted Industries. chap. iii. The claim of the masters to be let alone proceeds on parallel 127 lines in respect of their business operations and their relations with their workpeople. But the government, mindful of the older wadition of England, was more reluctant to concede it in the lat- ter case than in the former. As early as 1549 we find the laissez- faire argument applied to the corn trade and the question of land enclosure. It continues, with increasing effect in legislation, right along to the nineteenth century. "It is an undeniable maxim," says an advocate of enclosure in 1656, "that everyone by the light of nature and reason will do that which makes for his greatest ad- vantage. . . The advancement of private persons will be the advantage of the public" 6-no need for the state any more to bother
Node: 29845, Score: 0.0166402818466017, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0242.txt, Content: the other vertebrates who have long since learned to refrain from destroying their own species. Typographical difficul. ties unfortunately preclude the publication of their opinions. ? ? all 19. "John Hays Hammond, Jr., noted inventor engaged in secret work for the Army Air Forces, predicted today that World War III is inevitable but that it will Act only hours instead of years. He said: 'Another war is bound to come unless san nature changes-and I don't think it will. The people have little to say about huether there will be a war. It's the leaders who plunge a nation into battle. If We matter were put to a popular vote, wars would occur very seldom-if ever. We must be ready next time. "-United Press dispatch appearing in New York Herald Tribune, March 1, 1945. Mr. Hammond is optimistic in assuming that negative Insiderations will ever mitigate the popular predilection for force, What the hill is he doing calling self a By this time it is surely evident that what we are dealing with is a tremendous upsurge of innate primitivism, a break-through of the mass mind, that has captured control of the means of com munication and the death-dealing appliances of modern science Under these conditions mankind must either foresee or forestal ite own destruction: there is no third option. Within a single genera- tion the wildest power dreams of Nobel and the later psychopaths will be exceeded. Even now the process of mutual extermination may be beyond control. This fair earth will be fairer far without us. And millions of suicides will attest the human shame. A re- port of the British Information Services of New York, published in December, 1944, contains this passage: British people are frightened, but theirs are not present fears; they are for the future. The possible future-or the absence of it-which the fly. ing bomb portends. The first intimation of the next war may be an ultimatum or a threat that "some of our cities may be blasted next morning" said General Sir Frederic
Node: 29893, Score: 0.014833664288093, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0290.txt, Content: -and what a theory is that which begs the entire question in the name it gives itself! Or, granting the profound theorem that hat a man acts in such and such a way because he is a such-and-such kind of crea- ture, what kind of creature really is he? Answer, by your leave: he is the kind of creature who acts in such and such a way because he is a such-and-such kind of creature. If you insist beyond that. the nothing-but fallacy will poke its inconvenient head out of the laboratory slop pail. § 7 THE psychological version of biological determinism was furnished by Doctor Freud. The patient and voluminous work of that curi- See Meg. Sulla ous personality has without doubt been a stronger enemy of Chris- tianity than all the naïve atheisms fed to the very young; for it Sheen'oven founded a fellowship of devotees who considered themselves so non at .Parte exceptionally mature that they were not so much hostile as su- all subsequent perior to religion. They had their own; and a very potent cult it immer on This was. THE POSITIVIST ATTACK 215 Like all cults that amount to anything, it had a core of genuine insight and efficacy, which it proceeded to embody in a system of myth and symbol so well worked out that the apostles, initiates wod fellow travelers completely forgot that the entire conceptual outfit was in fact only myth and symbol. Indeed, as the system developed, the Doctor forgot it himself; and his attitude toward heresy, persisting in many of his followers, plainly showed that something more than a purely scientific motivation was at work. That was what gave the thing its power: it satisfied, at least for a while; it reached the soul, and effected a real conversion. The exploration of the atavistic strains in human nature paral- leled, and supplemented, the biological dogma we have been dis- cussing; and the practitioners had no difficulty in showing how strong and how dynamic these strains were. It seemed to follow and this was the therapeutic secret-that to gi
Node: 29887, Score: 0.0143073736025955, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0284.txt, Content: from the "law of nature" of the natural philosophers. Nature had been kept pretty busy by those elegant gentlemen; and the temper of the coal age was rather trying for an eighteenth-century beauty. When Shelle died, nature was undoubtedly a little tired; by the time Darwin had finished with her, she was definitely not what she used to be It became necessary, at last, to find some other patron saint- at least, some other patronymic-for the determinism of the in- -or dustrial era. "Culture" saved the day: a daughter of nature who had been to college, and acquired some of the sophistication her mother so obviously lacked when she took up with Rousseau. Culture-to quote a standard definition-is "that complex whole which includes knowledge, belief, art, morals, law, custom, and any other capabilities and habits acquired by man as a mem- ber of society." 6 Ît ( if such a conglomeration can have a pronoun comprises practically the whole "social heritage"; and this "social heritage" is represented as controlling and determining the be- havior of the individuals from whose mutual relations culture arises. The circular argument involved here is innocently set forth by a well-known American sociologist: "Culture is not inborn but acquired by every individual in social groups; but this culture of the group dominates the behavior of the individual and so the behavior of human groups. Human social life is thus dominated by culture; and culture is a matter of habits of thought and action ac- quired by interaction with other members of one's group." 7 6. Tylor, quoted by Ogburn, W. F., Social Change, p. 4. 7. Ellwood, C. A., The Psychology of Human Society, pp. 10-11. But this is in no way circular of The ways of continuity of generations is included. THE POSITIVIST ATTACK This is an example of the characteristic fallacy of "social sci- once" and is worth noting on that account. Such descriptive gen- 211 eralizations as the one above, and the abstract concepts of which they are com
Node: 29961, Score: 0.014261186514927, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0358.txt, Content: ourg, and France also getting the benefit. The railroad system that conveyed the coking coal of the Ruhr to the ore of Lorraine was keyed into the fabric, and the mixed mills of the Saar Valley were fed by both. One of the principal products was cheap steel rails, and one of the principal families concerned was the Franco-German house of De Wendel. A sane world would have rejoiced over the expan- sion of its resources; and there were in fact certain leading men in both Germany, France, and Britain big enough to see it that way. But on the whole, the appeal of territorial nationalism to the mass mind was more influential. So the Versailles Treaty cut political and economic frontiers  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 264 across the whole technological integration, just as the Silesian struggle did farther east. The Ruhr remained German. The Lor- raine mills, with their insatiable appetite for Ruhr coal, became French. The Saar territory was placed under the absentee govern- ment of the League of Nations, but the French got the mines for fifteen years. It was not enough. French nationalism and high finance, which had taken a very active interest in the construction of Russian strategic railroads, and were now arranging a similar service to Poland, desired that the entire west European steel in- dustry be brought under French control. French realists, then as now, considered that the only way to disarm Germany. The Anglo- American blend of empiricism and idealism frustrated the attempt in 1919; it was renewed by Poincaré and the Fr e French Army in 1921 and 1923. By 1924 the failure of that method was apparent; bayo- nets had produced neither coal, reparations, nor stock participation in German heavy industry. The following year Germany was to recover most of her tariff autonomy, and there was every prospect of a vigorous trade war. Thanks very largely to American initiative and assistance pacific counsels prevailed. The reparations incubus was lifted out of politics with the aid
Node: 29767, Score: 0.0135856830145976, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0164.txt, Content: fore the function of risk bearing, necessarily gain in importance. Nonetheless, a strong element in proletarian mythology is the belief that it is possible for employees to retain the relative stability of contractual remu- neration-indeed, to enhance that stability-and at the same time capture for themselves the gains accruing to those who de- pend on a noncontractual and unpredictable return; while leaving 121 the losses to be absorbed by some other entity vaguely called the "state" or the "community" which in this connection means simply "not me." Under no system whatever is this possible; and the readiness to believe that it is springs from our innate disposition to evade responsibility. So well has this disposition been exploited by journalistic demagogues and some trade-union officeholders that a considerable proportion of wage-earning labor in the United States is now socially irresponsible. A contributory element in proletarian mythology is the notion that somewhere, at some time, the mass of the laborers did in fact receive both types of return, and were ipso facto better off. The myth of a primitive communism has been completely dissi- pated by modern scholarship, and the idea that the majority of the people ever "owned," either individually or collectively, what are now called the "means of production" is applicable only to a level of sustenance hardly distinguishable from animal life. Be- vond the most primitive stage, differentiation of function and conscious cooperation take the lead in social organization. Cer- tainly there existed in Roman times, in Northern Europe and prob- ably elsewhere, recognized common rights of access to wells, run- ning water, and woodlands; it is from these that German his -. torians like to trace the tradition of Teutonic democracy. But the transition from such cases of common rights to the modern con- ception of collective ownership is illegitimate; as are all such efforts to read modern notions of ownership or other insti
Node: 29996, Score: 0.0127821098435033, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0393.txt, Content: ortunity. Local governments and utility commissions can do much that is useful, and taxation policies should be directed toward the same objective. The program is economically as well as socially sound. In many areas of the United States, small and medium mills have come through the past decade with a better record than those of the industrial cities; and there is opportunity for many more, provided the requisite initiative is forthcoming. That, unfortu- nately, is hard to find; for the unwholesome urbanization of eco- nomic life has not only drained the countryside, but condemned to a routine existence a high proportion of those who might have been successful entrepreneurs and key men in small communities. This obviously touches on the whole problem of decentraliza- tion, which is one of the specific tasks of liberalism. It calls for de- termined cooperation on the part of all elements in society, and as a long-range project ranks second to none. For it affects not only production and distribution, but the conditions of both cultural and biological development. It is the one project that promises  290 THE LIBERAL TRADITION to salvage the family; and if people could be brought to see the future through the eyes of those who are the future-the children -the policy of decentralization might generate a commanding enthusiasm. $ 5 A SECOND and closely related problem is the restoration of an in- dependent and sound agriculture. From the liberal standpoint this cannot be solved by making the farmer a tenant or a ward of the state, or by making his livelihood depend on a perpetual pegging of prices, rigging of markets, and subsidizing of exports. Mr. Henry Wallace, in his famous booklet of 1934 entitled America Must Choose, frankly offered his program of state control as a second best to the alternative of restoring open international markets. He appears very speedily to have lost faith and hope in the latter- thereby contributing to its abandonment. There was a plausible
Node: 29745, Score: 0.0113154328055828, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0142.txt, Content: s it was one, really consisted. § 2 THE full force of the contract idea was first let loose not by the Protestants but by the Jesuits, in their case against divine-right monarchy. Bellarmine, Mariana, and Suárez, developing the thought of St. Thomas, all emphasize the conditional character of secular rule. It is, says Thomas, divinely ordained; but for that very reason, say his later exponents, it cannot be absolute. They give it a "natural" origin very much resembling that of Locke and Rousseau; but they add that when the exercise of secular authority traverses the conditions of its ordination (which include of course due respect for spiritual authority ) it is ipso facto void and must be cleared out of the way-if necessary, says Mariana, with an ax The Calvinists, in effect, agreed with them, practically as well as theoretically; and the instinct of the English rejected both. What later contract theorists are doing is to discuss sovereignty in terms of power when what they really want to talk about is function (their successors have very generally perpetuated the confusion ). And in order to discuss the proper function of sov- ereignty in human affairs, one must have some theory or con- spectus of human nature to begin with. That is why Hobbes Locke, Hume, Smith, Rousseau, Bentham, the Mills, and many lesser lights have to set up as psychologists before they can be political philosophers. And that is why the living impact of their work lies so largely in theories and declarations of "natural rights" They are saying, This is the true nature of man, and therefore If one does not agree with them the sentence will have a different conclusion. It has been well said that the net value of the various contract theories lies in the implication that all authority has a voluntary basis. That is their great and lasting contribution to the philosophy of liberalism. It holds good even of Hobbes, whose "social con- tract" hardly comes within the category. His "natural" men agree
Node: 29776, Score: 0.0110731193349929, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0173.txt, Content: ight of nature and reason will do that which makes for his greatest ad- vantage. . . The advancement of private persons will be the advantage of the public" 6-no need for the state any more to bother about justice! So argued the English clothiers against state regulation of industry at the very time when Colbert was vigorously extending it in France; and by the early eighteenth century do- mestic trade and production were largely free. Opposition to the principle of control, failure of the machinery to keep pace with the economic evolution, and reluctance of both state and gild of- ficials to use what machinery there was all played their parts in the emancipation. But so long as there was an important section of the legislature mindful of the old tradition, Parliament was loth to set the masters free to do what they liked with their workpeople. The industrial disputes of the eighteenth century produced a series of anticom- bination laws for specific industries; but the prohibitions laid on combination are supplemented by wage-fixing machinery in the Elizabethan pattern. The fact that employers appealed to Parlia- ment rather than the courts suggests that the existing law could not be relied on to work in their favor. It is true that the Cambridge master tailors in 1721 got a verdict branding the men's union as a conspiracy;7 but in that same year the London tailors, similarly harassed, petitioned Parliament and got a law with wage-fixing clauses in its tail; and apparently the law was a more important precedent than the verdict. The clothiers went through a similar procedure, with a similar result, in 1726. "While the state refused to recognize the right of working men to combine together for the 6. Quoted in Tawney, R. H., Religion and the Rise of Capitalism, p. 259. 7. Hedges, R. Y., and Winterbottom, A., Legal History of Trade Unionism, chap. ii; see also Bryan, J. W., Development of the English Law of Conspiracy ( Johns Hopkins Studies in Historical and Politica
Node: 29998, Score: 0.0107335629329896, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0395.txt, Content: ain resorted to, as a desperate final endeavor, in de- spite of the antidumping laws of this and other nations: 34 cents a bushel on wheat at this writing, 4 cents a pound on cotton-with Brazil still underselling the American South. The longer this busi- ness is persisted in the higher will be the costs of it and the more permanent the loss of markets. There is always a farm problem. The primary producer has to bear the brunt not only of fluctuations in general demand but of uncontrollable fluctuations in his particular field of supply. Those long-term shifts in the world balance caused by biological and technological changes also come home to him; and so do the more avoidable shifts of national trade and tariff policy. His toughest problems have always arisen as the sequel to wars. There is there- fore a strong case, recognized in other sections of the Wallace program, for measures that increase the resilience, adaptability, and staying power of farm credit and marketing organizations. But such measures defeat their own purpose when they seek to isolate the agricultural economy from the long-run influences that determine the allocation of productive resources. American policy would have been more beneficial had it stuck to its announced aim of agricultural adjustment, without seeking to counteract the phe- nomena that indicate the necessity and the scope of the adjust- ment. American policy, like that of Britain and other countries, is rightly concerned to preserve agriculture as a way of life, and not merely for economic reasons. With this aim liberalism has a pro- found sympathy; but liberalism does not consider the aim well 2 served by severance from economic realities and permanent de- pendence on state action. State action, based on justice, is in order to relieve agriculture of special disabilities insofar as it can do so. In Britain these mainly arise from landlordism; and the claims of landlords are therefore subject to special scrutiny and, if neces- sary,
Node: 30006, Score: 0.010391390618851, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0403.txt, Content: nce against abnormal unemployment have achieved a fair standard of earnings, then our working community divides into three classes: those who can and do make voluntary provision; those who can and do not; and a smaller group for who LIBERALISM IN CRISIS 297 one reason or another cannot. In this view the case for all-round co- ercion would appear to be weaker; and it would also appear prob- able that an all-inclusive scheme would exert a depressing effect upon real wages. Some doubt may also be felt about divorcing economic security from economic function. While no complete occupational stabili- zation is possible or desirable, the sense of responsibility of both firm and industry for the economic status of their own working forces is surely to be encouraged. State responsibility does not necessarily weaken it, but it tends to do so. And in the same way, the employees' interest is increasingly concentrated on the state as the source of benefits. That is in fact one of the principal rea- sons why collectivists and conservatives have usually been more cordial toward state paternalism than have liberals; the "strong state" has not hitherto been a liberal ideal, and a cooperative com- monwealth is not necessarily monistic and state centered. § 9 The British Liberal Party has however-not without dissentient voices-decided to go all the way with Sir William Beveridge. A delegate 9 to the 1945 party conference wondered whether Sir William had joined the party or the party had joined Sir William; it will be of great interest to see how far he will take it. In his "second report" 10 the state emerges in full uniform as commander in chief. The liberty of the individual to own means of production and make independent decisions about output and wages, even the liberty of corporations and trade-unions to make such de- cisions, is put in jeopardy: an all-wise state with its "Department of Control" knows better, and dictates all major strategy. Every- thing is planned, and all acti
Node: 29765, Score: 0.0101628053656275, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0162.txt, Content: ion put upon it. A large proportion of the members of society always have been wage earners, and always will be. It is only a minority, in any society, that either can or will depend for its sustenance on a non- contractual, fluctuating, and unpredictable remuneration when there is a chance of something more stable. The fact that in mod- ern societies vast masses of people are enabled to receive for their labor a steady predictable return, subject to only occasional changes and rare interruptions that are universally regarded as disastrous, constitutes a triumph of social organization that all preceding ages might envy. There is no subject on which power- hungry intellectuals have written more nonsense than this. If they or the workers whose backing they bid for have any doubt that it is a triumph, let them experience for a few years what nature and the market can do to the farmer, the fisherman, or the crafts- man working on his own. The social organization that has accomplished this has been voluntary, that is to say, in the legal sense private; and when we remember that it has been accompanied by a steady rise in the standard of living, a universal extension of education and the po- litical franchise, the growth of religious and political toleration, a spectacular improvement in public health, a marked lengthen- ing-apart from war-of the expectation of life, and a very sub-  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 120 CAPITAL AND LABOR stantial attainment of the many things that we mean by freedom -then we may find ground for distrusting those who would sub- vert the basic principles upon which this much has been accom- plished. The onus of proof is on them. The proletariat is an idea rather than an actuality, precipitated by that vague and chronic discontent which materialism always engenders among the half educated. Its factual components lie in the three following processes: (1) the social separation of those who depend on the difference between selling price and cost from thos
Node: 29929, Score: 0.0101411100339572, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0326.txt, Content: ffectively abandoned; in no future international organization will small states be allowed a veto power, by the rule of unanimity or otherwise, over policies on which the big ones are agreed. But it was an essential part of the Wilsonian scheme that the disintegrative tendency of self- determination should be countered by an effective interstate or- ganization; and the very nature of the one part of his program pro- vided plenty of work for the other. All that is changed-mainly by the enormous advance in the tech- nology of war, to which international realities are bound to con- form. Assuming that the announced intentions of the Anglo- RETREAT FROM LIBERALISM American allies toward Germany and Japan are carried out, there will be, for the next few decades, only three powers in the world 24] What can produce or control enough machinery, chemicals, and bert personnel to wage modern war. Even among these the posi- won of Britain is highly contingent, and the influence of the do- minions in regard to foreign commitments will be increasingly conservative. China can be considered an international power only insofar as some other economy is brought in to arm and equip for undernourished millions; and it may be that the Chinese peo- ole will eventually prefer to take their chance without all this expensive apparatus. Considerable areas of the planet must be regarded for the fore- ceeable future, as beyond the action of any international organi- sation based on the counteraggression theory. First among these, of course, is the British Empire and Commonwealth of Nations, comprising one fourth of the world's land surface and about the came proportion of its population; to which may be added, for all practical purposes, the extensive territories mandated to Britain and the dominions after the first World War, with whatever else may be picked up after this one. It is a safe guess, backed by ample evidence, that the internal relationships of this vast system will in 30 circumsta
Node: 30005, Score: 0.0098869060287217, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0402.txt, Content: old age) pensions, death grants, pensions and benefits for widows and or- phans. From 54 to 64 per cent of the whole cost of the service is to come from taxation; of the insurance features alone, from 31 to 50 per cent. The cost will be very high; and with the increasing age composition of the population during the next thirty years, it will steadily grow higher. The aim is to establish for everyone, as of right, a minimum subsistence level under all circumstances. The popularity of the scheme lies undoubtedly in its promise of a degree of security to millions of persons that they would not otherwise be able to count on; but inasmuch as the scheme does not put the state into business nor provide any new sources of in- come, it is evident that it will not provide them with something for nothing. The only extra resource the state has at its disposal is the power to coerce through taxation and compulsory contribu- tion; though we might include the ways by which a state can get itself into or out of debt that are not available to ordinary busi- nessmen. Undoubtedly, however, the mass of the people do expect to receive more than they pay in. That cannot be true of the en- tire community; but since the number who expect to be mulcted is far smaller than the number who expect to win, popular support is assured. If, one would suppose, the ordinary worker in private employ- ment cannot earn enough to provide, with reasonable care and foresight, for the ordinary contingencies of life- e including mar- riage and the raising of children, occasional sickness and misfor- tune, and provision for old age-then there is something wrong with the level of wages, or the conventional way of living, or both. If we assume that minimum wage laws plus collective bargaining plus collective insurance against abnormal unemployment have achieved a fair standard of earnings, then our working community divides into three classes: those who can and do make voluntary provision; those who can and do
Node: 30012, Score: 0.0085944196783265, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0409.txt, Content: authority will decide the other uses. There may be occasions on which budgetary balancing is a legiti- mate aim; but it is never to be a primary aim. This freedom of the administration from financial accountability is to be achieved-as it has been in the United States-on the principle that "the State in matters of finance is in a different posi- tion from any private citizen or association of private citizens; it is able to control money in place of being controlled by it" (par. 198). This means that the state is able to carry on indefinitely a borrowing-spending program that would break any corporation in no time at all: but only the state. (Sir William is not unaware that too stringent a taxing policy might lose votes. ) What a wonderful virtue is there! A citizen unversed in this gospel might ask whether the interminable loans would always be forthcoming. The answer is that, in contrast to previous declarations of Liberal Party policy in Britain and of orthodox finance in America, the state is to take over the central bank of issue, which will "become in peace as it is in war an agency of the State, to give effect to the national policy, and with the Governor of the Bank formally appointed by the Government" (par. 242). On the above lines, Sir William is able to argue, as Professor Seymour Harris has done, that a further, and almost unprece- dented 11 expansion of public debt is not only sound, but sup- portable without increase of the tax burden; since the expanding tax base provided by the expanding expenditure will take care of the expanding interest and sinking-fund charges, and these are all that need be seriously considered. If there are secondary effects adverse to the provision or maintenance of employment by private enterprise, the state is fully equipped to counteract them by an expansion of its activities. There is no stop this side of paradise; for the inflationary spiral is constantly held in check by an ex- 11. Almost, but not quite: the experience
Node: 29892, Score: 0.0083628335773766, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0289.txt, Content: tion; that apart from these, mental and spiritual activity are simple delusions; that the kind of response a man will make to a given situation is "deter- mined" by the biological factors. Well, of course it is-in the sense that one does not get flute music out of a bass viol; but however this notion be elaborated-and it is elaborated in the most varied and ingenious ways- all the meaning in it is that a man behaves like a man because he is a man, and that if he were some other  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 214 kind of creature he would behave like that other kind of creature That is about as much in the way of a general theory of man as modern cytology will support. Proof of this profound theorem i constantly accruing as enterprising "researchers" discover new tricks to play on him, new bits to cut out of him and new drugs to squirt into him; for when these things are done, behold the man acts, feels, and even thinks differently from what he did beforel It is even possible, to a certain limited extent, to catalogue the differences and relate them to the means employed; and it is de- monstrable that if enough of these means are employed, the man will cease to be human at all. Some knowledge of the mechanism of the body is arrived at in this way, as are some useful devices for the correction of functional abnormalities; but to suppose that it sheds light on the nature of the human being as such is possible only to those who have made up their minds at the outset that the human being is nothing but an assemblage of biochemical reac- tions. There are questions one must not ask of these pundits: Why for instance, does the man make any response to the situation in the first place? To answer that, one has to drag in theories like "vitalism" which savor of philosophy or even religion-and what a theory is that which begs the entire question in the name it gives itself! Or, granting the profound theorem that hat a man acts in such and such a way because he is a such-and-such kind o
Node: 30007, Score: 0.0081974514148188, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0404.txt, Content: s and trade-unions to make such de- cisions, is put in jeopardy: an all-wise state with its "Department of Control" knows better, and dictates all major strategy. Every- thing is planned, and all activity is gleichgeschaltet (have the in- tellectuals forgotten that word? ). Full employment becomes the permanent aim of an active and expanding policy of state management. Every officer knows how much more difficult it is to keep the men fully occupied in peace than in war, and the policy therefore calls for careful elaboration. Yet the definition of full employment remains curiously vague. It is not clear, for example, whether it includes the provision of jobs 9. Reported by George Murray in Transatlantic Daily Mail, February 14, 1945. 10. Beveridge, W. H., Full Employment in a Free Society (1944).  298 THE LIBERAL TRADITION for that large number of married women and mothers who will always seek work at good money wages in preference to staying at home and having less to spend. The question of hours of work is practically ignored. The older liberalism accepted the view that the primary benefit of increased productivity under mechaniza- tion should be increased leisure; many liberals looked forward to the six-hour day for factory employment-even if it meant some increase in per capita physical cost- and desired increasing facili- ties for spontaneous activity, including access to land. While these ideals are not excluded by the terms of the report, they are certainly not emphasized and the prospect of full employment looks a little grim. Underlying the Beveridge scheme is the patent assumption that a voluntary economy will never again provide full employment, but will fall short of it in such degree and with such frequency that the state must assume permanent control of all major phases of economic activity. This assumption is made more plausible by the rigidity of the employment datum that is postulated. It also gains plausibility by what, to the writer, is a gross und
Node: 29628, Score: 0.0081490625518568, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0025.txt, Content: ich the dynamic powers of man as a tool-making animal can be reconciled with his aspiration as a spiritual being to live in true human community. While conservatism may be the guardian, liberalism is the architect of community-of community ever wid- ening in both physical and spiritual scope. The liberal method alone can transform the crude propinquity of force or necessity into the true community of mind and will. That is its perennial function. The one thing certain about the whole human enterprise is that it will not stay still. There can be no such thing any more as a closed community: the American fleet disposed of that possibility ninety years ago. Every technical achievement of the contriving 12. Reported in PM, March 16, 1944. 17 animal widens the area of his effective impact on his fellow crea- tures-even when he tried to hoard his secrets; and much as he would prefer that impact to become community, he finds that like as not it turns to slaughter. It is hard for him to recognize that all his contriving is ethically, axiologically neutral. Yet as fast as he invents new weapons he discovers new enemies on which to try them; and while he fashions new products for the health and comfort of his kind, he fights for the plants and minerals from which they come. There is nothing whatever in the nature of human contriving to stop all this; yet if one suggests that its outcome may well be general chaos or the extermination of the species, something in the contriving creature protests that that can not, must not, be. In some dim way the creature loves his kind, even when he destroys it with all the efficiency his brain affords him. He wishes, even as he kills, to know and dwell in amity with these other people: not all the propaganda of all the "experts" can quite eradicate that wish. He would, if only he knew how, scatter life instead of death upon them: but for that he must know more surely what life is. To ensure that man the contriver is man the life bringer rath