Node: 29741, Score: -0.0400000489471538, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0138.txt, Content: can people-in more respects than one. 20. Acton, Lord, History of Freedom, pp. 4, 11, 78, 64-65, 83. VI Sovereignty versus Community 1. Responsibility for the people. - 2. Contract theories. - 3. Nature from Hobbes to Bentham. - 4. Locke and Laski on property. - 5. Adam Smith and the liberal tradition. § 1 A LFRED, philosopher and king of the West Saxons in the ninth century, took his responsibilities very seriously; and in his translation of Boethius he inserted some of his re- fections on "the work which I was commanded to perform." He saw it as a kind of craft of which his people were the instruments. He must therefore cherish and provide for them. "This then is their provision: land to inhabit, and gifts, and weapons, and meat, and ale, and clothes, and whatsoever is necessary." He was in- sistent and careful that they should learn to read and have some good books, including their own history and legends; and he thought of the poor as his particular charge, since "the poor have no friend but the king." "For every craft and every power soon becomes old, and is passed over in silence, if it be without wis- dom. ... This is now especially to be said: that I wished to live honourably whilst I lived, and after my life to leave to the men who were after me my memory in good works." 1 The sense of a responsibility that was upward, not downward, a responsibility not to but for the people, never quite faded out of English polity, even after the kings had ceased to acknowledge any earthly mentor; and the alliance of crown and people against privilege was, on the whole, in the Christian era, more than a mat- ter of expediency. Responsibility for the people is a much more onerous burden than responsibility to the people, and no amount of theorizing about a "general will" can turn it into the same thing. 1. Cunningham, William, The Growth of English Industry and Commerce, I, 132-133.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 102 It is an essentially aristocratic principle, indicating the neces
Node: 29927, Score: -0.0399563609316452, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0324.txt, Content: irations of human beings, and therefore morally accountable, is a piece of pure abstraction for which not even Hegel can be held responsible. It is a habit of modern journalism, catering to that mixture of vulgar passion and dominant materialism which renders unto Caesar the things that are God's because Caesar can be bribed. To treat states as if they were, or could be, moral agents, was a policy tried for centuries. Everywhere the attempt led to disap- pointment and disaster. Nations in which personal liberty was safest grew up under systems established by men-like the Whigs of the English Revolution and the American founding fathers- who had no illusions about the nature of mass action, and took particular pains to keep the state in its place. The glorification of the state by French doctrinaires and German idealists produced a situation in which both the liberty of the subject and the safety of outsiders were perpetually imperiled. The state cannot attain a higher plane of action than that of the people who run it; and as the sphere of its domestic operations becomes wider, while its pur- noses become almost exclusively economic, it tends to strike a lower and lower average. Those who dream of universal peace arising from the interactions of a congeries of states are likely to be awakened by the nightmare of universal war. § 6 NO FALLACY has done as much to sidetrack American idealism as the notion of a "world police force." As every citizen knows when he is sober (and sometimes discovers when he is drunk ) the police- man is merely the symbol and agent of community. He can be effective as a policeman only because there is general agreement  240 THE LIBERAL TRADITION in the community as to what the rules of conduct shall be, so that infractions are universally recognized as exceptional, nal, and rarely occur. The function of the policeman presupposes the community: he does not create the community. If no community exists the policeman is no longer a policeman bu
Node: 29898, Score: -0.0366994420295281, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0295.txt, Content: question, however, how far that in terest can be intelligently pursued with the postulates, and the techniques, inherited from Doctor Freud; and it is certain that the equipment for the cure of souls must include in future a wider training than he envisaged: notably, and emphatically, a training in philosophy. Enknow theology § 8 MORAL determinism is so obvious an outcome of the foregoing that it scarcely needs illustration. It leads inevitably to that moral relativism which is almost a hallmark of positivist sociology. Ideal absolutes are barred: they cannot be empirically established. What people want is what their circumstances make them want, and in the circumstances it is right-so far as there is any right-for them to want it. Different groups want different things, and there- fore formulate different value systems. Each group thinks and does what it must, and that is all there is to it. If the other group can be persuaded, or "conditioned," to want the same things, and there- fore formulate the same ideals, as we do, there may be peace; if not, since each system is right for each group, we shall find our- selves in conflict, and superior force will solve the ethical problem This goes right down to the plane of individual behavior. Here also positivism achieves a grand simplification. Conscience itself is socially determined: a thesis which tallies with, and is to some extent indebted to, that of Doctor Freud. "The mores," says Pro- fessor Kimball Young, "consist of the codes of social conduct which grow up in any community or society. The mores ar nes are the generally accepted and expected forms of conduct which are assumed to be necessary for group welfare." They frequently acquire there- fore a religious sanction; and Dr. Young is inclined to be tolerant of this trimming, since it gives a man "surcease from worry and considerable faith in himself. . . . In contrast therefore to the common sense material world we find a world based on fantasy and wishful thi
Node: 29696, Score: -0.0360838700196075, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0093.txt, Content: ay Bible readers of northern France. And we are reminded of those Milanese "ragpickers" of yet a hundred years earlier, who stood up to the papal legates and made their case against the worldli- ness of the clergy and the corruption of the Church. Or we think of the homespun evangelism of Toulouse, Périgord, Languedoc, and Provence some of it influenced, no doubt, by alien heresy, but most of it indigenous, with its farmer preachers and its tough antisacerdotal bent. Farther back still we could go: all the way back to those poor men of Galilee and their Master who remon- strated in vain with the ecclesiastics of His day. Or forward to His great disciple, Long Will of Langland, with his incomparable vision of the "fair field full of folk." And thinking of that, we recall the English mystics of the fourteenth century, who add their pe- culiar directness to the more famous work of the time; we catch a glimpse of the little people of London, apprentices and serving- men, tailors and smiths, bakers and wool dealers, secretly reading or hearing the Bible and other forbidden books. We remember the hedgerow preachers and their earnest auditors, we catch the echoes of the Lollard rhymes and the clatter of the mallets nailing up their libels, a hundred years before Luther, even on the doors of St. Paul's and the Abbey, in the name of "we, pore men, tresoreris of Cryst and His apostlis." History knows not how many, through all those centuries, gave up their humble lives for their simple truth. The fact is, we are dealing here not with something sporadic and occasional but with something permanent in the life of so- ciety, something which is there all the time. For while we think of the social order as existing in historical time, changing its pat- tern, as a rule rather slowly, with the passing of the years, we must remember also that new life is flowing into it, and through it, every moment-intellectual and spiritual life as well as bio- logical-in which respect, as Heraclitu
Node: 29647, Score: -0.0347169937333424, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0044.txt, Content: "good" life and the "good" society that became less and less serviceable as they became more and more complete. The freedom to which Pericles and the poets looked back was essentially a simple and immediate thing, the very air of the golden age; but by the time the phi- losophers had finished taking it to pieces no human power could put it together again. It does not detract from the merit of the analytic school to suggest that the opposition to it was also not without reason: though not the sort of reason that could be de- fined by the analytic method. The root of the trouble was, and is, that actual life and its aims as experienced can never be brought completely within the scope of a rational definition. The Socratic position that happiness is virtue, that virtue is knowledge, and that knowledge commands assent, did in fact leave something out; and that something, as Aristotle noted, was the breath of life. ? ? ? So today academic philosophers, expounding the didactic legacy of Greece, render their exclusive homage to Apollo and Pallas Athene, leaving Dionysus and Aphrodite to the poets; but these are jealous gods, not always to be appeased with verses. It is far harder \ to impart the joy of life than the rules of living. The average lay- man, hearing the name of Hellas, thinks vaguely or vividly of theaters and temples, processions and festivals, painting and sculp- ture, wrestling and dancing, of lovely boys and girls under a Medi- terranean sky; but so much a dream it is, the contrast with his own drab destiny escapes him. Yet as certain modern philosophers have insisted-Nietzsche, Spengler, Sorokin in particular-that Greek culture, like the high mediaeval culture, was all one. The banquet of Callias was no mere figure of speech: the Syracusan and his flute girl, Critobulus and the mimes, were as much a part of it as the wine and the wisdom. What the modern young are offered is little more than the bones of the feast. Perhaps that is all that can survive in t
Node: 29740, Score: -0.0343520591207945, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0137.txt, Content: d in America with the character of a moral cru- sade; and in that aspect it seems to warrant an enlargement of state prerogative that would be tolerated on no other pretext. Such a combination of interrelated circumstances has all the makings of a serious crisis for American liberalism. In this juncture some of Acton's observations are worth recall- ing. "The most certain test by which we judge whether a country is really free is the amount of security enjoyed by minorities . . It is bad to be oppressed by a minority, it is worse to be oppressed by a majority." He traced the decadence of Athenian democracy to "the possession of unlimited power, which corrodes the con- science, hardens the heart, and confounds the understanding of monarchs." In the decline of the Roman principate he noted "the dogma that absolute power may, by the hypothesis of a popular origin, be as legitimate as constitutional freedom." And with re-  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 100 spect to the need for principle in affairs of state he said: "A gov- ernment entirely dependent on opinion looks for some security what that opinion shall be, strives for the control of the forces that shape it, and is fearful of suffering the people to be educated in sentiments hostile to its institutions. It is worth while also to recall Acton's constant praise of the American Constitution for its self-limiting qualities: "Whilst Eng- land was admired for the safeguards with which, in the course of many centuries, it had fortified liberty against the power of the Crown, America appeared still more worthy of admiration for the safeguards which, in the deliberations of a single memorable year. it had set up against the power of its own sovereign people." 20 Yes: what was said and done that year has still its message for the American people-in more respects than one. 20. Acton, Lord, History of Freedom, pp. 4, 11, 78, 64-65, 83. VI Sovereignty versus Community 1. Responsibility for the people. - 2. Contract theories. - 3. Natu
Node: 29754, Score: -0.0334298790480879, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0151.txt, Content: t all the members of his party agreed with him. mitte Laski's case against Locke is a major part of his case against liberalism, and therefore demands examination. In an early work of 1919 (dedicated to Walter Lippmann ) he has given us a finely critical appreciation of the good physician; and his subsequent withdrawal is based not on Locke's theory so much as on its effects. By putting the preservation of property among the cardinal func- tions of the state, and committing legislation to men whose prime interest that was, Locke made himself responsible for a system that favored privilege and perpetuated inequality: that is the 9. Locke, op. cit., II, chap. v. 10. Butler, G. G., The Tory Tradition, p. 56. SOVEREIGNTY VERSUS COMMUNITY 111 charge. To the passage quoted in our first chapter, we may add the following from the same work: "Ireton's state is a society of property owners; and that, at bottom, is Locke's ideal also. The Pike of regulation is a dislike of limitations upon the right of property to do what it will with its own. The good citizen is the Pan who has achieved, or is achieving, prosperity; the law is to be the law he conceives himself to need. .. . Out of the moral crisis of the seventeenth century there emerged a liberalism, indeed, but one attuned to the implications of the religion of success. That is not a religion which differs very profoundly from age to age. It is the creed of the Pharisee. . . . Its enclosures separate the peasant from the land; its rules of commercial ownership leave the industrial worker with nothing but his labour to sell. we Having made inequality an implicit article of its faith, it then invites to freedom those who are denied the means of reaching it." 11 This line of attack on the institution of private property and on the importance assigned to it, not only by the English Whigs but by the framers of the American Constitution, is at heart emo- tional rather than historical. It imputes to the founders a fore- knowledge
Node: 29867, Score: -0.0326951001118123, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0264.txt, Content: ing upward to, and all depend on, the one su- REINTEGRATION 195 preme perception. If that is clear, then the living truth will inform the second and third spheres also; and if that is wrong then all else will be wrong-that is, disorderly, chaotic. No church or sect has, or claims, a monopoly of this perception. But in the general eclipse that accompanied the rise of technical civilization, a certain advantage lay with what is now quaintly termed "institutional religion." That had, at least, a toughness of tradition, of dogma and liturgy, that could protect the essentially religious impulse until the smoke began to lift. The Protestant sects, within whose membership was some of the purest piety, were more exposed to the individualism of the era; and popular religion tended more and more to become identified with individ- ual morality. But any religion conceived primarily as a system of individual ethical sanctions is bound to be largely anthropocentric, and will probably end by losing, or discarding, its religious con- tent altogether with no serious sense of loss. The ultrarespectable religion of Victorian times-Matthew Arnold's "morality touched with emotion"-was not religion at all, and it was never quite clear why there should be any emotion. We have since heard a good deal about "scientific ethics"; and it is evident that sects whose major emphasis has been on individual conduct are running more and more to ethical culture, amateur psychiatry, and social re- form-in which fields they are neither fish, flesh, nor fowl. They find themselves competing with, or trailing after, the secular agen- cies of field work or research, and losing their way in the welter of economic and social programs; so that those who want to retain what religion they have become uncomfortably aware of the lack of connection between the topical discourses they hear from the pulpit and the sentimental terms and associations in which those discourses are set. Religion becomes mere uplift and
Node: 29901, Score: -0.0319088992675481, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0298.txt, Content: is both permissible and useful is that in which dogma is expressly recognized as defining faith, not knowledge. and it is to faith alone that the language of absolutism is osophically appropriate. The exhaustion of the materialist do phil- trine is patent when that doctrine itself dons the robe of dogmatic absolutism which it so strenuously denies to every other discipline loc- But in denouncing this pose the critic must not overlook the elements of truth that lie behind it. The idealist, for example, will deny that conscience is socially determined in a fundamental or total sense; he does not thereby deny that part of its specific con tent is so determined. A distinction is made between the inherent drive toward spiritual wholeness and the manifestations of tha impulse under any particular circumstances. Thus the notion that the separate individual conscience is an autonomous and final court of appeal is as misleading as the opposite ite error. In recog- nizing the validity of the appeal to conscience, one does not thereby assert that conscience is beyond and independent of all guidance and enlightenment. Similarly, when the idealist disputes the iden- tification of morals with mores, and maintains that there is more to morality than meets the sociological eye, he does not assert th the specific dictates of morality are all immutable. The teaching of Jesus is especially illuminating on this point. Seventy years ago, in some parts of New England, smoking was a more damnable vice than drinking; today both habits are largely outside the scope of specific moral precept, and parts of the sex ethic are probably undergoing a similar transition. On the other hand it must be recognized that the blatant insincerity, vulgarity, and sensational- ism of certain aspects of American life are now within the scope 16. Koffka, K., Principles of Gestalt Psychology, pp. 684-685. THE POSITIVIST ATTACK 221 of the sternest moral judgment. The essential distinction is that between the be
Node: 29686, Score: -0.0317858439262963, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0083.txt, Content: ority, appeal was made to one of two-as it was to fun! were, fragmentary-substitutes: either to state establishments ancelone; only that retained a church but dropped the catholicity, or to declara-sew/ tions of rights that retained the catholicity (in theory at least) but when  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 60 dropped the Church. Each had its limitations; and the two halves failed to make a whole. In comparing our ideas and institutions with those of another age, a strenuous effort is needed to escape the folly of provincial- ism in time and space. We are beset by the temptation to seek only the "origins" of things we consider important-assuming that those origins lie mainly, or solely, in the temporal succession of events; to high light the picture so that all the rest remains obscure; and thus to produce the illusion that its entire meaning is exhausted in the satisfaction of our curiosity. In this way the nineteenth-century dogma of "progress" still controls our per- spective. What we may profitably seek in history are the under- lying truths of human nature, and the ways in which those truths have been implemented by other societies in other times. Among those ways some of great value-and some of little value-are still open to us; these we have in many cases paved and widened But others are buried deep in the ever-encroaching jungle of human passion and perversity; and among them may be some that could lead us out of our present confusion. To search for these calls for intellectual and moral courage. Particularly is this true in the neglected field of political phi- losophy. "It is very difficult for us to interpret the mediaeval tem- per: we are still in a large measure under the influence of a con- ception of sovereignty as representing some absolute and even arbitrary authority in the state or the church which was unknown to the Middle Ages. The only sovereignty they recognized was that of the law; and even that was subject to the law of God or nature." 2 It was evi
Node: 29634, Score: -0.0311381144549455, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0031.txt, Content: eglect the state because he takes care of his own household; and even those of us who are engaged in business have a very fair idea of politics. We alone regard a man who takes no interest in public affairs, not as a harmless, but as a useless character; and if few of us are originators, we are all sound judges of policy. The great impediment to action is, in our opinion, not discussion, but the want of that knowledge which is gained by discussion preparatory to action. For we have a peculiar power of thinking before we act and of acting too, whereas other men are courageous from ignorance but hesitate upon reflection. . . . There is no exclusiveness in our public life, and in our private intercourse we are not suspicious of one an- other, nor angry with our neighbour if he does what he likes. While we are thus unconstrained in our private intercourse, a spirit of reverence pervades our public acts; we are prevented from doing wrong by respect for the authorities and for the laws, having an espe- cial regard to those which are ordained for the protection of the injured as well as to those unwritten laws which bring upon the transgressor of them the reprobation of the general sentiment.2 That was the gist of the panegyric, uttered at the beginning of a fratricidal war in which all the weaknesses of Greek democracy were to be fatally manifested. And the reason for its utterance, the motive of that proud and loving care with which the great his- torian defined the Greek ideal, was precisely that which in our own time has called forth so much writing about liberty and democ- racy. Freedom, like health, is seldom discussed until it is disappearing; then suddenly it changes from a postulate to a problem. The man, be he ancient Greek or modern German, who is free to do what he likes without incurring the suspicion or the anger of his neighbors, does not go about discussing the fact; so long as he can find some- thing satisfying to do, he does it, and talks about the job, t
Node: 29680, Score: -0.0309203354205992, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0077.txt, Content: ay not mean very much. For whatever constraint may lie upon a man's actions, his conscience cannot be anything but free so far as hu- man agency is concerned (the contrary argument is deterministic and we shall examine it in due course). It means more too than the claim to act in conformity with conscience and not to be com- pelled to act against it; though that claim needs today very vigi- lant defenders. It means, in the final analysis, that state action is confined within a boundary that the state does not itself deter- mine but which it may not transgress; and that on matters of right and wrong the state is denied the last word. The individual may say to the state in practical matters, I think you are wrong but for the sake of peace and expediency I will assent to your policy; but when the state says to the individual, I know I am right and I call upon you to testify to that fact-then comes the parting of the ways; one way may lead to tyranny while the other leads to the concentration camp and the firing squad. § 6 THE argument thus comes back to the question of rights, with which this chapter opened: one right in particular. The American Declaration of Independence states as the very first of its "truths" that "all men are created equal." The claim is made for "all," not merely-as the Greeks and Romans would have made it-for citizens; but the only support offered for the proposition is that it is "self-evident." Apart however from those Christian postulates which the founding fathers inherited, it is not evident at all, it is preposterous. To the natural eye men are certainly not created  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 56 equal, neither in heredity, biological endowment, circumstance, opportunity, nor luck; and in fact no human ordinance can alto- gether counteract their inequality. The French declaration which followed (in both senses) the American one thirteen years later repeats the proposition, but adds "as regards their rights"; and in the preamble it claims "the a
Node: 29947, Score: -0.0303483806861524, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0344.txt, Content: e judiciary. The history of the United States since 1933 has been an amazing demonstration of this fact. It is evident not only in the degree to which executive orders have been used to circumvent the Congress, executive agreements to circumvent the Senate, and executive power applied to influence the courts; it is evident in the attitude of executive officers toward the people, their representatives, and the press. Some of the most powerful  254 THE LIBERAL TRADITION officials in the land disdainfully refuse all communication or ex- planation, in a fashion that not even the most popular of British premiers could dream of following. Other officials expound their policies at their own convenience in articles and statements for the magazines which Congressmen are graciously permitted to read after publication. "At his press conferences," says an ex- perienced and judicious observer,6 "the President, in an affable manner, succeeds in telling very little news on international mat- ters. It is almost fair to say that he regards these meetings as men- tal contests with the White House correspondents." Following his lead, there arose a perceptible disposition to treat the in- stitutions, powers, and practices of representative government in America as necessary nuisances in the application of the higher wisdom; but if in truth state policies are beyond the understanding or the sympathy of the common people, would not democracy be better served, in the long run, by modifying the policies than by short-circuiting the procedure? Much of the difficulty arises from the fact that the realities of power politics stand in sorry contrast to the ends for which the American people have supposed themselves to be fighting; and it must be said in fairness that this contrast is inherent in the situa- tion. The Roosevelt administration was more afraid of disillusion than it was of disunity; but both are on the way; the part of wis- dom is to seek for the most tolerable settlement compatib
Node: 29693, Score: -0.0298385478101199, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0090.txt, Content: oint of view. Thus the corporate aspect of spiritual life is almost entirely absent from the perspective. Again, the full significance of the his- 5. Dawson, C., The Judgment of the Nations, p. 98. 6. Ruggiero, Guido de, European Liberalism, p. 14. 7. Bury, J. B., History of Freedom of Thought, p. 52. THE BREAKDOWN OF UNIVERSALITY 65 forical struggle is dwarfed; and since Niebuhr is far too good a scholar to view the matter as a simple escape from bondage to liberty, a peculiarly difficult dilemma arises. It seems at times as if his sole solution lay in advancing from the priesthood of all be- lievers to the principle of every man his own theologian-which in Cromwell's time led not so far as was hoped for. The second type of interpretation is to most modern readers more familiar; it is that which emphasizes the interplay of secular impulse and material circumstance. In this view the expansion of trade, the rise of a money economy, the advance of science, and the discovery of the new world play the leading roles; to these and the derivative factors is ascribed the dominant influence in the development of the Protestant ethic. Contemporary material- ism invokes the authority of Marx for this view in its extreme form; but as Tawney very justly observes,8 Marx was a better sociologist than economist; and in his interpretation of history Marx was not a very good Marxist. He expressly denied that economic causes are the only ones, and expected them to become less and less im- portant. Perhaps his modern exponents would consent to admit him as a "fellow traveler." The weight of his emphasis, however, as applied by Sombart, Weber, Tawney, and many others, has opened up a most valuable field of investigation; both our knowl- edge and our understanding have been immensely enriched-and the problem of historical interpretation given a fresh complexity. Two major distinctions must be borne in mind in our approach to the mainsprings of the modern world. First is the distinction b
Node: 29881, Score: -0.0293907406303052, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0278.txt, Content: nciples of ethics has not proved particularly fruitful. The difficulty for the modern positivist of accepting even so temperate a caution is twofold: it seems to take the meaning out  206 § 3 207 THE LIBERAL TRADITION of history, as he understands history; and it too painfully deflates the rationalist ego insofar as that has nothing left to fall back on As BERGSON has remarked, "our intellect has its instincts." There is an inherent tendency in every naïve intellectual to regard him- self as the heir of all the ages. It probably arises from an unana- lyzed experience of time as a directional flow, and it makes ver plausible the notion of history as a secular progress culminating in himself: culminating, that is, pro tempore, in a "specious pres ent," through which history is supposed to be De moving forward toward a still bigger-and-better future. From the mass of philo- sophical criticism that this idea has evoked, two points may be simply presented. i-History does not support it. Certainly human knowledge and technique relating to the physical and biological world have ac- cumulated to a degree never before known; though whether man's inherent powers, even in this field, have expanded is at least debatable. But the "straight-line theory" seems to hold good of technical processes only; in no other sphere is there evidence of such an accumulation. Other aspects of human life do not seem to admit of an accumulative process-those, for example, in which "values" such as beauty, insight, wisdom, are attainable. And the progress of rationality in respect of the physical setting by means validates any general view of history as a continuous "onward-and-upward." The "idea of progress" which was current in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century rationalism, and has even been used by some modern sociologists as a stick to beat the Church, has by this time been so battered by the course of events that it is broken past all mending. Instead, we are now offered pessimistic cyclical
Node: 29958, Score: -0.0292522971194522, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0355.txt, Content: eir international solidarity can be realized, in con- orious devotion to humane and constructive purposes, can they be called on for a stand that would be both costly and dangerous. It is to be noted that the American Government, like that of Russia- and possibly with some such contingency in mind-has not only created a vast research organization in wartime, but is seeking to expand technical research under its direct auspices in peacetime. Scientists in private industry who presumed to act on their indi- vidual valuation of purposes would of course face unemployment; scientists in government service who rebelled, especially if they refused to maintain secrecy, would risk imprisonment and execu- tion. National force will not surrender without a struggle, and is always prompt to attack its internal enemies. Nonetheless, the project of an international pressure group composed of scientists and research workers may be counted on among the future agents of community. Nor will such a group lack allies. 9. AP dispatch, London, January 31, 1945. New York Herald Tribune, February 1.  262 THE LIBERAL TRADITION Among its allies will be the writers and reporters of the various nations who prefer to call their souls their own. It is safe to say that among such men and women-a high proportion of the profes- sion-there exists a truer conception of the the comn that of the political officials who constitute their chief problem. ommon good than The reporter hates censorship and distortion, not because of a dispute about ends but because truth is his métier: he risks his life to get it, racks his brain to tell it, and wants it delivered clean Sanity in national and international affairs depends on the fulfil. ment of that purpose; and if there is one function above all that can never be entrusted to governments, this is it. There exists al- ready an organized movement to establish, as part of the postwar settlement, the right to tell the truth. Insofar as it succeeds it will be a po
Node: 29903, Score: -0.029194174910698, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0300.txt, Content: hological, are popular because they offer people a plausible excuse to go on fooling them- selves and ignoring or denying their own experience. It is a simple fact-and everybody knows it-that when we refuse to fulfill the demands of our higher nature a sense of failure and remorse be- sets us: we feel and know that we have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Since this feeling is uncomfortable, an age that has made a god of comfort will not admit it; it is barred as far as may be from consciousness, and the word sin is banished from polite usage. Instead, we invent all sorts of elaborate disguises for the fact to which it refers. A deterministic dogma comes in very handy as an escape from responsibility. Sociology proffers a variety of comfortable excuses for human failure. You can blame, according to the school of your choice, either the "environment"  222 XII THE LIBERAL TRADITION (ignoring the circular argument involved ); or the "culture"-that commodious Ding an sich suspended in a logical vacuum; or your genes, hormones, and chromosomes; or that poor old scapegoat the "subconscious"-you can blame, in short, almost anything except yourself; because you have been taught that you really have no self. If there is a quicker way to weaken the moral fiber of a democracy, it has yet to be discovered; for in all these sub terfuges the root impulse is to escape the more exacting and un comfortable aspects of human responsibility, individual and col lective. Catholics, as individuals, know how hard (and how salu tary ) it is to utter a sincere mea culpa. The masses of mankind have always found it easier to strike their enemies, real or fancied In an individuare than to strike their breasts. Yet a return to sanity and realism re. 2 the contrary; made aware of quires that men be made to face the fact, and the consequences of their own wrongdoing before they deal with that of other peo- ple; and the Church is the only organization that tries to make roots of him line
Node: 29959, Score: -0.028965576377372, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0356.txt, Content: entrusted to governments, this is it. There exists al- ready an organized movement to establish, as part of the postwar settlement, the right to tell the truth. Insofar as it succeeds it will be a powerful agent of community. Not-which heaven forfend- that the associated writers and agencies will constitute a peace society; they will constitute something much more novel in inter- national affairs: a truth society. The full story story of what disinter- ested reporters, commentators, authors, and publishers have been up against in the past six years cannot be told, nor does the public realize the extent of its obligation to their courage and persistence. With few exceptions, modern governments do their utmost to control not only the actions but the thoughts, emotions, and sources of information both of their subjects and of people in other countries; and the intensity of the political struggle has on certain important occasions undermined the probity of respected public officials. To survey all the agencies of international functional coopera- tion that may be organized or resuscitated would require another volume. It is essential, however, to grasp the main issue involved, The extent to which constructive international work can be under- taken will depend on the broad policies of the the victorious powers. By the control of passports, visas, and travel facilities they can either encourage or thwart the resumption of international inter- course; they can, if they wish, apply a discriminatory treatment so as to carry the political and military antagonisms of the past into private as well as public efforts at reconstruction; discriminatory economic policies can be implemented by restrictions on commu- nications and the movements of private citizens. If the policy of the Carthaginian peace advocated by Messrs. Morgenthau, Berge, Baruch, and others is adhered to, that is what will happen. By such THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION means the pattern of international life can be
Node: 29661, Score: -0.0286408540396683, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0058.txt, Content: find a consistent and steadily developing line of approach to the problem of the law behind the law. Consider the notion so familiar to every American in its formu- lation of the rights of man and the principles of the Declaration of Independence: the concept of rights prior to law-that is, both antecedent to, and superior to, all positive enactment. The notion was thoroughly familiar to the Greeks: we find it even in Homer. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, in a campaign speech of October 28, 1944, enlarged on the Declaration by enunciating the follow- ing "rights": "The right of a useful and remunerative job; the right to earn enough to provide adequate food, clothing and recreation; the right of every farmer to sell his products at a return which will give him and his family a decent living; the right of every family to a decent home; the right to adequate medical care and the op- portunity to achieve and enjoy good health; the right to adequate protection from economic fears of old age, sickness, accident and  For: 42 THE LIBERAL TRADITION THE CHRISTIAN SYNTHESIS unemployment; the right to a good education." No such "rights" are known to history, law, or jurisprudence. As desires, ideals, aims, these things are very familiar; but to call them "rights" is delib- erately to mislead the electorate in a very dangerous direction. Innocent-and not so innocent-people may assert that they have an irrefragable claim on political authority for all these things, and that government is in duty bound to provide them. The check will bounce, or it will break the bank. Rights properly so called are assertions as to the nature, and particularly the limits, of secular power, rooted in the deepest sense of human personality. Aristotle is very definite about the distinction between positive law, which is necessarily local and conventional, and something more binding and universal-more catholic, as we should now say. Most Greek philosophers thought that if you looked for it-as the g
Node: 29770, Score: -0.0286325540115133, Chunk File: orton_liberal/chunks/orton_liberal_0167.txt, Content: tion than before. To this discovery Marxists can no doubt reconcile their consciences, since conscience is also, for them, a class phenomenon; but to the historian there would appear to be some difficulty. For one thing, the whole category of economic classes, invented by Marx in a more-than-usually Hegelian mood, is a generalization so broad as to be less than half true; it gets its modern currency from what Professor Whitehead calls "the abstract level of common thought." And history- except as delivered by a Marxist-is superbly in- diferent to it. There are times and places when the state has cer- tainly been under the dominance of a particular economic class; others when it has just as certainly not been; and all along a chorus of innocent people, including the wisest of mankind, insisting that it need not and should not be. It is hard to suppose that such peo- ple for three thousand years or so have been entirely deluded. The Marxist will reply that for almost as long a time good people be- lieved that the earth was flat. The allegation is doubtful; but at any rate, they were agreed that the earth was there, and they knew what they meant by it. A reading of history inspired by so thin a conceptual outfit as the theory of economic classes cannot fail to produce chimerical results. The traditional policy of English gov- ernment, we have said, was from the days of Alfred that of a trust, a stewardship. Not to attribute more virtue to the rulers of Eng- land than is their due, we must note that the circumstances of the island kingdom favored that policy. There was less temptation, because there was less opportunity, to buttress authority by bring- ing in force from outside; and every time that was attempted the results were disastrous to the monarchy. Thus the English crown ranked itself, on the whole, with the people against privilege; the French, with privilege against the people. And for the same basic reason, England was integrated as a living, working society