Node: 18526, Score: -0.0047854029903233, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0043.txt, Content: ct, was General William W. Momyer, Air Power in Three Wars (Washington: GPO, 1978). Momyer was one of the brightest officers of his generation. A fighter pilot in World War II, he was also the comman- der of the Seventh Air Force in Saigon during the Vietnam War. His  MILITARY HISTORY x 491  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 26 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER = aoe == =<  discussion of the mechanics of tactical airpower—command and control, target selection, force packaging, aerial tactics, and the like—is out- standing. From this perspective, it is perhaps the best book of its kind.  The U.S. Army similarly changed its focus, turning back towards the traditional Soviet enemy on the German central front. This required them to wash their hands of the Vietnam debacle and put it behind them. They were more than willing to do so, and the Air Force was happy to join them. As a result of this tacit agreement to forget the past, a close relationship began to develop between the two services. The Army devised its new doctrine of AirLand Battle, and the Air Force—although refusing to endorse it officially---was favorably disposed towards it. The evolution of this relationship is explored in Harold R. Winton, “An Ambivalent Partnership: U.S. Army and Air Force Perspectives on Air- Ground Operations, 1973-1990,” in Paths of Heaven. A more detailed description of this cooperation can be found in Donald J. Mrozek, The US Air Force After Vietnam: Postwar Challenges and Potential for Responses (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1988).  The implications of the Army’s new doctrine were obviously felt heavily in NATO. This in turn meant that the alliance’s air doctrine had to adjust to complement the new ground scheme. This evolution is cov- ered in Colonel Maris E. McCrabb, “The Evolution of NATO Air Doc- trine,” in Paths of Heaven, and David J. Stein, The Developmen
Node: 18515, Score: -0.0018340623142792, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0032.txt, Content: recognized that strategic bombing was only tangentially related to the goals of the expeditionary force. Instead, there was a real need to isolate the battle- field with airpower—to disrupt and destroy the enemy’s lines of supply. This mission, today called interdiction, would entail the targeting of communications and transportation nodes, fuel depots, supply and ammunition centers, and enemy field headquarters. Even so, he cau- tioned that the first priority, as always, remained the necessity of gain- ing air superiority. Without it, ground operations would be nearly impossible. Significantly, Slessor also discussed command relationships, and insisted that air and ground commanders should be equal. They should plan their operations together, and then work together to imple- ment those plans, but they should not be subordinate to each other.  Upon leaving Camberley for an assignment in India, Slessor col- lected his Staff College lectures and published them as Air Power and Armies (London: Oxford University Press, 1936). This classic work is perhaps the most thoughtful, measured, and articulate treatise on air- power written to that time. His emphasis on targeting lines of supply was reflected in the Allied “transportation plan” that was so instrumental in disrupting German ground operations before and after D-day. Similarly,  MILITARY HISTORY x 485  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 20 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER  his suggested command structure of co-equal air and ground headquar- ters working side by side was accepted practice throughout the war. Slessor’s ideas and impact are discussed in Higham’s Military Intellectu- als. For a more thorough treatment see Phillip S. Meilinger, “John C. Slessor and the Genesis of Air Interdiction,” Royal United Services Insti- tute Journal 140 (August 1995): 43-48.  The European Theorists  There were other Europea
Node: 18513, Score: 0.0021404775189678, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0030.txt, Content: imensional] thinking on what was now a three-dimensional world. He was especially critical of his rival, Hugh Trenchard. He repeated the message of this book in Behind the Smoke Screen (London: Faber and Faber, 1933).  Another airman whose writings on his profession were well above average was E. J. Kingston-McCloughry. A thoughtful and serious officer who later rose to flag rank in the Second World War, his Winged Warfare (London: Jonathan Cape, 1937) gives a balanced and measured account of airpower’s potential. Mirroring RAF doctrine, he stated that indis- criminate bombing of population centers was morally and militarily wrong. Nonetheless, he did believe that bombing the enemy’s industry was the quickest route to victory.  James M. Spaight was an important and influential writer, not only because of his sharp intellect and insight regarding air matters, but also because he was an expert in international law. As a result, he was often called upon by the British government for counsel on issues such as the legality of bombing certain targets. In his first book on the subject, Air- craft in War (London: Geoffrey Bles, 1914), he dismissed those who con- demned the use of aircraft in war as somehow illegal: “To question the legitimacy of the use of aircraft in war is simply to plough the sand.” Spaight argued that because no international laws were then extant to regulate aerial warfare, it was necessary to fall back on those laws that governed war on land and sea. His arguments, which remained the stan- dard interpretation for six decades thereafter, included, for example, the premise that just as artillery could indiscriminately shell a defended city  484 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 19 --- io Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  to hasten its surrender, so too could airplanes bomb that city for the same purpose. O
Node: 18523, Score: 0.0062129216046951, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0040.txt, Content: ion—in a dispassionate and enlightening fashion. In truth, this book is an overlooked gem, probably the best work on airpower the- ory in the post-World War II era.  Another sophisticated and impressive work advancing the premise of “peace through nuclear airpower” was written by Marshal of the RAF Sir John Slessor. He had come a long way since Airpower and Armies. His book, Strategy for the West (London: Cassell, 1954), is a well-written and cogent argument for a strong nuclear air force to ensure deterrence. He followed this up with another book on the same theme, The Great Deterrent (London: Cassell, 1957).  Lesser works that advance a similar premise include: Air Vice-Mar- shal E. J. Kingston-McCloughry, War in Three Dimensions (London: Jonathan Cape, 1949); Alexander de Seversky, Air Power: Key to Sur- vival (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1950); Asher Lee, Air Power (New York: Praeger, 1955); and Air Marshal Sir Robert Saundby, Air Bom- bardment: The Story of Its Development (New York: Harper’s, 1961). An interesting approach was taken by George H. Quester in Deterrence Before Hiroshima (New York: John Wiley, 1966). Quester recognized that nuclear weapons were the underpinnings of deterrence policy, but he argued that conventional airpower played—or attempted to play—a similar role prior to World War I]. He went on to speculate on how con- ventional deterrence could continue to work in the nuclear age.  As the U.S. became increasingly embroiled in Vietnam, there were those who decried the turn away from massive retaliation towards “flex- ible response.” In this view, the West’s greatest strength was being thrown aside, and we were instead playing the enemy’s game—a game we could not win. This alarmist view, reminiscent of those who called for victory through airpower in World War II, is typified by Alexander de Seversky, America—Too Young to Die! (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1961), which is even more bombastic than his earlier works; General Nathan F. Twining (forme
Node: 18483, Score: 0.0062219968383764, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0000.txt, Content: File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 1 --- Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  The Historiography of Airpower: Theory and Doctrine  we  Phillip S. Meilinger  HE history of military theory and doctrine is a subset of military his-  tory. Theory and doctrine deal with the realm of ideas, not opera- tions, and partly because of this, few people have been inclined to write about this esoteric subject. As a result, tracing the history of ideas has proven to be a fairly barren field. The problem is far worse regarding air- power. Airmen, from any country, have seldom been accused of being thinkers, and precious few have taken up the pen to write down their thoughts on how airpower should be employed in war. Added to this is the relatively short time airpower has existed: all in the past century. As a result, there have been a limited number of books, articles, and man- uals written to date that have dealt with the theory and doctrine of air- power.  The aim of this essay is to enumerate and assess those works of air- power theory and doctrine, to reveal the historiography of ideas on air- power employment. The subject of nuclear deterrence theory and its associated doctrines of mutual assured destruction, strategic sufficiency, and the like is a separate and enormous field that will not be discussed here. Similarly, I will not discuss space, a field of growing importance and interest. In addition, | admit to a major limitation: the items covered here are only those written or translated into English. There are doubt- less many more important works in French, German, Russian, and other languages. Those I must leave to someone more capable.  Overall Treatments  Only one book attempts to give a history of airpower theory and trace its evolution during this century. The compendium produced by the U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Airpower Studies (SAAS), The  The Journal of Military History 64 (Apr
Node: 18537, Score: 0.0065753945586397, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0054.txt, Content: the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 32 --- PHILLIP S$. MEILINGER——  opinion that, for example, Saddam Hussein surrendered because his army in Kuwait was being destroyed. By the same token, however, it is equally impossible to argue that surrender occurred because of air attacks on Iraq’s industry, power network, transportation, or communi- cations networks—arguments made by John Warden and others.  Although this issue poses questions that may be unanswerable, it has in no way lessened the vigor of the debate. A series of articles written by Pape, Warden, Barry Watts, and Karl D. Mueller appeared in the 1997 and 1998 issues of Security Studies. These make fascinating and stimu- lating reading. Although the bottom line on this debate seems to cast doubt on any monocasual factor in victory—war is simply too complex to get that reductive—the spirit and depth of the intellectual discourse over the past several years has been extremely valuable. Frankly, air- power has become an increasingly important policy tool in the past decade, as evidenced in Iraq, Bosnia, and Kosovo. A dialogue that seri- ously discusses the most effective method of employing that airpower is thus a positive event for national defense.  Daniel L. Byman, Matthew C. Waxman, and Eric Larson have writ- ten an excellent overview that is broader and less doctrinaire than Pape or Warden: Air Power as a Coercive Instrument (Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND Corporation, 1999). This work notes several factors that help lead to successful coercion using airpower: if the coercer can achieve “esca- lation dominance,” if the adversary’s strategy can be negated, and if third parties can be brought to bear to lever or frighten the coerced party. This social science lexicon may be off-putting to some, but once past that, the ideas contained here are first-rate. The authors argue that the geopoliti- cal environment of the new century wil
Node: 18493, Score: 0.0067833012488347, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0010.txt, Content: et’s theories are legion. He grossly overesti- mated both the physical and psychological effects of bombing. Popula- tions did not break as quickly as he thought they would under the weight of air attack. All wars are not total wars, as the post-World War II era has repeatedly demonstrated. There is a defense against air attack. Ground war did not irrevocably produce stalemate: mobility was restored through a combination of mechanization, new tactics, and airpower. This meant, of course, that tactical air was not “wasteful, harmful and superfluous” as Douhet had said; it was essential. Finally, legal and moral constraints do play a major role in war, and this has been increasingly true over the past several decades.  The first in-depth study of Douhet in English was Louis A. Sigaud, Douhet and Aerial Warfare (New York: Putnam’s, 1941). Sigaud was a believer, and therefore offered few criticisms of Douhet. His book is more of an explanation than an analysis. Bernard Brodie, Strategy in the Mis- sile Age (Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1959), is one of the best, though now dated, analyses of Douhet’s theories. Brodie states that nuclear weapons are a vindication of Douhet, but this is too much of a stretch. If the only thing that makes Douhet relevant is nuclear weapons, then he is completely irrelevant.  The only biography of Douhet in English is an unpublished Ph.D. dis- sertation by Frank J. Cappelluti (“The Life and Thought of Giulio Douhet,” Rutgers University, 1967). It not only gives much detail about Douhet’s life, but contains an excellent description of his many writings. The only drawback to this study is its lack of critical analysis of Douhet’s ideas.  A stinging critique of Douhet, whose title states its thesis, is Thomas Mahoney, “Doctrine of Ruthlessness,” Popular Aviation, April 1940, pp. 36-37, 82, 84. Another less polemical but still negative appraisal is Major Thomas R. Phillips, “Preview of Armageddon,” Saturday Evening Post, 12 Marc
Node: 18541, Score: 0.0070065528324408, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0058.txt, Content: s of air attack, Rear Admiral James A. Winnefeld on joint air operations, Hallion himself on the importance of the revolution in precision weapons, Colonel Phil Meilinger on air targeting strategies, Alan Stephens on restructuring air forces after the Cold War, and Fred Frostie on the revolution in military affairs occasioned by airpower, and its effect on future war. This book is the best anthology to date, and is the standard by which other such efforts should be judged.  Conclusion  The body of literature surrounding airpower theory is fairly large, even if uneven in quality. It is somewhat surprising that so much as been written about a new kind of war that has existed for such a short time. Still, there are some broad gaps. The definitive history of the Air Corps Tactical School and its impact on the employment of U.S. airpower in World War II needs an author. There are pieces of this story scattered about, but the school was so important it demands a fuller treatment. Similarly, the ACTS counterpart in Britain, the Royal Air Force Staff Col- lege, needs to be examined. It is not clear if the Staff College played as crucial a role in the RAF as the ACTS did in the Air Corps, but even prov- ing the negative would be useful. I suspect, however, the Staff College was a key part of the story and did have enormous influence in formu- lating and then disseminating air doctrine not only throughout the RAF, but throughout the empire as well.  Along these lines, the ideas of Hugh Trenchard and Jack Slessor have been insufficiently explored. Both men left behind enormous amounts of material that beg the attention of researchers. Trenchard has had only one biographer and Slessor none, while their theories have attracted only seattered articles. There is much work to be done on these two figures.  Giulio Douhet has also been neglected, though this is due partly to language difficulties. Surprisingly, few of Douhet’s many writings have been translated into English. For exam
Node: 18542, Score: 0.0074419511872632, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0059.txt, Content: n these two figures.  Giulio Douhet has also been neglected, though this is due partly to language difficulties. Surprisingly, few of Douhet’s many writings have been translated into English. For example, the Italian wrote articles on aviation as early as 1910; it would be fascinating and important to know what he thought at that early date. He also carried on extensive corre-  500 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 35 --- a — ~__=——- Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  spondence with his military contemporaries, aircraft builders, and mag- azines. The “Recapitulation” that appears in translations of Command of the Air contains only Douhet’s responses to criticisms—the criticisms themselves have never been published. Douhet also kept an extensive diary during the First World War that has never been translated. Finally, and most intriguingly, the 1921 edition of “Command of the Air” con- tained a one-hundred page appendix that did not appear in the 1927 ver- sion; it has never been translated. There is a huge mine here waiting to be tapped. One can easily imagine a multivolume project containing the collected writings of Giulio Douhet.  Language barriers have also reduced our understanding of French, Japanese, Russian, and to a lesser extent German airpower thinkers, especially in the interwar period. Because of the lack of translations of primary material from that era, one suspects that what has been written about the air arms of these countries has lacked depth and sufficient analysis.  The most encouraging development of late has been the great resur- gence of interest and debate on airpower issues. New technologies such as precision weapons, stealth and electronic sensors, have dramatically altered the way air forces fight. This has in turn spawned a debate of unusually high tone and sophistication. It can only be hop
Node: 18522, Score: 0.0074822128285521, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0039.txt, Content: wards a reliance on nuclear weapons; they would be, they would have to be, the equalizer in a confrontation with Soviet and Chinese mass. Ross painstakingly goes through the series of plans and their assumptions. His conclusions are sobering: not only were the plans themselves ill-conceived and hastily cobbled together, they relied on a weapon, the nuclear bombers of Strate- gic Air Command, that was a wooden sword. Until at least the middle of the Korean War there were a very small number of nuclear weapons and an equally small number of aircraft modified to carry them. To a dis- tressing extent, our nuclear deterrent was merely a bluff.  The most thoughtful treatment of airpower’s role in the early nuclear era is Stefan T. Possony, Strategic Air Power for Dynamic Security (Washington: Infantry Journal Press, 1949). Possony is reluctant to put all his eggs in the nuclear basket, but he does maintain that in a major war against the primary enemy, the Soviet Union, nuclear weapons would play the dominant role. The strength of this book is its clear and detailed explanation of various strategic targeting theories. It has been said that targeting is the key to airpower, because although all of an  MILITARY HISTORY x 489  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 24 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER = == = — — =  enemy country may be open to air attack, not all targets can or should be struck. Knowing which targets are more crucial than others is the essence of air strategy. Yet, air theorists have disagreed, strongly, over this fundamental issue. Possony discusses the pros and cons of various air targeting schemes—population/morale, industry, fielded forces, and transportation—in a dispassionate and enlightening fashion. In truth, this book is an overlooked gem, probably the best work on airpower the- ory in the post-World War II era.  Another sophisticated and impressi
Node: 18536, Score: 0.0074927423080235, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0053.txt, Content: ng to Win: Coercion in War (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1996). Pape is a social scientist who is well versed in his disci- pline’s models and methodologies. As a result, he has adopted the lexi- con that talks of war strategies in terms of coercion, denial, punishment, and risk. Basically, the coercion school argues that the key to victory is affecting the mind of the enemy: he must be convinced that victory is impossible or would cost too much to achieve. A denial strategy, on the other hand, focuses on an enemy’s capability. If an enemy is disarmed, it is largely irrelevant if his will is broken or not. Theoretically, the choice of a coercive versus a denial strategy will have a great impact on the types of targets selected by an air planner. In practice, however, it is difficult to separate targets so cleanly: almost every target will have both a coercive and denial effect on an enemy. The issue thus becomes one of emphasis. Boyd and Warden come down on the side of coercion; Pape believes in denial.  In his theory, the object of war remains what it has been for cen- turies—the destruction of the enemy army. If that is destroyed, a coun- try is defenseless and surrender will follow. Only now, says Pape, air forces can destroy armies faster and easier than armies can kill armies. Using examples from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, and the Persian Gulf, he argues that coercion does not work, but denial does. The main criti- cism of Pape’s theory centers on his methodology. As noted above, it is virtually impossible to separate coercion from denial targets. In all the wars that Pape discusses, both types of strategies were quite obviously being employed simultaneously. It is thus impossible to confirm the  MILITARY HISTORY «x 497  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 32 --- PHILLIP S$. MEILINGER——  opinion that, for example, Saddam Hussein surr
Node: 18521, Score: 0.0079999878623716, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0038.txt, Content: us books were published in the decade after World War II espous- ing the thesis that war had forever changed, and that airpower—specifi- eally aircraft delivering nuclear weapons—now dominated war. It seemed a safe prediction. Even the Korean War did little to shake the faith in nuclear airpower. Korea was viewed, by all the services, as an aberration. It is well to remember that the American policy of “massive retaliation” was promulgated after the Korean War, and it was advanced by General Dwight Eisenhower—now President—and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Arthur Radford. The hope, and one that Giulio Douhet would have understood, was that airpower—in the hands of the West—would keep the peace through its deterrent value. The con- cept of airpower “so horrible it was humanizing” had returned.  Special mention should be made here of a book that seems to deal only tangentially with our subject. Steven T. Ross, American War Plans, 1945-1950 (New York: Garland, 1988), is a vital source because it is the most complete study to date of the American war plans devised in the decade following World War IJ. These war plans relied primarily on nuclear weapons delivered by air; hence, their relationship to this essay. Beginning soon after the war, military planners began to consider a future war against their erstwhile ally, the Soviet Union. The problems con- fronting these planners seemed enormous: American military forces had virtually disintegrated in the aftermath of VJ-day; the Soviets maintained a huge military structure; Eastern Europe was dominated if not occupied by Soviet troops; Western Europe—our logical ally—was prostrate; and China was teetering and would eventually fall to communism. Given this nightmarish scenario, planners inevitably turned towards a reliance on nuclear weapons; they would be, they would have to be, the equalizer in a confrontation with Soviet and Chinese mass. Ross painstakingly goes through the series of plans and their
Node: 18512, Score: 0.0086022564812863, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0029.txt, Content: ill of its populace to continue. CD-22 was replaced in 1928 by the RAF “War Manual,” AP 1300. Revised several times during the next decade, the War Manual was a more sophis- ticated effort than its predecessor, discussing airpower in a broad sense,  MILITARY HISTORY * 483  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 18 --- PIUILLIP $. MEILINGER = oe <=  while also eliminating much of the organizational and administrative material that had dominated its predecessor. The most important aspect of AP 1300 was the extent to which it discussed the rationale behind strategic bombing and the selection of targets. It is important to note that neither this manual, nor any other official RAF publication, ever referred to the bombing of civilian population centers. All targets sug- gested throughout the manual were clearly of a military nature. Like its counterpart in America, RAF doctrine was significantly different from the city-busting strategy Douhet advocated.  Brigadier General P. R. C. Groves had been the RAF’s director of fly- ing operations in 1918 and 1919, but because he was not in the Tren- chard camp, his star rapidly sank in the postwar period. His Our Future in the Air: A Survey of the Vital Question of British Air Power (London: Hutchinson, 1922), was a well-written and thoughtful book that heralded the growing importance of strategic bombing, noting that war had now become a “war of areas” rather than of lines. He hailed airpower’s ubiq- uity and offensive nature and put great faith in its psychological effects. Like many airmen, he decried the lack of vision among Britain's political and military leaders, mumbling that they consistently tried to impose two-dimensional] thinking on what was now a three-dimensional world. He was especially critical of his rival, Hugh Trenchard. He repeated the message of this book in Behind the Smoke Screen (London: Faber
Node: 18531, Score: 0.0088521188620755, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0048.txt, Content: most intelligent, rigorous, and creative airpower thinkers we have today. In Air Power: A Centennial Appraisal (London: Brassey’s, 1995), Mason covers a wide area. Indeed, it is not, as the title suggests, either an overall treatment of airpower in all of its various roles world- wide, nor is it an assessment of how well airpower has performed in war. Instead, it is a somewhat disparate collection of essays that, although excellent, have no centralizing theme. Nonetheless, there are true gems here; my favorites are the chapters on arms control in the 1980s, and the concluding chapter titled “The Era of Differential Airpower,” which is a look to the future of airpower in the post-Cold War era.  A colleague and countryman of Mason, Air Commodore Andrew G. B. Vallance, wrote an overview of air warfare titled The Air Weapon: Doc- trines of Air Power Strategy and Operational Art (London: Macmillan,  494 * THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 29 --- Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  1996). Vallance, like Mason, had been the RAF’s Director of Defence Studies. In that position his charter was to think about airpower theory and doctrine, help to evolve it, and then to disseminate it so as to teach his service. This book is the culmination of those efforts. Vallance states boldly that airpower today dominates military operations and that dom- inance is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. Yet, paradoxically, most airmen—to say nothing of the other services and the public—do not adequately understand what airpower can do and what it cannot do. Vallance has therefore written a primer that discusses the fundamental characteristics of airpower, and then explains in detail its various roles and missions such as air superiority, antisurface attack, strategic attack, and air transport. The strength of this presentation lies more
Node: 18538, Score: 0.0093755173074566, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0055.txt, Content: party. This social science lexicon may be off-putting to some, but once past that, the ideas contained here are first-rate. The authors argue that the geopoliti- cal environment of the new century will emphasize—at least for the West—the lack of major threats to national interests, coalition opera- tions, an increasing role for nonstate actors, and a growing concern for minimizing casualties—on both sides. In such an environment the coer- ceive use of airpower should play an increasingly important role.  Anthologies on Modern Airpower  Both the RAF and the Royal Australian Air Force have periodic con- ferences where international scholars and serving officers gather to pre- sent papers, debate, and exchange ideas on airpower employment. Often, the papers are published. As with all such collections, there is some chaff along with the wheat: some of the papers tend to be poorly written, poorly researched, or poorly argued. Others are focused so nar- rowly that they have little utility and longevity. But there are other papers that are excellent, and they make these books worthwhile.  The first of these compendiums focuses on the British situation, which is a limiting factor, but it also discusses the employment of naval  498 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 33 --- ~ os on Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  aviation. Regrettably, “land” airmen and “water” airmen too often become adversarial and parochial; indeed, they generally have little to do with one another. This is unfortunate, so the inclusion of this topic here is of importance: Philip Sabin, ed., The Future of United Kingdom Air Power (London: Brassey’s, 1988). Other volumes in this series—if we may call it that—include Group Captain Andrew Vallance, ed., Air Power: Collected Essays on Doctrine (London: HMSO, 1990); three excellent compendiums edited by Alan Step
Node: 18490, Score: 0.0099944903900709, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0007.txt, Content: armament—the idea had become a fantasy.  Some of the better books that share the theme of the horror and inevitability of strategic bombing include: G. Blanchon, The New War- fare (New York: Thomas Crowell, 1918); “Neon,” The Great Delusion: A Study of Aircraft in Peace and War (London: E. Benn, 1927); Charles Dennistoun Burney, The World, the Air and the Future (London: Knopf, 1929); Stuart Chase, Men and Machines, trans. Fred Rothwell (New York: Macmillan, 1935); Frank Morison, War on Great Cities: A Study of the Facts (London: Faber and Faber, 1937); George Fielding Eliot, Bombs Bursting in Air: The Influence of Air Power on International Relations (New York: Reynal and Hitchcock, 1939), and Oliver Lyman Spaulding, Ahriman: A Study in Air Bombardment (Boston: World Peace Foundation, 1939).  Giulio Douhet  The first person to think deeply about the role of airpower in war, and then to put his ideas in print, was the Italian artillery officer, Giulio Douhet. Inclined towards the mechanical, he began writing about flight as early as 1910. Outspoken and arrogant, Douhet was often in conflict with his superiors. As a consequence, when war broke out in 1914 he had been assigned to an unimportant post in the infantry. He nonethe- less continued to agitate and write, resulting in his court-martial for insubordination in 1916. After a year in prison, he was allowed to return to duty, but little had changed. Douhet soon retired and spent the last decade of his life writing books, articles, editorials, letters, and even nov- els dealing with airpower.  In 1921 Douhet published his most famous work, Command of the Air. (This book was first translated into English by Dino Ferrari and pub- lished by Coward-McCann in 1942. It consisted of the 1927 revised ver-  MILITARY HISTORY x A471  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 6 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER ————  sion of hi
Node: 18489, Score: 0.0100096722720959, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0006.txt, Content: at armed males. All below will be his impartial target . . . the women and chil- dren and working men, extra-military, are the ones who will suffer. Extended areas will be completely depopulated. We may safely fore- cast that the next war will be won or lost by air effort.  This type of writing could hardly inspire people into liking airpower and seeing it as a boon to mankind. Nonetheless, it is surprising how often airmen argued that airpower was a civilizing and humane instru- ment because it would make war so awful that it was less likely to occur. This logic was not entirely ridiculous—modern nuclear deterrence strat-  470 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 5 --- — —_ — ~~—--- Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  egy is based on the same cataclysmic image—but it involved a moral paradox that airmen have never sufficiently resolved.  Another of the prophets of doom who wrote of how air attack would turn urban populations into panic-stricken mobs was Air Commodore L. E. O. Charlton. He wrote three books, all of them much the same: War from the Air: Past-Present-Future (London: Thomas Nelson, 1935); War over England (London: Longmans, Green, 1936), and The Menace of the Clouds (London: William Hodge, 1937). This last had an unusual twist: Charlton had by that point so frightened even himself with these tales of catastrophe that he now called for air disarmament, worldwide. He envi- sioned an international air force, under the aegis of the League of Nations, to keep the peace. In truth, just such an idea had been proposed at the Geneva Disarmament Conference in 1933. It went nowhere then, and by 1937—in the face of German rearmament—the idea had become a fantasy.  Some of the better books that share the theme of the horror and inevitability of strategic bombing include: G. Blanchon, The New War- fare (New York: Thomas Cr
Node: 18497, Score: 0.0106916951855717, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0014.txt, Content: dern Strategy, and Maclsaac’s essay in the second edition of Makers of Modern Strategy.  An interesting and provocative study was done by Raymond R. Flugel, “United States Air Power Doctrine: A Study of the Influence of William Mitchell and Giulio Douhet at the Air Corps Tactical School, 1921-1935,” unpublished PhD dissertation, University of Oklahoma, 1965. Flugel undertook a textual analysis and comparison of the writings of Douhet and Mitchell and concluded that Mitchell was heavily influ- enced by the Italian, almost to the point of plagiarism. Mitchell had indeed met Douhet in 1922, and an unpublished translation of the Ital- ian’s “Command of the Air” was available to Mitchell at the same time. However, Flugel’s methodology is suspect, thus his more explosive accu- sations remain unproven.  Air Corps Tactical School  The roots of American strategic bombing theory go back to World War I. Edgar Gorrell, an officer on the Air Service staff in France during the war, wrote a lengthy memo in November 1917 offering a theory of strategic bombing. An overlooked but remarkably prescient document, it foretold to a great extent the tack American air theory would take for the next twenty years. The Gorrell memo is reproduced in Maurer Maurer, ed., The U.S. Air Service in World War [, 4 vols. (Washington: GPO, 1978-79), 2: 141-51.  I. B. Holley, Jr., wrote one of the earliest treatments of the evolution of air doctrine in the Air Service in Ideas and Weapons (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1953). The title of this work was well  MILITARY HISTORY x 475  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 10 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER = ———— = ——  chosen. Airmen are often so concerned with the development of tech- nology, with their aircraft, that they fail to think through carefully what they intend to do with those aircraft once they have obtained them. Tak- ing the A
Node: 18540, Score: 0.0107842696503167, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0057.txt, Content: e ser- vices rely heavily on space assets. In addition, a key issue that has sep- arated airmen from their surface brethren over the decades has been the strategic versus tactical air debate. Over the past decade, however, the surface forces have become far more interested in the “deep battle’—an area where they could not reach before, and so they found it unimpor- tant. As the surface forces have steadily encroached on what had been “air territory,” airmen themselves have turned towards targeting strate- gies that have focused on command and control networks, fielded forces, and leadership nodes. In short, the views of all the services are beginning to focus on the same area, thus facilitating a more comprehensive and complementary approach to warfighting.  Other anthologies include Tony Mason, ed., War in the Third Dimension: Essays in Contemporary Air Power (London: Brassey’s,  MILITARY HISTORY x 499  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 34 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER — —e es —— =  1986). This is an excellent collection with truly outstanding essays by Mason himself on the air superiority campaign, David Maclsaac on the evolution of American air doctrine after World War II, air war in Vietnam by Alan Gropman, and Soviet air doctrine and practice by Ben Lambeth. Another outstanding effort is Richard P. Hallion, ed., Air Power Con- fronts an Unstable World (London: Brassey’s, 1997). Hallion, himself an excellent historian as well as being the U.S. Air Force Historian, has assembled a worthy stable of airpower thinkers and writers. There are some truly seminal essays here by Barry D. Watts on technology, Group Captain Andrew Lambert on the psychological effects of air attack, Rear Admiral James A. Winnefeld on joint air operations, Hallion himself on the importance of the revolution in precision weapons, Colonel Phil Meilinger on air targeting strategies,
Node: 18509, Score: 0.0110056716645104, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0026.txt, Content: ruction more quickly. In the two other essays contained in this same book, Air Power: Three Papers (London: Air Ministry, 1946) and written after German defeat, Trenchard merely recapitulates the key role played by the RAF in victory.  The one biography of Trenchard to date, Andrew Boyle’s Trenchard: Man of Vision (London: Collins, 1962), is a too-glowing assessment. It is, however, rich in detail and contains much discussion dispersed through- out regarding Trenchard’s thoughts on airpower. For a more focused appraisal, see Phillip S. Meilinger, “Trenchard and ‘Morale Bombing’: The Evolution of Royal Air Force Doctrine Before World War II,” Journal of Military History 60 (April 1996): 243-70.  A useful overall discussion of British air theory in the interwar period can be found in Robin Higham, The Military Intellectuals in Britain, 1918-1939 (New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1966). This book contains two chapters on the RAF: the first focuses on doctrine in general, while the second deals more specifically with indi- viduals such as P. R. C. Groves, John Slessor, E. J. Kingston-McCloughry, and James Spaight. Higham offers useful insights into the politics and inner workings of the RAF bureaucracy, but his antipathy towards Tren- chard is ill-disguised. Certainly a corrective to the hagiography of Boyle is needed, but Higham too readily accepts the accounts of Trenchard’s opponents while dismissing those of his advocates.  A highly critical account of the RAF between the wars is Scot Robert- son, The Development of RAF Bombing Doctrine, 1919-1929 (Westport, Conn.: Praeger, 1995). Robertson looks at the issue of RAF doctrine for- mulation and overall preparedness through the eyes of the Air Staff. As a result of this focus, his study of doctrine never mentions the RAF’s doc- trine manuals or the educational apparatus responsible for disseminat- ing that doctrine. Nonetheless, Robertson concludes that the air leaders talked themselves into an unproven d