Node: 18518, Score: 0.0427863743653366, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0035.txt, Content: ne. Although the doctrine necessary to effectively employ these carriers as powerful, independent strike forces had not been codi- fied at the time of Pearl Harbor, the ground work had been expertly and carefully laid. In less than a year, the doctrine needed to employ the “fast carrier task forces” had been devised and implemented.  The British experience with naval aviation was quite different. When the RAF was established in 1918 it included all sea-based air assets pre- viously assigned to the Royal Navy. The doctrine of the Fleet Air Arm (FAA) was thus under the purview of the RAF. This was an unhappy arrangement that produced very poor results. In 1937 the FAA was returned to the Royal Navy. The best account of this story and the doc- trine of the FAA is found in Geoffrey Till, Air Power and the Royal Navy, 1914-1945 (London: Jane’s, 1979).  World War II and Postwar Era  Alexander P. de Seversky had been a Russian fighter pilot in World War I, and had emigrated to the U.S. shortly thereafter. He formed his own aircraft company and developed some original and important designs, including the P-35, the ancestor of the P-47 “Thunderbolt.” As the war approached, Seversky increasingly turned his attention to writ- ing about the use of airpower, and in 1942 he published Victory Through Air Power (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1942). This was an enor- mously important book that was a huge best seller: chosen as a Book of the Month Club selection, it was read by over five million people and was even made into an animated motion picture by Walt Disney.  Despite his experiences designing fighter aircraft, Seversky had become a dedicated enthusiast for strategic bombing. Written after the battles of Norway and Crete when airpower had dominated events on the surface, but before the costly struggle for air superiority over Germany,  MILITARY HISTORY * 487  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meil
Node: 18517, Score: 0.0326966642641785, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0034.txt, Content: 1936). Golovine, like many airmen, was a technological determinist, who believed airpower was the epitome of advanced technology. He especially advocated the importance of speed, seeing it as the guarantor of surprise, but also seeing it as a possible antidote to air defenses. In his respect for air defenses, both ground based and airborne, he was unusual. Golovine saw a growing accuracy and effectiveness for aircraft detection systems—he even predicted the development of infrared sensors to detect aircraft at night—as well as antiaircraft artillery. Also, unlike Douhet or Trenchard, he anticipated an air battle, one that meant a need for escort fighters to accompany the bombers.  486 «x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 21 --- --— Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  Naval Aviation  The peculiar demands of naval aviation and its relationship to the fleet generated some unique ideas on airpower employment. The best short treatment of this subject for the U.S. Navy is David R. Mets, “The Influence of Aviation on the Evolution of American Naval Thought,” in Paths of Heaven. For more detailed treatments, see Clark G. Reynolds, The Fast Carriers: The Forging of an Air Navy (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1968), and George W. Baer, One Hundred Years of Sea Power: The U.S. Navy, 1890-1990 (Stanford, Calif.:; Stanford University Press, 1994). Both of these are excellent studies and clearly discuss the doctrinal, organizational, technical, and administrative challenges facing the U.S. Navy during the interwar years. Due to the foresight of some exceptional individuals, however, the Navy was able to build an aircraft carrier fleet second to none. Although the doctrine necessary to effectively employ these carriers as powerful, independent strike forces had not been codi- fied at the time of Pearl Harbor, the ground work had been expertly a
Node: 18508, Score: 0.0313976943252394, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0025.txt, Content: Service Aviation,” Army Quarterly 2 (April 1921): 10-21, he lays out some of the basic ideas noted above. In addi- tion, perhaps out of a bureaucratic imperative, he called for an air force in being that was large and modern enough to fight at the immediate out- set of hostilities. The speed of aircraft and their ability to strike virtually anywhere at the outset of war had made leisurely mobilization a thing of the past. Like most other airmen, he underlined the need for air superi- ority. He believed airpower could be decisive in war, but cautioned against the belief it would end the war in a matter of days or weeks. The effects of air attack were cumulative and operations must therefore be continuous.  Other than memos and speeches delivered here and there, and undoubtedly written by his staff officers, Trenchard did not elaborate on his ideas again until World War II. In “The Effect of the Rise of Air Power  MILITARY HISTORY x 481  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 16 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER : a oe ————  on War,” written in October 1943, he recaps the events of war until then, noting that airpower played key roles in every campaign. It was espe- cially significant to realize that the RAF’s victory in the Battle of Britain had saved the country. Could airpower defeat Germany? Trenchard stated simply: “I do not know. I have never claimed that we can. Equally, I have never suggested that we cannot.” He went on to argue that Ger- man industry was slowly but surely being destroyed, “which will in time render them powerless to supply their armies and Air Force in the field to carry on the war.” Trenchard called for a greater effort to accomplish such destruction more quickly. In the two other essays contained in this same book, Air Power: Three Papers (London: Air Ministry, 1946) and written after German defeat, Trenchard merely recapitulates the key
Node: 18532, Score: 0.0285960538411128, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0049.txt, Content: s of airpower, and then explains in detail its various roles and missions such as air superiority, antisurface attack, strategic attack, and air transport. The strength of this presentation lies more in its clar- ity than in any new insights.  In the U.S., conventional strategic airpower theory had been throt- tled both by reliance on nuclear weapons and, at the other extreme, by the largely tactical nature of the Vietnam War. This began to change with the work of Colonel John Boyd, a fighter pilot at the USAF’s Fighter Weapons School. Boyd was intrigued by the astounding success of the F- 86 in air combat with the MiG-15 (a ten-to-one superiority) during the Korean War. Upon reflection, he decided that the F-86’s advantage was due largely to its hydraulically operated flight controls and all-flying hor- izontal stabilizer that allowed it to shift from one aerial maneuver to another more rapidly than the MiG. After further thought, Boyd saw broader implications of this theory. The key to victory was to act more quickly, both mentally and physically, than your opponent. He expressed this concept in a cyclical process he called the OODA Loop (observe- orient-decide-act). As soon as one side acted, it observed the conse- quences, and the loop began anew. The most important portion of the loop was the “orient” phase. Boyd speculated that the increasing com- plexities of the modern world necessitated an ability to take seemingly isolated facts and ideas from different disciplines and events, decon- struct them to their essential components, and then put them back together in new and unusual ways. He termed this process “destruction and creation.” It was this process that dominated the “orient” phase of his OODA Loop.  The significance of Boyd’s tactical air theories is that he later hypothesized that this continuously operating cycle was at play not only in an aerial dogfight, but at the higher levels of war as well. In tracing the history of war, Boyd saw victory consis
Node: 18510, Score: 0.0274395174740157, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0027.txt, Content: ions the RAF’s doc- trine manuals or the educational apparatus responsible for disseminat- ing that doctrine. Nonetheless, Robertson concludes that the air leaders talked themselves into an unproven doctrinal concept based on faith and mirror imaging rather than on empirical evidence. Worse, they had no established process for testing their doctrine; as a result, they were unable to identify and correct their weaknesses before the harsh reali- ties of war swept over them. There is much truth to this interpretation. It is useful to remember, however, that on average the RAF received less  482 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 17 --- Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  than 15 percent of the British defense budget between the wars. Given that the other services, who received the lion’s share of funds, were sim- ilarly unprepared for war, it is small wonder the paltry sums allotted to the RAF were insufficient to ensure a first-rate force.  There are several works that deal with the history of the RAF and which also include a discussion of air theory and doctrine. The best of these are: Malcolm Smith, British Air Strategy Between the Wars (Oxford: Clarendon, 1984); H. Montgomery Hyde, British Air Policy Between the Wars, 1918-1939 (London: Heinemann, 1976); Uri Bialer, The Shadow of the Bomber: The Fear of Air Attack and British Politics, 1932-1939 (London: Royal Historical Society, 1980); Neville Jones, The Beginnings of Strategic Air Power (London: Frank Cass, 1987); John James, who wrote a quirky but interesting study titled The Paladins: A Social History of the RAF (London: Macdonald, 1990); Barry D. Powers, Strategy Without Slide Rule: British Air Strategy, 1914-1939 (London: Croom Helm, 1976); and the first volume of the official history by Sir Charles Webster and Noble Frankland, The Strategic Air Offensive Against G
Node: 18504, Score: 0.0251355053961555, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0021.txt, Content: mbat during the war, patrolling forests looking for fires, and participating in the Transcontinental Relia- bility Test. Somewhat autobiographical, these books also speak to an era of innocence and civility that is foreign to us today. Arnold also wrote Airmen and Aircraft: An Introduction to Aeronautics (New York: Ronald, 1926) and This Flying Game (New York: Funk and Wagnalls, 1936), the latter co-authored with the future general, Ira Eaker. Both of these books were pitched at a young or unsophisticated audience. They relate the history of flight and the stories of famous airmen, and tell how pilots are trained in the Army, and how airplanes are used commercially. This is routine stuff. There is very little discussion of airpower theory as such, but that changed when Arnold and Eaker co-authored two other books, Winged Warfare (New York: Harper, 1941) and Army Flyer (New York: Harper, 1942). Written during the war, they served as primers for the layman by laying out clearly and effectively the more erudite ideas on air theory that had been formulated at ACTS. All of the key elements of American strategie air theory are contained here: the primacy of air superiority, airpower’s inherently offensive nature, the need for central- ized control of air assets by airmen, the need for a close and symbiotic relationship with the civilian aeronautical industry, the utility of trans- port aircraft, and, most importantly, a discussion of air targeting. Arnold and Eaker conclude that the destruction of any enemy’s industrial infra- structure would have profound effects on both its capability and will to fight.  David E. Johnson, Fast Tanks and Heavy Bombers (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1998), attempts to explain the U.S. Army’s  MILITARY HISTORY x 479  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 14 --- PITILLIP S. MEILINGER = SSS os ——————  unpreparedness for
Node: 18485, Score: 0.0246523177949293, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0002.txt, Content: Army began its slow and painful appreciation of the new air weapon. He reviews the “Mitchell era” and its influence on the Air Corps and the Air Corps Tactical School, where U.S. air doctrine was formulated. He then examines how World War II ful- filled, modified, and in some cases rejected that doctrine. Futrell then discusses the postwar era when the U.S. Air Force (USAF), like the other services and, indeed, the world in general, struggled to cope with the changes in war caused by nuclear weapons. He shows how these new ideas were rudely shaken by the Vietnam War, and how that war shaped modern concepts of airpower employment. No one has a better under- standing of the USAF’s intellectual history. The research that went into these two volumes is prodigious. Although Futrell’s prose can at times be hard going, this is essential reading for anyone serious about airpower theory and doctrine.  Early Thinking  Most early writers on the military uses of aircraft believed that the most significant impact on military operations would be in reconnais- sance and communications. (This is why the first military aircraft in the United States were assigned to the Army’s Signal Corps.) Examples of these early and guarded treatments include Captain G. L. Townsend,  468 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 3 --- = aioe a Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  “The Use and Effect of Flying Machines on Military Operations,” Infantry Journal 7 (September 1910): 244-59; and, more importantly, R. P. Hearne, Aerial Warfare (London: Bodley Head, 1909). Hearne recog- nized that aerial reconnaissance would have an enormous effect on armies, because it would more quickly and accurately determine their positions and possible intentions: “aircraft will destroy surprise, and therefore destroy strategy.” This was a prescient preview of the First World W
Node: 18533, Score: 0.0241265465012894, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0050.txt, Content: he later hypothesized that this continuously operating cycle was at play not only in an aerial dogfight, but at the higher levels of war as well. In tracing the history of war, Boyd saw victory consistently going to the side that could think the most creatively—orienting itseli—and then act quickly on that insight. Although military historians tend to blanch at such a selective use of history, the thesis is an interesting one. Significantly, because of the emphasis on the orientation phase of the loop, in practical terms Boyd was calling for a strategy directed against the mind of the enemy  MILITARY HISTORY x 495  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 30 --- PITILLIP S. MEILINGER~--~-— es a =  leadership. Although posited by an airman, these theories encompassed far more than a blueprint for air operations. Warfare in general was gov- erned by this process. Nonetheless, because of the OODA Loop’s empha- sis on speed and the disorienting surprise it inflicts on the enemy, Boyd’s theories seem especially applicable to airpower, which embodies these two qualities most fully.  Boyd never published his theories. Instead, he would present a lengthy briefing, several hours long, consisting of hundreds of slides. This briefing, which changed slightly over the years, was titled “A Dis- course on Winning and Losing,” and xerox copies of it can be found in most Staff College and War College libraries. It is Senerally accompanied by an eight-page typescript titled “Destruction and Creation.” The exam- ples Boyd pulled from military history to support his theories are highly selective and thus his entire edifice must be viewed with great caution. Although he is cited frequently as a guru of maneuver warfare, there has been surprisingly little critical analysis of his theories. The best critique thus far is Lieutenant Colonel David K. Fadok, “John Boyd and John Warde
Node: 18524, Score: 0.0238755955000131, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0041.txt, Content: er in World War II, is typified by Alexander de Seversky, America—Too Young to Die! (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1961), which is even more bombastic than his earlier works; General Nathan F. Twining (former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff), Neither Liberty nor Safety (New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1966); and General Curtis E. LeMay with Dale O. Smith, America is in Danger (New York: Funk and Wagnalls, 1968).  Vietnam and NATO  Despite the cries of the alarmists, U.S. air doctrine was little differ- ent from what it had been for decades: the emphasis remained on strate-  490 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 25 --- — ~ = ~ Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  gic bombing. As a consequence, American airmen were unprepared for the type of unconventional war they had to fight in Vietnam. They had the wrong doctrine, the wrong aircraft, the wrong ordnance, the wrong training regimen, and the wrong command and control system. One would have thought, therefore, that there would have been a scramble to understand this new kind of war. Such was not the case, as is demon- strated by Dennis Drew in “Air Theory, Air Force, and Low Intensity Conflict: A Short Journey to Confusion,” in Paths of Heaven. Drew traces the story of the USAF’s response to “low intensity conflict” in gen- eral and Vietnam in particular. He concludes that there was amazingly little thought given to the subject. Airmen quietly and unceremoniously seemed willing to jettison their traditional theories of air warfare, but they had little or nothing to offer in their place. This problem is con- firmed and elaborated upon by Carl H. Builder, The Icarus Syndrome: The Role of Air Power Theory in the Evolution and Fate of the U.S. Air Force (New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction, 1994).  The failures of airpower doctrine in Vietnam are bluntly described in Donald J
Node: 18502, Score: 0.0228963118390849, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0019.txt, Content: ated that this cause and effect linkage was not nearly so neat or obvious. Watts therefore calls for a more humanistic and cultural-based method of air doctrine formulation to replace the earlier, flawed mechanistic approach.  Stephen L. McFarland’s America’s Pursuit of Precision Bombing, 1910-1945 (Washington: Smithsonian, 1995), illuminates a very impor- tant aspect of the ACTS story. One of the key tenets of Air Corps doc- trine was “precision,” yet the actual bombing campaigns conducted during the war were far from precise. It is common to assert—as did Watts above—that ACTS thinkers merely wished away this issue in their quest to develop a theory that would separate them from ground officers. McFarland shows that this was not the case. The men at Maxwell clearly understood the importance of precision to the effectiveness of their operations, and they spent much time compiling data on various types of bombs, bombsights, aircraft platforms, desired altitudes, and types of targets. In an era before computers, they nonetheless collected an enor- mous amount of data that gave a degree of specificity to their theories. Even if the experiences in war were to prove far different, ACTS person- nel at least made a serious attempt to predict what their doctrine could and could not accomplish.  Unfortunately, although the works cited above give important details and insights into parts of the ACTS story, they all lack comprehensive- ness and depth. A complete intellectual history of this crucial institution remains to be written.  The U.S. Army was responsible for approving Air Corps doctrine manuals, and perhaps the two most important of these documents were FM 1-5, “Employment of Aviation of the Army,” first published in April 1940 and revised in January 1943; and the manual that replaced it, FM 100-20, “Command and Employment of Air Power,” published in July 1943. FM 1-5 was a straightforward description of airpower’s various strategic and tactical missions, including b
Node: 18491, Score: 0.0222486967597109, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0008.txt, Content: 471  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 6 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER ————  sion of his extended essay, “Command of the Air,” a collection of letters to the editor termed “Recapitulation” that had appeared in the magazine Rivista Aeronautica, and two other essays, “Probable Aspects of Future War,” and “The War of 19__,” the latter being a fictional account of a future war between Germany and France. The Italian Air Force pub- lished another translation, by Sheila Fischer, in 1958, which reads quite differently from the Ferrari version. Fischer’s edition contains “Com- mand of the Air,” “Recapitulation,” a two-page summary of “The War of 19__” and three other essays not translated elsewhere.)  Because Douhet was the first to write about most of the important issues dealing with airpower, and because most of those who came after him, knowingly or not, merely wrote commentaries on his ideas and pre- dictions, I will discuss Douhet’s theories, and the criticisms of them, in some detail.  Douhet believed that World War I had demonstrated that wars were inevitable and that they would be total. He also believed that modern technology had produced a stalemate on the ground that could not be broken. As a result, airpower—which ironically had helped produce the trench stalemate by removing the element of surprise—would now restore mobility to war. Because of its ability to operate in the third dimension, airplanes could fly over the trenches, mountains, and rivers that impeded armies. Moreover, they could then bomb the “vital cen- ters” of an enemy country, hitherto protected by armies and fortresses: the key industries and structures that allowed a state to function. Because aircraft could travel in any direction, at any altitude, and at any time, they would enjoy the advantage of tactical surprise. This in turn meant they could not be intercepted or stopped. The
Node: 18514, Score: 0.0220772260057103, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0031.txt, Content: ssion.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 19 --- io Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  to hasten its surrender, so too could airplanes bomb that city for the same purpose. Over the next three and a half decades Spaight wrote a number of other books on the subject of airpower in war, most dealing with its legal ramifications. His most important were Air Power and the Cities (London: Longmans, Green, 1930), Air Power in the Next War (London: Geoffrey Bles, 1938); and Air Power Can Disarm (London: Air League, 1948).  The most reflective, disciplined, and impressive thinker in the RAF was Wing Commander John C. Slessor. “Jack” had been a combat pilot in the First World War, served on Trenchard’s personal staff afterwards, and occupied various staff and command positions prior to World War II. Just before the outbreak of war, he was the RAF’s director of plans, and the trenchant logic and stinging sarcasm of his pen can easily be seen in the documents of the period that issued from his office. During the war Slessor was head of Coastal Command, and in 1950 became chief of the air staff with the rank of Marshal of the Royal Air Force.  For our purposes, Slessor’s most significant assignment was from 1931 to 1934 when he served as an instructor at the British Army Staff College. Although one of the staunchest of airpower advocates, his posi- tion teaching soldiers made too zealous an approach counterproductive. In addition, his views on airpower were no doubt modified by such close contact with the outstanding minds at Camberley. As a consequence, in his lectures he focused on a future war that postulated an expeditionary force on the continent, as in World War I, that required close coopera- tion between the RAF and Army. In such a scenario, Slessor recognized that strategic bombing was only tangentially related to the goals of the expeditionary force. Instead, there was a real need to isolate the battle- field with airpower—to disrupt and destr
Node: 18492, Score: 0.0218480101968812, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0009.txt, Content: Because aircraft could travel in any direction, at any altitude, and at any time, they would enjoy the advantage of tactical surprise. This in turn meant they could not be intercepted or stopped. The only defense against air attack was a good offense—countries would be deterred from attacking out of fear of enemy air retaliation. Further, he maintained that this was such a radical new way of thinking about warfare, that only trained airmen who truly understood this new weapon should be allowed to command it. Thus, an independent air force must be created separate from stultifying army and navy control, and should consist primarily of self-defending bombardment aircraft.  When discussing the vital centers of a country, Douhet believed that the psychological effects of bombardment would be more pronounced than the physical effects. As a consequence, he called for the use of incendiary and gas bombs—and recall that poison gas had been used extensively in World War I—against a country’s major population cen- ters. He believed that attacks of this sort would cause such panic that the population would demand an end to the war. Douhet speculated that this would occur before a lengthy and bloody ground battle took place. He never called for the abolition of the army and navy, but obviously he believed that in the unified defense establishment he proposed, the air  472 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 7 --- Tote ~~ Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  force would be the senior rather than the junior partner. As a result, he saw little need for aircraft specifically designed to assist the ground or sea battle.  The criticisms of Douhet’s theories are legion. He grossly overesti- mated both the physical and psychological effects of bombing. Popula- tions did not break as quickly as he thought they would under the weight of air att
Node: 18495, Score: 0.0217213759132354, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0012.txt, Content: xtremely prolific: he published three major books on aviation, as well as dozens of articles. His first book, Our Air Force: The Key to National Defense (New York: Dutton, 1921), was written shortly after the war and is surprisingly mild compared to his later works. He describes airpower as a revolutionary weapon, but one that would take its place alongside the other services. Foreseeing future war largely in terms of what he had just seen in France, Mitchell proposed the use of airpower as a major contributor to land or sea campaigns—not as a substitute for them.  By 1925 he had changed his views dramatically. Disgusted with what he viewed as conservatism and parochialism, he began increasingly to attack the Navy and his own superiors in the Army. In 1925 he published Winged Defense (New York: Putnam, 1925). In it, he called for an inde- pendent air force whose core would be based on strategic bombing, and a less stress on surface warfare. His attacks on the Navy were especially harsh.  Four years after leaving uniform, Mitchell’s Skyways (Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1930), appeared. There was little new here, although by this time his ideas regarding the decisiveness of strategic bombing, the diminishing importance of sea power, and need for an independent air force, are most pronounced.  It must be remembered that Mitchell wrote to convince the Ameri- can public, not his uniformed colleagues. As a result, most of his pub- lished writings have been categorized—with some justification—-as mere propaganda and special pleading. He did, however, write an important doctrine manual, not for public consumption, that more truly reflects his ideas on how he actually believed airpower should be employed in war. “Notes on the Multi-Motored Bombardment Group, Day and Night,” writ- ten and distributed in 1922, is a clear and lucid explanation of Mitchell’s operational concepts. He states here that aircraft, although generally complementing surface operations, can at times domina
Node: 18488, Score: 0.0217027318937053, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0005.txt, Content: 1915); Frederick A. Talbot, Aeroplanes and Dirigi- bles of War (London: William Heinemann, 1915), and Edgar C. Middle- ton, Airfare of To-Day and of the Future (London: Constable, 1917).  It is surprising how superficial and/or technical most of the writing on airpower was prior to World War II. Flight was a revolutionary devel- opment in human history. As a result, people found it fascinating, while also being a bit mystified as to what it actually entailed. As a result, most books on aviation began with an obligatory discussion of what makes air- planes fly, a description of lift and drag, the difficulty of directional con- trol, the effects of rain and ice on airframes, etc. After these introductory chapters, authors would then begin to speculate—and they had to spec- ulate because there was so little empirical data to fall back on—regard- ing the future of aviation. Most of these speculative accounts fall into one of two categories: the boy’s adventure story, and the apocalyptic vision of future war. In particularly unfortunate cases, these two categories were combined under one cover. An example of this genre was Major General James E. Fechet, Flying (New York: Century, 1933). Fechet had been the chief of the Air Corps, and thus should have known better, but he nonetheless wrote a distressingly bad book on airpower. One extended quote sums up the message of Flying, as well as of dozens of other such books written during the interwar years:  It takes no gazing into a crystal ball to visualize a huge trade center such as New York City completely paralyzed if not entirely destroyed, razed and depopulated in a single day by a very few flying machines. .. . Obviously the airman, riding so high above the earth that cities look like ant hills, cannot aim his deadly cargo at armed males. All below will be his impartial target . . . the women and chil- dren and working men, extra-military, are the ones who will suffer. Extended areas will be completely depopulated. We
Node: 18484, Score: 0.0216629182945445, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0001.txt, Content: y of airpower theory and trace its evolution during this century. The compendium produced by the U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Airpower Studies (SAAS), The  The Journal of Military History 64 (April 2000): 407-502 © Society for Military History x 467  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 2 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER— = =< ———— ——  Paths of Heaven: The Evolution of Airpower Theory (Maxwell Air Force Base [AFB], Ala.: Air University Press, 1997), is an excellent start. It offers chapters on Giulio Douhet, Hugh Trenchard and the Royal Air Force, Billy Mitchell, the Air Corps Tactical School, U.S. naval aviators, various lesser European thinkers prior to World War II, Alexander de Seversky, the nuclear theorists of the postwar era, John Boyd, and John Warden. It also has topical chapters dealing with airpower in low- intensity conflict, airpower and the ground battle, airpower in NATO, and Soviet air theory in the aftermath of Vietnam. It coneludes with a look ahead to space power theory. The contributors were instructors or students at SAAS, with the exception of the author of the concluding essay, I. B. Holley, Jr. The quality of the essays, as is typical of such works, is somewhat uneven, and there are gaps in the story—there is no discussion of Japanese or Chinese airpower, for example—but nonethe- less, The Paths of Heaven remains the place to begin a study of airpower theory.  The best account of the evolution of airpower theory and doctrine in the United States is Robert Frank Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine: Basic Thinking in the United States Air Force, 1907-1960, 2 vols. (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1989). This is an enormously detailed, thorough, and insightful work. Futrell begins with the early days of aviation, showing how the U.S. Army began its slow and painful appreciation of the new air weapon. He reviews the “Mitchell era” and its influence on the Air Corps and the Air Corps Tactical School, where U.S. air doctrine was for
Node: 18487, Score: 0.0214374995622923, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0004.txt, Content: n most realized. In this he was cor- rect; yet, it is amazing how few writers on the subject realized it.  F. W. Lanchester was an eclectic engineer and thinker who is best known for his “N Squared Laws” that attempt to predict casualties in war based on the number of participants. He explains these formulas and their relation to airpower in Aircraft in War: The Dawn of the Fourth Arm (London: Constable, 1916). This is a clever and thoughtful work. Lanchester sees great strategic value in aircraft, but nonetheless believes their main importance will be on the battlefield where they will work in conjunction with the three other arms, infantry, artillery, and cavalry. In this regard, however, he believes that gaining air superiority is absolutely essential, and its attainment should be airpower’s first priority at the out- break of war. In words soon to be echoed by other air advocates, he stated boldly: “the time will come when the total and irrevocable loss of  MILITARY HISTORY x 469  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 4 --- PILILLIP S. MEILINGER —  the command of the air to an enemy will be regarded as a disaster of an altogether irreparable and decisive kind.”  There were other early writers on airpower who seemed instinctively to recognize that aerial bombing would grow to dominate war, but their thoughts were inchoate and lacking specifics. In this regard, their works more closely resembled the fiction of H. G. Wells and Jules Verne than those of military theorists. Examples of these early glimmerings of strate- gic thought were Claude Graham-White, The Aeroplane in War (Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1912), and Aircraft in the Great War (Chicago: McClurg, 1915); Frederick A. Talbot, Aeroplanes and Dirigi- bles of War (London: William Heinemann, 1915), and Edgar C. Middle- ton, Airfare of To-Day and of the Future (London: Constable, 1917).  It is surpr
Node: 18530, Score: 0.0212137849400712, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0047.txt, Content: . That attribute should not be wasted on targets that can be handled by other means, such as artillery or armored forces. He views land forces as becoming more supportive of air operations, rather than the other way around. Moreover, he says that soldiers have begun to realize this change, though they will not acknowledge it publicly. Overall, this is a most interesting book from a different perspective.  The specific issue of command and control is examined in Rear Admiral James A. Winnefeld and Dana J. Johnson, Joint Air Operations: Pursuit of Unity in Command and Control, 1942-1991 (Annapolis, Md.: Naval Institute Press, 1993). Command and control of all air assets in a given theater has been a thorny issue for decades. Given not only the normal interservice rivalry that routinely exists, but the added compli- eation of differing views on airpower between airmen of different ser- vices, this problem should not be a surprise. The authors examine a series of case studies—Midway, Guadalcanal, Korea, Vietnam, and Desert Storm—to illustrate how these differences of opinion and focus have negatively affected air operations. Their suggested solution is a call for a component air commander who is in charge of all air assets in a the- ater—Air Force, Navy, Marine, Army, and allied—so as to more effi- ciently and effectively apply what are generally limited but highly potent air assets. They argue, convincingly, that in times of fiscal austerity, which usually occur after every war, there is a tendency for services to become overly defensive and wary about their prerogatives; but the new environment will not allow such parochialism, “jointness” is the new watchword for future air operations.  Anything by Air Vice-Marshal R. A. “Tony” Mason will be of interest; he is one of the most intelligent, rigorous, and creative airpower thinkers we have today. In Air Power: A Centennial Appraisal (London: Brassey’s, 1995), Mason covers a wide area. Indeed, it is not, as the title sug
Node: 18528, Score: 0.0211840928167049, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0045.txt, Content: roduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 27 --- = : “= Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  whatever conduct had been thought objectionable. The wielder of the ratchet may temporarily ease off on the pressure to allow the victim time to think things over. If necessary, force could be reapplied at a slightly higher level to see if that would gain the desired results. Such a scenario presumes the adversaries are “rational actors” who understand the sig- nals being sent back and forth. In reality, war seldom fosters rational behavior. Schelling’s theory was tried in Vietnam and found wanting. Yet, the theoretical logic of his ideas has lingered; indeed, it seemed to make a comeback in the airwar over Kosovo. It will be interesting to see if future policy makers will look more favorably on the strategy of gradual escalation.  The Current Debate  The rest of the world was not idle while the U.S. endured the Vietnam agony and recovery. In Australia, airmen faced a problem not unlike that of the U.S. in the years prior to the Second World War: how to defend a large country with a long coastline on a modest budget. The Royal Aus- tralian Air Force (RAAF) posited a need for long-range, mobile, and flex- ible strike forces, qualities that obviously pointed towards airpower. The RAAF had the virtue of a vigorous and intellectually active core of indi- viduals who thought and wrote seriously about the role of airpower in Australian defense. One of these men was Group Captain Gary Waters, who wrote The Architect of Victory: Air Campaigns for Australia (Can- berra: Australian National University, 1991). Waters emphasized three distinct but interrelated air campaigns that would be necessary in the event of war. These were the “prime” campaign for air superiority, the “separate” campaign of strategic bombardment, and the “force multi- plier” campaign of air cooperation with surface forces. The most impor- tant of these was
Node: 18505, Score: 0.0206057755143623, Chunk File: meilinger_historiography/chunks/meilinger_historiography_0022.txt, Content: permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 14 --- PITILLIP S. MEILINGER = SSS os ——————  unpreparedness for World War II by focusing on what he sees as the defi- ciencies in American tank and air doctrine and equipment. He concludes that the culprit was intraservice parochialism and special interests. Although his treatment of Air Corps doctrine regarding strategic bom- bardment before the war is accurate if not original, Johnson misses the mark on tactical airpower. Undoubtedly tactical aviation had teething troubles in its first baptism of fire in North Africa, but the campaign was still a success; moreover, airmen learned very quickly. By D-day, U.S.tac- tical air assets were far superior to Germany’s, in both quantity and qual- ity. In short, Johnson provides an explanation for a nonexistent problem.  Although Joseph J. Corn’s Winged Gospel: America’s Romance with Aviation, 1900-1950 (New York: Oxford University Press, 1983) is not about military aviation, much less airpower theory, his masterful work is included here because of its tangential importance to our subject. Corn has written the best account so far of how aviation captured the popular imagination during the first half of this century. Americans have always tended to glamorize technology and see it as a panacea for any problem, and the airplane was the supreme example of that technology. This com- bined with an almost mystical feeling that when one took off into the pristine sky, the sordidness, imperfections, and banality of the earth were left behind. Flight brought transformation and renewal. This is an important concept to understand about that more innocent age, because military airmen believed the same sort of transformation was occurring in war as a result of the airplane. Although it sounds paradoxical, there was a belief that the airplane, because of its ability to dominate whole countries and their p