Node: 19753, Score: -0.0130877891708499, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0337.txt, Content: 148.  20. Frank Simonds and Brooks Emeny, International Relations and Economic Nation- alism (New York: American Book, 1935), 154.  21. Alexander Pope, An Essay on Criticism (London: W. Lewis, 1711).  3. The Bomber Always Gets Through  1, Brigadier General Kenneth Walker official USAF biography, www.af.mil/About- Us/Biographies/Display/Article/105285/brigadier-general-kenneth-newton-walker/ (ac- cessed May 28, 2018).  2. Air Corps Tactical School, Bombardment Aviation (February 1931), Air Force Historical Research Agency, Maxwell AFB, AL (hereafter AFHRA), 248.101-9.
Node: 19465, Score: -0.0057511974980927, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0049.txt, Content: e interruption of this economic web. It is possible that the moral collapse brought about by the break-up of this closely knit web would be sufficient; but connected therewith is the industrial fabric which is abso- lutely essential for modern war. To continue a war which is hopeless is worse than an undesirable peace, because the latter comes soon or late anyway; but to continue a modern war without machinery is impossible.  ‘That nations today are more vulnerable than was the case a century ago, I believe, is obvious. This does not mean that nations can be attacked more easily; it means merely that they possess more susceptible features a success- ful attack on which would cause defeat.  Have science and invention provided a new method of waging war?  ‘That is a question which you will have to decide for yourselves as this course progresses. We know that modern airplanes can carry bombs capable of tremendous destruction. We know that airplanes are being constructed with a range of thousands of miles. We know that one by one the limitations of aircraft are being removed; that blind flying and blind landing are now possibilities; that the danger of icing during flight has been eliminated; that navigation in the air is as exact a science as is navigation on the ocean. It is becoming more and more difficult for the scoffer of air power to find his famous “limitations”  What is possible for a modern air force, a real air force, consisting of a 1,000, or 2,000, bombers if employed against a nation’s economic structure, is a question which we cannot call upon history to answer. We can, however, by using the common sense with which the Creator has endowed us, and by aiding that with a reasonable research into the dependence of modern civi- lization upon its present economic set-up, come to intelligent conclusions. We can determine, in our own minds, whether ground forces must undergo a radical change in organization if they are to continue to wage war in the  44 LECTURES
Node: 19464, Score: -0.0019426218640847, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0048.txt, Content: hat of another,—to break down the hostile will to resist.  ‘There is plenty of indication that modern nations are interdependent not so much for the essentials of life as for those “non-essentials” needed to conduct their daily lives under the existing standards of living. When re- trenchment in consumption and production in the last depression became manifest, it was soon world-wide—it was only a matter of time until the monster's tentacles reached into every so-called modern nation.  ‘The trend in modern nations has been towards specialization in industry and agriculture, which makes for large territories which are not self-support- ing. The miner has little to do with raising his own food nor with making his own clothes or other essentials for modern life. The city dweller is dependent upon other communities for nearly everything he consumes, and oftentimes the consumer and producer are brought together only through the medium of intricate systems of modern transportation. In large cities many of the workers are not self-sufficient even for their means of locomotion between  Air Power and War 43  home and work. Many factories and most homes and places of business are entirely dependent for electrical power upon sources far removed from their location. In some instance whole industries are dependent upon a single source of supply of raw material which must flow through a single vulnerable bottleneck;—witness the American steel industry and the Soo Canal.  Hence, modern industrial nations are much more vulnerable, because of the existence of the economic structure which our present civilization has created, than were the nations of a century ago, when the dependence of one section upon many others did not exist. It appears that nations are suscep- tible to defeat by the interruption of this economic web. It is possible that the moral collapse brought about by the break-up of this closely knit web would be sufficient; but connected therewith is the industrial fabric
Node: 19728, Score: -0.0007837785083285, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0312.txt, Content: ncipal of- ficers of the OPM including Messrs. Knudson, Harrison, Batt, Johnston, Heigs, Britton, and Bigger. These officials were accompanied by Gener- als Marshall and Arnold. On September 11, Mr. Stimson called Colonels George and Walker and Major Kuter into his office for about an hour and a half of information discussion of the study. He implied his approval as a practicable project only if the nation were at war. On September 12, the study was presented to Mr. Stimson and Mr. McCloy. Following this presentation, the study was again presented to 27 key members of the air Staff, OCAC, and Air Force Combat Command.  13. On September 15, the study was presented to Colonel W. M. Donovan, Chief of Intelligence for the President and General Spaatz. Since that date, until the final compilation by the WPD General Staff “Army and Navy Es- timate of U.S. Over-All Production Requirements” representatives of the AWPD conferred with Colonel Scobey of the Joint Board in preparation of the above.  Appendix 3 AWPD-42  THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON  August 24, 1942 SECRET MEMORANDUM FOR GENERAL MARSHALL:  I wish you would ask General Arnold to submit to you his judgment of the number of combat aircraft by types which should be produced for the Army and our Allies in this country in 1943 in order to have complete air ascendency over the enemy.  ‘This report should be prepared without consideration for existing sched- ules or production possibilities or any other competing military require- ments. I am asking for this because I would like to know what the theoretical requirements are to get complete control and domination of the air.  I realize fully, however, that there are limiting factors to the creation of air power, such as the availability of pilots, high octane gas, transportation and the competition of other essential critical munitions of war. Hence, I would like you and Admiral King to submit a second schedule based on these realities and the proper relationship of air pow
Node: 19463, Score: -0.0005325724295153, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0047.txt, Content: cial system,—though undoubtedly disintegrating,—had done so less rapidly than those of the other side. But of what profit would be such a victory? The vanquished side  42 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  surely could not pay adequate reparations, because it would be like a sponge from which the last drop of water has been squeezed. With the delicate and intricate economic system of the world of today there can be no prosperity while the major nations of the world are suffering from economic paralysis; and so the objective of peace would be to restore the national health of all the belligerents—to repair the ravages of the disease: war.  Certainly it is not difficult for intelligent people to appreciate that the more speedily a war is over and the world can revert to its normal peace-time pursuits, the better it is for the entire world. Common sense dictates that ev- ery means should be employed which will bring wars between major powers to a conclusion within the shortest possible time and thus lessen the effect of the destruction of life and property and the disruption of the economic sys- tem. There is no other course if the preservation of civilization is worthwhile.  Surely, we can conclude that it is to the advantage of civilization and in the interest of the prosperity and happiness of nations to change the past method of waging war if such a change is possible. Whether future wars will be like those of the past, i.e., wars of absolute destruction, only the future will tell. However, it looks as though science has given to man a method of wag- ing war differently.  Has modern civilization reduced or increased the vulnerability of na- tions? I have tried in the limited period to show that the real objective of war is to force the will of one nation upon that of another,—to break down the hostile will to resist.  ‘There is plenty of indication that modern nations are interdependent not so much for the essentials of life as for those “non-essentials” ne
Node: 19436, Score: -0.00039348273811, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0020.txt, Content: rding the bombing as illegiti- mate provided all reasonable care is taken to confine the scope of the bombing to the military objective. Otherwise a belligerent would be able to secure complete immunity for his war manufactures and de- pots merely by locating them in a large city, which would, in effect, become neutral territory—a position which the opposing belliger- ent would never accept. What is illegitimate, as being contrary to the dictates of humanity, is the indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terrorizing the civilian population. It is an entirely different matter to terrorise munition workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work or stevedores into abandoning the loading of a ship with munitions through fear of air attack upon the factory or dock concerned. Moral effect is created by the bomb- ing in such circumstances but it is the inevitable result of a lawful operation of war—the bombing of a military objective.**  For Trenchard, strategic air strikes did not have to physically destroy the en- emy’s wartime economy to be effective. He claimed that “the morale effect of bombing stands undoubtedly to the material effect in a proportion of 20 to 1% Bombing factories, or even the threat of bombing, would drive out work- ers and halt production. Even near misses would have an impact as, presum- ably, local housing included those of the workers. Trenchard concluded that sustained strikes on the enemy’s war industry would break the morale of the workers and cause the collapse of the economy and the will of the people to  Introduction 13  continue the war, as he believed had happened in Germany, helping to bring about an end to World War I.  ‘The RAF’s emphasis on the offensive nature of air power and the morale effect of strategic bombing would later contribute to tragic consequences in the lead-up to World War II. Air power advocates in the interwar period had succeeded in convincing the British and French populations and the
Node: 19748, Score: 0.0005357058857543, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0332.txt, Content: n University Press, 2002), 42.  14. Biddle, Rhetoric and Reality, 57.  15. Biddle, Rhetoric and Reality, 61.  16. Maurer, The U.S. Air Service in World War I, 501.  17. Richard Simpkin, Deep Battle: The Brainchild of Marshal Tukhachevsky (London: Brassey's Defence, 1987); Heinz Guderian, Panzer Leader (New York: Da Capo, 1952); Erwin Rommel, The Rommel Papers (New York: Da Capo, 1953). In Great Britain an ex- ception is J. C. Slessor, Air Power and Armies (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1936).  18. Giulio Douhet, Command of the Air (Washington, DC: Air Force History and Museums Program, 1998).  19. Douhet, Command of the Air, 16-17, 29, 31, 45, 56, 57, 116-17.  20. Douhet, Command of the Air, 5, 10, 25, 58, 60, 98, 128, 196.  Notes to Pages 10-20 273  21. Phillip Meilinger, The Paths of Heaven: The Evolution of Airpower Theory (Maxwell AFB, AL: Air University Press, 1997), 20-30.  22. It would take German intervention to return Mussolini to power.  23. Meilinger, Paths of Heaven, 33; Alfred Hurley, Billy Mitchell: Crusader for Air Pow- er (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1975), 75.  24, Hugh Trenchard, “Memorandum by the Chief of the Air Staff for the Chiefs of Staff Sub Committee on the Object of an Air Force, 2nd May 1928,” in The Strategic Air Of- ‘fensive against Germany, 1939-1945, vol. 4, Annexes and Appendices, ed. Charles Webster and Noble Frankland (London: Her Majesty's Stationery Office, 1961), appendix 2, 71.  25. Hugh Trenchard, “Report on the Independent Air Force,” Tenth Supplement to London Gazette January 1, 1919, 134-35.  26. Stanley Baldwin, “Mr Baldwin on Aerial Warfare—A Fear for the Future,’ Times, November 11, 1932, 7.  27. Daniel Hucker, Public Opinion and the End of Appeasement in Britain and France (Surrey, UK: Ashgate, 2011), 69.  28. Butt Report, August 18, 1941, found in British National Archives, AIR 14/1218, or view online at https://etherwave.files.wordpress.com/2014/01/butt-report-transcription- tna-pro-air-14-12182.pdf (acc
Node: 19706, Score: 0.0011988700312969, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0290.txt, Content: ctive. Otherwise a belligerent would be able to secure complete immunity for his war manufactures and depots merely by locating them in a large city, which would, in effect, become    228 Appendix 1  neutral territory—a position which the opposing belligerent would never ac- cept. What is illegitimate, as being contrary to the dictates of humanity, is the indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terrorising the civil- ian population. It is an entirely different matter to terrorise munition workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work or stevedores into abandoning the loading of a ship with munitions through fear of air attack upon the factory or dock concerned. Moral effect is created by the bombing in such circumstances but it is the inevitable result of a lawful operation of war—the bombing of a military objective. The laws of warfare have never prohibited such destruction as is “imperatively demanded by the necessities of war” (Hague Rules, 1907) and the same principle which allows a belliger- ent to destroy munitions destined to be used against him would justify him also in taking action to interrupt the manufacture and movement of such munitions and thus securing the same end at an earlier stage.  Is TH1s OBJECT ONE WHICH WILL LEAD TO VICTORY, AND A CORRECT EMPLOYMENT OF AIR POWER?  Before I deal with the above heading I would like to state here that, in a war of the first magnitude with civilized nations, I do not for a moment wish to imply by the following remarks that the Air by itself can finish the war. But it will materially assist, and will be one of the many means of exercising pressure on the enemy, in conjunction with sea power and blockade and the defeat of his armies.  In pursuit of this object, air attacks will be directed against any objec- tives which will contribute effectively towards the destruction of the enemy’s means of resistance and the lowering of his determination to fight.  These objectives will be milita
Node: 19598, Score: 0.0014197724858532, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0182.txt, Content: ed. This economic disarrange- ment brought about, among other things, rapidly rising prices, food and fuel shortages, transportation congestion, labor unrest, and suffering and weak- ened morale among a large portion of the civilian population. At one time every siding and much of the rail line was filled up, from the port of New York as far west as Pittsburgh, with backed up freight trains, caused by con- gestion due to the war load. This condition existed for almost three months, during which time trains could be moved only with the greatest difficulty, if at all. The repercussions were far-reaching and seriously retarded our war effort.  Innumerable examples could be cited to show the difficulties which this great industrial nation experienced in attempting to meet the war-time load that was placed upon industry, but time is not available for this historical examination. I think, however, it is quite plain that modern warfare places an enormous load upon the economic system of a nation, which increases its sensitivity to attack manifold. Certainly a breakdown in any part of this complex interlocked organization must seriously influence the conduct of war by that nation, and greatly interfere with the social welfare and morale of its nationals. No nation at the outbreak of war has a sufficient supply of war material on hand. It must depend on a program of rapid expansion that will increase production and distribution to satisfy requirements.  It is characteristic of modern civilization that the economic structure is dependent as a whole upon the integrity and continued functioning of each one of its individual elements. Raw materials must be available. They must be transported to the processing and manufacturing centers and from there moved on to numberless other assembling and finishing plants; through a long chain of operations, with many stops on the way, before the completed article is ready for final delivery. And everywhere there must be available— Power. Wi
Node: 19752, Score: 0.0034932042754172, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0336.txt, Content: m, 1998), 29, 31, 56, 57.  7. Murray Williamson, German Military Effectiveness (Mt. Pleasant, SC: Nautical & Aviation, 1992), 64.  8. Brigadier General Donald Wilson official USAF biography, www.af.mil/About- Us/Biographies/Display/Article/108688/brigadier-general-donald-wilson/ (accessed May 28, 2018).  9. Donald Wilson, “Principles of War” Air Force Course, Air Corps Tactical School, 1939, AFHRA, 248.2021A-2.  10. Field Service Regulations, part 1, Operations, 1909 (London: HMSO, 1914), 14.  11. Marshal Marmont was a French general who betrayed his close friend Napoleon and later wrote a thesis on war. Auguste Frédéric Louis Viesse de Marmont, Duc de Ra- gusa, The Spirit of Military Institutions; or, Essential Principles of the Art of War, trans. Henry Coppee (Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1862), 36.  12. The Battle of Crecy, August 26, 1346, ended with the victory of England over France.  13. The Battle of Agincourt, October 25, 1415, was an English victory over France.  14. Major General George A. Lynch was chief of infantry from May 24, 1937, to April 30, 1941, www.westpointaog.org/memorial-article?id=be3913d9-bc2e-4cd8-a44d- 702e6ad30cef (accessed May 28, 2018).  15. Thomas Phillips, “Word Magic of the Military Mystics,’ Coastal Artillery Journal, September-October 1939, 429-30.  16. Harold George, “Principles of War,’ Air Force Course, Air Corps Tactical School, 1935-1936, AFHRA, 248.2017A-9.  17. Major General Haywood S. Hansell official USAF biography, www.af.mil/About- Us/Biographies/Display/Article/106813/major-general-haywood-s-hansell-jr/ (accessed May 28, 2018).  18. Haywood Hansell, “The Aim in War,’ Air Force Course, Air Corps Tactical School, 1936-1937, AFHRA, 248.2018A-3.  19. Basil Liddell-Hart, The Decisive Wars of History (London: G. Bell & Sons, 1929), 148.  20. Frank Simonds and Brooks Emeny, International Relations and Economic Nation- alism (New York: American Book, 1935), 154.  21. Alexander Pope, An Essay on Criticism (London: W. Lewis, 1711).
Node: 19438, Score: 0.0040419137742615, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0022.txt, Content: e capable of achieving independent political out- comes. Beyond the impact of his leadership upon the RAF, Trenchard’s ideas also influenced American airmen, the most prominent of whom was Briga- dier General William Mitchell.  Billy Mitchell  William “Billy” Mitchell, the flamboyant son of a US senator, joined the US Army Signal Corps in 1898. In May 1917, Major Mitchell was dispatched as an aeronautical observer to Europe, where he witnessed the technologi- cal advances to French and British aircraft design, innovation accelerated by  14 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Brigadier General William “Billy” Mitchell, circa 1921.  the requirements of the war. It was here that Mitchell met Trenchard, who influenced his thinking on the need for an independent air force. When the American Expeditionary Force arrived later that year, Mitchell commanded the US air component, where he proved an able combat commander and gained invaluable insights into air operations. Experience convinced him that air power had a role to play equal with land and sea power and that command of the air was critical to the success of air, sea, and land warfare. Colonel Mitchell, however, returned to an isolationist America rapidly de- mobilizing. His call for an independent air force fell on deaf ears.”  Yet despite demobilization, the importance of air power was not en- tirely lost on the War Department. In 1920, the Army Reorganization Act formed the US Army Air Service with Brigadier General Mitchell as its as- sistant chief. The establishment of the Air Service did not mean, however, that army leadership believed air power should be employed independent of ground forces. Given the army’s view of air power as a supporting arm, along with America’s retrenchment into isolationism, Mitchell could not openly advocate for an offensive strategic bombing force designed to strike distant  Introduction 15  US Army Air Service Martin MB-2 bomber drops a white phosphorous practice bomb on the U
Node: 19441, Score: 0.0041236001244916, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0025.txt, Content: act such attacks would have in short- ening war.  ‘The ethics of attack on manufacturing areas in the rear is one which is engaging the attention of an International Tribunal convened at the Hague. The result of the conference will probably be the founda- tion of a set of rules limiting attacks of this nature. Manufacturing centers produce munitions of war. Munitions of war are imperative to the continuance of the struggle. The destruction of manufactur- ing and material brings the conflict to a quicker termination. These facts cannot be controverted. Thus, manufacturing centers become military objectives, even though they house non-combatant per- sonnel. If given sufficient warning that the center will be destroyed, non-combatant personnel will be unable to justify their remaining in the vicinity when the actual bombardment takes place.*®  As to his advocating the targeting of a nation’s water and grain supplies, Mitchell ignored the effect this would have on the civilian population, choos- ing to focus instead on the impact such loss would have on enemy’s capacity to wage war and on how such attacks would shorten the conflict.**  In 1923, Mitchell toured the Pacific and Asia. He returned in the summer of 1924 with a prescient trip report concluding that war between the United States and Japan was inevitable, that the Philippines, Guam, and Hawaii were vulnerable to attack, and that the United States should restructure its defense posture in the Pacific with long-range, land-based bombers.”    18 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Back in Washington, Mitchell continued his attack on the Navy and War Departments in a series of articles in the Saturday Evening Post and in con- gressional hearings. In response, Secretary of War John Weeks did not reap- point Mitchell as assistant Chief of the Air Service. Instead, Mitchell reverted to his permanent rank of colonel and was reassigned to Fort Sam Houston, Texas, in March 1925.**  In August 1925, Mitchell publish
Node: 19452, Score: 0.0049230609630822, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0036.txt, Content: trategic Objec- tives of Air Forces” (chapter 6), Fairchild concluded that the fundamental decision for air warfare was whether to attack an enemy’s national econom- ic structure or its military forces. Attacking the economic structure was a purely offensive action, while attacking enemy forces had both offensive and defensive objectives. In modern war, technologically sophisticated weapons played an increasingly important role, and destroying the means of produc- ing such weapons prevented the arming of the enemy’s military. The target-  Introduction 31  ing of the enemy nation’s economic structure thus denied the opponent the hope of victory and increased the costs of continued resistance.  Combined, these ACTS lectures presented a uniquely American theory of strategic bombing that would soon be tested in World War II. The lectures on the requirements for conducting high-altitude daylight precision bomb- ing offer not so much original thought by the ACTS faculty as a reflection of how the Air Corps thought corporately about how to conduct air operations. ‘The originality is found in the connection between means and ends, by ar- ticulating the causal logic of how HADPB operations would lead to victory, why the direct attack on a limited number of economic targets would curtail both the enemy’s will and its capability to resist.  ‘The rapid expansion of the Air Corps in 1940 in anticipation of war brought an end to the school and, had this been the end of the story, ACTS would be an inconsequential footnote in air power history. In August 1941, however, the ACTS Bomber Mafia, including George, Hansell, Kuter, and Walker, created AWPD-1 (Air War Plans Division), the US air campaign plan to defeat Germany and Japan. Central to the plan was an independent stra- tegic bombing campaign based on high-altitude daylight precision bombing.  In the chapters that follow, lectures from the Air Corps Tactical School are presented as they were given to the airmen who would soon l
Node: 19634, Score: 0.0050186795152616, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0218.txt, Content: ere the Catskill aqueduct proper starts and runs over 80 miles into New York City.  ‘The dams of these two reservoirs are of massive construction and do not offer a particularly good target for air attack. The aqueduct from the Ashokan reservoir runs along as a cut and cover aqueduct except where it passes under Rondout Creek—the Walkill River and the Hudson—where syphons are em- ployed. It is interesting to note that this aqueduct passes under the Hudson River 1,200 feet below sea level. This aqueduct empties into the Kensico res- ervoir which is of sufficient capacity to hold a month's supply for New York City. From the Kensico reservoir a cut and cover aqueduct leads to the Hill View reservoir, which is merely an equalizing reservoir containing one day’s supply for New York City. Here there is a connection with the Croton supply system. At the Hill View reservoir the city tunnel starts and runs for eighteen miles south, 200 to 700 feet below Manhattan and the Bronx, to its further- est supply point, Silver Lake reservoir, on Staten Island, which is reached through a syphon under the Bay. The whole aqueduct is 92 miles long, with 35 miles of tunnel, six miles of syphons and 55 miles of cut and cover. The aqueduct in the cut and cover sections is made of concrete one foot thick at the top and four feet thick at the base of the side walls and covered with three feet of earth. It makes a mound easily visible from the air and can be located without difficulty. The aqueduct itself is about 28 feet wide and a railroad train could run through it with ease.  170 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Now the Croton supply has two aqueducts which connect with the Catskill supply at the Hill View reservoir. The new aqueduct has a capacity of 300 million gallons daily and the old one about 35 million. They con- nect with the supply reservoirs of Manhattan but do not cross to Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island, except through the Hill View reservoir connection with the Ca
Node: 19440, Score: 0.0053933201829132, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0024.txt, Content: ion, however, for both defensive and escort roles. While he publicly argued for the development of air power for coastal defense, within the Air Service he developed and shared his ideas on offen- sive air operations. Unlike Douhet, who advocated the direct attack of civil- ians, or Trenchard, who targeted worker morale, Mitchell’s theory was aimed at the material destruction of the enemy’s forces, from military factories to fielded forces. The chapter entitled “Attack of Land Establishments” listed the potential objectives for air attack: “The Bombardment Group Commander will receive his mission from the next higher Air Force Commander. His ob- jective may be enemy airdromes, concentration centers, training camps, per- sonnel pools, transportation centers, whether rail, road, sea, river or canal, ammunition and supply dumps, headquarters of staff commands, forts and  Introduction 17  heavily fortified positions, trains, convoys, columns of troops, bridges, dams, locks, power plants, tunnels, telephone and telegraph centers, manufacturing areas, water supply and growing grain.”** Mitchell thus provided a list of po- tential military and civilian targets for strategic bombing, though he did not provide a theoretical framework for determining the priority in which these targets should be struck or how these attacks would lead to victory.  With regard to attacking civilians, Mitchell indicated that “it may be nec- essary to intimidate the civilian population in a certain area to force them to discontinue something which is having a direct bearing on the outcome of the conflict. In rare instances Bombardment aviation will be required to act as an arm of reprisal.”  To justify civilian casualties in manufacturing areas, Mitchell, unlike Trenchard, focused on the material impact such attacks would have in short- ening war.  ‘The ethics of attack on manufacturing areas in the rear is one which is engaging the attention of an International Tribunal convened at the Hague. Th
Node: 19482, Score: 0.0057659627159983, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0066.txt, Content: then, we have perhaps the first outstanding example of Air Power in being accomplishing the purpose for which it was created. Note also that this result was achieved through the ability of Air Power to wage Air Warfare and not as an auxiliary arm in immediate support operations. While actual op- erations were not undertaken, this fact does not lessen the importance of this first outstanding example of the expression of modern Air Power, for actual operations were not required to achieve the purpose desired.  The second outstanding example is still fresh in your minds—I refer of course to the Munich agreement of last fall. What was behind this episode which President Roosevelt has so aptly described as “peace by fear”?  We have here the astounding spectacle of three of the world’s major pow- ers abjectly surrendering to the imperious demand of a recently vanquished and still impoverished nation; surrendering all of those basic principles for which they had in past times proved themselves willing to fight and die; sur- rendering all of the dictates of self interest, present as well as future; surren- dering their well established moral obligations, backed by solemn treaties and equally solemn promises and assurances to abide by those treaties.  Here was something more important that the mere sacrificing of Czecho- slovakia to prevent war. What of the billions of francs spent by France since the World War in arming Czechoslovakia against this very day? What of the  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 57  repudiation by France of the treaty which the French Premier and Foreign Minister had repeatedly, recently and categorically affirmed a determination to honor? What of the European balance of power which Great Britain had consistently for over a century sought to maintain as her one fixed point of foreign policy? What of British and French interests in Central and Eastern Europe? These were turned over to Hitler that he might construct a Mittel- Europa on a basis of German
Node: 19437, Score: 0.0059258924377176, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0021.txt, Content: bombing would later contribute to tragic consequences in the lead-up to World War II. Air power advocates in the interwar period had succeeded in convincing the British and French populations and their politi- cians of the destructive force of strategic bombing. In 1932, the future prime minister Stanley Baldwin infamously declared in the House of Commons that “the bomber would always get through.” Later, the fear of the Luftwaffe and the threat of air strikes on London and Paris factored into the British and French decisions to appease Hitler at Munich in 1938.”  Trenchard’s focus on attacking morale and the de-emphasis on mate- rial damage relieved the RAF of the most pressing operational and tactical challenges for long-range bombing: navigation, target identification, and bombing accuracy. When war came, the RAF again had difficulty in locating targets and in hitting those it did identify, as documented in the infamous August 1941 Butt Report, which showed that less than a third of aircrews were able to drop bombs within five miles of their intended targets.”  In Trenchard’s defense, focus on the morale effect of strategic bombing had several advantages for his fledgling service. First, unlike material dam- age, it was much more difficult to quantify the morale effect of bombing. This made it difficult for critics to refute RAF claims as to the effectiveness of strategic bombing. Also, at the operational level, if placing the bomb close to a factory was considered to be just as good as destroying a factory, then some of the thornier technical challenges of navigation, target identification, and precision bombing could be ignored. Second, Trenchard’s top priority was keeping his newly formed air force “in being,” Strategic bombing offered an argument for an air force capable of achieving independent political out- comes. Beyond the impact of his leadership upon the RAF, Trenchard’s ideas also influenced American airmen, the most prominent of whom was Briga- dier
Node: 19507, Score: 0.0059629131343819, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0091.txt, Content: pt.  Prosperity—Security—and Racial Unity. Let us consider the first: Pros- perity. Prosperity is an expression of economics. The Great Powers today are all manufacturers. They find prosperity through the conversion of raw mate- rials into manufactured articles. For that prosperity two factors are requisite: a source of raw materials and a market for finished products.  England today is an example of a well-balanced economic empire. Sev- enty million Englishmen govern and control four hundred million subjects. One-fifth of the world’s land area is under British dominion. India alone is a tremendous source of raw materials and contains over three hundred mil- lion purchasers for British goods. That economic empire was carved through military conquest. It will have to be maintained by military force. England's  76 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  policy is concerned with maintaining that advantage. Her problem is to keep the land which she has acquired, and to preserve the lines of communication which bring her raw materials and return British goods.  Across the channel 66 million Germans are crowded into a small corner of Europe, without any colonial empire whatever. The only source of raw materials for Germany is in her own backyard. She must find her markets by the hard process of competition. Germany’s economic prosperity cannot be maintained under her present status. She must expand or face economic ruin. Her policy conflicts with the policies of those other nations which are wealthy and satisfied. If diplomatic and financial measures fail to solve her problem, then she must eventually take the only remaining course: she must fight for her national prosperity.  Again, Italy! Forty-four million Italians crowded into a barren peninsu- la, totally lacking all the essentials of economic prosperity. Italy lacked even the financial weapon for she was poverty stricken and faced with an annual and increasing deficit. She sought solution to her economic difficul
Node: 19444, Score: 0.0062226018603985, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0028.txt, Content: le, while the defender had the burden of operating an air defense sys- tem over a wide territory that made it difficult to react in time and with ad- equate force.*  Sherman diverged from Douhet, however, by anticipating that nations might be deterred, at least initially, from bombing civilians for fear of retali- ation. Instead, Sherman focused on the nature of modern militaries and the vital supply system required to feed, arm, and supply them. Bombers could overfly enemy forces and attack this supply chain, the most logical target be- ing enemy industrial centers. Unlike Trenchard, who would target the morale of the workers through dispersed area bombing, and Mitchell, who made no distinction as to which targets were most important, Sherman prioritized the targeting of key facilities that could paralyze an enemy’s military production. He described industry as a “complex system of interlocking factories, each of which makes only its allotted part of the whole. ... Accordingly in the major- ity of industries, it is necessary to destroy certain elements of the industry only, in order to cripple the whole. . . . On the declaration of war, these key plants should be made the objective of a systematic bombardment?“  Sherman's ideas were not entirely original, as the targeting of key indus- tries could be traced back to Gorrell’s strategic bombing plan from World War I. Still, this notion of air power independently targeting the vital and vulnerable nodes of an enemy nation’s military industrial complex would form the central tenet of the ACTS strategic bombing theory.  ACTS struggled during the 1920s from a lack of resources and qualified faculty. Asa result, only 217 officers graduated from the school while it oper- ated at Langley Field from 1921 to 1931. Only with the expansion of the Air Corps in 1927 did class size begin to increase, going from 15 graduates to 39 by 1931. Likewise, Langley Field could not physically accommodate both ACTS and the new flying squadro
Node: 19708, Score: 0.0062610836157115, Chunk File: haun_lectures/chunks/haun_lectures_0292.txt, Content: ttack the armed forces is thus to attack the enemy at his strongest point. On the other hand, by attacking the sources from which these armed forces are maintained infinitely more effect is obtained. In the course of a day’s attack upon the aerodromes of the enemy perhaps 50 aeroplanes could be destroyed; whereas a modern industrial state will produce 100 in a day— and production will far more than replace any destruction we can hope to do in the forward zone. On the other hand, by attacking the enemy's factories, then output is reduced by a much greater proportion.  In the same way, instead of attacking the rifle and the machine gun in the trench where they can exact the highest price from us for the smallest gain we shall attack direct the factory where these are made.  We shall attack the vital centres of transportation and seriously impede these arms and munitions reaching the battlefield and, therefore, more suc- cessfully assist the Army in its direct attack on the enemy's Army. We shall attack the communications without which the national effort cannot be co- ordinated and directed.  ‘These are the points at which the enemy is weakest. The rifleman or the sailor is protected, armed and disciplined, and will stand under fire. The great centres of manufacture, transport and communications cannot be wholly protected. The personnel, again, who man them are not armed and cannot shoot back. They are not disciplined and it cannot be expected of them that they will stick stolidly to their lathes and benches under the recurring threat of air bombardment.  The moral effect of such attacks is very great. Even in the last war ten years ago, before any of the heavier bombers or bombs had really been em-  230 Appendix 1  ployed to any extent, the moral effect of such sporadic raids as were then practicable was considerable. With the greater numbers of aircraft, the larger carrying capacity and range, and the heavier bombs available today, the effect would seriously impede