Node: 23694, Score: 0.0906303438311866, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0158.txt, Content: sorbed round after round of bullets from the front and flak from below. Flaming bombers fell away on all sides. By the time they reached the city's three ball bearings factories, thirty-two bombers had been lost. The remaining 298 began bombing at 4 P.M. local time, unloading 265 tons of high explosives and 115 tons of incendiaries on the factories and, in some cases, the surround- ing neighbourhoods. It was a beautiful, clear day when Wilbur's B-17 reached Schweinfurt. Still under fighter attack, the crew approached the target area. As they turned at the initial point where all of the bombers began their bomb runs and the flak guns opened. Shells began exploding all around and shrapnel began ripping holes in the fuselage. As it did, the bomb bays opened. The lead bomber dropped his bombs, and the B-17s behind him followed. The moment the group was out of flak range, the German fighters were back. Under heavy Luftwaffe attack, the Americans flew north out of Schweinfurt, banked west, and continued on to Eupen and the waiting spitfires. By the time they reached England, they had lost thirty-six heavy bombers, a staggering casu- alty rate of 20 percent. The Schweinfurt raid shook American confidence. Imperial War Museum London They had paid a high price, but had exacted a heavier toll. The Americans were only able to drop thousand-pound bombs (the British had 4000-pound bombs by this point) and one-third of the bombs missed their targets and landed on houses. Nonetheless, the destruction caused Germany's ball bearings production to fall by 38 percent. Hitler was furious, and he placed the blame squarely on Hans Jeschonnek, the Luftwaffe's Chief of Staff. The next day, Jeschonnek shot himself, leaving a note stating that Göring should not attend the funeral; the Reichsmarschall did anyway. The day after the raid, on August 18,  128 FIRE AND FURY Speer's nightmare 1 Schweinfurt was at its most vulnerable. The Luftwaffe had lost forty-seven fighters in the previous battl
Node: 23697, Score: 0.0712456211357956, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0161.txt, Content: eer's side. LeMay's Regens- burg raid, a tactically more successful attack with a lower casualty rate, had diverted airplanes that may have added to the destruction at Schweinfurt. And the RAF did not follow up, not on August 18, August 19, or on any other night in 1943. "We barely escaped," Speer wrote, "a further catastrophic blow." Speer immediately got to work on recovering from Schweinfurt. He gave brief thought to relocating the factories, but moving them would have held up production for three to four months.29 He ordered his men instead to patch up Schweinfurt as best they could, and began to draw on Germany's reserves. Within eight weeks, those reserves were gone. The few ball bearings produced were carried-often in rucksacks-from what was left of the Schweinfurt factories to the assembly line each night.30 Each day, Speer listened for the bombers and worried about Berlin-Erkner, Cannstatt, and Steyr. "In those days we anxiously asked ourselves how soon the enemy would realize that he could paralyze the production of thousands of armaments plants merely by destroying five or six relatively small targets."3" Instead, the British "continued [their] indiscriminate attacks upon [German] cities."32 Imperial War Museum London No good deed goes unpunished. Back in America, Arnold's whole precision bombing project was coming under renewed attack. On August 14, he was at the QUADRANT Conference, a meeting in Quebec of Roosevelt, Churchill and William Lyon Mackenzie King, along with the Combined Chiefs of Staff from the armies, navies, and air forces in the three countries. The main argu- ment was over when the British would commit themselves to invading the con- tinent. Arnold had written in a memorandum of record back in May that "it is becoming more and more apparent that the British have no intention of invading France or Continental Europe."33 Arnold had the impression that  FIRE AND FURY 1 Speer's nightmare 1 Churchill was using an attack on precision bombing t
Node: 23747, Score: 0.0705759237981271, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0211.txt, Content: estern Germany. The largest force ever dispatched by the Eighth Air Force was hitting the Luftwaffe front, middle, and centre. That night, some twelve hours after his men left, Spaatz was waiting nerv- ously for news at Park House. He was determined to see POINTBLANK through to completion, and he was willing to lose hundreds of bombers to do it. Anderson, who was even more gung-ho than Spaatz, was prepared to see seven thousand American pilots and aircrew die-two-thirds of his entire crews and one-third of the number of Marines that would die taking the Pacific-to see the Luftwaffe destroyed.21 But a large number of losses at this early point in Spaatz's war on the Luftwaffe, even if (as at Schweinfurt) they inflicted heavy losses on the Germans, would have been severely damaging. It would have given fodder to Churchill and other enemies of precision bombing and strengthened the hand of those, such as Brereton, who opposed the concentration of power and authority in Spaatz's hands. As the evening wore on, group after group reported, and the story was always the same: they had losses of only one or two, many times none at all.22 The attacks had damaged four plants producing Luftwaffe night fighters/bombers (Ju 88s), and two others producing day fighter aircraft (Bf 109s). More importantly, only twenty-one American heavy bombers and four fighters had been lost, half the figure lost on a January II raid on the same targets and one-third of the losses of Schweinfurt/Regensburg. Of the 11,000 men who went out, all but 214 came back. On the other side, the Germans had lost 150 fighters. Spaatz was ecstatic, "on the crest of the highest wave he had ever ridden."23 167 Over the next five days, until the weather turned, the Eighth and Fifteenth air forces fought their way to and from targets deep inside Germany. The Americans attacked shipyards in Rostock, railway and power stations in Berlin, aircraft indus- try in Brunswick, Daimler-Benz in Stuttgart, Messerschmitt factori
Node: 23695, Score: 0.0683340191894411, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0159.txt, Content: chall did anyway. The day after the raid, on August 18,  128 FIRE AND FURY Speer's nightmare 1 Schweinfurt was at its most vulnerable. The Luftwaffe had lost forty-seven fighters in the previous battle and would be less able to defend the city. The American bombing had blown off factory roofs, collapsed the upper floors, and punched great gaping holes. The ball bearings machines on the ground floor were exposed,22 That night, Speer waited for news of the follow-up RAF raid. It never came. The British Air Staff had been pressuring Harris to bomb Schweinfurt throughout late 1943, and continued to do so for months after the raid. 23 "It is essential," Norman Bottomley, Deputy Chief of Air Staff, wrote to Harris on December 23, 1943, "that the attempt to achieve within the time available the maximum destruction of the major built-up areas in Germany should not be allowed to prejudice the implementation of the Joint Anglo-American policy of employing the night bomber force whenever possible for the destruction of vital centres associated with . . . vital industries, e.g. ball-bearing and fighter assem- bly plants; these industries have been accorded the highest priority in the com- bined bomber offensive plan. ... Your night bomber forces would make the greatest contribution by completely destroying those vital centres which could be reached by day only at a heavy cost; examples are Schweinfurt, Leipzig and centres of twin-engined fighter industry." Drawing on an intelligence report. Bottomley continued, "whereas the German people feared the night attacks, Hitler and the German High Command feared the daylight precision attacks on individual factories. Hitler openly boasted that he could, by means of his party organisations, control the morale of the population from some considerable time. . . . The Air Staff," Bottomley added, "must take a somewhat less confi- dent view than [you do] of the possibility of causing the enemy to capitulate by reason of area attacks alone .
Node: 23678, Score: 0.0676759671240194, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0142.txt, Content: body parts exploded outward in vast arcs in all directions. The house either collapsed or stood gutted. The shattered roofs, blown-out windows, and debris were manna for the incendiary bombs. Fires spread along the floors and walls, and out the windows. Very quickly, entire neighbourhoods were ablaze. It was, a RCAF aircrew later noted, "a volcano belching fire and smoke."17 As the pathfinders were coming in over the city, Hamburg's defences sprung into action. Searchlights came on, and the great flak guns began to fire. Ham- burg had among the most extensive air-raid defences in the Reich: fifty-four heavy flak batteries, twenty-six light ones, and twenty-two searchlights.18 But they were to no avail. Window was reaching the peak of its effectiveness. Radar controllers could provide no information on the incoming planes; searchlight operators flashed their lights randomly across the sky or pointed them directly upward, and the guns sprayed barrages of flak indiscriminately, in all directions and in none. Experienced pilots reaching the city could not believe it: they were not caught in searchlight cones, which all but promised death, and suffered no targeted bursts of flak. Imperial War Museum London The bombing of Hamburg occurred in six waves. The first five waves lasted eight minutes, during which more than a hundred planes dropped a line of bombs on Hamburg.19 Each high explosive was followed by a quick, violent flash and the delayed echo of the explosion. The 4000-pound bombs created a still larger, though slower, explosion. Between these flashes were thousands of twinkles, as  114 1 FIRE AND FURY incendiary bombs set the houses, clothes, cars, and in some cases people on fire. In the last wave, sixteen planes finished the raid at 1:50 A.M. Five minutes later a straggler, a main force Halifax that would no doubt have been brought down had German defences been operating, passed over the city and dropped its load Then, an intact bombing formation turned from the
Node: 23740, Score: 0.0664389602271651, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0204.txt, Content: ghter forces."2 It was the clearest lesson of the second Schweinfurt raid. On the morning of October 15, as sixty American B-17s lay on German soil, Eaker penned a passionate letter to Arnold: This does not represent disaster; it does not indicate that the air battle has reached its climax. Our answer to this challenge [will be]: I. More fighter cover at longer range; 2. Multiple attacks by 7 or 8 combat wings of 54 bombs; 3. Greater emphasis on counter Air Force operations, striking all fields with medium and pressing destruction of aircraft factors and repair establishments with heavies; 4. Bomb through clouds when his fighters will often be fogbound.3 Urging Arnold to rush replacement aircraft, crews, and fighters, and to supply droppable tanks for fighters (allowing greater range), Eaker ended his letter on 161  FIRE AND FURY 162 1 Taking out the Luftwaffe a defiant note: "We must show the enemy we can replace our losses; he knows he cannot replace his. We must continue the battle with unrelenting fury. This we shall do." Spaatz had arrived back in the UK in December 1943. He had commanded the United States Eighth Air Force, but he took over the Americans' North African campaign in November 1942, before they began bombing Germany. He returned to England to assume full command over U.S. air forces in Europe and to prepare for the invasion of the Continent. Spaatz worked with Sir Arthur Ted- der, General Eisenhower's chief deputy at Supreme Headquarters Allied Expe- ditionary Force (SHAEF). Spaatz was given overall command of a new organization, the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF), which coordinated both the Eighth Air Force and the Fifteenth Air Force (U.S. heavy bombers based in Italy). The USSTAF was effectively the Eighth in new clothes, and Eighth Air Force Bomber Command was officially disbanded. Eaker, very much against his will, was pushed out and "promoted" to command Allied air operations in the Mediterranean. Major General James ("
Node: 23751, Score: 0.0639242051216016, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0215.txt, Content: 7s blasted through the fighters. As the bullets pelted them from the front, flak hit them from below. The airplanes, and men, shook. Hot shrapnel blasted through the bottoms of the planes, killing some men and castrating oth- ers.36 By the time it returned to England, the Eighth Air Force had lost thirty- seven bombers and eighteen fighters. But they had again exacted so heavy a toll on the Germans that, three nights later, the Luftwaffe stayed on the ground dur- ing a precision raid on Berlin. Over the course of the March 1944 raids, the Americans suffered terrible losses-153 bombers in just 3 raids-but they imposed equally terrible losses: 40 to 50 German fighters per raid. By the time the Americans paused, they had destroyed almost all of Germany's existing night fighters, seven hundred night fighters that were in production, and three-quarters of all manufacturing facilities. It was, as Speer's biographer put it, "very nearly the end of the Luftwaffe."37 Imperial War Museum London  20 1 Germany's Achilles heel 0 il had been on target lists from the earliest days of the war, but the major refineries were out of the range of early RAF bomb runs and the few raids on closer targets produced little. In February 1944, Spaatz became a convinced advocate of new attacks on oil. As air attacks on the Luftwaffe produced early results, Spaatz ordered the formation of a USSTAF planning committee to consider future targets. With Spaatz urging them on, the committee produced a report on March 5. It called for combined RAF-American attacks on oil targets across Germany and into central Europe. If fourteen synthetic oil plants (which extracted oil from coal) and thirteen refineries could be destroyed, 80 percent of German production and 60 percent of readily usable refining capacity would be destroyed. Imperial War Museum London Spaatz's urgency was driven by the British as much as the Germans. Solly Zuckerman, who had been fully behind Spaatz's attacks on the Luftwaffe, had bee
Node: 23702, Score: 0.0635683607754572, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0166.txt, Content: losses were worth it. He poured over British and American aerial photographs showing extensive damage to German industry. He was particularly impressed with the Schweinfurt photos. Although the raid was costly, it had inflicted a great deal of damage on German industry. A great deal, but not enough. Speer's frantic efforts to secure alternate sup- plies had not gone unnoticed. By the end of August, Swedish and Swiss sources were sending reports to England. Photo-reconnaissance revealed frenetic repairs at Schweinfurt itself. And ULTRA (intelligence secured using Enigma to decrypt German codes) revealed how worried the Germans were about a follow- up attack and how urgently they were building up their forces.42 Arnold told Eaker, "I know you'll get to it as soon as the weather permits."43 Curtis LeMay, for one, was ready to go. As Arnold and Eaker conferred in High Wycombe, Speer and Milch were at Rechlin am Müritzsee, home of the Air Force Experimental Centre. Milch was presenting charts on American and German aircraft production. "What alarmed 133 us most," wrote Speer, "were the figures on the future increase in four-motored daylight bombers. If these figures were accurate, [the U.S. bombing] we were undergoing could be regarded only as a prelude."44 When asked how much Hitler and Göring knew about the figures, Milch was incensed. He told Speer that he had been trying for months to get Göring to accept an Air Ministry expert report on enemy armaments. Göring refused to look at it. "It was all," Göring said, "enemy propaganda." The Führer had told him so. Speer tried to raise the matter with Hitler after the meeting, but he fared no better. "Don't let them fool you" Hitler replied. "Those are all planted stories. Naturally those defeatists in the Air Ministry fall for them."45 It was, Speer thought, the same attitude Hitler had taken to 1942 warnings about upcoming RAF raids on German cities, cities that were now rubble. Göring's (and Hitler's) delusions were again
Node: 23706, Score: 0.0628598963380978, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0170.txt, Content: to the waiting fighters, which continued their attack all the way to the border. Despite all of the downed bombers on German soil, Speer could not share in Hitler's joy. He asked for a short recess in the conference and left the room to telephone Schweinfurt. He couldn't get through. Communications with all fac- tories were down. Finally, by going through the police, he managed to get on the line one factory foreman who sketched a picture for Speer: a direct hit had shat- tered machinery, lit the oil baths, and sent fires racing through the buildings. His factory was hardly unique. Armaments production was down 67 percent, almost twice that of the earlier raid.5° In the darkest hours after the raid, as the Amer- icans were reeling from the loss of sixty bombers, Eaker had bravely told Arnold that "we are convinced that when the totals are struck yesterday's losses will be far outweighed by the value of the enemy materiel destroyed."51 He was right. Imperial War Museum London Speer adapted to the crisis quickly. He appointed one of his closest associates, Phillip Kessler (a general manager from industry), as special commissioner for ball bearings production. They managed to import small quantities of ball bearings from Sweden and Switzerland. Factories were ordered to substitute slide bearings for ball bearings. Speer was able to keep production going, though at a sharply reduced level, until the Schweinfurt factories were repaired. His actions were not, however, decisive. "What really saved us," said Speer, "was the fact that from this time on the enemy to our astonishment once again ceased his attacks on the ball-bearing industry."52  136 | FIRE AND FURY 17 | The Battle of Berlin All of Speer's efforts had in fact been picked up by Air Staff in the UK, who urged Harris to attack Schweinfurt again.53 Harris of course had no intention of hitting Schweinfurt, but the Americans-mindful of their losses-also paused to regroup. The losses they sustained on the first Schwe
Node: 23750, Score: 0.0615484832122115, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0214.txt, Content: , shot down between 70 and 170 out of 400 fighters. And though the ball bearings factory itself was hardly touched-many of the bombs hit the city, killing and maiming seven hundred people-the raid was unquestionably a success. In New York, reporter James B. Reston wrote, "The time of what was once called air-raids has passed. The Allied Army of the air has started a campaign of attrition against the Luft- waffe which must be recognized as one of the decisive military campaigns of the war. ... From now on the Allied leaders of this campaign will send their aerial artillery anywhere in Germany where the German fighters are made and to any point where German fighters will give battle."34 Harris had always counselled against hitting the same targets successively, as it gave the Germans a clear warning of what to expect. But, two nights later, the 100th Squadron was back, blazing exactly the same trail across Germany. At Drummer Lake, in northern Germany and the scene of the majority of the 100th's losses, the first wave of escort fighters, Thunderbolts, turned away. They should have been replaced immediately by Mustangs, but they weren't: the second wave of escorts was late. The Luftwaffe saw their chance and attacked German fighters flew en masse into the bomber formation. The leader of the bombing formation, the head of the 45th, became confused and lost, and missed the turn to Berlin. Major John M. Bennett, head of the battle-scarred 100th, moved his wing in front of the 45th and led the Eighth Air Force into Berlin." Galland was waiting for them there. He had deliberately saved up the bulk of his fighter forces for the Eighth's bombing run. As Bennett's and the other bombers 169 came over Berlin, they responded to Galland's tactics by bearing straight ahead, and the B-17s blasted through the fighters. As the bullets pelted them from the front, flak hit them from below. The airplanes, and men, shook. Hot shrapnel blasted through the bottoms of the planes, killing som
Node: 23717, Score: 0.061237179980343, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0181.txt, Content: ng the August 17, 1943, Peenemünde raid. Despite a clever RAF diversion force of a few Mosquitos that held most of the fighters back, the run was a success for the Luftwaffe and a slaughter for the bombers: forty were shot down that night.13 The fighters did not save Peenemünde, however. The RAF's costly but successful precision raid destroyed the factory trying to produce Hitler's "wonder weapons," delaying by Imperial War Museum London  144 FIRE AND FURY The Battle of Berlin 1 six months the V-1 (Vergeltungswaffe-1, "revenge weapon 1") and V-2 ("revenge weapon 2") rockets that would terrorize London. Regardless, less than a month after Hamburg, the Germans had rendered Window ineffective. The Wild Boar fighters were sent to Berlin. On the first night of the raid, August 23, they killed 298 RAF aircrew, including Kevin Hornibrook. The next two nights of the Battle of Berlin would go equally badly for Bomber Command. On August 31 and September 1, it lost 333 men-225 died and another 108 were taken prisoner. By contrast, eighty-seven Berliners lost their lives. Only ten out of almost four hundred aircraft managed to bomb Berlin that night; the rest dropped their load on the Brandenburg countryside, south of the capital. On the night of September 3-4, 130 aircrew died and 10 were taken prisoner. After two more costly raids-on Mannheim, where Bomber Command lost thirty- four bombers, and on Munich, where it lost sixteen-the weather over Berlin worsened. Bomber Command had lost one-third of its four-engined strength and one-quarter of its aircrew in nineteen days. It could not continue; Harris decided to delay the Battle of Berlin until Bomber Command could respond to Wild Boar. That took almost six weeks. With more heavy bombers, the Lancasters, bet- ter radar, and better weather, Harris was again ready to attack the German capi- tal. On November 3, 1943, Harris wrote a letter to the prime minister in which he took stock of the bombing war.14 Bombing had "virtually des
Node: 23746, Score: 0.0610691634644778, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0210.txt, Content: son, ever the risk-taker, argued the opposite, urging Spaatz on and assuring him that the operation was worth two hundred bombers. Spaatz stayed up all night listening to the conflicting advice of his opponents. As dawn broke, he had gotten no sleep. But he'd made up his mind. He put a three-word message through to his base commanders: "Let 'em go."17 On February 20, more than one thousand bombers and nine hundred fighters took off for Germany.18 Six combat wings flew unescorted to targets near Posen and Tutow. The other ten and the entire fighter force headed off to the massive assembly and component plants in the Brunswick-Leipzig area. When the ten combat wings entered German airspace, the professor was proved right: the sky  FIRE AND FURY 166 1 Taking out the Luftwaffe 1 cleared quickly and completely. Incredibly, for February, there was snow in Los Angeles and bright sun in Leipzig.19 The leading bombs were accompanied by nine hundred fighters (P-47s, P-38s, and P-51s). They had new 150-gallon tanks that allowed them to fly all the way to Hanover, some 400 miles from their base. Just as they were ready to break off their escort on the left side of the bombing formation, they saw a stream of Messerschmitt fighters. The Germans were planning-following a tried and tested technique-to attack the fighters from below, blasting them as they remained glued to the bombers. This time, however, it was different: the Americans attacked them. The Thunderbolts swooped down onto the Luftwaffe fighters, chewing into them. Only one Messerschmitt escaped undamaged.20 The Americans did not lose a single plane. While the Thunderbolts were engaging the Luftwaffe, the six other combat wings flew to northern Germany and the Ninth Air Force sent 135 medium bombers to attack airfields in western Germany. The largest force ever dispatched by the Eighth Air Force was hitting the Luftwaffe front, middle, and centre. That night, some twelve hours after his men left, Spaatz was waiting nerv
Node: 23704, Score: 0.0587282431377449, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0168.txt, Content: 34 1 Speer's nightmare I know what is possible. But I know what isn't, too. Admit you made a mistake." Galland only shook his head, until Göring, now clearly grasping, said, "What must have happened is that they were shot down much further to the west. I mean, if they were very high in the air when they were shot down they could have glided quite a distance further before crashing." Galland was deathly still; without moving a muscle, he replied, "Glided to the east, sir? If my plane were shot down . . . " But Göring didn't let him finish. Fuming, he said, "I officially assert that the American fighter planes did not reach Aachen." Galland tried one last time. "But, sir, they were there!" Göring finally exploded. In an unintentionally comic replay of his reaction to news of the thousand-bomber raid on Cologne, he screamed, "I hereby give you an official order that they weren't there! Do you understand? The American fighters were not there! Got it ?! I intend to report that to the Führer." Göring stomped off, leaving Galland standing there. Before he was out of ear- shot, however, he turned and called back menacingly, "You have my official order!" A thin smile-"unforgettable," according to Speer-crossed Galland's lips. and he replied, "Orders are orders, sir!" A month later, Speer would learn how vulnerable the German position had become. He was at the East Prussian headquarters going over armaments pro- duction with Hitler. Hitler's adjutant, Julius Schaub, interrupted them. "The Reichsmarschall urgently wishes to speak with you. This time he has pleasant news." 47 Hitler left to speak with an almost boyishly giddy Göring. A few min- utes later, Hitler came back in good spirits. "Another daylight raid on Schwe- infurt ended with a great victory for our defences." He spoke of downed American bombers littering the German countryside. On October 14, Wilbur Klint of the 303rd Bomb Group was part of the second wave of bombers that attacked Schweinfurt. His group took off
Node: 23659, Score: 0.058555789443076, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0123.txt, Content: raining and their skill and determination in pressing home their attack will for- ever be an inspiration to the Royal Air Force. In this memorable operation they have won a major victory in the Battle of the Ruhr, the effect of which will last until the Boche is swept away in the flood of final disaster." He might as well have been looking Stafford Cripps right in the eye. While the United Kingdom was celebrating, Speer was making his way from Berlin to the Ruhr. As he inspected the Sorpe Valley reservoir, his fears were confirmed. The centre of the dam had taken a direct hit. The hole was just above water level. Had it been a few inches lower, the pressure of the water would have swept the dam away. With the two successful hits, the RAF "with just a few bombers [nineteen] . . . came close to a success which would have been greater than anything they had achieved hitherto with a commitment of thousands of bombers."10 The RAF had made one mistake: the Eder Valley dam had nothing to do with the water supply to the Ruhr. Still, Speer's relief that three dams were still standing was marred by a gnawing fear: when would the British be back? They wouldn't. Speer ordered seven thousand men from the West Wall to the Ruhr, where they feverishly repaired the dams. They erected vast wooden scaffolding across the breach in the Möhne dam and began cementing it in from the bottom up. Every night, they listened for the bombers. "A few bombs," Speer observed, "would have produced cave-ins in the exposed building sites, and a few fire bombs would have set the wooden scaffolding blazing." But they never came On September 23, 1943, just before the rains that would have flooded the valley again, the workers managed to close the breach. "The British air force," Speer sighed with relief, had "missed its second chance."" Harris did not have the benefit of Speer's views, and he in any case thought the advantage of the dambuster raids lay in their effect on Bomber Command morale and popular
Node: 23807, Score: 0.0583874343767168, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0271.txt, Content: or increasing the number of bombers-sending out the maximum number of bombers on each mission.23 A larger mission might ensure that, even if large numbers of bombers were lost, enough would get past the fighters to do substantial damage. Increasing the number of bombers was the riskier of the two strategies: if a bombing forma- tion were underescorted or if substantial parts of it blew off course, the Luft- waffe would chew even a large force to pieces. Reducing the number of bombers was safe, but it came at a price: the lousy autumn weather reduced the number of raids to a handful, and a small bomber stream would lead to limited dam- age. Spaatz decided to risk it all. On November 27, he picked a fight with the Luftwaffe. One thousand American bombers left England in two groups. The first was made up of 515 heavy bombers, escorted by 241 fighters. It raided mar- shalling yards in southern Germany. The second, composed of 460 planes, headed for oil centres in northern and central Germany. The idea was to trick the Germans into thinking that the fighter force was in fact bombers. It worked. The Luftwaffe attacked the fighter formation, leaving the bombers relatively unimpeded. The American fighters countered viciously. They shot down ninety-eight enemy fighters-double the average of the spring raids-at the cost of twelve of their own. As the reports of the November operation reached Spaatz, he wrote to Lovett with confidence. "In spite of the buildup of strength, the [Germans'] overall effectiveness has not increased. . . . [Recently], we have destroyed as much as 25% of [their] forces." All that was needed was a break in the weather, and the USSTAF could finally destroy the German fighter force. Three weeks before Spaatz rolled the dice, Portal was mulling over a reply to Harris. As he did so, the commander-in-chief bombed Homberg (twice), Ober- hausen, and Düsseldorf. The Düsseldorf raid finished the northern half of the city, destroying five thousand houses and ki
Node: 23760, Score: 0.0583529062776733, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0224.txt, Content: iberately preserved his fighters as Speer tried fran- tically to rebuild, quickly guessed where the bombers were headed. He sent up four hundred fighters to attack.26 At Frankfurt, a mass of German fighters attacked the leading division, which was low on escorts because one of its fight- ing groups had mistakenly rendezvoused with a trailing division.27 The remain- ing escort fighters were overwhelmed. Within forty minutes, the Germans downed thirty-two bombers-some two-thirds of the total forty-six bombers lost on the mission. Two others were lost to fighters, twelve to flak. After these early kills, the Luftwaffe ran out of luck. Subsequent bombers were better protected, and the fighters engaged the Germans in ferocious dog- fights. They destroyed sixty Luftwaffe fighters, protected the majority of the bombers and allowed them to fly on to oil targets. They blasted synthetic oil plants with 1718 tons of bombs. Imperial vvar Iviuseum London On the day of the attack, Albert Speer had been back in Berlin for four days. May 12 was a date he would never forget. "On that day" he wrote, "the tech- nological war was decided. ... Until then," he continued, "we had managed to produce approximately as many weapons as the armed forces needed, in spite of their considerable losses. But with the attack of [the American daylight bombers] upon several fuel plants in central and eastern Germany, a new era in the air war began. It meant the end of German war production." 28 On May 13, Speer accompanied some technicians on a visit to the Leuna works. Stepping across broken and twisted pipes, he received a report on the damage. The chemical plants had proven "extremely sensitive to bombing." By  178 | FIRE AND FURY Germany's Achilles beel the most optimistic forecasts, production could not be resumed for weeks. Daily output dropped by 1000 metric tons: from 5850 to 4820. It was a huge drop, but not a disastrous one. Germany's reserves could see the country through for another ninetee
Node: 23548, Score: 0.0582328592237552, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0012.txt, Content: and dresses caught fire, and the flames climbed up them. They screamed loudly at first, then grew quiet, gurgled, and died. Some followed Heidenkampsweg north or south, past the burning buildings and falling debris. Those who were not crushed by falling buildings made for canals running parallel to the east-west streets. They jumped in and were cooked to death. The water was boiling. The fires in buildings on either side of the street merged into one and began moving in search of oxygen. The entire neighbourhood was in flames. The bomb- ing that night was unusually concentrated. The pathfinders marked the neigh- bourhood with uncommon precision, and there was little "creepback" (which occurred when bombers dropped their bombs before they reached the aiming point). The weather was atypically hot by Hamburg's standards (the city's weather is roughly similar to that of England), and had been so for days. It was 30 degrees Celsius in the early evening and humidity was extremely low. Hamburg had expe- rienced one of largest raids of the war two nights earlier, and the city's Gauleiter (regional head) had ordered the firefighters to concentrate all of their efforts on putting out the fires. The headquarters of the fire brigade was located at the Berliner Tor, but it had dispatched the fire trucks to other parts of the city. As a result, they were on the wrong side of Hamburg when the bombing began and had to fight their way back through bomb craters, abandoned cars, and rubble. When they finally arrived in Hammerbrook, it was too late. They could only combat fires on the neighbourhood's periphery, and most of their efforts were directed toward helping the victims. The fire itself raged unchecked. 9 Somewhere in the middle of Hammerbrook, the flames converged with unimaginable force. As they did so, a chain reaction began: the intense heat led the fires to rise quickly, leaving a gas bubble below. Cold air then rushed in, mixing with the gases and setting the "bubble" ali
Node: 23693, Score: 0.057323077929306, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0157.txt, Content: e co-pilot in one of the B-17s. He had flown his first mission the day before, as part of an American raid on the le Bourget airport at Paris. As the bombing formation came toward the tar- get, a small number of fighters turned on them. As they opened machine gun fire, the wings lit up, and looked like long neon tubes. The formation blasted past the fighters with no difficulty. "We were young and confident," Wilbur observed six decades later, "and I thought, This is a piece of cake." Schweinfurt would be anything but. At Eupen, Wilbur watched the P-47 escort fighters turn away. They were on their own. Almost immediately, pilots in the leading aircraft made out black dots coming toward them, seemingly straight on. They were German Luftwaffe fighters, dozens of them, bearing down on the B-17s. Within seconds, the Germans were all over them. They flew straight at the Americans, all guns blazing. Out for blood, the fighters attacked | 127 mercilessly. They fired upside down. They fired as they did mid-air rolls, bearing down on the B-17s. American pilots saw dozens of aircraft sailing right at them and then, at the last second, diving and shooting past. "I witnessed," a waist gunner in the 384th Bomb Group later reported, "something that mankind will never see again . . . a parachute invasion of Germany. There were planes in flat spins, planes in wide spins. Planes were going down so often that it became useless to report them."20 The attacks would come in waves, every ten minutes or so. A group of fighters would finish their attack, land to refuel, and come back up again. "They kept coming and coming and coming," reported one navigator, "and we still had miles to go before the target."21 The bombers pressed on. Ineffectively trying to dodge the incoming fight- ers, they absorbed round after round of bullets from the front and flak from below. Flaming bombers fell away on all sides. By the time they reached the city's three ball bearings factories, thirty-two bombers ha
Node: 23926, Score: 0.0566902290624404, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0390.txt, Content: Quoted in Schaffer, Wings of Judgement, 68. 13 PRO AIR 19/189, Letter to Portal, September 25, 1943- 14 Schaffer, Wings of Judgment, 18. 15 Curtis LeMay, Mission with LeMay (New York: Doubleday, 1965), 425. 16 Schaffer, Wings of Judgment, 66. 17 Carl Spaatz papers, Box I: 136, Interview with Colonel Curtis LeMay by Dr. Bruce C. Hopper, September 7, 1943, 21. 18 Quoted in Middlebrook, The Schweinfurt-Regensburg Mission, 174. 19 Interview with Wilbur Klint, August 24, 2007. 20 Quoted in Middlebrook, The Schweinfurt-Regensburg Mission, 198. 21 Quoted in Middlebrook, The Schweinfurt-Regensburg Mission, 201.  FIRE AND FURY 304 1 Notes 22 Parton, "Air Force Spoken Here," 311. 23 PRO AIR 19/189, "Most Secret. Increased importance of Schweinfurt as an Objective for RAF Bomber Command," December 12, 1943, and Letter from Bottomley to Harris, December 17, 1943. 24 PRO AIR 19/189, Letter from Bottomley to Harris, December 23, 1943. 25 Portal papers, Letter from Harris to Portal, January 18, 1945, 3g. 26 PRO AIR 19/189, Letter from Harris to Bottomley, December 28, 1943. 27 He had been doing so since 1942. See PRO AIR 14/3507, Letter from Har- ris to the prime minister, May 2, 1942. It is response to Churchill's questions on (a) why he bombed Augsburg and (b) why he didn't bomb Schweinfurt. 28 Wilson, Bomber Boys, 312. 29 Speer, Inside the Third Reich, 390. 30 Speer, Inside the Third Reich, 391. 31 Speer, Inside the Third Reich, 391. 32 Speer, Inside the Third Reich, 390. 33 Quoted in Coffey, Hap, 321. 34 Coffey, Hap, 321. 35 Coffey, Hap, 321. 36 Details and quotations from Parton, "Air Force Spoken Here," 303. 37 The original text, as was the style at the time, is written in third-person past tense. I have put it into the present tense for ease of reading. 38 Emphasis added. 39 Details from Parton, "Air Force Spoken Here," 305-306. 40 Parton, "Air Force Spoken Here," 306. 41 Coffey, Hap, 322. 42 Parton, "Air Force Spoken Here," 313. 43 Quoted in Coffey, Hap, 322. 44 Details a
Node: 23715, Score: 0.0565104888234399, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0179.txt, Content: eived no answer; the intercom was not working. When the heat of the fire became unbearable, I shouted, "GET OUT!" four or five times as loud as I could. Then I jettisoned the cockpit canopy and went out myself. It was not easy; I found out later that my left thigh had been hit by a bullet and the bone was broken. As Peter flew through the air, the crashing machine's tailplane caught him. His stomach was flat against it, his head over its top, and his feet underneath. The angle of the plane meant that he was pinned between the tailplane and the force of the air. For a few minutes, he was trapped there, hurtling toward the ground. He thought he was finished. His plane was coned, and he expected to be strafed by a round of what we now call friendly fire. In fact, the searchlight commander below had recognized Peter's plane as a Messerschmitt and hoped the searchlight would help him. Somehow, Peter managed to free himself from the tailplane, pulled his chute, and passed out. He landed unconscious in the garden of Grunewalddamm, 69. As he woke up, he felt dull pain all over his body. He looked up to see a crowd of civilians and an SS man. They had mistaken him for an RAF airman and were beating him. He shouted at them in German and they stopped.8 143 The defence technique employed by Peter and the other fighters was called "Wilde Sau" (wild boar), and it was the brainchild of Hajo Herrmann. Incredi- bly, Herrmann had never been in a fighter plane; he was a bomber pilot with a long string of operations over the United Kingdom.9 By early 1943, he had a staff appointment with the Luftwaffe, and he worked on strategies to counter the mounting effectiveness of Harris's bombing campaign. Even before Ham- burg, it was clear that the Kammhuber Line was not working; fighter pilots would pick off a few bombers as the bombing stream flew past, but the major- ity of planes always made it past. When Herrmann was surveying German defence capabilities, two things stood out.10 The first