Node: 23908, Score: -0.0224078690769889, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0372.txt, Content: es attacked by angry civilians or the SS, the Wehrmacht (unless it arrived too late) protected them. The same was of course true on the other side. And, finally, when the Allied armies invaded Germany, they did not- as total war would predict-go from house to house spraying civilians with machine-gun fire. On the contrary, they took every reasonable effort to minimize civilian casualties. Had there been total war, none of this would have happened. And this means that the war did not-as some would have it-entirely erase the distinction between a soldier and a citizen (though it may have blurred it), mak- ing both targets for the bombing war. Moral clarity has two sides to it: it gives the Allied war aims moral purpose and it defines the limits within which those aims are pursued. Germany unilat- erally launched a war that brought untold death, destruction, and suffering to tens of millions of people around the globe. The defeat of Germany was both a geopolitical and a moral necessity, and the Allies were right to mobilize all of their resources in achieving this goal. It was inevitable that ordinary Germans would find themselves the victims of events. None of this, however, can justify the degree of death and destruction meted out by Harris and tolerated (if inter- mittently) by Churchill. Recognizing this fact in no way tarnishes the Allies' victory or the honour of the young men who did what they could to ensure it. Judging area bombing is not the same thing as judging the young aircrew who were serving their coun- 287 try and following orders. Those who suggest that these men should have refused to fly should be more hesitant about condemning from the security of peace those who made decisions in the chaos of war. The loss of some eighty thou- and of them, most still boys, is one of the great tragedies of the war. Indeed, one oft-overlooked element of the bombing war is the extent to which both Allied aircrew and German civilians had much in common: during a raid,
Node: 23604, Score: -0.0188464551183101, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0068.txt, Content: e method is still in use.26 In 1919, Cherwell took up a chair in experimental philosophy and became director of the Clarendon library. He saw Nazi Germany for what it was ear- lier than most people in the UK, and he urged preparation for war. In the 1930s he was also active in helping distinguished Jewish scientists escape Germany. In the summer of 1933, Cherwell visited Germany to interview scientists and made his recommendations to the UK Academic Assistance Council. With Cherwell's help, more than a dozen scientists found positions in Britain. They included Albert Einstein, who became a fellow at Christ Church-Portal and Cherwell's college. In the college's senior common room (faculty lounge) there is a book of present and former college fellows. In it, not far from Cherwell himself, the casual observer stumbles across the familiar uprush of white hair. In a very Oxonian way, the photograph is neither distinguished nor marked in any par- ticular manner, and does not even have the great scientist's name below it. Although kind to those closest to him, Cherwell could in no way be described as sociable. His foreign origins and the widespread belief that he was Jewish (mann being a common name ending among German Jews) likely created a wall between him and other students (Christ Church's quaint name for fellows) at his college. For his part, Cherwell was rigid and unforgiving. All those who worked with him-first at Christ Church and later in government-had to be careful. Cherwell shared with Harris more than a passion for bombing; both saw little difference between constructive criticism and personal slight. Those who crossed 1 55 him, whatever their motive, were never forgiven. One evening in the late 1920s, a Christ Church don, Roy Harrod, brought an economics colleague in for dinner. Harrod's colleague ventured a figure on the value of British exports; Cherwell offered another. The matter was subsequently looked up, and my colleague wrote to the Prof. to acknowled
Node: 23920, Score: -0.0128573716292755, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0384.txt, Content: Martin Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies (New York: Holt, Rinehart and Win- ston, 1981), 13. 29 Fest, Speer, 128. 31 Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 15. 32 Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 15. 33 Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 18. On Germany's genocide, as well as the SS's Generalplan Ost, involving the expulsion of more than thirty million East Euro- peans, see Adam Tooze, The Wages of Destruction: The Making and Breaking of the Nazi War Economy (New York: Viking, 2006), chapter 14. 34 Van Der Vat, Der gute Nazi, 155-156. Chapter 10: Churchill, Roosevelt, and the future of bombing I Quoted in Parton, "Air Force Spoken Here," 215. 2 W. Churchill, Memoirs of the Second World War: an abridgement of the six volumes of the Second World War, with an epilogue by the author on the postwar years written for this volume (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1959), 667. 3 W.A. Harriman and E. Abel, Special Envoy to Churchill and Stalin, 1941-1946 (New York: Random House, 1975), 180. 4 R.D. Murphy, Diplomat among Warriors (Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1964), 165. 5 Murphy, Diplomat among Warriors, 165. 6 Harriman and Abel, Special Envoy to Churchill and Stalin, 1941-1946, 181. 7 Churchill, Memoirs of the Second World War, 667. 8 Churchill, Memoirs of the Second World War, 667. 9 Murphy, Diplomat among Warriors, 165. 10 W.F. Kimball, Forged in War: Roosevelt, Churchill, and the Second World War (New York: W. Morrow, 1996), 184. II Harriman and Abel, Special Envoy to Churchill and Stalin, 1941-1946, 182-183. 299 12 Quoted in Hastings, Bomber Command, 184. 13 G.L. Weinberg, A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II (Cam- bridge/New York: Cambridge University Press, 2005), 380-381. 14 PRO 14/3507, Letter from Harris to the prime minister, June 17, 1942. 15 Quoted in Parton, "Air Force Spoken Here," 218. 16 Carl Spaatz papers, Box I: 136, Interview with James Parton by Captain H.S. Stackpole, November 28, 1943- 17 Carl Spaatz papers, Box I: 136, Interview with James Parton by
Node: 23540, Score: -0.0124117498588166, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0004.txt, Content: housand RCAF graduates who served overseas were in Bomber Command. 1889 Hitler is born Nietzsche goes mad The controversy over the Canadian War Museum's decision-and, more importantly, the history behind it-is a window into questions that matter today. How can we judge the role that bombing played in the Allied victory? What role does morality play in the execution and evaluation of war? Does it make sense to apply today's moral standards to decisions taken in wartime? Joseph Goebbels famously said that "we all end up as the greatest heroes or the greatest war criminals." History, in other words, is written by the winners. How can we ensure, for this generation and subsequent ones, that Goebbels is not proved right retrospectively? 1918 Hitler weeps in an uncontrollable rage The Royal Air Force is formed The debate on the bombing war has carried on, with pauses, for decades, and it will continue. All authors would like to believe that their argument will be the last word on their topic of choice, but they know-or should know- that it won't be. As that debate rolls on, it is important to bear in mind that an evaluation of the effects and the morality of the Canadian, British, and Amer- ican bombing war can cast no aspersions on the bravery or sincerity of the young men who chose to serve in Bomber Command, still less on the memory of ten thousand Canadians who died over Europe. It is to their bravery and that of tens of thousands of others in the army and the navy that we owe our ability to debate these issues free from intellectual and political tyranny.  1943  1 1 The day Hamburg died July 27, 1943 A t 4:30 P.M., a young boy, Ernst-Günther Haberland, was playing in a bleak courtyard. His mother came to fetch him; they were going to the air-raid shelter early. She collected the family's most important documents, dressed her- self and her son in as many clothes as they could wear, and put a rucksack on his back. Her husband was at work and she could not get word to h
Node: 23891, Score: -0.0118162076453387, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0355.txt, Content: by the invading U.S. forces. Florence, Rome, Venice, and Tocello were never to be bombed without express authority. General Eisenhower sent his air force officers these instructions: If we have to choose between destroying a famous building and sacrificing our own men, then our lives count infinitely more and the buildings must go. But the choice is not always so clear-cut as that. In many cases the monuments can be spared without any detriment to operations. Nothing can stand against the argument of military necessity ... but the phrase "military necessity" is sometimes used where it would be more truthful to speak of military convenience or even of personal convenience. I do not want it to cloak slackness or indifference.20 That Italy today remains a land of endless architectural and cultural wonder owes something to American care and American constraint. When Athens was prepared to see Europe burn, Sparta spared it. The question is why this moral concern was less fully extended to the Japan- ese, whose cities were firebombed (with perhaps the exception of Kyoto) and then hit with nuclear bombs. Or to the Jews. The Allies could have tried to use the air forces to hinder the genocide later in the war-from the summer of 1944. It is true that, by then, 95 percent of what would come to be called the Holo- caust was over. It's also not clear that such an attempt would have succeeded.21 But the fact remains that the Allies never tried. That they did not casts cold water on the suggestion that the Holocaust in some way justifies or mitigates the bombing campaign. It does not. It is possi- ble to reflect at an abstract level on whether civilian bombing might be just pun- ishment for genocide, but it can be no part of a real-world historical explanation for the justification of the campaign. No RAF official, politician, or official document mentions the Holocaust as a justification for bombing. Whatever the bombing war was about, it was not about saving Jews. After the wa
Node: 23738, Score: -0.0102124454541935, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0202.txt, Content: deration.23 THAA TOYTAHTITT Harris's letter, as ever a model of clear thought and frankness, left the Ministry with little choice. It could no longer pretend that there was no difference of prin- ciple between it and Harris. Instead, it had to tell Harris directly whether his own view of the bombing war accorded with official policy as dictated by the POINT- BLANK directive and interpreted by the Ministry. In its reply, the Ministry noted that there could be no question that the "indirect and inevitable consequences" of attacks on "factories, industrial premises, public utilities and means of communi- cation" would be "heavy casualties to the population of the city and destruction of buildings and monuments which are not themselves universally recognised as  160 1 FIRE AND FURY legitimate objects of attack." But this, the ministry argued, was as far as it went: What is in dispute is whether, in order to maintain the morale of Bomber Command air crews and avoid unfair comparison with the methods adopted by the U.S.A.A.F. in their daylight attacks, it is necessary to include in the definition of avowed targets for direct attack civilian workers and the whole of a city including dwelling places and cultural and religious monuments. The Council cannot agree that it is. The issue for the Council, though it did not use the word, was a moral one. There was a difference between trying to minimize civilian casualties but caus- ing them anyway and deliberately trying to maximize those casualties: The effect may be the same but the emphasis placed on the motive is pro- foundly important. War itself is regrettable. So too are almost all the consequences of war and the conscience of all humanitarian people, and not merely of a neg- ligible minority, would be shocked if such a misdescription were applied to the objects of our attacks as to lend colour to the German description of them as "terror" raids. The Council had no moral objections to area bombing as such: "[We] have no co
Node: 23890, Score: -0.0086780550535715, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0354.txt, Content: ent driving the RAF's campaign. Visit Vienna, visit Darmstadt. and compare. If Bomber Command killed three civilians for every one killed by the USAAF, it is incredible that observers suggest there was little difference between the two campaigns. There was all the difference. To the end, the American campaign was affected by a peculiar concern for the moral implications of bombing. Many writers deny this, and Spaatz, Doolit- tle, and Eaker were keen after the war to disassociate themselves from the taint of morality. It's clear why: expressing moral concerns over women and children was at best unstrategic; at worst, it was unmanly. It is nonetheless impossible to read Eaker's impassioned plea to Spaatz over Operation Clarion, Doolittle's eleventh-hour attempts to save the centre (and the residents) of Berlin, or McDonald's February 21, 1945, denunciation of area bombing without seeing a deep and abiding moral concern. In a similar vein, the Americans also made a number of specific efforts to protect Europe's cultural heritage. Stimson, who viewed the war as a defence of European culture and values against fascist barbarism, took a direct interest in safeguarding cultural monuments. John McCloy of the War Department per- sonally appealed to Roosevelt to save Rothenburg ab der Taube, and he flew in person to American Army headquarters in Germany to secure Army support. His efforts paid off, and the city was spared. In August 1943, President Roosevelt agreed to the creation of the American Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments in Europe. One can only imagine Harris's reaction to an equivalent British body. Working closely with a very co-operative U.S. Army, the Commission drew up maps of cities and monuments that were 275 to be spared by the invading U.S. forces. Florence, Rome, Venice, and Tocello were never to be bombed without express authority. General Eisenhower sent his air force officers these instructions: If we have to ch
Node: 23887, Score: -0.008089866830713, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0351.txt, Content: ten equated for moral and strategic purposes with the RAF, perhaps because a number of writers have recoiled from the idea that there was a clear and sharp distinction between the American and the British bombing campaigns. They are right to do so. Much precision bombing involved casualties, and in some cases-when there was extensive cloud cover-"preci- sion" bombing was little more than a hope and a prayer. Until 1944, radar could help pilots find cities covered in cloud but not specific targets within cities. Because they weren't sure they would hit their targets in cloud cover, the Amer- icans regularly used a high percentage of incendiaries (60 percent to 40 percent high explosives during the February 14, 1945, raid on Dresden, a typical mix for a city raid) in the hope that a wider circle of destruction would take out the tar- get.8 An unknown number-but certainly one in the thousands-of civilians were killed that night. During the transportation plan, bombing the railway sta- tion in the centre of the city inevitably meant destroying the area around it. If the city were small enough, bombing would destroy the entire town. And in sev- eral cases-over Münster in October 1943 and Berlin and Dresden in February 1945-the Americans area bombed intentionally. In the same vein, although Harris always opposed precision attacks, many British bombs fell on precision targets, often very effectively. That it is difficult to draw clear and complete distinctions between American and British bombing is clear. This does not mean that none can be drawn. The differences between American and British bombing narrowed over the course of | 273 the war, but they never disappeared. The first point concerns precision bombing. It is at times argued that Bomber Command did not have the luxury of preci- sion bombing by 1943.9 This is not true. The dambuster raids showed that Bomber Command was capable of the most impressive precision-to within a few inches. It was rather that precision bo
Node: 23907, Score: -0.0073372174851762, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0371.txt, Content: civilian control over military is sacred. Churchill could have stopped area bombing and he did not; indeed, near the end of the war, he urged it on. One final issue remains to be considered because it is raised so often: whether or not bombing was a war crime. In an already emotional debate, no question has generated more emotion. The issue is both clear and confused. It is clear insofar as the one generally accepted guide to war crimes is found in the Nuremberg Principles, articulated during the Nuremberg trials and adopted by the United Nations in 1950. Principle VI defines as a war crime the "wanton destruction of  286 | FIRE AND FURY Conclusion 1 cities, towns, or villages, or devastation not justified by military necessity." Under the principles, a war crime is such whether it was committed before or after the First World War, a fact that makes Harris's technically correct claim that the laws of warfare did not cover bombing less compelling than it might seem. If the area bombing campaign constituted "wanton destruction," it was a war crime. The issue is confused in that the debate over whether the bombing was "wanton" or "justified" will continue. It is often said that total war justified the area bombing of Germany. This is doubtful. Whereas total war-understood as the erasure of the distinction between a soldier and a civilian-with all of its unspeakable human conse- quences, existed between the Germans and the Soviets, there is a case for sug- gesting that it never did between Germany and the Western Allies. Total mobilization, yes (if latterly in Germany and never in America); total war, no. When Allied soldiers or airmen fell into German captivity, they were-in the main-treated decently, in line with the Geneva Convention. When Allied air- crew found themselves attacked by angry civilians or the SS, the Wehrmacht (unless it arrived too late) protected them. The same was of course true on the other side. And, finally, when the Allied armies invaded Germany
Node: 23539, Score: -0.0063772964163838, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0003.txt, Content: ly? 1889 Hitler is born Nietzsche goes mad 1918 Hitler weeps in an uncontrollable rage The Royal Air Force is formed The debate on the bombing war has carried on, with pauses, for decades, and it will continue. All authors would like to believe that their argument will be the last word on their topic of choice, but they know-or should know- that it won't be. As that debate rolls on, it is important to bear in mind that an evaluation of the effects and the morality of the Canadian, British, and Amer- ican bombing war can cast no aspersions on the bravery or sincerity of the young men who chose to serve in Bomber Command, still less on the memory of ten thousand Canadians who died over Europe. It is to their bravery and that of tens of thousands of others in the army and the navy that we owe our ability to debate these issues free from intellectual and political tyranny.  x 1 FIRE AND FURY These events provoked such strong feelings because the history of Bomber Command is Canadian history.' During the Second World War, forty thousand Canadians served in Bomber Command, making this country by far the second- largest contributor to the British bombing campaign. One-quarter of these Canadians, ten thousand young men, lost their lives. Throughout the war, Cana- dians permeated the Royal Air Force (RAF). They served as individual volunteers in RAF squadrons, from 1940 as distinct Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) squadrons serving in the RAF's five operational groups, and from 1943 as a dis- tinct operational group (6 Group) made up solely of RCAF squadrons and paid for by the Canadian government. By the end of the war, Canadians comprised some 25 percent of Bomber Command's operational aircrew. While Canadians were also found in other parts of the RAF, 80 percent of the fifty thousand RCAF graduates who served overseas were in Bomber Command. 1889 Hitler is born Nietzsche goes mad The controversy over the Canadian War Museum's decision-and, more importantly, the history beh
Node: 23644, Score: -0.0050510726056728, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0108.txt, Content: tell him that I withdraw my suggestion that U.S. bombers join the RAF in night bombing and that I now recommend that our joint effort, day and night bomb- ing, be continued for a time."20 Arnold was delighted. "We had won a major victory," he later wrote, "for we would now bomb in accordance with American principles, using the methods for which our planes were designed."21 The Americans were now ready to enter the bombing war on their own terms. Churchill might have been agreeable because he had won the other two argu- ments: over de Gaulle's threatened boycott and, more importantly, over the date of the Continental invasion. He did so by playing good cop and bad cop. To de Gaulle, he was bad cop: he threatened to cut off British financial aid. To the Americans, he was good cop: anticipating Marshall's "diversion" argument, the British prepared what they called a compromise. After the North African cam- paign, Allied troops would make their way step-by-step through Sicily and into northern Italy. The Channel crossing would be delayed from 1943 to 1944. To concentrate American minds, the British brought to Casablanca a six-thousand- ton ship, converted into a reference library. It was crammed with all of the essen- tial files from the War Office and had a complete staff of file clerks prepared to make the case for the "compromise."22 In the face of such supposedly over- whelming evidence, and needing a way out of the deadlock, the Americans caved. Rather than simply a quick fight in Africa as a prelude to a Continental inva- sion, Eisenhower found himself agreeing to a protracted campaign in the Mediterranean, a traditional British sphere of influence. His troops would be  FIRE AND FURY 86 1 Churchill, Roosevelt, and the future of bombing | 87 making their way to Germany, but only gradually.23 Having reached agreement on who would bomb how, the Allies now needed to decide on what. In the run-up to the conference, the Americans had put a great deal of thought into ho
Node: 23934, Score: -0.0042248407470707, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0398.txt, Content: 38; Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 232. 14 Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 233. 15 Quoted in Beir, Roosevelt and the Holocaust, 247-248. 16 Wyman, The Abandonment of the Jews, 290. 17 Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 238. 18 Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 339. 19 Richard G. Davis, Bombing the European Axis Powers: A Historical Digest of the Combined Bomber Offensive, 1939-1945 (Maxwell, AL: Air University Press, 2006), 407-408. 20 Davis, Bombing the European Axis Powers, 406. 21 Miller, Masters of the Air, 323. 22 Davis, Bombing the European Axis Powers, 403. 23 Miller, Masters of the Air, 324. 25 Quotations from Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 270. 24 Details of this paragraph from Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, chapter 28. 26 Quotations from Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 272. 27 Quotations from Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 279. 28 Quotations from Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 285. 29 Quoted in Beir, Roosevelt and the Holocaust, 248. 30 Quoted in Beir, Roosevelt and the Holocaust, 251. 31 Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 301. 32 Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 309. 33 Wyman, The Abandonment of the Jews, 300. 34 Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 303. 35 Wyman, The Abandonment of the Jews, 300. 36 Miller, Masters of the Air, 327. 37 Quoted in Miller, Masters of the Air, 327. 38 Letter from Shalom Lindenbaum to Martin Gilbert, June 13, 1980, quoted in Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, 311. 39 PRO 14/3507, Letter from Harris to the prime minister, June 17, 1942. 40 PRO AIR 8/1229, Flying Bomb Statement by the prime minister, undated. Also see PRO AIR 8/1229, Attack on German Civilian Morale, August 1, 1944. 41 PRO PREM 3/4/2, Minute from Portal to Churchill, June 20, 1944. 42 PRO AIR 8/1229, Minute VCAS 1803, VCAS to CAS, subj: Crossbow, July 2, 1944.  FIRE AND FURY 312 1 Notes 1 43 PRO AIR 8/199, War Cabinet, Chiefs of Staff Committee, "Crossbow": Question of Retaliation, July 5, 1944. 44 PRO AIR 19/189, Letter to CAS, Decemb
Node: 23574, Score: -0.003277463274402, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0038.txt, Content: rivy Seal, rose in the House of Commons. Cripps was a devout Christian and pacifist. A vegetarian and teetotaller, he hailed from the far left of the Labour Party. In 1936, the party had to repudiate Cripps's argument that it would not "be a bad thing for the British working class if Germany defeated us."9 In 1942, Churchill brought him into the Cabinet to shut him up. It didn't work. "A number of honourable Members," Cripps began, have questioned whether, in the existing circumstances, the continued devotion of a considerable part of our efforts to the building-up of this bomber force is the best use that we can make of our resources. . . . I would  FIRE AND FURY 32 remind the House that this policy was initiated at a time when we were fighting alone against the combined forces of Germany and Italy, and it then seemed that it was the most effective way in which we, acting alone, could take the initiative against the enemy. Since that time we have had an enormous access of support from the Russian Armies . .. and also from the great potential strength of the United States of America. Naturally, in such circumstances, the original policy has come under review. . . . I can ensure the House that the Government are fully aware of the other uses to which our resources could be put, and the moment they arrive at a decision that the circumstances warrant a change, a change in policy will be made.10 4 1 The Americans With the Butt report still fresh in people's minds, another disastrous raid- one producing little damage and losing many planes-might have given Cripps and those of his ilk the excuse they needed to end the bombing war. Harris was not about to let that happen. Over the next three years, he would fight two parallel battles: a military one with the Germans, and a rhetorical one over bombing with its opponents. He would receive qualified help from indi- viduals whose commitment to bombing, albeit bombing of a very different type, made them air purists in Harris's
Node: 23783, Score: -0.0027745835343597, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0247.txt, Content: illing them would do nothing to serve the interests of the Allies during the war or after it. Hughes attacked Weicker's plans as yet another stab at the "will of the wisp of 'morale." Nazi repression made German resistance impossible, so terror bombing would only serve as confirmation of German propaganda. It would lead to a reaction among the American people against "indiscriminate area bombing," and would-not least-violate the principles to which the country  192 | FIRE AND FURY Oil and baby killing had committed itself. Although the United States may have at times been hypocritical on moral issues, the country nonetheless "represented in world thought an urge toward decency and better treatment of man by man."56 The Japanese might shoot American POWs; the Americans would never do the same to Japanese. "Hot blood is one thing," Hughes added. "Reason and the long view is another." Cabell, who was a principled opponent of indiscriminate area bombing, agreed, and he asked that Spaatz reject the plan. Eisenhower, how- ever, had the last word, and while he did not order the bombing of small towns, he told Spaatz to be ready to bomb the centre of Berlin at a moment's notice.57 Notice was not given, at least not in 1944. While all of this was going on, the case for attacking oil was growing. On July 9, the day of the ULTRA intercept confirming how deeply affected Ger- man oil supplies had been, the British Air Ministry announced the formation of a joint Anglo-American oil targets committee, which was to keep the Axis oil position under review, to assess the damage inflicted, and to determine the priority of further attacks.58 During the month of July, then, two different committees were established: a joint Anglo-American committee to look at oil, and a working committee (made up of Air Staff, Foreign Office, MEW , and USSTAF representatives) to look at morale. At the end of the month, they both reported. The joint com- mittee concluded that "Germany will be unable to co
Node: 23610, Score: -0.002391884406222, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0074.txt, Content: One who was shocked by the minute and its logic was Cherwell's Oxford colleague Sir Henry Tizard. Tizard had played a key role in the development of radar, but by the early 1940s his influence was on the wane. He had disagreed with Cherwell more than once (on December 12, 1942, he wrote that an Air Ministry memorandum assumed that night bombing was going to win the war when it would not) and experienced the "Prof.s" wrath for daring to do so. Tizard finally decided to pack in the dark art of politics for the more genteel world of the Oxford common room. He was likely not cut out for political life anyway. In an interview with an American researcher, he suggested that American and British scientists could work in a vacuum isolated from political considerations. "Between scientists," he said, "there are no barriers except language."34 This is probably never true, but it was certainly not true in wartime. In 1942, Tizard became president of Magdalen. His last act was to speak out against Cherwell's minute. On April 15, 1942, he wrote directly to Cherwell: I am afraid that I think that the way you put the facts as they appear to you is extremely misleading and may lead to entirely wrong decisions being reached, with a consequent disastrous effect on the war. I think, too, that you have got your facts wrong. .. . I conclude therefore (a) that a policy of bombing German towns wholesale in order to destroy dwellings cannot have a decisive effect by the middle of 1943, even if all heavy bombers and the great majority of Wellingtons produced are used primarily for this purpose. (b) That such a policy can only have a decisive effect if carried out on a much bigger scale than is envisaged [in your paper].35 Cherwell's biographer and those close to the events have pointed out that it is an error to contrast a humane Tizard, who wanted to spare German cities the horrors of bombing, with a sadistic Cherwell. Some of Cherwell's more blood- thirsty comments make the contrast a temp
Node: 23576, Score: -0.0012797845276742, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0040.txt, Content: d screamed. As the harangue continued, Ferson's face turned 33  FIRE AND FURY 34 1 The Americans crimson and his veins bulged. He began to sweat profusely. Ferson opened his mouth, as if to defend himself, but he never uttered a word. He pitched for- warded and landed face-first on the carpet in front of Arnold's desk. He was dead from a massive heart attack.' Harris's temper-though also legendary-had never killed a man. But Arnold had several advantages over Harris. While Harris would scowl his way through photos, and through life, the natural expression on Arnold's "expres- sionless" face was a thin smile. It inspired his nickname "Hap" for "happy" and even his enemies found this quality disarming. He could also be charming. smooth, and disciplined. These characteristics served him well.2 Henry Arnold was born on June 25, 1886, in Pennsylvania, of a provincial. German-descended doctor, an austere and puritanical man who dominated his household and refused to let his children speak at dinner. Against Henry's will Dr. Arnold signed him up for the entrance exam at West Point when the doctor's preferred choice, Arnold's older brother Tom, refused to sit it. To Dr. Arnold's surprise, and Henry's horror (he was no keener on a military career than Tom was), the boy came second on the exam. At West Point, Henry resumed his indolent ways. He graduated in 1907 with a mediocre class standing of 60 out of 110 and failed to make it to the cavalry branch he had initially strived for, instead being assigned to the infantry.3 After two unhappy years in the Philippines and another two in the U.S., he wrote to Washington in 1911 and asked to be detailed for aeronautical work with the Sig- nal Corps. The War Department sent back an official letter asking him if he would be willing to train under Wright in Dayton, Ohio, as a pilot. When he showed the letter to his commanding officer, the man drolly replied, "Young man, I know of no better way for a person to commit suicide."4 After t
Node: 23538, Score: -0.0011123948327701, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0002.txt, Content: text, three times as long as the original, satisfied the veterans and their supporters, but did so at the expense of obscuring the history that the original was meant to explain. ix  X 1 FIRE AND FURY These events provoked such strong feelings because the history of Bomber Command is Canadian history.' During the Second World War, forty thousand Canadians served in Bomber Command, making this country by far the second- largest contributor to the British bombing campaign. One-quarter of these Canadians, ten thousand young men, lost their lives. Throughout the war, Cana- dians permeated the Royal Air Force (RAF). They served as individual volunteers in RAF squadrons, from 1940 as distinct Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) squadrons serving in the RAF's five operational groups, and from 1943 as a dis- tinct operational group (6 Group) made up solely of RCAF squadrons and paid for by the Canadian government. By the end of the war, Canadians comprised some 25 percent of Bomber Command's operational aircrew. While Canadians were also found in other parts of the RAF, 80 percent of the fifty thousand RCAF graduates who served overseas were in Bomber Command. The controversy over the Canadian War Museum's decision-and, more importantly, the history behind it-is a window into questions that matter today. How can we judge the role that bombing played in the Allied victory? What role does morality play in the execution and evaluation of war? Does it make sense to apply today's moral standards to decisions taken in wartime? Joseph Goebbels famously said that "we all end up as the greatest heroes or the greatest war criminals." History, in other words, is written by the winners. How can we ensure, for this generation and subsequent ones, that Goebbels is not proved right retrospectively? 1889 Hitler is born Nietzsche goes mad 1918 Hitler weeps in an uncontrollable rage The Royal Air Force is formed The debate on the bombing war has carried on, with pauses, for decades, and it will
Node: 23626, Score: 0.0001336821920846, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0090.txt, Content: war, he worked closely with the SS on the "recruitment" of slave labour.9 Göring was born on January 12, 1893. Like so many Germans of his generation. he was defined by the First World War. A fighter pilot awarded the prestigious Pour le Mérite by the Kaiser in June 1918, he was an uncritical subscriber to the "stab-in-the-back" theory.10 He met Hitler in 1922, and was immediately con- vinced that Hitler had the keys to Germany's greatness. By 1939, Göring was in charge of a rambling empire that controlled the police, the air ministry, and industrial policy across an increasingly centralized Germany. As more territories fell into German hands, Göring established an economic empire, based on pure exploitation and extending eastward. To add to his own glory, Göring made a point of surrounding himself with mediocrity and incompetence. His appointee in 1936 to head German aircraft production, Colonel General Ernst Udet, told a friend, "I don't understand any- thing about production. I understand even less about airplanes." Udet's chief merit was that he had been part of the same Richthofen squadron as Göring, and Göring instinctively trusted him.12 The downside for Udet was that Göring 73 held him fully responsible for any failures. After five years of ill health, bully- ing and manipulation from everyone around him, and constant harangues from Göring over his failure to increase airplane production, Udet killed himself. Before he died, he scrawled a suicide note on the wall, blaming Göring for hav- ing delivered him to the Jews in the Air Ministry. He was succeeded by Field Marshal Erhard Milch, a commander in the Norwegian campaign with close contacts to the armaments industry. At Göring's request, Hitler Aryanized Milch when rumours of his Jewish father circulated. "I decide who's a Jew" Göring is reported to have said. On the morning of May 31, 1942, Göring leaned over a report from the mayor of Cologne. His assistant and another high-ranking Nazi official were als
Node: 23772, Score: 0.0002730098881122, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0236.txt, Content: mann feigned an interest in negotiating to keep the report secret. Kastner, however, didn't have the only copy. Another copy, together with a fur- ther eyewitness report on deportations from Hungary (the "Mordowicz-Rosin" report), was forwarded by Slovak Jewish leaders to Dr. Jaromir Kopecky, the Geneva representative of the Czechoslovakian government-in-exile.12 Kopecky sent both reports to Gerhart Riegner of the World Jewish Congress in Switzer- land. Riegner had a summary of the report forwarded to Elizabeth Wiskemann. an expert on Czechoslovakia at the British legation in the Swiss capital, Bern, urging that the BBC broadcast the details.13 Wiskemann then sent the summary immediately to Allen Dulles, head of U.S. Intelligence in Switzerland. On June 16, Dulles forwarded it to Roswell McClelland, the War Refugee Board's represen- tative in Switzerland. The Board had been established by Roosevelt in January to "rescue the victims of enemy oppression." Dulles attached a note: "Seems more in your line."14 McClelland cabled John Pehle, the head of the Board, in Washington: "There is little doubt that many of these Hungarian Jews are being sent to the extermination camps of Auschwitz and Birkenau in western Upper Silesia where, according to recent reports, at least 1,500,000 Jews have been killed ... It is urged by all sources of this information in Slovakia and Hungary that vital sections of these [railway] lines and especially bridges . .. be bombed as the only possible means of slowing down or stopping future deportations."s Two days later, another cable arrived, this time from the Orthodox community in Bratislava, urging the bombing of railways and of towns that served as major rail- way junctions.16 On June 24, Pehle went to see John McCloy, Assistant Secretary of War and another Stimson protege. Without endorsing the proposal or even formally asking McCloy to act on it, he suggested that the assistant secretary "explore it."17 The report was definitive proof of
Node: 23776, Score: 0.0005911088546283, Chunk File: hansen_fury/chunks/hansen_fury_0240.txt, Content: suggested there wasn't much point: "Even if the plant was destroyed, I am not clear that it would really help the vic- tims." (Eden scribbled next to this: "He wasn't asked his opinion of this; he was asked to act.") Sinclair ended the note by suggesting an alternative: "I am pro- posing to have the proposition put to the Americans, with all the facts, to see if they are prepared to try."28 They weren't. McCloy had already blocked the proposal on July 4. "The War Department," he wrote to Pehle, "is of the opinion that the suggested air oper- ation is impracticable. It could be executed only by the diversion of consider- able air support essential to the success of our forces now engaged in decisive operations and would in any case be of such very doubtful efficacy that it would not amount to a practical project."29 McCloy maintained for decades that the decision was his own, but in 1986, he attributed it to Roosevelt. "I remember talking one time with [the president] about it and he was irate: 'Why the idea! They'll say we bombed these people, and they'll only move down the road a little . . . We'll be accused of participating in this horrible business."30 There is no written record of the conversation. In August, the Poles launched the Warsaw uprising in the futile hope of lib- erating themselves from the Germans before the Soviets reached the city. Two full RAF squadrons, relying on volunteers, flew missions supplying the Poles for six consecutive days. Flying from Italy, they passed over Auschwitz on their way to the Polish capital. During the same month, the debate over bombing Auschwitz continued. On July 26, unaware of the Americans' rejection of the idea, the Air Ministry planned to raise the issue with Spaatz. A week later, Bottomley reported that he had been "most sympathetic," but wanted more information about the "precise location, extent and nature of the camps and installations at Birkenau." The Ministry passed a request for photographic intelligence to