Node: 20225, Score: 0.0047198379303177, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0029.txt, Content: 1 (AWPD–1) listed nine core areas, including transport, aircraft industries, electricity generation, and chemicals; a further list produced on the orders EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 18 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 44 of General Hap Arnold, chief of staff of the USAAF , added ten vital target systems.50 AWPD–1 even suggested the precise number of bomber sorties, 66,045, thought necessary to achieve the primary objective. Not only did no other major air force place such reliance on the impact of independent bombing, but the high aspirations of prewar planning were also shown to be almost entirely unrealistic. It was never possible to disrupt individual target sys-tems completely, and it took so long to effect massive damage on German society that the country was invaded and occupied by ground armies while the bombers con-tinued to hammer away at German cities. In the process, around 410,000 German civilians and between 60,000 to 70,000 foreign forced laborers, camp prisoners, and POWs were killed—an outcome that was never planned for since bombing was expected to yield much faster dividends. The two bomber forces also killed an estimated sixty thousand Italian civilians and sixty thousand to seventy thousand French, most of them as a result of efforts to liberate them from German rule between 1943 and 1945. 51These paradoxes have helped to fuel the popular postwar perception that bombing was a wasted strategic effort and that the heavy cost to the German, Italian, and French populations was ethically insupportable. 52 Of course, none of these outcomes could have been known with any certainty at the start of the campaigns, since almost no hard evidence was available that bombing had, or would have in the future, the effects described in the strategy. The evidence of the popular reaction to the Blitz and the limited damage that nine mont
Node: 20224, Score: 0.0102057209188601, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0028.txt, Content: e front by sapping the supply of munitions, the assumption was that an enemy nation would be more likely to succumb if the armed forces in the ﬁeld were simply bypassed and the “vital centers”—the economic and military structures on the home front and the morale of the enemy population—struck instead. These views were fully developed in both air forces before 1939, and they rested on an assumption that the next war would be a total war in which the whole of the enemy state would be involved and therefore could legitimately be disabled. 47 In both cases, the aim was not to inﬂict indiscriminate destruction and killing but rather to ﬁnd those objects or areas in an enemy’s industrial and economic structure most susceptible to debilitating interruption. However, it was never intended that such attacks would not also have a profound social and political effect and weaken enemy resistance, perhaps to the point of collapse. 48 When both bomber forces began to plan seriously for a future campaign, they tried to identify which target systems would be most likely to yield rapid and signiﬁcant dividends. The British Western Air Plans, drawn up in December 1937, identiﬁed attacks on production in the German Ruhr industrial region as vital and added attacks on other industrial areas, the capital city of Berlin, and German docks and trade. 49Other target systems—oil, aircraft production, machinery, chemicals, and the power industry—were added by 1939. When U.S. Air Intelligence was asked to draft the air component of the Victory program drawn up in the summer of 1941 on President Franklin Roosevelt’s orders, the group under Colonel Harold George identiﬁed a web of key industries and services whose disruption would fatally undermine the German war effort. Air War Plans Division Plan 1 (AWPD–1) listed nine core areas, including transport, aircraft industries, electricity generation, and chemicals; a further list produced on the orders EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via
Node: 20198, Score: 0.0106069631125986, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0002.txt, Content: d widespread popular demoralization—might prompt a political upheaval and force Germany to sue for peace. The idea that morale was a vulnerable target has generally been ascribed to General (later Air Marshal) Hugh T renchard, the chief of the air staff during the 1920s, who famously asserted that the effect on morale was twenty times greater than the effect of physical destruction, but ideas about the political dividend from long-range bombing were already current by 1918, promoted by the ﬁrst RAF chief of staff, Frederick Sykes. 4During the interwar years, RAF doctrine was divided between the desire to offer some effective form of defense of the home islands against air attack and the belief that the best form of defense was attack against the enemy homeland, either to act as a deterrent to further attacks or to provoke a crisis in the heart of the enemy war effort. The contradiction represented by this strategic proﬁle was never fully confronted during the interwar years. The RAF War Manual published in 1935 had as its ﬁrst line the assertion that “the bomb is the chief weapon of an air force” and went on to describe a campaign against “the nerve centres, main arteries, heart and brain” of the enemy state in order to reduce “his power to continue the war.” 5This remained the central feature of RAF strategy through 1945 and the end of the European war. The force sustained the distinction between an independent bombing strategy, with its own strategic trajectory aimed at defeating the enemy nation rather than the enemy armed forces, and the tactical use of air power in support of ground campaigns on land and sea, for which the RAF remained poorly prepared and doctrinally deﬁcient. Yet from 1936, with the advent of radar and fast monoplane ﬁghters, greater emphasis was placed, at political insistence, on the possibilities of an active air defense whose purpose was also strategic rather than tactical, denying the enemy air force the possibility of attacking the home
Node: 20237, Score: 0.0124248378964966, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0041.txt, Content: //www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 25 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 51 effort was made, even by Britain and the United States. What distinguished the air strategy of the Western Allies from that of Germany or the Soviet Union was the recognition that air power is indivisible, with one form of air strategy supporting the others. Hence, while Germany and the Soviet Union concentrated on operational air warfare in collaboration with frontline armies, Britain and the United Statesalso developed long-range bombing, air-sea cooperation, and an effective air supply system. These different choices also reﬂected differing historical circumstances. The war Germany was forced to ﬁght from 1941 onward narrowed strategic options, as it also did for the Soviet Union. Long-range bombing was neglected and air defense had to be constructed in the face of a deteriorating strategic situation on all fronts. Britain and the United States opted for the exercise of air power in all its ramiﬁcations because neither was directly threatened with invasion after 1941 and both had powerful political motives to avoid building a large infantry army if air power could achieve as much. The eventual cost of 120,000 airmen and 21,000 bombers spread over ﬁve years of war was low in comparison to the annual losses of the other combatants. Air power reﬂected too the scientiﬁc, technical, and manufacturing cap-abilities of the two democracies, which were exploited at the expense of devoting greater resources to creating a very large infantry army. The success of Allied air power also depended on other factors, the most important of which was the contrast in numbers. German and Italian aircraft production was never equal to the scale of the strategic task. Although efforts were made to expand German output, many factors, including the later impact of bombing, inhibited higher levels of output. In both cases, the attrition cycle caused by an imbalance of numbers could no
Node: 20227, Score: 0.0148918111828975, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0031.txt, Content: aft production, that only “an absolutely devastating, exterminating attack by very heavy bombers” would bring about Hitler’s downfall. 54 At all the major points in 1940 and 1941 where decisions had to be made about bombing strategy, Churchill played an approving part, encouraged by his chief scientiﬁc adviser, Lord Cherwell. In July 1941, Churchill requested the RAF commander in chief to undertake the “devastation of German cities”; on July 9, Bomber Command was directed explicitly to attack urban industrial targets as a whole on nights when precise targets were not visible. 55 For Churchill, and later for Roosevelt, there were also wider strategic consider- ations. It was considered important that Britain could demonstrate to the Empire, to the United States, and to occupied Europe that she was still a willing participant in the war; and in 1940, it was also important to sustain domestic war-willingness by the same route. 56 In July 1941, Churchill’s enthusiasm for the indiscriminate bombing of Germany had to be set against his desire to show Stalin that Britain was keen to assist the Soviet war effort, and the same argument was used at the Moscow Conference with Stalin in mid-August 1942: that bombing could be regarded as a surrogate for a second front. For Roosevelt, who shared Churchill’s enthusiasm for a bombing strategy and who in the 1930s had helped to overcome Army hostility to a heavy-bomber program, the bombing campaign in Europe was also a way to show that the United States was serious about the war and to convince the home population, whose gaze was ﬁxed on the harsh struggles in the South Paciﬁc, that the war in Europe was a priority. When there was growing criticism of the slow progress of American attacks against Germany in late 1942, the Eighth Air Force commander, Major General Carl Spaatz,was redeployed to the Mediterranean and replaced by the commander of EighthBomber Command, Major General Ira Eaker. It was also hoped that bombing might indeed
Node: 20196, Score: 0.0155599700708704, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0000.txt, Content: File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 1 --- 272 THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE, 1939–1945 Richard Overy WHEN A SECOND MAJOR EUROPEAN  war broke out in September 1939, there was a widespread popular expectation that it would be waged with ruthless disregard for the traditional conventions of warfare. At the heart of this fear was a belief that modern air power would be aimed at an enemy’s home population, whose morale might crack completely under a hail of bombs, gas canisters, and biological weapons. Theseﬁrst “weapons of mass destruction” failed to materialize fully, but on the very ﬁrst morning of the European war, September 3, an air raid alarm sounded in London,triggered by an aircraft mistakenly identiﬁed as hostile. This panic-driven reaction symbolized the conviction that the new war would be decided by air power, a view unthinkable only twenty-ﬁve years before, when in 1914 a few primitive biplanes launched the air power century. In the twenty years between the First and Second World Wars, all the major European powers encouraged the development of technically advanced air forces while military thinkers grappled with the issues of how aircraft might be employed with maximum military utility. There was no consensus on the future of air power. In Germany, France, and the Soviet Union, each with a powerful army tradition, air power was regarded as something that would be exercised in conjunction with the ground forces to speed up the defeat of the enemy’s army. This involved bombing at distances a few hundred kilometers behind the front at the most, but usually much closer to it. German air doctrine showed an awareness of the possibility of long-range bombing acting independently of the ground forces, but this was regarded as something to be done under provocation or for retaliation and not as an integral element in the exercise of what German airmen called “operational air war.” 1 German theorists shared with their French counterparts the lesson of the Great War that air po
Node: 20235, Score: 0.0180210521258643, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0039.txt, Content: inhibited substantially what the German economy, if entirely free of bombing, might have been capable of producing. 70 Second, the bombing offensives distorted German air strategy entirely and under- mined the capacity of the army to ﬁght effectively at the major European fronts. The diversion of ﬁghter defense aircraft to Germany reduced the aircraft available to support ground forces. In January 1944, for example, 68 percent of German ﬁghters were defending the homeland and only 17 percent were in the East. The emphasis on defense also degraded aircraft output: in 1942, over 50 percent of combat aircraft EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 24 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 50 produced were bombers, which played a central role in operational air warfare; by 1944, only 18 percent of combat aircraft were bombers, denying the German army the means to disrupt enemy supply lines and troop concentrations effectively. For much of the last two years of the war, the German army was forced to ﬁght with a shrinking number of aircraft and a consequent rise in attrition rates. Without the impact on production and the distorting effects on German strategy, German frontline troops might have had as much as 50 percent more weaponry and supplies, and it would have taken a larger and more costly ground campaign to dislodge them. The answer to whether morale was undermined by bombing is in some respects self-evident. The bombed populations in Italy and Germany were deeply demoralized and profoundly affected by intense bombardment. But the expected political dividend, which was the implied goal of the Combined Offensive assault on morale, did not merely fail to materialize, but in fact accrued to the German leadership: heavy bombing provoked an apathy and resignation that permitted the regime to continue to impose high demands on the population without provoking
Node: 20199, Score: 0.0221059442373592, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0003.txt, Content: placed, at political insistence, on the possibilities of an active air defense whose purpose was also strategic rather than tactical, denying the enemy air force the possibility of attacking the home front in operations again independent of the army or navy. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 3 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 29 These differences in strategic outlook determined the way the air war was to be fought in Europe between 1939 and 1945. With the exception of German air attacks against British cities in the autumn and winter of 1940–1941, for which the German air force had not been well prepared, the exercise of air power by the major continental European air forces was strategic in the narrower sense of supporting the main strategic aim of the armed forces in the destruction of enemy armed power. There was little preparation for the use of aircraft against shipping. The Italian navy made few provisions for ﬁghting a modern air/sea war; Britain had a few aircraft carriers but little experience in how to use them; Germany had no aircraft carriers, and relations between the country’s navy and air force were too poor to develop effective air-sea operational collaboration. Air power could be exercised over sea as long as there were airﬁelds close enough to the coast to permit extensive oversea ﬂights, but much of this was improvised in wartime when the war spread to the Mediterranean theater in June 1940 and German naval and air forces began the campaign against British Atlantic trade the same month. The use of aircraft in conjunction with ground operations was thoroughly vin- dicated in the opening campaigns of the European war. The prevailing view that German success relied on overwhelming numerical superiority was certainly true in the case of the campaign against Poland, which began on September 1, 1939, when the 1,500 ﬁrst-li
Node: 20229, Score: 0.0224144883158284, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0033.txt, Content: 42 with the appointment of Air Chief Marshal Arthur Harris as commander in chief, a role he held until the end of the war. Harris, a career airman with much experience of air policing in areas of the British Empire and the Middle East, adopted a maximum view of bombing strategy. He was armed with a new directive, issued on February 14, 1942, shortly before he assumed command, that instructed the force to adopt as its primary mission an attack on the morale of the German home population in general, and industrial workers in particular. 61He was also supplied by the Ministry of Economic Warfare with a list of one hundred German cities, each with a points rating according to its size and industrial importance, which he could choose to attack as and when opportunity arose. Over the next three years, and despite the regular temporary loss of a portion of his force to other purposes, Harris remorselessly set out to do what his instructions told him. 62To demonstrate the change in strategy and command, he organized a raid on the city of Cologne on May 30, 1942, with “a thousand bombers,” although only 868 reached and bombed the target. Harris’s appointment coincided with the arrival of the U.S. Eighth Air Force, which began training programs and base construction in the spring of 1942. Theﬁrst operations were mounted in August against French targets, but the force still had only 119 operational bombers. The U.S. commanders preferred to ﬂy by day  and to rely on the large ﬁrepower of the Boeing B–17 bomber. They remained critical of British night bombing and planned their own operations on the basis of hitting speciﬁc, visible economic targets in as systematic a way as possible. This distinction between day and night operations prevented serious friction between the two Allies except at those times when the U.S. air forces (the Fifteenth Air Force joined in the attacks from 1943 on from Mediterranean bases) wanted to mount a coordinated effort against a particular target su
Node: 20206, Score: 0.0245179717036594, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0010.txt, Content: unfolded incrementally. On September 14, following suggestions from Admiral Erich Raeder, commander in chief of the German navy, EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 7 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 33 about the necessity of maintaining air attacks on British trade regardless of the fate of Sealion, Hitler ordered a continuous bombardment of selected military and eco- nomic targets with an emphasis on port and shipping targets. On September 16, Göring ordered air force units to begin the new phase. It was to be conducted at night, using a system of radio beams to direct bombers to the targets and increasing the ratio of incendiary bombs carried to increase the prospects of inﬂicting extensive physical damage. Finally, in October 1940, the switch to regular night bombardment of major cities was made in the hope that the aerial blockade would bring a political dividend in the form of the collapse of Winston Churchill’s government or a request for an armistice. 14 The seven-month bombing campaign from October 1940 to the last major attack on London on May 10, 1941, has been neglected by historians of air power, who have tended to focus on the “Blitz” as a British event rather than a stage in the development of German air strategy. This was the only time that Hitler ﬂirted with the ideas of “Douhetism”: the belief that heavy attacks on an enemy’s capital and major cities would rapidly provoke demoralization and the possibility that the enemy would abandon the war. 15 It is not clear how much conﬁdence Hitler placed in the strategy, and after the failure of the Blitz to produce a satisfactory political outcome, he became permanently disillusioned with the idea of an independent air campaign. He had remarked to his headquarters staff late in 1939 that “the ruthless employment of the Luftwaffe against the heart of the British will-to-resist ca
Node: 20220, Score: 0.0247721355553409, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0024.txt, Content: THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 41 sequently imitated by all of Germany’s major enemies). At the same time, the air defense of Britain was strengthened to ensure that if Germany won the war against the Soviet Union, renewed air attacks on Britain could be met by a more effective shield than had been available in 1940–1941. In the middle years of the war, the exercise of air power became the essential component of British strategy, as it was for U.S. forces arriving in Europe in 1942 following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harboron December 7, 1941, and the German and Italian declaration of war on the United States four days later. As in the air war at sea, there were also issues of service politics and inter-Allied collaboration to address in the development of an effective operational air power against Axis forces in North Africa in 1941–1943, in Italy during the invasion of 1943–1945, and in the campaign across France in 1944. During the desert campaigns of 1941–1942, the RAF and the Commonwealth air forces generally enjoyed numer-ical superiority over the combined Italian and German air forces but found it difﬁcult to make that difference effective at the operational level. The British armies in North Africa expected close protection for their forces and would have preferred tactical control of air forces by the ground army. The RAF in the Middle East wanted to retain independence from the ground commanders but needed to establish a clear doctrine governing the way air operations could best serve the central strategic objective. This doctrine was worked out under the leadership of Air Marshal Arthur Tedder, commander in chief of RAF Middle East Command, one of the few senior airmen who understood the importance of winning air superiority rather than simply bombing the enemy. The new doctrine, like the reform instituted in the Soviet air force in 1942, relied on imitating German practice. Fighter squadrons were to be used to eliminate enemy air power and attack
Node: 20207, Score: 0.0249698022631832, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0011.txt, Content: d with the idea of an independent air campaign. He had remarked to his headquarters staff late in 1939 that “the ruthless employment of the Luftwaffe against the heart of the British will-to-resist can and will follow at the given moment.” 16Yet when the German air force chief of staff, Hans Jeschonnek, asked for permission to bomb residential areas to create panic in September 1940, Hitler refused. In January 1941, he insisted that bombing had to have a purpose—in this case, the war against trade and industry—and told his staff that terror raids “have small value and accomplish little.” 17 German bombing was not intended to be simply indiscriminate, although the extant technology, even with radio-beam navigation, was incapable of avoiding extensive civilian damage. At least part of the motive for maintaining the attacks was to sustain the im- pression that Britain was Germany’s main strategic concern, thus masking the shift in German military preparations to the Barbarossa campaign. On the other hand, continued German losses during the Blitz, many of them the result of accidents or poor weather conditions, eroded the force that would be needed for the campaigns in Russia. Over the course of the Blitz, 384 bombers were destroyed, 63.5 percent of them noncombat casualties. 18The German air force ﬁelded two hundred fewer bombers at the start of the Barbarossa campaign on June 22, 1941, than had been available on May 10, 1940. 19 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 8 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 34 The German experience from October 1940 to May 1941 provided important lessons on the conduct of an independent bombing campaign (though the RAF learned few of them before beginning its own operations). The high losses from daylight raids forced the German air force to shift to night bombing, as the RAF had already done earlier in 1940. Losses from a
Node: 20236, Score: 0.0255390482657221, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0040.txt, Content: rialize, but in fact accrued to the German leadership: heavy bombing provoked an apathy and resignation that permitted the regime to continue to impose high demands on the population without provoking much overt political dissent. 71The “nation” in that sense was not a target that could be defeated until the armed forces of the enemy had been compelled to surrender. CONCLUSION The air war that materialized between 1939 and 1945 was not the war that had been popularly expected. No “knockout blow” from the air against the civilian home front materialized in the early weeks of the war, and even after four years of heavy bombing, German society continued to ﬁght until the armed forces had to accept defeat. Yet the role of air power in the war was undoubtedly of great importance. In any balanced explanation, air power made the difference in a great many different campaigns. Once the historical emphasis is shifted from the major bombing campaigns, it is evident that the development of operational air warfare for land or sea campaigns was the most signiﬁcant contribution aircraft could make to the conduct of war. The neglect in many general accounts of the air war of the development of tactical air power by the British Commonwealth air forces and the U.S. Army and Navyhas obscured the extent to which the campaigns in North Africa, Italy, France, and Eastern Europe relied on extensive and effectively deployed battlefront air forces. The winning of air superiority, from the Battle of France in May–June 1940 to the conquest of Germany in January–May 1945, gave a degree of strategic ﬂexibility in the conduct of operations denied to the loser. It was here that the numerically largest EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 25 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 51 effort was made, even by Britain and the United States. What distinguished the air strategy o
Node: 20234, Score: 0.0260369223052185, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0038.txt, Content: The neutralization of the German air force opened the way for the remorseless destruction of much of urban Germany and its communications, fuel supply, and infrastructure from the summer of 1944 onward. Historians have recently demonstrated that during the latter stages of the war, American bombers engaged increasingly in blind bombing through clouds and haze, achieving in effect a form of area bombing not very different from that of RAF Bomber Command. Between September and December 1944, 52.9 percent of bomb tonnage was delivered by blind bombing. 68 The effects of the bombing campaign have been widely debated. A recent study has suggested that the last stages of the campaign yielded what economists calldiminishing returns—that the cost of the campaign in its last year produced a proportionately smaller effect per bomb dropped than earlier in the war. There is little argument that the ﬁnal stages of the bombing war, including the destruction of Dresden on February 13–14, 1945, did represent a form of “overkill” with few direct strategic beneﬁts and an excessive level of casualty for an increasingly defenseless civilian population. 69There has also been much argument over whether German war production was seriously affected, since in 1944 German industry produced three times as many weapons as in 1941. The question is really one of what might have been. Here there are two central considerations. First, the German war economy from 1942 onward was capable of producing a great deal more than it did. The physical damage to plants, forced dispersal, the loss of hours caused by air raid alarms, and the diversion of more than 2 million people, 55,000 antiaircraft guns, 20 percent of all ammunition, and extensive electrical, optical, and radar production to the defense effort inhibited substantially what the German economy, if entirely free of bombing, might have been capable of producing. 70 Second, the bombing offensives distorted German air strategy entirely and under-
Node: 20238, Score: 0.0261139797976771, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0042.txt, Content: were made to expand German output, many factors, including the later impact of bombing, inhibited higher levels of output. In both cases, the attrition cycle caused by an imbalance of numbers could not be reversed, creating accelerating loss rates in the last years of the war, however high the quality of German aircraft. Second, there were differences in the way the air forces were integrated into the overall command structure. In Germany, they were closely controlled by Hitler’s supreme headquarters, where there was no equivalent of a general staff committee to which air commanders could make reasoned arguments and expect clear decisions. In the Soviet Union, Britain, and the United States, the air force commanders were closely integrated into the overall military committee system and could argue as equals against the interests of other services. In the West, this also involved the combined chiefs of staff, where top-level decisions were taken together with army, navy, and air force representatives. Third, there was a contrast in political receptivity. Churchill and Roosevelt were air power enthusiasts and accepted a high level of commitment to its exploitation EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 26 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 52 and supply. Hitler was much more attracted to an army view of warfare and became progressively disillusioned with air power. By 1944, he threatened to disband the air force, replace it with antiaircraft defenses, and trust instead in new weapons of vengeance (the V1 ﬂying bomb, the V2 rocket). Although there were many arguments on the Allied side over strategic options for the use of air power, or the command of particular air forces, there was a general acceptance at the highest level that war conducted on such a geographical scale and waged with such intensity required a consistent commitment to air power in all
Node: 20226, Score: 0.0262772493349796, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0030.txt, Content: ard evidence was available that bombing had, or would have in the future, the effects described in the strategy. The evidence of the popular reaction to the Blitz and the limited damage that nine months of bombing did to Britain’s productive war effort failed to undermine the expectations of the RAF or the political leadership about probable results. This was partly because the bombing campaigns were promoted not necessarily to produce clearly understood strategic goals but sometimes to serve political ends. Both Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt played a central part in promoting and supporting the bombing campaigns and in allocating the generous productive capacity needed to sustain them. When Churchill became prime minister on May 10, 1940, the RAF was still restricted by a general ban introduced by Neville Chamberlain’s government in 1939 that stated that no air attacks should be undertaken that risked inﬂicting civilian casualties. Only ﬁve days later, Churchill’s war cabinet approved attacks on economic and military targets in German towns (in fact, Mönchengladbach had already been attacked on May 11)—not, as has often been argued, in reaction to the bombing of Rotterdam on May 15, which did not feature in the cabinet discussions, but as a desperate means to reduce pressure on British forces trapped in northeastern France. 53 The subsequent directive nevertheless opened the way to a continuous campaign against German targets, and when Britain was expelled from continental Europe EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 19 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 45 by June 1940, Churchill famously told Lord Beaverbrook, the minister of aircraft production, that only “an absolutely devastating, exterminating attack by very heavy bombers” would bring about Hitler’s downfall. 54 At all the major points in 1940 and 1941 where decisions had t
Node: 20210, Score: 0.0271013614012277, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0014.txt, Content: tz ended, British air raid precautions and antiaircraft defenses were substantially improved from the opening of the bombing campaign, while much of the threatened population had been evacuated from the major cities. 23 THE AIR WAR AT SEA The RAF and the Royal Navy shared duties in the air war at sea, and it was fought in the English Channel, over the Atlantic, and throughout the Mediterranean basin over a four-year period. From early 1942 onward, it was also fought by the U.S.Navy against the German submarines and by shore-based army aircraft in North Africa. The antisubmarine campaign involved aircraft in a number of different roles. RAF Coastal Command conducted regular patrols through the English Channel and over submarine approach routes to the French Atlantic ports; the heavy bombers of Bomber Command pounded the submarine pens and German submarine produc-tion, though in both cases with slight effect; Royal Navy aircraft attacked Italian shipping in the Mediterranean and gave increasing levels of protection to shipping convoys in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean from ﬂeet carriers or small escort carriers; RAF forces in North Africa bombed Axis shipping and ports or conducted patrols against enemy submarines. In all naval theaters, it took time to develop the forces and the necessary degree of collaboration between the services to achieve signiﬁcant results. In the Mediterranean, over two-thirds of Italy’s merchant marine was eventually sunk, with 37 percent of the losses attributed to aircraft. 24The effect was to cripple Axis operations in North Africa by 1942 and to open the way to complete victory there in May 1943. The Italian air force, originally organized for offensive operations in the Med- iterranean theater, was composed predominantly of obsolescent aircraft and was too small to challenge Allied air power effectively. The number of combat aircraft available to the Italian air force declined from 1,780 in June 1940, when Italy declared war on Brita
Node: 20239, Score: 0.0274890238985544, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0043.txt, Content: cular air forces, there was a general acceptance at the highest level that war conducted on such a geographical scale and waged with such intensity required a consistent commitment to air power in all its many manifestations. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use
Node: 20197, Score: 0.0276583108155362, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0001.txt, Content: tion and not as an integral element in the exercise of what German airmen called “operational air war.” 1 German theorists shared with their French counterparts the lesson of the Great War that air power had to be used ﬁrst to achieve success at the ﬁghting front, a view consistent with their geopolitical position. 2They also regarded the use of aircraft alongside the Copyright 2010. University of Nebraska Press. All rights reserved. May not be reproduced in any form without permission from the publisher, except fair uses permitted under U.S. or applicable copyright law.EBSCO Publishing : eBook Comprehensive Academic Collection (EBSCOhost) - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN AN: 388919 ; Olsen, John Andreas.; A History of Air Warfare Account: s2953473.main.ehost  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 2 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 28 main ground offensive as a strategic use of air power and did not subscribe to the view that such operations were merely tactical.3The Soviet case was similar, since any potential threat from the capitalist West was, it was thought, likely to come across the long Soviet frontier. It was therefore necessary to use all military force, aircraft included, in support of armies deployed at or near the frontier for launching offensive operations. The Soviet decision was also a product of geopolitical reality because current Soviet aircraft could reach none of the major cities of any potential enemy. The exception to this rule was the Royal Air Force (RAF). In the closing months of the First World War, when the RAF was formed, British air leaders subscribed to the view that an independent bombing campaign directed at the vital centers of the enemy’s war production and economic infrastructure—particularly if the bombing created widespread popular demoralization—might prompt a political upheaval and force Germany to sue for peace. The idea that morale was a vulnerable target has generally been ascribed to General (later Air
Node: 20228, Score: 0.0280285757409941, Chunk File: olsen_air/chunks/olsen_air_0032.txt, Content: ce commander, Major General Carl Spaatz,was redeployed to the Mediterranean and replaced by the commander of EighthBomber Command, Major General Ira Eaker. It was also hoped that bombing might indeed provoke a political reaction in Germany, a dividend that might mean a smaller land commitment and fewer casualties. 57The Italian surrender in September 1943 was attributed partly to the effects of the bombing war, and it was hoped that the Italian people, prompted by the high losses from bombing, might help to overthrow German occupation of the north of the country in 1944 and 1945. 58 There nevertheless remained for the ﬁrst three years of the bombing campaign a wide gap between expectations and reality. Bomber Command had only a small number of aircraft capable of penetrating German airspace, while technical problems of navigation at night, in the face of heavy antiaircraft defenses and German counter-measures, meant that the great bulk of bombs were dropped in open country or EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 20 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 46 on the wrong city.59The growing realization that Bomber Command could inﬂict little concentrated damage was revealed in a report drawn up by a member of the British cabinet secretariat, D. M. Butt, in August 1941. The Butt Report, based on photoreconnaissance evidence, concluded that only one-third of Bomber Command aircraft got within even ﬁve miles of the target. 60 Churchill, despite his instrumental view of bombing, became disillusioned with its results and paid less attention to the details of the campaign thereafter. Bomber Command faced a temporary crisis from which it was rescued in Febru- ary 1942 with the appointment of Air Chief Marshal Arthur Harris as commander in chief, a role he held until the end of the war. Harris, a career airman with much experience of air policing in areas of the