Node: 1956, Score: -0.0155471408661179, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0360.txt, Content: ALI LILU0S LAVUULOM UY UIUC IIs ao Ui during the 1920s for morphine addiction.562 Even Goering himself lacked any professional experience as a senior military figure, on account of which he preferred to surround himself with those the 1920s, including a number of cavalry officers who were less essential to the army needs in the 1930s.563 This fusion of officer personnel contributed to the army-mindedness of the air force, and the two sides. Firmly committed to the Prussian tradition he was, according to Milch, ‘contemptuous of other walks of life’.©5 Such contempt took the unfortunate form of a deep distrust of the orders prohibiting engineering personnel from visiting front units.5°6 to staff officers on a tour of duty often had to devote valuable time to instructing the staff officers in carrying out combat duties.*®7 In 1942 Hitler turned the policy on its head with even more the front of the best commanders, it gave no guarantee that such officers, with no staff training, would be capable of the more challenging work behind the lines.5*8 The subsequent demoralization of the Luftwaffe in its efforts to maintain Prussian standards of military organization with insufficient numbers, poorly trained, together with the failure to integrate the engineering and combat traditions, complemented the failure in leadership at the top. Those air forces that developed a flexible, professional air leadership combined effectively with help from civilian sources, particularly those involved in business and technical occupations, were operated more effectively than those where military tradition and contempt for business discouraged open contact. In both Germany and Japan such contempt was, for historical reasons, widespread among the military leadership. In America and Russia there was no alternative but to bring in personnel from other spheres of life to compensate for shortages within the military sphere. Although there was little difference between the training and aptitudes
Node: 1985, Score: -0.012512207214444, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0389.txt, Content: . When the head of the force was constantly reminded that ‘the supreme calling of each German soldier is to die for his Fiihrer’.§15 In Japan sacrifice was demanded for the sake of the Emperor, and for the sake of personal effective role.S16 The decision to enforce the military code to the point of self-sacrifice was not new in Japanese military life. Soldiers were trained to give their lives for the Emperor and the first suicide on the trained crews to make the sacrifice.®!2 But far from evoking widespread resistance, the evidence of demoralization stemmed more from the relative failure of suicide attacks than from the fact Where the contrast was most marked was in the expectations and illusions of those who commanded the armed forces. Hitler, Mussolini and Tojo deluded themselves into believing that the world belonged by rights to the warrior. Their launching of aggressive war was a sign of an inner military strength which would overcome all material obstacles and from which victory would flow. The Allies demonstrated that military virtue alone was no substitute for material power. an SS air force in 1944, recruiting from among the SS ranks and suitable Luftwaffe candidates.®1° There was, however, a large number of Nazi party members in the upper echelons of the Luftwaffe, and not a few owed their position in the service to past Nazi loyally, including Jeschonnek whose blind faith in the Fihrer led him to store up five years of criticism of his leaders which he allowed to force was constantly reminded that ‘the supreme calling of each German soldier is to die for his Fiihrer’.S15 In Japan sacrifice was demanded for the sake of the Emperor, and for the sake of personal effective role.©16 The decision to enforce the military code to the point of self-sacrifice was not new in Japanese military life. Soldiers were trained to give their lives for the Emperor and the first suicide on the trained crews to make the sacrifice.” But far from evoking widespread resistance, t
Node: 2103, Score: -0.0119881793339541, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0507.txt, Content: on of Goering who gradually drew all research in Germany under his loose jurisdiction.78* On military matters the scientists were largely excluded. In the western democracies scientific and military elites were able to reach mutual decisions as co-equals. In Germany science was the servant of the armed forces. If the Luftwaffe willingly exploited science, it did so only to the extent that the Luftwaffe staff believed desirable, thus reducing the intellectual resources for sound technical judgement to the research sub-section of the Air Ministry Technical Office. The extreme compartmentalization of function that denied scientists access to the working of the war itself, explained the apparent paradox of a country rich in research resources but unable to exploit the advantages that such riches bestowed. Nor was the Luftwaffe able to make up for the deficiencies of scientific organization by using industrial research facilities to the full, although most of the important and pioneering work on aircraft was undertaken at the firm institutes.788 Here the problem was an unregulated flood of research from firms, anxious to promote their own designs at the expense of those of their rivals, competing for the attention of military technicians in the air ministry who were unequal to the task of sorting the necessary from the unnecessary research. The response of the military authorities, whose scientific competence was far below that of the industrial researchers they controlled, was to fluctuate between widespread proscription of all research in favour of immediate development and production targets, and the indiscriminate support of all projects in the hope that one might turn out to be a war-winning wraannn 789  Page 196 of 309 72% Compton, the director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, became the spokesman of science at a political level.?”° Roosevelt, like Churchill, did not need to be persuaded of the significance requirements to the scientists and report bac
Node: 1597, Score: -0.0110198375730484, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0001.txt, Content: analysis. It is a difficult task to compare the economic and scientific systems of the major warring powers without, albeit sometimes unconsciously, producing some scale of values in making comparative judgements. In war this is perhaps inevitable. One side lost the war; another side won it. It would be plausible to argue that the Allies made better use of their resources for war than did the Axis powers, but this was not always so. A comparative view allows a more critical approach to the waging of war on both sides. In some cases the Allies won their battles through the possession of huge resources rather than through the efficient use of those resources. It was possible for Axis forces to be used with great efficiency from a military point of view but for these forces to be overwhelmed by sheer numbers. A comparative approach is indispensable in illuminating such perspectives.  It is important to state at this point that the book has a historical rather than a polemic purpose. The war itself raises the temptation for the historian to be continually passing judgement on military decisions knowing as he does the final outcome of the battles for which such decisions were made. The danger here is that military history turns into mere argument with the figures who made it. In the air war the danger is perhaps more obvious with the debate about the efficacy of bombing still warm. I have tried to avoid this kind of argument. I have concentrated instead on trying to establish the historical context within which such decisions were taken. That the war did raise important ethical questions, particularly in the context of bombing, is clear. This account is not about the history of post-war recrimination. It is about the war as it was understood, however imperfectly or unethically, at the time. This of itself involves a great deal of historical judgement in analysing motives, purposes and choices. Moreover in the course of reconstructing that historical context many of the
Node: 1895, Score: -0.0108533471801473, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0299.txt, Content: though for rather different reasons. For those, particularly on the British left, who favoured the maximum assistance to Stalin in 1942 and 1943, the bombing policy was regarded, as it was by the Russians, as a poor alternative. Moral objections to bombing on the other hand, though ever-present, had much less political impact than objections on military or political grounds.4”2  Within the military sphere criticism of bombing was more active and imposed on the bombing offensives certain limitations. This was particularly the case in the United States where, although the political support for bombing changed little, the Chief of Staff and the Joint Chiefs remained emphatic that the central strategy of the war was the future conquest by armies of mainland Europe and the Japanese islands. The main criticism of bombing was that it diverted resources from these other purposes and for little strategic advantage.  In Britain in particular, whose economic resources were stretched much more than those of the United States, the decision to devote a significant share of manpower and material to the bombing offensive aroused the hostility of those commanders starved of sufficient air forces for other operations. Brooke fought a long battle with the Air Ministry over the allocation of aircraft to army co- operation and arrived at the conclusion that ‘the Air Ministry outlook is so far divorced from the requirements of the Army that I see no solution to the problem except an Army Air Arm...’.471 Although sympathetic to the army position, the Combined Chiefs of Staff were no longer in a position by 1942 to reverse the bombing policy and could not have done so without an even more severe dislocation of the aircraft industry and loss of production. The problem over co-operation between the other services and the air forces lay in the fact that the initial strategic decision to bomb had been taken at a time when the expectations from bombing were high. The organizational and producti
Node: 2102, Score: -0.0102933536042888, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0506.txt, Content: not usually allowed to witness the testing of weapons on which they had worked, nor to match tactical experience with personal research programmes. Moreover the military preoccupation with protocol led to the conscription of scientists for war work without military rank which automatically excluded them from the military decision-making process and made them subordinate to full officers.787 The alternative recourse for scientists of appealing to the political over the military authority was not available in the Luftwaffe since the two authorities were the same.  Tn the western democracies scientific and military elites were ahle ta reach miutial derisinne as en-eniiale Tn Germany science was the servant of the armed fnrees Tf the Tarftwatfe willinolw interference.7“4 The result of the defensive attitude taken by German science was the promotion of those who professed an active support for the Party. Those placed in high office in the research institutes and the services were often promoted for political loyalty rather than academic merit.77> Where this might not have affected the overall standards of research too much — and standards in scientists and engineers were conscripted for the armed forces and returned in only a piecemeal fashion towards the end of the war.?76 Only in 1944, on the basis of widespread criticism, particularly requirements to the scientists and report back successes directly to the commanders.”° A reciprocal arrangement operated with the forces at the front. In the air force in particular scientists and aircraft and were unable to distinguish each other’s aircraft from those of the enemy.7®5 In Germany the military similarly controlled large areas of research. For the Luftwaffe facilities were provided on the most generous scale under the protection of Goering who gradually drew all research in Germany under his loose jurisdiction.78* On military matters the scientists were largely excluded. In the western democracies scientific and military e
Node: 2083, Score: -0.0102645565204155, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0487.txt, Content: the anomaly but retrospective penalties were hard to calculate. The biggest advantage was not, however, to do with profits. Most firms emerged with vastly expanded assets at the end of the war, many in a position to buy out the government-owned facilities at generous prices. It also gave encouragement to the process of concentration and eliminated lesser competitors for future peace-time commercial contests; and all largely at government expense.754  The same uncertainty in relations between business and government prevailed in the United States. Firms were reluctant to undertake aircraft work until the conditions of finance were altered. Many outside firms, particularly in the car industry, refused to take up war orders in 1940 and 1941 unless the state provided all the funds for expansion, or unless all private firms in a particular sector were compelled to take war contracts.755 Such resistance was fed by the fact that the firms were experiencing a rising consumer boom for the first time since the Great Crash and were not willing to sacrifice the increase in profits. The question of contracts even in the aircraft industry was equally thorny. The Vinson-Trammell Act of 1934 had restricted profits to 10 per cent on contracts which, industry with the result that it was not always easy for firms to introduce modern methods or reorganize production scale through lack of managerial experience.”“6 This problem was particularly January 1941 toits revision in favour of the firms.”4° The system of finance for war purposes was never satisfactorily worked out. The aircraft industry obtained nearly all its investment for expansion profits that satisfied both sides.7©° On a firm’s own capital a return of 8 per cent was allowed, which together with incentive allowances for higher turnover and the operation of government-owned assets, left some firms in a position to make almost 20 per cent on capital employed on the firm’s own behalf.75! Some, but by no means all of this, woul
Node: 2097, Score: -0.0100677659751151, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0501.txt, Content: ger willing to work for the German scientific effort under Hitler, but they were actively working for Allied governments. The internal conflicts sapped the energy of scientists who became involved both in resisting demotions and political appointments and in defending scientific theory against the attacks of ‘Aryan science’. The growing disillusionment with research in the universities and institutes encouraged many scientists to move into the shelter of industrial research where they were able by choice to isolate themselves from the unfavourable working environment in which their colleagues still laboured against Nazi interference.7”4 The result of the defensive attitude taken by German science was the promotion of those who professed an active support for the Party. Those placed in high office in the research institutes and the services were often promoted for political loyalty rather than academic merit.775 Where this might not have affected the overall standards of research too much — and standards in Germany remained high throughout the war — it did affect the way in which scientific effort was organized and co-ordinated for war purposes. So poor was such co-ordination that a large number of scientists and engineers were conscripted for the armed forces and returned in only a piecemeal fashion towards the end of the war.?76 Only in 1944, on the basis of widespread criticism, particularly from those working in aeronautical research, did Germany produce a central research agencv under Osenberg to co-ordinate the diffuse labours of the various research authorities. But by that date and aeronautical researchers, though more developed in some countries than in others, were forged everywhere.?®? In Germany and Britain in particular the pace of air research and the degree of co- military control over air research than in Britain.76 equivalent it was recruited much more energetically for war. By 1939 alist of 5,000 leading scientists and engineers had been prepared fo
Node: 2174, Score: -0.0090154292302422, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0578.txt, Content: ch on economics, technology and science in the excellent volume of essays edited by Horst Boog, The Conduct of the Air War in the Second World War: an International Comparison (Oxford, 1992), which can be recommended as an introduction to all the major themes of air power history that have Leadership in air warfare has also been well served by many scholarly biographies. Hermann Goring has been thoroughly explored in Alfred Kube, Pour le mérite und Hakenkreuz: Hermann Goring evolved since the 1980s. German wartime technical development in key areas of modern air power weaponry (rockets, drones, anti-aircraft missiles, etc.) is explored by the contributors to Mark Walker and M. Renneberg, Science, Technology and National Socialism (Cambridge, 1993). The wider economic context that shaped what was possible in the economic sphere can be found in another excellent series of essays edited by Mark Harrison, The Economics of World War II: Six Great Powers in International Comparison (Cambridge, 1998). The social and cultural history of air power is the most recent and the most original development of the subject. There are some fine studies of the social impact of bombing during the war. Earl Beck, Under the Bombs: the German Home Front 1942-1945 (Lexington, KY, 1986) and Olaf Groehler, Bombenkrieg gegen Deutschland (Berlin, 1990) cover the whole of Germany, but they are supported  by many local studies in Germany, Italy and Britain. The social history of air forces has produced studies that derive from growing historical interest in issues of gender, health and race. Reina Penningston’s Wines Wamen and Warfare: Saviet Airwamen in World War IT (lawrence KS 201) gives the first fill account in Enslish of the nart nlaved hv wamen in the Red air farce whase histarv  Page 221 of 309 82% Of AMINGASCAGKOT UINEW FlaVell, LZO/}, ALO NOTAIG OCIIALLel, WEISS OF JUUSITEILE LINEW LOLK, 1765). LILETE tlds DECI a EIOWLIIE LEMUCTICY LO OlsCuss VOTTIUITIE 11) TlOrdal Leriils, AVPOLulollii
Node: 1626, Score: -0.0085941455515481, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0030.txt, Content: s definition for operational purposes depended on a highly subjective assessment of the political or moral character of an enemy state. The RAF Page 21 of 309 5% army. lhis was not independent or strategic bombing in the sense 1n which its proponents understood it, since it was undertaken In immediate conjunction with a land battle and was concerned against the opponent's air force in enemy territory’.2° In addition to such attacks bombers were also expected to attack stocks of military materials, supply lines and communications to the front and the many means of exercising pressure on the enemy, in conjunction with sea power and blockade and the defeat of his armies...’.31 Even General Douhet, whose work was not widely known outside be fully exploited by the other services.32 In this sense strategic and tactical bombing became blurred together. Strategic bombing was tactical bombing on a grander, more expensive and longer-term that strategic bombing had revolutionized war, made armies redundant and overthrown ‘The old theory that victory meant the destruction of the hostile main army...’ The air forces’ failure to achieve interest in the attack on morale stemmed from Trenchard’s often repeated assertion that the moral effect of bombing was twenty times greater than the material, a fact that could not be verified quantitatively but which nevertheless attracted the more enthusiastic bombing theorists to morale as a potentially decisive target.2° Moreover the choice of morale served the political aims of those who defended independent bombing doctrines because it was an objective easily understood by the political leadership, which was itself under pressure in the 1930s from an anxious public fearful of the impact of terror bombing. The political decision to build up a large strategic bombing force was partly based on the belief that it might serve as a substitute for armed continental intervention through terrorising a European enemy from the air, and partly on the g
Node: 2087, Score: -0.0085390827257906, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0491.txt, Content: g of the war economy and less subject to bureaucratic or military interference. In the German aircraft industry, however, the situation was more complicated. Over half of aircraft production came from state-owned firms managed by managers appointed by the state and given a certain amount of preferential treatment as a result.7©3 The private firms resisted the intervention of the state and feared the erosion of private capitalism. The ministry constantly accused the private firms of ‘business egoism’ and eave lace canaraiic traatmant in tha nravician nf finde Tha firme in raturn arcucad tha minictry of hack_danr natinnalizatian 764 Raraica avar half tha inductry urac ctata_riin traditinnal financial  Page 190 of 309 70% assets, left some firms in a position to make almost 20 per cent on capital employed on the firms own benali.-- some, but by no means all of this, would be subject to Excess Profits lax. Only those calculate profit rates on the basis of facilities that they had not built and did not own.75? This had the advantage of disguising profit levels. The Douglas company, for example, had net profits after tax of 1942, it was not always desirable to enforce too low a profit level in case it discouraged improvements in productivity.752 Turnover expanded so rapidly, however, that even though the average rate Ministry, run by Zaibatsu executives, on the basis that it was best ‘to encourage private management to increase production’.2© As it turned out the industrialists were much better at achieving the treatment as a result.263 The private firms resisted the intervention of the state and feared the erosion of private capitalism. The ministry constantly accused the private firms of ‘business egoism’ and gave less generous treatment in the provision of funds. The firms in return accused the ministry of back-door nationalization.2®4 Because over half the industry was state-run traditional financial incentives were harder to apply. Much of the profit that was enjoyed
Node: 1951, Score: -0.0080198174188819, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0355.txt, Content: .5° Most of those promoted during the war in Russia achieved their positions through military success rather than political manoeuvre. In fact officers in the air force were offered the prospect of membership of the Communist Party only after they had distinguished themselves in combat. The number of air officers who were Communists rose from 58,000 in 1941 to 123,000 in 1943.56! In Germany by contrast political loyalty was an avenue to advancement without previous proof of military competence. If there also existed evidence of political life interfering with recruitment and promotion in the Russian air forces it was much less than Russia’s allies and enemies supposed. In Germany politics intruded much more openly. In the ministerial offices, many of which carried a military title as well, those known for Nazi sympathies and those favoured by Goering as old acquaintances or new allies were given positions. Younger officers were promoted on the basis of political reliability and devotion to the air leader. This led to the recruitment of those quite clearly unsuitable for office, such as Udet who was promoted to head the Technical Office. Nor did many of the political appointments bring experience from the outside world as the civilians recruited in America did. Udet had been a stunt artist, film star and was a noted bon viveur; another of Goering’s comrades was a cigar salesman; yet another had shared Goering’s experience of confinement during the 1920s for morphine addiction.*®? Even Goering himself lacked any professional experience as a senior military figure, on account of which he preferred to surround himself with those whom he regarded as his intellectual as well as political inferiors.  For those who were recruited into the Luftwaffe after 1935 from a military background there was a further problem. The Prussian staff tradition placed great demands on the new Luftwaffe staff for the high standards it maintained. The new Luftwaffe staff was required to keep up
Node: 1953, Score: -0.0073945597674448, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0357.txt, Content: ussia distinguished themselves in combat. The number of air officers who were Communists rose from 58,000 in 1941 to 123,000 in 1943.5°1 In Germany by contrast political loyalty was an avenue to during the 1920s for morphine addiction.5®2 Even Goering himself lacked any professional experience as a senior military figure, on account of which he preferred to surround himself with those the 1920s, including a number of cavalry officers who were less essential to the army needs in the 1930s.5®3 This fusion of officer personnel contributed to the army-mindedness of the air force, and encouraged the pursuit of a tactical air force closely co-operating with the army units. But it also had the unfortunate consequence of dividing the air officer corps into those who regarded themselves as heirs of the Prussian tradition, and those who came from an unorthodox, particularly technical, background. Part of the hostility felt between regular soldiers and the parvenus arose from the fact that newcomers were given high military office without having followed the normal army channels. Milch was recruited as a civilian and was given the rank of colonel in 1933, rising to field marshal in 1940, at the expense of others who had risen to high rank by the traditional route.5®4 Jeschonnek as chief of the air staff, and a regular army officer before 1933, led the conflict between the two sides. Firmly committed to the Prussian tradition he was, according to Milch, ‘contemptuous of other walks of life’.5®5 Such contempt took the unfortunate form of a deep distrust of the engineering officers, who were grouped into a separate engineers’ officer corps, and deliberately kept apart from the regular air staff by Goering. Since both branches were in theory co-equal under the commander-in-chief their mutual hostility and constitutional distinctness discouraged proper contacts between those who provided the aircraft and those who used them, a fact made explicit by - a or emphasis was laid on the e
Node: 1925, Score: -0.0071478040986815, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0329.txt, Content: al and military context was often crucial in explaining its material and moral performance. Failures in strategic direction or in the way in which strategy was translated, via the air officer corps, into action could not be undone however numerous or well-equipped the air squadrons were. It is thus with leadership in this wider sense that any discussion of organization and morale must begin.  (i) Leadership in the Air War  In almost all cases air forces were administered by government departments and operated by air staffs. In Britain and France the air ministries were in turn responsible to parliaments. In America the air force was not an indenendent service and was renresented at hisher levels af savernment hv the War Nenartment of which its administration formed a nart. Tn Russia. Germanv and Italv the  The use of the atomic bomb, whatever the wider diplomatic and strategic purposes in using it, represented the culmination of a bombing policy begun by Britain and Germany five years before.*!2 could act decisively to end a war on its own. The ‘knockout blow,’ in all its horror and inhumanity, finally proved its point. war, all the more so since air power was a new and untested weapon.*2° From its nature, however, air power made certain demands on all the powers. It required an ability to link together military the air force was not an independent service and was represented at higher levels of government by the War Department of which its administration formed a part. In Russia, Germany and Italy the highest authority for deciding questions on air affairs was the individual state leader, although in Russia the decisions were usually collective decisions based on initiatives theoretically inspired by Stalin.521 Immediately below the government departments were the air staffs. Although the status of the staffs differed according to the degree of independence enjoyed by the air force within the military structure, the function of the senior air officers was largely t
Node: 2084, Score: -0.0062659247310693, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0488.txt, Content: turnover and the operation of government-owned assets, left some firms in a position to make almost 20 per cent on capital employed on the firm’s own behalf.75! Some, but by no means all of this, would be subject to Excess Profits Tax. Only those as in Britain, were negotiated at a fixed price. In 1939 the level was raised to 12 per cent. The efforts of Congress in 1940 to reduce it to 8 per cent were strongly resisted,?5° and were accepted only in return for certain concessions for big business. Depreciation for tax was allowed to be accelerated from 10-16 years to five years. An excess profits tax was substituted for fixed profits contracts in order to encourage greater efforts to efficiency. Anti-trust suits were indefinitely postponed. Finally firms were provided with almost all new expansion investment by the government and were allowed to calculate profit rates on the basis of facilities that they had not built and did not own.”*? This had the advantage of disguising profit levels. The Douglas company, for example, had net profits after tax of 51 per cent of net worth in 1941, yet the overall rate of profit for the industry in 1941 was only 7.4 per cent.758 Contracts were negotiated over the period and regularly adjusted to take account of cost economies. Each plant contained a government cost inspector to ensure that excess profits were not going undetected, but although his powers were increased by the Contract Renegotiation Act of 1942, it was not always desirable to enforce too low a profit level in case it discouraged improvements in productivity.75° Turnover expanded so rapidly, however, that even though the average rate of post-tax profits fell to only 1 per cent by 1944, the aggregate profits expanded to record levels. In addition, as in Britain, the firms had the advantage of enormously expanded assets at relatively low cost in a sector which had traditionally found difficulty in raising capital.7©° In both Britain and America the commercial interests
Node: 2175, Score: -0.005654062158774, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0579.txt, Content: 09 82% Of AMINGASCAGKOT UINEW FlaVell, LZO/}, ALO NOTAIG OCIIALLel, WEISS OF JUUSITEILE LINEW LOLK, 1765). LILETE tlds DECI a EIOWLIIE LEMUCTICY LO OlsCuss VOTTIUITIE 11) TlOrdal Leriils, AVPOLulolliiis Didille alla airmen; Richard Davis's study, Carl A. Spaatz and the Air War in Europe (Washington, 1992), is the fullest biography we have of any of the major air force leaders during the war. A recent collection of by many local studies in Germany, Italy and Britain. The social history of air forces has produced studies that derive from growing historical interest in issues of gender, health and race. Reina Pennington’s Wings, Women and Warfare: Soviet Airwomen in World War II (Lawrence, KS, 2001) gives the first full account in English of the part played by women in the Red air force, whose history is still, despite a dozen years of greater access to Russian sources, underdeveloped in comparison with other air services. S. Sandler’s Segregated Skies: All-Black Combat Squadrons of World War II (Washington, 1992) illustrates the way conventional social or racial prejudices were projected into air force recruitment and deployment. How airmen behaved in and out of combat is still a relatively fresh field; so, too, is the sociology of air forces. A pioneering study of the morale of Allied airmen, Mark Wells’ Courage and Air Warfare: the Allied Aircrew Experience in the Second World War (London, 1995), opened up for the first time the issue of how airmen coped with combat conditions and rates of loss that few other soldiers had to cope with. Airmen reacted to stress much as might be expected; they were not all the super heroes of popular myth. This issue of how wider society perceived air power and air forces, and perpetuated the mystique of the airman, has also produced some path-breaking work. Uri Bialer in The Shadow of the Bomber: the Fear of Air Attack and British Politics 1936-1939 (London, 1980) explored the development of popular attitudes to the threat of air att
Node: 2162, Score: -0.0056114605648908, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0566.txt, Content: read of destruction beyond the large industrial cities was slight. It was the more general social impact of bombing that made the bomber the weapon of total war. The widespread destruction of urban housing, the constant interruptions to normal civilian life, the movement of refugees and evacuees from bombing, all brought much larger sections of the community into direct contact with the results of the air war. Nor were the casualties themselves insignificant compared with casualties in battle. In Germany the air war killed more civilians than all British and American casualties together. In Japan more people were killed in six months of heavy aerial bombardment than in the whole United States war effort.827 In China a large percentage of the dead from the war with Japan were the casualties of bombing. Such figures certainly affected  SS Mae fe ee eres ee See ee ee See ee ee ee OY eS oe ee a ee ee eee we Se ae eee ee Pe ee Se eet ee ee a ee 2 ee oe er an ee | ee ae ea individual soldier was still distinguishable from the mass.8”6 In these ways air power was used to construct a popular image of the war, and the reasons for fighting it, of enduring quality. aerial bombardment than in the whole United States war effort.877 In China a large percentage of the dead from the war with Japan were the casualties of bombing. Such figures certainly affected morale. Comparatively lower casualties during the Blitz on Britain in 1940-41 led to conditions of demoralization in certain areas.878 Yet not even in those countries exposed to heavy and continuous bomb attack did morale in any general sense give way. This was partly because governments could not easily be compelled to accept surrender on the basis of the suffering of the civilian community while the armies were still fighting; and partly because those communities suffering from demoralizing bomb attack retained insufficient political energy to demand that a government surrender rather than face further attacks. In Japan it
Node: 1982, Score: -0.0051475856565041, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0386.txt, Content: efeats, or in Russia the prospect of defeat before 1943, while raising the threshold of military effort and military command were in a position to pass judgements on the commander’s actions and report them when necessary to higher political authority.©” The purpose of the political commissars was to as part of his power-base in the party. Yet political indoctrination was no more noticeable or successful than in the army.®2 Indeed the lack of proper Nazi zeal contributed to Himmler’s bid to found an SS air force in 1944, recruiting from among the SS ranks and suitable Luftwaffe candidates.®!0 There was, however, a large number of Nazi party members in the upper echelons of the Luftwaffe, Luftwaffe had betrayed him, and to widespread demoralization among the air forces at the inadequacy and corruption of its leadership was added the final knowledge that the Fiihrer too, was convinced of its demoralization and cowardice.®!2 That individual morale remained much the same as that in the other services until the end of the war could not overcome the moral crisis at the after the war that any knowledge of defeat only became available after the conquest of Okinawa.®!3 Obedience to the Emperor and a strict military discipline prevented criticism. When the head of the Aeronautical Research Institute publicly rebuked the forces for using unserviceable aircraft, which would increase the likelihood of the crew’s death, he was physically attacked by a special army unit created to strike out defeatism.®!4 Under these circumstances fighting morale remained high in the face of impossible military conditions, even to the extent of self-sacrifice. In Germany too the air force was constantly reminded that ‘the supreme calling of each German soldier is to die for his Fiihrer’.®15 In Japan sacrifice was demanded for the sake of the Emperor, and for the sake of personal honour. This was reflected in the growth of the Kamikaze campaign. After some limited success with ramming aircraft and s
Node: 2091, Score: -0.0050098676411902, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0495.txt, Content: ical and economic controls. A strong belief in the efficacy of quality over quantity, particularly strong in the Japanese and German military Ministry, run by Zaibatsu executives, on the basis that it was best ‘to encourage private management to increase production’.”© As it turned out the industrialists were much better at achieving the gave less generous treatment in the provision of funds. The firms in return accused the ministry of back-door nationalization.”®4 Because over half the industry was state-run traditional financial was concentrated in the state-run sector at Goering’s request.765 Even after the Speer reforms there still existed in the aircraft industry a distrust of the state, and of the air ministry leadership in could be regarded as a critical stage by the early months of 1944 for from that date onwards Axis production could not keep pace with losses.76* However many new aircraft were produced in 1944 — mind, left a situation in which production was often sacrificed to the minor technical demands of the air commanders. Where this was a question of small numbers — as the post-war production of missiles and nuclear weapons showed — it mattered less; but where the question of numbers was also vital, it was those powers which concentrated efforts on achieving a balance between quality and quantity that prevailed. Page 191 of 309 70% nands; the military were concerned to turn the japanese economy 1nto a satisfactory war-Making Machine. Eirorts to get the government to run the aircrart factories were resisted by the Munitions treatment as a result.7©3 The private firms resisted the intervention of the state and feared the erosion of private capitalism. The ministry constantly accused the private firms of ‘business egoism’ and gave less generous treatment in the provision of funds. The firms in return accused the ministry of back-door nationalization.7® Because over half the industry was state-run traditional financial 8 ~ Science, Research and Intelligen
Node: 1979, Score: -0.0048558797590311, Chunk File: overy_airwar/chunks/overy_airwar_0383.txt, Content: ing operations, in order to avoid any decline in combat morale.£°® Among the Axis powers the fact of retreat and defeats, or in Russia the prospect of defeat before 1943, while raising the threshold of military effort and individual war willingness gave moral questions a greater prominence. This was true in two important respects: in the attempt to raise political consciousness among the forces to stiffen resistance, and in the increasing emphasis on the virtues of the traditional military ethic.  In the Soviet Union the degree of political activity in the air forces increased after June 1941 with the compulsory re-introduction of political commissars, who although not actually charged with military command were in a position to pass judgements on the commander’s actions and report them when necessary to higher political authority.” The purpose of the political commissars was to raise the awareness of the troops of the ideological nature of the struggle with fascism. It was also in the spirit of the directive issued through Stalin for the ‘Restructuring of Political and Party Work’ which called for the introduction of a ‘militant. aggressive attitude’ and ‘increase in the authoritv of the commander-leader’.©°8 This political work stressed not onlv questions of ideology but was DECWEEIL JULIE LA7T1 AMC VECEMMVEL 1L7FD LIE LIBULE LOSE LO 1,107 ALO Ih 174% TEACHEU All AVELARE OL 1,/ 9% PEL IMLOTUTLY Le PrOvlrelrr) OF MOUTILITIE LOSS€s ESCala led do it G1 ith Japall, VECAUSE LIE Caller had predicted, the training programmes became confused and improvisatory.®™ In addition the shortage of German aircraft, again a result of earlier misjudgement, forced the schools progressively and in 1945 to 100 hours, and partly due to the accelerating rate of pilot loss that forced the Luftwaffe to cut back training time to less than half that enjoyed by the Allied pilots.6°5 Bomber pilots were order to avoid any decline in combat morale.®°* Among the Axis powers the fact of retreat an