Node: 17233, Score: -0.0154142295688562, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0280.txt, Content: was carrying out "indiscriminate" area bomb­ ing and privately defined fire raids as countermilitary attacks because they targeted "industrial workers." At the same time, the chief of the u.s. Army Air Forces admonished commanders in both Europe and the Pa­ cific to stress in public the military rather than counter-civilian reasons for bombing German and Japanese cities. In Korea American air planners added transportation targets to strike packages that attacked enemy dams so as to declare publicly that the missions had a military purpose. In Vietnam American commanders claimed that destroying the North's 41 The efforts of the Air Corps Tactical School in the 1930S and of the Air Command and Staff College under John Warden are lonely exceptions. Even in these cases analyses have fo­ cused on identifying target sets, and political mechanisms are simply assumed, not subjected to critical research.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 162 --- Beyond Strategic Bombing main industrial targets would produce military effects, even though they knew that the North produced almost no significant war materiel. Proba­ bly the most absurd misrepresentation of punishment was the statement of the Manhattan Project's Target Committee that Hiroshima and Na­ gasaki had been selected as atomic bomb targets because of their military importance.42 Today, leaders obfuscate the purpose of decapitation as well as punish­ ment campaigns. During the Gulf War, General Powell and Secretary Ch­ eney maintained that the Coalition was not seeking to kill Sad dam Hussein even as air planners were targeting all known locations he might visit. Although not the main purpose, one result of all these misrepresentations has been to reduce both elite and public awareness of the extent to which punishment and related strategies have been used and to prevent evalua­ tion. Strategies cannot be criticized as failures if it is not admitted that they were tried. WHAT Is TO BE DONE? The end of the Cold War ha
Node: 17012, Score: -0.0137581238597472, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0059.txt, Content: policies may lead to unacceptable costs and risks tends to be ignored or discredited until its import is indisputably clear.4o Additional reasons why coercion tends to come late include unwilling­ ness to abandon sunk costs and states' interests in protecting their reputa­ tions for future conflicts. States could resist, or at least mask, concessions not on the basis of the dispute in isolation but because they believe that a defeat or retreat on one issue is likely to encourage further demands on the state by its adversaries and defections from its allies.41 The combined effect of discouraging criticism and hampering evaluation is that risks of disastrous defeat are often not recognized by either govern­ ments or publics until events make them inescapably obvious. This ten­ dency makes the coercer's task of demonstrating the consequences of failure to concede all the more difficult. Even when costs escalate beyond the ap­ parent value of the issues at stake or when the prospects for achieving goals through further resistance are bleak, states may not recognize the need to surrender until all ambiguity has been eliminated. Nuclear Coercion Unlike conventional coercion, the accepted wisdom on nuclear coercion is mostly right, though incomplete. The focus on civilian punishment which has retarded our understanding of conventional coercion is more accurate for nuclear cases. Current theories, however, focus excessively on coercion under conditions of mutual assured destruction and so exaggerate the role of the balance of interests in successful nuclear coercion. A general under­ standing should incorporate other nuclear situations. The principal source of nuclear coercion is manipulation of civilian vul­ nerability. Nuclear weapons have made it possible to launch sudden, dev­ astating attacks on the vast majority of a state's population simultaneously.42 40 Irving L. Janis and Leon Mann say that such "defensive avoidance" is likely whenever people face choices between
Node: 17011, Score: -0.0114713792745002, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0058.txt, Content: eir special expertise gives militaries important advantages in avoiding evaluation. Military expertise is largely confined to military in­ stitutions; outside evaluators are usually less knowledgeable about military operations than the military itself, putting them in a poor position to com­ pete with in-house evaluations, which may be corrupted, ignored, or kept to a minimum. Further, the need for secrecy means that information about the likely success or failure of military strategies is usually tightly controlled, making evaluation difficult.39 In wartime, when any security breach can cost lives, secrecy becomes tighter and evaluation correspondingly harder. Suppression of criticism is made easier because neither the elites nor the public wants to recognize the possibility of failure. When confronted with high-stakes decisions and ambiguous information, people normally prefer to discount the risks rather than confront the possibility of disaster. Evi- 36 Philip Knightly; The First Casualty (New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1975); David Wise, The Politics of Lying: Government Deception, Secrecy, and Power (New York: Random House, 1973); David M. Kennedy, Over Here: The First World War and American Society (New York: Oxford University Press, 1980), chap. 1. 37 Van Evera, "Causes of War," pp. 683-85. 38 Aaron Wildavsky; "The Self-Evaluating Organization," Public Administration Review 32 (September-October 1972): 509-20. Van Evera, "Causes of War," pp. 453-99. On obstacles to military innovation, see Barry R. Posen, The Sources of Military Doctrine (Ithaca: Cornell Uni­ versity Press, 1984). 39 Edward Shils, The Torment of Secrecy (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1956).  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 35 --- Explaining Military Coercion dence that current policies may lead to unacceptable costs and risks tends to be ignored or discredited until its import is indisputably clear.4o Additional reasons why coercion tends to come late include unwilling­ ne
Node: 17009, Score: -0.0088724708382849, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0056.txt, Content: even when it is not in the interest of the society as a whole. The cushion of legiti­ macy provided by nationalism permits the government to maintain the al­ legiance of the population, especially for mobilization against .an external threat. Even when governments do not have incentives to oppose surrender, mil­ itary elites often do. Aside from the reasons affecting government regimes, the military has reason to fear that its very institution will be dismantled be­ cause of externally imposed disarmament or domestic demilitarization ini­ tiatives. Although militaries lack the legitimacy advantages of civilian governments, they possess powerful capabilities to prevent concessions they oppose. The vast resources that must be mobilized to meet serious threats force governments to depend heavily on the military as an organi­ zation and give it great political influence.34 An additional threat to the gov­ ernment is that the military usually also has a monopoly of force, enabling it to disobey or even remove the government if necessary. Aside from the disincentives to make concessions, states also often poorly evaluate both civilian costs and military failures.35 Governments in serious disputes tend to become less tolerant of criticism of their policies, for exam­ ple. Since decisions have more momentous consequences, criticism is per- 32 Ernest May, "Lessons" of the Past: The Use and Misuse of History in American Foreign Policy (New York: Oxford University Press, 1973), pp. 125-43. 33 Karl Dietrich Bracher, The German Dictatorship (New York: Praeger, 1970). 34 Mearsheimer, "Theory and Practice"; Bernard Brodie, War and Politics (New York: Macmillan, 1973), chap. 1; and Gordon Craig, The Politics of the Prussian Army, 1640--1945 (New York: Oxford University Press, 1955). 35 The following discussion applies Stephen Van Evera's pathbreaking analysis of "non­ evaluation of strategy" by modem nation-states to the problem of understanding coercive pressures. See Van Evera, "
Node: 17234, Score: -0.0083406772219279, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0281.txt, Content: nd related strategies have been used and to prevent evalua­ tion. Strategies cannot be criticized as failures if it is not admitted that they were tried. WHAT Is TO BE DONE? The end of the Cold War has reduced major national security threats to the United States and other Western powers, correspondingly increasing their freedom of action in foreign policy. At the same time, failed states, eth­ nic conflicts, nuclear proliferation, and bids for regional hegemony have in­ creased the number of incidents in which Western intervention must be considered. The problem of the Cold War was deterrence; the problem of the post-Cold-War era is coercion. Social scientists should respond to this challenge just as vigorously as they did deterrence. This book is only a small beginning. The key prob­ lem in coercion is the validity of the mechanisms that are supposed to translate particular military effects into political outcomes. We must learn more about how agricultural, industrial, and post-industrial soci­ eties adjust to compensate for economic shortages and how their adjust­ ment capabilities and choices are affected by international conflictY We must learn more about the relationship between civilian suffering and popular unrest and how it is affected by war. We must learn more about how governments defend themselves against domestic overthrow and how senstive their defenses are to external disruption. We must learn 42 Letter from General Henry H. Arnold to General Ira C. Baker, 29 June 1943, Library of Congress, Eaker papers, box 16; Robert F. Futrell, The United States Air Force in Korea, 1950-1953 (New York: Duell, Sloan, and Pearce, 1961), p. 481; and Michael S. Sherry, The Rise of American Air Power (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1987), pp. 318-20. 43 In addition to the effects of bombing, we should also study blockades, embargoes, do­ mestic unrest, natural disasters, and possibly commodity price inflation.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 163 --- Bombing to
Node: 17065, Score: -0.0079180913613197, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0112.txt, Content: rce (Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: Air Uni­ versity Press, 1989). 25 Both arguments are reflected in Mitchell's writings. If anything, he is more enthusiastic about the capabilities of aviation against ships than against any other kind of target. See, for example, William Mitchell, "Air Power vs. Sea Power," American Review of Reviews 58 (March 1921): 273-77. For an example of Mitchell's argument in favor of bombing cities, see Winged Defense (New York: Putnam's, 1925), pp. 126-27. [65]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 66 --- Bombing to Win domestic political and economic considerations influenced how the duality in U.S. air doctrine matured into a focus on precision bombing of key points in a state's economy. By the mid-1930S, air planners ceased to favor direct at­ tacks on civilian populations, although such attacks were never excluded as an option for the later stages of an air offensive. Attacking the enemy's will through the more humane and economical method of selective attack made sense in the 1930S because the total budgets of the Army, of which the Air Corps was a part, were in decline. Accordingly, the Air Corps required a doctrine that promised victory not only at less cost relative to the Army and Navy but cheaply in absolute terms. Greater financial scarcity also made it impolitic to affront American liberal values by advocating the mass slaugh­ ter of civilians. Thus, unlike Mitchell, who assumed that strategic air power would wipe away cities, Generals Ira C. Eaker and H. H. Arnold wrote in 1941: "Human beings are not priority targets except in special situations. Bombers in far larger numbers than are available today will be required for wiping out people in sufficient numbers by aerial bombardment to break the will of a whole nation."26 Thomas Schelling and the Manipulation of Risk In the two decades after World War II, social scientists devoted consider­ able attention to the problem of military coercion. The most important prod­ uct of this
Node: 16985, Score: -0.0064857012132152, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0032.txt, Content: d under all circumstances. Still, there are conditions under which one strategy is more likely to succeed than another. Specifically, in conventional disputes, coercion is most likely to suc­ ceed when directed at military, not civilian, vulnerabilities. Conversely, in nuclear disputes, coercion is likely to be predicated on civilian, not military, vulnerabilities. 7 Schelling, Arms and Influence, p. 89. This logic would suggest that punishment strategies, which seek to maximize current rather than future costs, should never succeed unless targets are irrational. Punishment strategies would have to rely for their effectiveness on emotional reactions to sunk costs, such as frustration, grief, and anger. Architects of punishment-ori­ ented air strategies, as I will show, do rely in part on such reactions. 8 Decapitation, a recent proposal for pursuing both punishment and denial by attacking a single target set, is discussed in Chapter 3. [19]  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 20 --- Bombing to Win Conventional Coercion Coercive success is a function of the interactions among the coercer's strategy, the target state's military strategy, and the target state's domestic politics. The denial theory of coercion incorporates six propositions about conventional coercion: 1. Punishment strategies will rarely succeed. Inflicting enough pain to subdue the resistance of a determined adversary is normally beyond the capacity of conventional forces. Punishment strategies will work only when core values are not at stake. 2. Risk strategies will fail. They are diluted, and therefore weaker, versions of punishment. 3. Denial strategies work best. They succeed if and when the coercer undermines the target state's military strategy to control the specific territory in dispute. 4. Surrender of homeland territory is especially unlikely. Nationalist sentiments demand resistance to foreign rule even when physical security cannot be guaranteed. 5. Surrender terms that incorporate heavy
Node: 17116, Score: -0.0059919269269398, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0163.txt, Content: demolished is most damaging to morale. People seem to mind it more than having their friends or even relatives killed. At Hull signs of strain were evident, though only one-tenth of the houses were de­ molished .... we should be able to do ten times as much harm to each of the fifty-eight prin­ cipal German towns. There seems little doubt that this would break the spirit of the people." Quoted in ibid. 17 Ibid., pp. 10-11. Similarly, a 30 March 1942,paper by Lord Cherwell to the Cabinet ex­ pected that "if even half of the total load of 10,000 bombers were dropped on the built-up area of these 58 towns, the great majority of their inhabitants (about one-third of the Ger­ man population) would be turned out of house and home." Quoted in BBSU, Strategic Air War,p·7·  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 95 --- Bombing to Win Portal's key assumption was that citizens' morale (willingness to continue supporting the war) depended on their welfare, which was most dependent on their possession of homes. Destroying homes would depress morale to the point at which the population would abandon economic activity. The German state would then face a terrible dilemma between achieving its ter­ ritorial goals and continuing to provide for its population: "A substantial proportion of the total industry of Germany is necessary to maintain a min­ imum standard of subsistence amongst the German people. As the German economic structure is now stretched to the limit this proportion cannot be further reduced. Consequently, the loss of one-third of German industry would involve the sacrifice of almost the entire war potential of Germany in an effort to maintain the internal economy of the country or else the collapse of the latter."ls According to this logic, destroying homes lowers civilian morale, which diminishes all economic production, which compels a choice between achieving territorial objectives or civil unrest.19 American airmen also became attracted to the idea of bombing civil
Node: 17039, Score: -0.0059506989943381, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0086.txt, Content: ntified. These cases include explicit statements of the form "Do X or I'll do Y" or implicit threats where there is evidence they were understood by the target state. Cases that involve highly ambiguous threats are excluded, as are those in which it is not certain that the target perceived a coercive threat. This coding rule, for example, does not count Truman's movement of B-29s to Britain during the Berlin crisis as nuclear coercion because there is no evidence that the Soviets understood this as a threat to launch an attack if the blockade continued, but it does include Soviet coercion of the British and French during the 1956 Suez crisis because the record indicates that the British and French understood themselves to be victims of coercion. This rule has the effect of defining coercive attempts from the target's perspec­ tive, which is appropriate given that the theory is about changes in the tar­ get state's decisions. If we cannot establish that the substance of the threat and the conditions of its execution were communicated to the target, we cannot determine whether a coercive failure was due to insufficient threats or to communication gaps. This rule might exaggerate the effectiveness of countercivilian threats based on risk, since excluding instances of highly ambiguous threats may disproportionately eliminate cases of low-credibil­ ity threats. To make operationalization easier for purposes of a statistical-correlative test, I test only a parsimonious version of the denial theory which includes only its main propositions. This procedure has the effect of reducing the power of the theory somewhat because any variance accounted for by its subsidiary propositions will count against the theory in this test. The full power of the theory cannot be tested without understanding concrete air strategies and their application in specific cases, because appropriate oper­ ationalization of all the variables depends on the context of a particular co­ ercive dispute. T
Node: 16956, Score: -0.0056420753955036, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0003.txt, Content: t Rand Hath Wrought," Foreign Policy, no. 4 (Fall 1971): 111-29, and Bernard Brodie, "Why Were We So (Strategically) Wrong?" Foreign Policy, no. 5 (Winter 1971-72): 151-87.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 3 --- Why Study Military Coercion? Can air power alone persuade states to alter their behavior? Some propose as a general defense policy to make strategic bombing the U.S. weapon of choice.3 Ironically, despite the growing importance of coercion as an instrument of statecraft, the study of coercion has stagnated in recent years,4 partly be­ cause coercion is often identified with offensive rather than defensive na­ tional goals. In addition, coercion is seen as morally repugnant because it usually involves hurting civilians. Many considered the u.s. bombing of North Vietnam immoral as well as ineffective. s Coercion has thus come to be viewed as the "dark side" of international relations theory. Dark or not, scholars of international politics cannot avoid the obligation to study how states use force to compel others to do their bidding. Although moral issues cannot be resolved on the basis of knowledge alone, social sci­ entists have a responsibility to advance knowledge on subjects relevant to policy, especially when the decisions we make have great moral conse­ quences. Moreover, the concern that studying coercion will provide strate­ gic tools for international aggressors is misplaced. In fact, states tend to overestimate the prospects of coercion, and if humanitarian values deter scholars from studying the effectiveness of immoral practices in peacetime, we run the risk that ignorance could facilitate their use in wartime. As coer­ cion becomes more prominent in policy debates, it is crucial to separate er­ roneous from valid beliefs, for an intellectual vacuum gives free rein to bad ideas and bad policies. Consider, for example, that in August 1990 strategic bombing advocates were able to lobby successfully for air strikes on Iraqi 3 The clearest call fo
Node: 17232, Score: -0.0053683233108586, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0279.txt, Content: took the problem of coercion seriously enough in the years prior to the actual dispute to dedicate analytic resources to under­ standing it. In particular, the mechanisms by which military effects are sup­ posed to translate into political results are hardly ever studied.41 Reviewing literally thousands of planning documents for the preparation of this book, I found innumerable studies of how forces would be applied to destroy a given target set but no document, at any level of government, of more than a page to explain how destroying the target was supposed to activate mech­ anisms (popular revolt, coup, social disintegration, strategic paralysis, or even thwarting enemy military strategy) which would lead to the desired political change. Given the vast availability of previously classified docu­ ments, I can only conclude that they do not exist. As a result, coercive disputes generally provoke hurried scrambles to as­ semble ad hoc policies by individuals few of whom had thought much about such problems before and who are under tremendous time pressure to produce recommendations that not only stand a chance of success but also can win out in bureaucratic competitions of power and authority. Such a situation practically guarantees poor evaluation. In this environment, a "man with a plan" that promises quick, cheap success is likely to prevail. Possible weaknesses in the plan's assumptions about coercive mechanisms are likely to pass uninvestigated or even unnoticed. Finally, obfuscation has impeded effective evaluation. Although most strategic bombing campaigns have employed punishment strategies, co­ ercers have generally tried to hide the true purpose of such attacks from possibly squeamish publics or allies. During World War II, the British government denied that it was carrying out "indiscriminate" area bomb­ ing and privately defined fire raids as countermilitary attacks because they targeted "industrial workers." At the same time, the chief of the u.s. Army A
Node: 17175, Score: -0.0039923072925711, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0222.txt, Content: aders' willingness to surrender must include whether they were willing to act independently of Hitler, either by support­ ing efforts to overthrow his rule or by disregarding his orders in the field. Further, since at certain times certain groups, especially the military leader­ ship, were divided, measures of these groups' potential impact on German policy must monitor changes in the number of each group willing to act. Much of the evidence for German views is problematic because it comes from statements made by the principals to American interrogators or from memoirs published after the war. In fact, unlike the Japanese case, there are very few contemporaneous primary sources in which leaders' views are documented. The problem is that evidence may be biased toward present­ ing officials as favoring surrender earlier or more strongly than they in fact did. Given the anticipation of war crimes trials, senior officials had power­ ful incentives to maximize the extent to which they had personally favored surrender and the degree to which they had opposed Hitler's policies. Also, because many of the interviews were conducted by the U.S. Strategic Bomb­ ing Survey, which was concerned to demonstrate the effectiveness of strate­ gic bombing, the interviewees had an incentive to agree that air power had played a key role in affecting their views. Ideally, one would control for slanted self-reporting by comparing several reports of each individual's views and by comparing statements to different audiences, and where possible I have done SO.111 To the extent that unde- 111 For instance, after the war, Speer told different Allied interviewers that practically every component of the bombing-raids against ball-bearing plants, morale, electric power-had been the crucial factor. Compare the quotes by Speer in Davis, Spaatz and the Air War, p. 398; John Terraine, A Time for Courage: The Royal Air Force in the European War, 1939-1945 (New York: Macmillan, 1985), p. 548; and Hansel
Node: 17037, Score: -0.0037516838941029, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0084.txt, Content: and 1930S because they involved minor issues such as payment of taxes or fines and surrender of criminals for trial. A typical example was the bombing of Quteibi tribesmen in Aden in 1934 in order to compel their leaders to pay a fine of five hun­ dred dollars and surrender criminals who had raided a caravan. Total casu­ alties were three tribesmen killed while trying to take apart a dud bomb.73 Second, I exclude situations involving a monopoly of military force by one side, such as domestic police actions or postwar concessions. (This is an­ other reason for excluding the British policing cases.) Some (such as 72 For a test of the balance of interests, balance of forces, and relative expected punishment, see Robert A. Pape, "Coercion and Military Strategy: Why Denial Works and Punishment Doesn't," Journal of Strategic Studies 15 (December 1992): 423-75. 73 Charles F. A. Portal, "Air Force Co-operation in Policing the Empire," Journal of the Royal United Service Institution 82 (May 1937): 351-54.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 49 --- Explaining Military Coercion Table 1. Coercive air campaigns Year Coercer Target Issue 1917 Germany Britain British withdrawal from World War I 1920 Britain Somalis Rebellion 1920S Britain Turkey Northern Iraq 1936 Italy Ethiopia Ethiopian sovereignty 1936-39 Spanish nationalists Spanish loyalists Spanish sovereignty 1937-45 Japan China North/Central China 1938 Germany Britain/ France Czechoslovakia 1939 Germany Britain/ France Poland 1939 Germany Poland Polish sovereignty 1939-40 USSR Finland Finnish sovereignty 1940 Germany Netherlands Dutch sovereignty 1940 Germany Britain British withdrawal from World War II 1943 U.5. / Britain Italy Italian sovereignty 1942-45 U .S./ Britain Germany German sovereignty 1944-45 Germany Britain Reduction of surrender demands 1944-45 United States Japan Japanese sovereignty 195(}-53 United States China North Korea 1954-62 France Algerian rebels Algerian sovereignty 1956 Britain/France Egypt Con
Node: 17196, Score: -0.0036972796199779, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0243.txt, Content: of Major German War Criminals (London: HMSO, 1948), pt. 15, p. 371.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 140 --- Germany, 1942-1945 Fear of the Soviet occupation explains why the army did not want to sur­ render in the east but not why it did not surrender to the Western Allies. Al­ though Allied plans for occupation of Germany were harsh, including reparations as well as possible political and economic dismemberment of the country, they did not pose the murderous threat that the Red Army did. Moreover, by January 1945 further German resistance could not possibly af­ fect Allied occupation policy. At worst, surrender would save the Western Allies the costs of pointless resistance. At best, it might offer opportunities to shift some forces to shore up defenses in the east. So why were the Germans willing to pay the cost of further resistance in the west? In fact, as I have shown, there were many attempts by members of the German resistance and some members of the Army to seek a one-sided armistice-that is, any agreement that would not require Germany to stop fighting on all fronts simultaneously. Opposition representatives proposed a two-stage surrender-an armistice in the west to be followed by total sur­ render after the eastern front was stabilized. The resistance was willing to go so far as to assist Anglo-British forces in France and to facilitate their entry into Germany. The plan fitted the belief of Rommel and others that it was better for Germany to become a British dominion than be ruined by fighting the war to completion. These terms, however, were repeatedly re­ jected by the Western Allies.149 Even if the Allies would not cooperate, however, and forces could there­ fore not be shifted, why did not the Germans surrender unilaterally in the west anyway and save the costs of resistance on that front? Unilateral sur­ render does not appear to have been considered. Yet even without Allied agreement, we would expect German commanders in the west to have sur­
Node: 16957, Score: -0.0035809361435128, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0004.txt, Content: um gives free rein to bad ideas and bad policies. Consider, for example, that in August 1990 strategic bombing advocates were able to lobby successfully for air strikes on Iraqi 3 The clearest call for the United States Air Force to conduct power projection by relying ~n strategic bombing is found in Donald B. Rice, The Air Force and U.S. National Security: Global Reach-Global Power (Washington, D.C.: Department of the Air Force, June 1991). See also John A. Warden III, "Employing Air Power in the Twenty-first Century;" in The Future of Air Power in the Aftermath of the Gulf War, ed. Richard H. Shultz Jr. and Robert L. Pfaltzgraff Jr. (Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: Air University Press, 1992), pp. 57-82. Other nations are con­ sidering the same option. See Ross Babbage, A Coast Too Long: Defending Australia beyond the 1990S (Sidney: Allen and Unwin, 1990), p. 113, who advocates taking any conflict to an enemy's decision-making elite. 4 The landmark literature on the dynamics of military coercion was produced mainly in the 1960s, including Daniel Ellsberg, "Theory and Practice of Blackmail," P-3883 (Santa Monica, Calif.: Rand Corporation, 1968); Morton A. Kaplan, The Strategy of Limited Retaliation, Center of International Studies Memorandum no. 19 (Princeton: Center of International Studies, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton University, 1959); Thomas C. Schelling, Strategy of Conflict (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1960); idem, Arms and Influence (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1966); Alexander L. George, Some Thoughts on Graduated Escalation, RM-4844-PR (Santa Monica, Calif.: Rand Corporation, De­ cember 1965); and George, William E. Simons, and David K. Hall, Limits of Coercive Diplomacy: Laos, Cuba, and Vietnam (Boston: Little, Brown, 1971). 5 In sharp contrast to the voluminous literature on coercion produced in the 1960s, the only major attempt by a social scientist to explain this failure in the decade after Saigon
Node: 16991, Score: -0.0023731519935537, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0038.txt, Content: on their degree of urbanization, type of housing construction, and susceptibility to flooding from dam destruc­ tion. Still, the most devastating of all countercivilian campaigns, the bombing of Japan in World War II, killed 900,000 people out of a prewar population of 70 million. Countercivilian attacks can lower morale, in­ crease absenteeism, and cause some deurbanization as refugees flee vul­ nerable cities, but these problems rarely have serious effects on production or cause civilians to put effective pressure on the government to surrender. The worker absentee rate in Japanese industry during 1945 was approxi­ mately 8 percent.IS Fifth, modern states can minimize their vulnerability to countercivilian attacks by defense, evacuation of threatened areas, and rapid adjustment to economic dislocations.16 States can protect themselves against naval blockades through defensive measures such as convoy systems, coun­ teroffensive operations such as antisubmarine patrols and attacks on sub­ marine bases, and by acceleration of shipping production to replace lost tonnage. In World War I, Germany's unrestricted submarine campaign against Britain initially inflicted very heavy losses, but the British were able to contain the problem with the introduction of convoys, later sup­ plemented by laying a mine barrage across the North Sea which blocked German submarine access to the Atlantic. In World War II, Germany's sub­ marine offensive against Britain was initially successful, even despite con­ voying, but was eventually defeated by a combination of improved antisubmarine escorts, air surveillance, and the enormous replacement tonnage provided by British and American shipbuilding industriesP Sim­ ilarly, air attacks against population centers can be opposed by fighters, radar, antiaircraft artillery and missiles, and civil defense. During World War II bombing offensives in Europe by both Allied and German forces were greatly hampered by antiaircraft defenses, and in the Pa
Node: 17195, Score: -0.0023523426467653, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0242.txt, Content: would have sacrificed the opportunity to transfer millions of civilians out of the expected zone of Soviet occupation and into the western zones. "Painful though it was to be compelled by these pressing considerations to continue the war in the winter of 1944-45, to sac­ rifice more soldiers and sailors on all fronts and all the world over and to en­ dure yet more casualties among civilians in air-raids, there was no option, for the losses were smaller than had we prematurely given up our eastern territories."147 JodI gave a similar explanation for not surrendering after the Ardennes offensive: Even if we had any doubt as to what faced us, it was completely removed by the fact that we captured the English "Eclipse." ... It was exact instructions about what the occupying power was to do in Germany after the capitulation. Now, unconditional surrender meant that the troops would cease to fight where they stood on all the fronts, and be captured by the enemy facing them . . . . Millions of prisoners would suddenly have to camp in the middle of win­ ter in the open. Death would have taken an enormous toll. Above all, the men still on the Eastern front, numbering about three and a half million, would have fallen into the hands of the enemy in the East. It was our task to save as many people as possible [by evacuating them to] the Western area.148 144 Quoted in Zayas, Nemesis at Potsdam, p. 62. For many accounts of Russian brutalities in Romania, Hungary; and Czechoslovakia, see Theodor Schieder, ed., Documents on the Expul­ sion of the Germans from East-Central Europe, 4 vols. (Bonn: Federal Ministry for Expellees, Refugees, and War Victims, 1960). 145 Botting, Ruins of the Reich, p. 70. 146 Zayas, Nemesis At Potsdam, p. xxv, 203-4- 147 Doenitz, Memoirs, p. 431. 148 The Trial of Major German War Criminals (London: HMSO, 1948), pt. 15, p. 371.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 140 --- Germany, 1942-1945 Fear of the Soviet occupation explains why the army did not want t
Node: 17010, Score: -0.0021658088481449, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0057.txt, Content: The following discussion applies Stephen Van Evera's pathbreaking analysis of "non­ evaluation of strategy" by modem nation-states to the problem of understanding coercive pressures. See Van Evera, "Causes of War," pp. 453--99.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 34 --- Bombing to Win ceived as more serious, threatening the public support needed to mobilize resources against the opponent and possibly threatening the political sur­ vival of the regime. The reaction to criticism increases as the costs of state policy rise and as the likelihood of success falls. Accordingly, governments tolerate less dissent within their ranks, suppress leaks, and censor informa­ tion that might tend to undermine support for state policy, such as civilian costs being suffered or risks of military defeat. Within the government, in­ formation is restricted to a smaller circle of officials who believe in the regime's policy.36 The result is that the public, as well as most of the government, is pre­ sented with a rosier picture of the performance of state policy than is actu­ ally the case. Dissenters operate at a disadvantage because of the cushion of legitimacy usually enjoyed by nationalist states. Most people will defer to government statements unless the gap between the official line and reality becomes inescapably obvious. 37 Militaries of states involved in disputes also control information and sup­ press criticism, for the same reasons as government leaders and because evaluation threatens organizational stability. Evaluation promotes change and innovation, which threatens jobs and the status of incumbent leaders of the organization. Hence incumbents tend to oppose, disrupt, or punish seri­ ous evaluation. 38 Although they do not usually enjoy the same legitimacy as governments, their special expertise gives militaries important advantages in avoiding evaluation. Military expertise is largely confined to military in­ stitutions; outside evaluators are usually less knowledgeable
Node: 17006, Score: -0.0020831539870885, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0053.txt, Content: e not willing to surrender the home islands, which they thought might still be held by inflicting such high costs on American forces that they would abandon a final invasion. Second, military pressure must be maintained continuously until a satis­ factory settlement is reached. Any premature relaxation of military efforts gives the target state breathing space to restore its military capabilities, im­ proving its chances of controlling the disputed territory. Thus, truces for the purpose of facilitating negotiation or as rewards for partial concessions are likely to be counterproductive, for they have the effect of placing the target state in a stronger position to resist the coercer's demands or even to "back­ slide" from concessions already made. At the start of negotiations with China in 1951, the United States substantially ended offensive ground oper­ ations, with the result that the peace talks dragged on for two more years. In 1972 the United States terminated bombing of North Vietnam after Hanoi had agreed to a cease-fire but before Saigon's agreement had been secured; Hanoi subsequently repudiated parts of the deal and bombing had to be re­ sumed. Thus traditional theories of coercion which emphaSize carefully  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 32 --- Bombing to Win timed pauses for signaling and negotiation have it exactly backward, pro­ viding a recipe for frustration and failure. This mistake follows from the ex­ cessive focus on punishment and neglect of denial. Finally, denial is an inherently expensive coercive strategy, for it requires the coercer to demonstrate the capacity to control the disputed territory by force. Accordingly, whereas assailants can sometimes avoid the full costs of achieving victory, they cannot succeed without paying the costs of prepar­ ing for military victory. Why Success Comes Late Outstanding successes in which the coercer achieves objectives while paying only a small fraction of the battlefield costs are virtually unkn
Node: 17235, Score: -0.0018449558154047, Chunk File: pape_coercion/chunks/pape_coercion_0282.txt, Content: e effects of bombing, we should also study blockades, embargoes, do­ mestic unrest, natural disasters, and possibly commodity price inflation.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 163 --- Bombing to Win more about the circumstances in which state policy is dependent on the personality of a single leader. Finally, since denial appears to be the most effective coercive strategy, we must learn more about how governments and publics evaluate the success or failure of national policy, and how evaluation changes in crises and wartime. These are all problems of social science, not military art. For their part, governments should create per­ manent organizations composed of individuals with expertise in a variety of military and civilian fields and disciplines to study the various politi­ cal effects that alternative uses of force might produce. Such groups would not actually design a set of contingency plans to coerce countries across the globe. Even if they were given such a fantastic charter, such plans could not hope to bear on the exact context of any specific future dispute. Rather, such groups should serve as repositories of knowledge about the general political, economic, and social effects of various appli­ cations of force, which would be available to policy makers considering intervention in international disputes. The objection could be raised, Will not increased study of military coer­ cion lead to increased use of it? It is not impossible that someone could dis­ cover a previously unimagined coercive approach, but such a theory should not be accepted unless the causal mechanisms on which it relies can be em­ pirically proved. History suggests, however, that ignoring coercion is likely to do more to engender false optimism than to deter the use of force. Policy makers are often more optimistic about the chances for coercive success than situations warrant. Only thorough investigation in peacetime of the ca­ pabilities and limitations of coercive air power can