Node: 5001, Score: 0.0757604841203631, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0706.txt, Content: rts was low and their failure rate high. Even worse, components had to be shipped to a central assembly point and put together without an effective quality control process. As Kogler said, “It was a Sisyphean task, which had now become necessary.”22 He continued:  Then came the dark side of this mass-production, and above all this production in primitive workshops under unimaginably unfavourable conditions. In September [1944] I started to re-equip the first “Gruppen” of my “Geschwader,” and to bring up the strength and to equip the second “Gruppe” which was already in operation against the invasion. The “Gruppen” were brought up to a strength of about 60 to 70 aircraft and a corresponding number of pilots, and then the retraining started. During the re-training I lost the following: six excellent pilots killed, a large number seriously wounded, and between 40 and 50 aircraft, I can no longer remember the number exactly. Only because of technical defects. Each time a “Gruppe” went to a so-called “Gruppe” training flight, I had to count on probably one killed and two, three, four, or five emergency landings of which a certain number of aircraft had to be written off because they were damaged. ... Those were conditions which of course did not contribute towards raising the pilots’ self-confidence or strengthening their confidence in their aircraft.2°  These catastrophically high loss rates in training give testimony to the hidden costs of dispersed production. Kogler also noted that damage done to the ball-bearing plants and reserve stocks at Schweinfurt forced the Germans to use sleeve bearings in the crankshaft of the FW 190D’s Jumo 213A engine, causing serious mechanical problems. It also reminds us what might have happened had Bomber Command joined the USAAF in its August and October 1943 raids. He closed his sobering narrative with a summary of his unit’s combat experience, which lasted precisely two days because every pilot except Kogler was killed or wounded an
Node: 4988, Score: 0.0737707952318112, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0693.txt, Content: It also became clear after the war that damage had been more severe than RE8 estimated. During a postwar interrogation, officials from the Kugelfischer Company said the raids reduced ball- bearing production at Schweinfurt by 50 percent, but that repair and dispersal brought production back to 80 percent of the preattack level. (The plant and its satellites never returned to 100 percent of preattack production, an indication that the raids did grievous damage.) They also said repeat raids, while too infrequent, kept production at 40 to 75 percent of the preraid total. Speer said the Germans had already begun to decentralize ball-bearing production by the time of the first Schweinfurt attack on 17 August, but also said a concerted attack on all sources of production would have been a serious problem. Even Swedish imports could not—and in fact did not—compensate entirely for these production losses.2&  A Counterfactual Question: Bomber Command and Ball-Bearing Plants  Page 170 of 423 43%  Annotated bomb plot for the 9 October 1943 Marienburg raid. When photointerpreters analyzed shots such as this using specialized equipment, their deep expertise allowed them to make accurate judgments about everything from damage to production delays and dispersal. (NARA)  Ironically, several precision target sets worth the effort and risk were not attacked with sufficient persistence to produce decisive results—or rarely ever, as in the case of electrical power. German ball- bearing factories were a crucial case in point. According to RE8, the first USAAF raid on Schweinfurt, on 17 August, caused a 15 percent loss in production and a similar loss of finished product at the three major factories, which produced over 70 percent of Germany’s ball bearings. The 14 October raid did severe damage, including destruction of the ball-bearing-forming and heat-treatment build- ings and the top two stories of the assembly and storage building. The ACIU K report said:  Very heavy and concentra
Node: 4932, Score: 0.0708391818541331, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0637.txt, Content: were already leaving the Eastern Front for France to counter bomber operations against U-boat bases. Although these raids proved ineffective, Luftwaffe assets sent to counter them never returned to Russia; they simply folded into the mushrooming Reich air-defense effort. Ultra also confirmed details of the vital conference in January 1943, during which Adolf Galland presided over planning for the activation of the huge fighter arm that would comprise Luftflotte Reich. These intercepts confirmed the growing flood of requirements for aircraft to return to the Reich. In summer 1942, the  Page 152 of 423 39%  porary sources, there can be no doubt that the battle of the Ruhr marked a turning point in the history of the German war economy, which has been grossly underestimated by post-war accounts.... Bomber Command had stopped Speer’s armaments miracle in its tracks.”25 As he also noted, the real tragedy of the battle of the Ruhr was Harris’s failure to keep attacking key targets in the region, turning his efforts instead to the political-economic-military chimera of Berlin and ushering in a battle that nearly destroyed Bomber Command. Given the German steel and subcomponents crises, persistent attacks against the Ruhr would have paid greater dividends.*° As Hitler himself said, “The Ruhr is the one base for our industry which cannot be evacuated.”22  Even so, the battle of the Ruhr was disastrous for Germany. Although aggregate production eventually increased, it did not do so until 1944, and even then large numbers of now-outclassed weapons such as the Bf 109 and Mk-IV medium tank continued to roll off assembly lines, often unserviceable as they awaited components missing as a result of transportation and production problems. Newer weapons, such as the Panther and Tiger tanks, the FW 190, and the Me 262, appeared in smaller numbers and later than would otherwise have been the case.28 Albert Speer addressed this issue som- berly in a speech to the Reich’s Gauleiters on
Node: 4998, Score: 0.0705528288805414, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0703.txt, Content: to a central assembly point and put together without an effective quality control process. As Kogler said, “It was a Sisyphean task, which had now become necessary.”22 He continued:  Then came the dark side of this mass-production, and above all this production in primitive workshops under unimaginably unfavourable conditions. In September [1944] I started to re-equip the first “Gruppen” of my “Geschwader,” and to bring up the strength and to equip the second “Gruppe” which was already in operation against the invasion. The “Gruppen” were brought up to a strength of about 60 to 70 aircraft and a corresponding number of pilots, and then the retraining started. During the re-training I lost the following: six excellent pilots killed, a large number seriously wounded, and between 40 and 50 aircraft, I can no longer remember the number exactly. Only because of technical defects. Each time a “Gruppe” went to a so-called “Gruppe” training flight, I had to count on probably one killed and two, three, four, or five emergency landings of which a certain number of aircraft had to be written off because they were damaged. ... Those were conditions which of course did not contribute towards raising the pilots’ self-confidence or strengthening their confidence in their aircraft.22  These catastrophically high loss rates in training give testimony to the hidden costs of dispersed production. Kogler also noted that damage done to the ball-bearing plants and reserve stocks at Schweinfurt forced the Germans to use sleeve bearings in the crankshaft of the FW 190D’s Tumo 213A engine. causing serious mechanical problems. It also reminds us what might have happened had  Page 171 of 423 43%  Schweinfurt within three months, and he pleaded with Bottomley to seek at least a coordinated raid by Mosquito light bombers.®2 This was the Bufton-Morley team’s sixth effort to goad Bomber Command into action, but Harris demurred, even though ball bearings ranked high in the POINTBLANK directive. B
Node: 5002, Score: 0.0699649124282986, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0707.txt, Content: gust and October 1943 raids. He closed his sobering narrative with a summary of his unit’s combat experience, which lasted precisely two days because every pilot except Kogler was killed or wounded and his aircraft badly damaged or destroyed. Two suffered complete engine failure before they even made it into combat.24 A 25 December 1944 Ultra intercept stated similarly that over 20 percent of all aircraft taking off on 23 December in support of the Ardennes offensive had to turn back as a result of various mechanical problems. Horst Boog has also noted that by spring 1944, 60 percent of German aircraft losses were due to training and other noncombat causes.22  Bombing caused severe damage to aircraft factories and ball-bearing plants, which forced the Germans to disperse. Aircraft manufactured in this dispersed production program were of poor quality and had a number of potentially deadly defects. Consequently, aircraft malfunctioned, often catastrophically, driving up pilot losses in training and combat. As a result of these excessive loss rates, surviving pilots had less confidence in their aircraft and themselves, and lower morale. This chain of events produced a profound crisis for the Luftwaffe. It was one of several brought on by bombing, including catastrophic fuel shortages once the oil offensive began.  The role of intelligence assessments was crucial because they demonstrated that precision attacks could do severe damage. As numerous sources, including Kogler’s testimony, gradually revealed the magnitude of the crisis caused by dispersed aircraft production, intelligence officers confirmed that raids on these plants had dramatic effects and were also effective. More fundamentally, reports such as Kogler’s, which became plentiful by 1944, gave airmen increasing confidence in bombing’s efficacy.  Page 172 of 423 43%  REEe PALO LUMP PEsL UL LLY MSC ORTIWAUMEL, Al LU ULI UMP ELS OLLOLIB Ed ALI CU CUE ELIE COLI SEU PE WILLE WAS ALLO AUMY 14h UPCL ALIVE AB GALIO
Node: 4987, Score: 0.0695817147993097, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0692.txt, Content: al nower. German hall-  Page 170 of 423 43%  Annotated bomb plot for the 9 October 1943 Marienburg raid. When photointerpreters analyzed shots such as this using specialized equipment, their deep expertise allowed them to make accurate judgments about everything from damage to production delays and dispersal. (NARA)  Ironically, several precision target sets worth the effort and risk were not attacked with sufficient persistence to produce decisive results—or rarely ever, as in the case of electrical power. German ball- bearing factories were a crucial case in point. According to RE8, the first USAAF raid on Schweinfurt, on 17 August, caused a 15 percent loss in production and a similar loss of finished product at the three major factories, which produced over 70 percent of Germany’s ball bearings. The 14 October raid did severe damage, including destruction of the ball-bearing-forming and heat-treatment build- ings and the top two stories of the assembly and storage building. The ACIU K report said:  Very heavy and concentrated damage is visible within the target area, due probably as much to fire as to H.E. All three factories of the Schweinfurt ball bearing industry and the two closely allied therewith have been affected, those of the V.K.F. Werks I and II suffering very severe damage. In many cases, buildings damaged in the previous raid have now been destroyed or have received further damage.7®  An RE8 report estimated losses at three months of ball-bearing production and seven weeks for roller bearings. Yet RE8, not yet fully cognizant of dispersal activities, based these assessments on an assumption that all damaged buildings and machinery would be replaced on-site. The Germans dispersed instead, which put them back in production more quickly than RE8 estimated.“  It also became clear after the war that damage had been more severe than RE8 estimated. During a postwar interrogation, officials from the Kugelfischer Company said the raids reduced ball- bearing p
Node: 4992, Score: 0.0686080782405079, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0697.txt, Content: wo Bomber Command missions finally flown against the ball-bearing plants in February 1944, was that Schweinfurt was simply too difficult a target for Bomber Command to hit with a high degree of accuracy at that point in the war. Damage assessments from these raids seemed to bear this out, but a sample of just two raids left a great deal of uncertainty. Air Commodore Sydney Bufton, Portal’s director of bomber operations at air staff, and Group Captain Richard Morley, his deputy, disagreed with Harris (as they almost always did). The ensuing series of debates had their roots in available air intelli- gence. What people knew or did not know, and how they chose to use intelligence, proved key to the outcome.  The arguments went into high gear in February 1943—half a year before the first USAAF raid and a year before Bomber Command’s. Morley, a disciple of Bufton’s regarding precision bombing, asserted that ball bearings represented the “outstanding example of a true economic bottleneck.”22 He warned attacks might lead to heavy losses but claimed results achieved would more than justify casualties. Morley also observed that if Bomber Command attacked Schweinfurt at night, Harris had to order the raids before limited hours of darkness prevented penetration into southern Germany.22  On 23 May 1943, Bufton pressed again for an attack on Schweinfurt. He reminded Bottomley of the target’s importance and the urgent need for “one overwhelming day and night operation by British and American heavy bomber forces.”®+ To drive home Schweinfurt’s importance, Bufton pointed to a preliminary EOU report, produced on 7 May, noting that ball and roller engine bearings salvaged from crashed German aircraft between 1939 and 1942 had been produced at the three factories at Schweinfurt or the one at Stuttgart.22 Bufton knew the Americans were planning to attack Schweinfurt within three months, and he pleaded with Bottomley to seek at least a coordinated raid by Mosquito light bombers.®2 This
Node: 5003, Score: 0.0684200216551056, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0708.txt, Content: confidence in bombing’s efficacy.  Page 172 of 423 43%  REEe PALO LUMP PEsL UL LLY MSC ORTIWAUMEL, Al LU ULI UMP ELS OLLOLIB Ed ALI CU CUE ELIE COLI SEU PE WILLE WAS ALLO AUMY 14h UPCL ALIVE AB GALIOL LILLE AAV GOLUEL., 2A LU PeEh WELLS UU Up a strength of about 60 to 70 aircraft and a corresponding number of pilots, and then the retraining started. During the re-training I lost the following: six excellent pilots killed, a large number seriously wounded, and between 40 and 50 aircraft, I can no longer remember the number exactly. Only because of technical defects. Each time a “Gruppe” went to a so-called “Gruppe” training flight, I had to count on probably one killed and two, three, four, or five emergency landings of which a certain number of aircraft had to be written off because they were damaged. ... Those were conditions which of course did not contribute towards raising the pilots’ self-confidence or strengthening their confidence in their aircraft.22  These catastrophically high loss rates in training give testimony to the hidden costs of dispersed production. Kogler also noted that damage done to the ball-bearing plants and reserve stocks at Schweinfurt forced the Germans to use sleeve bearings in the crankshaft of the FW 190D’s Jumo 213A engine, causing serious mechanical problems. It also reminds us what might have happened had Bomber Command joined the USAAF in its August and October 1943 raids. He closed his sobering narrative with a summary of his unit’s combat experience, which lasted precisely two days because every pilot except Kogler was killed or wounded and his aircraft badly damaged or destroyed. Two suffered complete engine failure before they even made it into combat.*4 A 25 December 1944 Ultra intercept stated similarly that over 20 percent of all aircraft taking off on 23 December in support of the Ardennes offensive had to turn back as a result of various mechanical problems. Horst Boog has also noted that by spring 1944, 60 percent of Ger
Node: 4993, Score: 0.0650357532549432, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0698.txt, Content: at Stuttgart.22 Bufton knew the Americans were planning to attack Schweinfurt within three months, and he pleaded with Bottomley to seek at least a coordinated raid by Mosquito light bombers.®2 This was the Bufton-Morley team’s sixth effort to goad Bomber Command into action, but Harris demurred, even though ball bearings ranked high in the POINTBLANK directive. Bufton and Morley had an influential supporter in Portal. But as he was to do later dur- ing the oil dispute with Harris, he chose to avoid a showdown, even though by summer 1943 he was already abandoning the idea that city bombing could be decisive.  The two Bomber Command raids on Schweinfurt—24-25 February and 26-27 April—came long after the Germans had dispersed their ball-bearing production and stocks, and neither attack was a success because of poor target marking and high winds, so we have no way of knowing whether a concerted effort in the summer and fall of 1943 would have produced the crisis Speer and the Kugel- fischer executives said could have occurred.84  Perhaps Harris was right when he said Schweinfurt was too difficult a target for Bomber Command at this stage of the war, but given significant successes during the same time frame against French and Belgian marshaling yards, this seems unlikely. In fact, he used an MEW report to make his point about what he viewed as the effort’s futility. In July 1944, he drew the Air Ministry’s attention to an MEW weekly intelligence report. Ball-bearing production, MEW estimated, had fallen by 54 percent. The report claimed that if attacks were resumed, and imports from Sweden reduced, the chance existed that these efforts “may well eventually have an effect on German military capabilities.”®> Pointing to this weak language (the report actually underestimated the impact of ball-bearing attacks, as statements made by Oberstleutnant Kogler, a captured Luftwaffe Geschwader Kommodore, will illustrate shortly), Harris said the case was clearly closed. He furth
Node: 4991, Score: 0.0637761552708594, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0696.txt, Content: ve now been destroyed or have received further damage.7&  An RE8 report estimated losses at three months of ball-bearing production and seven weeks for roller bearings. Yet RE8, not yet fully cognizant of dispersal activities, based these assessments on an assumption that all damaged buildings and machinery would be replaced on-site. The Germans dispersed instead, which put them back in production more quickly than RE8 estimated.  It also became clear after the war that damage had been more severe than RE8 estimated. During a postwar interrogation, officials from the Kugelfischer Company said the raids reduced ball- bearing production at Schweinfurt by 50 percent, but that repair and dispersal brought production back to 80 percent of the preattack level. (The plant and its satellites never returned to 100 percent of preattack production, an indication that the raids did grievous damage.) They also said repeat raids, while too infrequent, kept production at 40 to 75 percent of the preraid total. Speer said the Germans had already begun to decentralize ball-bearing production by the time of the first Schweinfurt attack on 17 August, but also said a concerted attack on all sources of production would have been a serious problem. Even Swedish imports could not—and in fact did not—compensate entirely for these production losses.78  A Counterfactual Question: Bomber Command and Ball-Bearing Plants  This analysis raises the question of Bomber Command’s role—or lack thereof—in this effort. Had Harris joined Eaker, could their bombers have inflicted strategically significant damage on ball-bearing plants? Both damage assessments and postwar interrogations of Kugelfischer executives indicate this could have been the case. However, Harris’s view, reflected in the poor results of two Bomber Command missions finally flown against the ball-bearing plants in February 1944, was that Schweinfurt was simply too difficult a target for Bomber Command to hit with a high degree of accura
Node: 5188, Score: 0.0633909150975692, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0893.txt, Content: r. Reconnaissance aircraft discovered them near Nevers, Bruges, and Poitiers, moving northeast mostly on foot. Four 8th Air Force fighter groups began strafing operations, and from there, the disaster befalling this forlorn column was complete. Those who survived were almost all captured when American columns cut them off. Most of these 100,000 soldiers were walking, not riding trains or trucks, providing further proof the transportation campaign had destroyed the French railroad network and run the German army out of gasoline. The railroads, already a complete shambles, were incapable of transporting these soldiers. They had a 450-mile walk ahead of them to reach the German frontier. The “traffic desert” (Verkehrs Wiiste), as von Rundstedt called it, created by the bombing of marshaling yards, bridges, and canals thus cost the Germans another 90,000 troops who spent the rest of the war in POW camps rather than fighting on for Reich and Fiihrer.442  The Traffic Desert  By September, the third and final RRS report said, intelligence personnel saw “the final petering out of German formation movements on the S.N.C.F. and Belgian State Railways... the study of which has been undertaken by this Service ever since adequate information became available towards the close of 1941.”44 This confirmed not only the demise of organized rail movement, but also the usefulness of the intensive RRS analysis of French and Belgian railroads for nearly three years before the transportation offensive. The agency understood the SNCF’s strengths and weaknesses, influ- encing how the Allies planned and executed this decisive campaign. Superb reconnaissance photos, as well as ACIU K and F damage assessments, made the jobs of RRS analysts much easier.  Only 294 trains moved during August 1944, down from 535 in June and 395 in July. Nearly complete paralysis of the railroads had set in, with troop delays, detours, and high threat of night and fighter-bomber attacks the rule. Continuing raids o
Node: 4989, Score: 0.06336424119232, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0694.txt, Content: damage, including destruction of the ball-bearing-forming and heat-treatment build- ings and the top two stories of the assembly and storage building. The ACIU K report said:  Very heavy and concentrated damage is visible within the target area, due probably as much to fire as to H.E. All three factories of the Schweinfurt ball bearing industry and the two closely allied therewith have been affected, those of the V.K.F. Werks I and II suffering very severe damage. In many cases, buildings damaged in the previous raid have now been destroyed or have received further damage.7&  An RE8 report estimated losses at three months of ball-bearing production and seven weeks for roller bearings. Yet RE8, not yet fully cognizant of dispersal activities, based these assessments on an assumption that all damaged buildings and machinery would be replaced on-site. The Germans dispersed instead, which put them back in production more quickly than RE8 estimated.  It also became clear after the war that damage had been more severe than RE8 estimated. During a postwar interrogation, officials from the Kugelfischer Company said the raids reduced ball- bearing production at Schweinfurt by 50 percent, but that repair and dispersal brought production back to 80 percent of the preattack level. (The plant and its satellites never returned to 100 percent of preattack production, an indication that the raids did grievous damage.) They also said repeat raids, while too infrequent, kept production at 40 to 75 percent of the preraid total. Speer said the Germans had already begun to decentralize ball-bearing production by the time of the first Schweinfurt attack on 17 August, but also said a concerted attack on all sources of production would have been a serious problem. Even Swedish imports could not—and in fact did not—compensate entirely for these production losses.78  A Counterfactual Question: Bomber Command and Ball-Bearing Plants  This analysis raises the question of Bomber Command’s role—
Node: 4899, Score: 0.0627248875833902, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0604.txt, Content: imated that Krupps lost three months’ production. They also observed that repairs were much slower than anticipated, which was puzzling given the excellence of German repair work. What the analysts missed was the dispersal of work away from the factory and the German penchant for continuing work in buildings with damaged upper stories but intact ground floors and basements.12  Because Krupps was a high-value facility, RE8 personnel also produced a report on reconstruction, noting that the factory complex’s productive output had been reduced by perhaps 40 percent until at least December 1944. This degradation resulted from the first three raids and another three flown in May and July. The total weight of attack on Essen was nearly 7,000 tons, almost evenly divided between high-explosive and incendiary bombs.14  Frequent raids on cities throughout the Ruhr and further afield continued with increasing ferocity from March through September. Essen, Dortmund, Diisseldorf, Wuppertal, Bochum, Krefeld, and Milheim were largely burnt out. Outside the Ruhr, Cologne, Aachen, and Hamburg suffered severe damage. The latter, attacked on 27-28 July, was engulfed in the largest firestorm yet caused by British bombing. One of the most significant things about this raid, aside from its destructiveness, was the accurate Pathfinder Force marking and main-force bombing of a target well outside the range of Oboe. Another was the use of chaff, which the British called Window. Window, which was composed of bundles containing thousands of strips of aluminum foil, blinded German radar, which as yet lacked moving target indicators. British bombers were thus able to attack cities with little resistance until moving target indicators became available to the Germans in August 1943. This period also encompassed the opening attacks in Harris’s grandest scheme: the battle of Berlin, which he expected to result in German capitulation but instead nearly destroyed Bomber Command. In fact, as the German
Node: 5187, Score: 0.0624414491386924, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0892.txt, Content: g yards, bridges, and canals thus cost the Germans another 90,000 troops who spent the rest of the war in POW camps rather than fighting on for Reich and Fithrer.143  The Traffic Desert  By September, the third and final RRS report said, intelligence personnel saw “the final petering out of German formation movements on the S.N.C.F. and Belgian State Railways... the study of which has been undertaken by this Service ever since adequate information became available towards the close of 1941.”144 This confirmed not only the demise of organized rail movement, but also the usefulness of the intensive RRS analysis of French and Belgian railroads for nearly three years before the transportation offensive. The agency understood the SNCF’s strengths and weaknesses, influ- encing how the Allies planned and executed this decisive campaign. Superb reconnaissance photos, as well as ACIU K and F damage assessments, made the jobs of RRS analysts much easier.  Page 228 of 423 55%  To stay ahead of advancing Allied columns from the west and south, these troops had to keep moving during daylight hours, which led to their undoing. Most reached the frontiers of Germany and were reequipped (not as well as previously) to fight in the war’s closing campaigns; but somewhere along the back roads of southern France, their faith in a German victory faltered. In consequence of these cataclysms, Albert Speer, touring the Reich’s western defenses, wrote to the Fithrer on 15 September 1944, saying, “The lack of heavy weapons felt by the army on the Western Front is shock- ing. ... There is a terrifyingly large number of weaponless soldiers in the West.”142  The same problem developed in southwestern France, where a German 1st Army troop column of approximately 100,000 men evacuated in early September. Reconnaissance aircraft discovered them near Nevers, Bruges, and Poitiers, moving northeast mostly on foot. Four 8th Air Force fighter groups began strafing operations, and from there, the disaster
Node: 5391, Score: 0.0617126719552918, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_1096.txt, Content: later observed: “The very serious declines in traffic movement which had been imposed by the end of 1944 were not recognized and the strength of the system as of that date was overestimated. Had the effectiveness of the attacks been fully recognized they might have been pressed home in a more systematic fashion, producing an earlier collapse of the railroad system.”2 But the offensive succeeded despite these intelligence shortcomings. Freight cars loaded in the Reich totaled 900,000 for the week ending 19 August 1944. The total dropped to 700,000 per week by 31 October. A further drop to 550,000 by 23 December was followed by a catastrophic decline to 214,000 by 3 March 1945. Attacks on inland waterways were even more successful. Raids closed the Dortmund-Ems and Mittelland canals on 23 September. Barge traffic on the Rhine and in the Ruhr was constantly interdicted by October. The commodity most affected by these disasters was coal. It became impossible to move this lifeblood of the German economy, as Mierzejewski described it, by water, and after November it was nearly impossible by rail. The results were disastrous for industry and the Reichsbahn, whose coal stocks de- clined from an 18-day supply in October to a 4.5-day supply in February.4  This transportation catastrophe hit the dispersed German war economy especially hard because components from scattered factories could not be moved easily to central assembly points. Progressive disorganization and destruction inflicted on marshaling yards also made movement of weapons, ammunition, and fuel exceptionally difficult. In combination with an inefficient logistical system, this friction often deprived the Wehrmacht of the replacement weapons, ammunition, and fuel necessary for maneuver warfare. Finally, the transportation campaign acted synergistically with oil attacks to produce several vital but often unanticipated effects, including, among other things, severe ammunition and heavy weapons shortages after fall
Node: 4654, Score: 0.059026017430129, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0359.txt, Content: , two raids by Wellington bombers on 14 and 18 December 1939 sought to attack the German fleet at the Heligoland Bight. Flying unescorted in daylight, they were attacked by fighters and lost over half their numbers. With this disaster, whatever plans Ludlow-Hewitt might have had for a daytime air offensive against the Ruhr were dashed by government and Air Ministry directives as well as a gradually increasing real- ization that medium bombers could not survive in the daylight skies over or near the Reich.2  The next raid on Germany was consequently a night attack in retaliation for a German raid on Scapa Flow. Flown the night of 19-20 March 1940, it targeted the Hérnum seaplane base on Sylt Island. Fifty medium bombers participated, with forty-one of the crews reporting visual target identification and successful attacks. There was only one hitch: the entire force had bombed the wrong island, one in fact owned by Denmark, a rather embarrassing start to what would be a costly and ineffective bombing effort in 1940-19412  Several important intelligence-related operational realities made themselves clear during this unfortunate gambit. First, photointerpreters at HQ Bomber Command did well interpreting strike photos taken by the few camera-equipped bombers sent on the raid and poststrike photos taken by a Blenheim reconnaissance bomber. Second, a few onboard cameras were already present in the bomber force, a positive development from a damageassessment perspective, and these numbers grew steadily over the next two years. Third, the PRUs and CIU, which soon provided the full range of photographic services required to support a bombing campaign, from taking reconnaissance, strike, and poststrike photos to producing damage assessments, were not yet far enough along in their de- velopment to do these things. Nonetheless, they were evolving rapidly, and as the bombing effort intensified, these capabilities approached maturity.  One of the most glaring deficiencies was the
Node: 5170, Score: 0.0589826754396736, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0875.txt, Content: rshaling yards and bridges, rates of repair, and the proper moment for reattacks.124  Rail Traffic Trends, France and Région Nord  Mar 6 May 7  Start of Start of Program of Attacks Rait-Genter on Bridges  Attacks im  Page 223 of 423 55%  A  it took two weeks.12&  General Fritz Bayerlein’s elite Panzer Lehr Division lost 130 of its 1,000 trucks, including 40 fuel trucks, each with a 2.5-ton capacity, before his division reached the front. Fighter-bombers were already singling out the tankertrucks for destruction. During the road march north on 5-7 June, the division moved at night, attacked by night bombers. Bayerlein constantly lost men and vehicles and had to lead his division on long detours, slowing down the move and causing accidents and wear and tear on equipment. In addition, the distant railheads forced Bayerlein to send trucks constantly on supply runs. These took several days to complete a round-trip journey. Demotorization had the usual negative effects on combat power and maneuverability.122  A similar pattern unfolded for the 17th SS Panzer Grenadier Division, which arrived at the front after nine days of rail and road movement; the 2nd Panzer Division, which required five days to get to the front; the 77th Infantry Division, which required ten days; and the 265th Infantry Division, which spent nine days on the march.128 German POWs described this problem clearly, making it obvious that the Germans, having failed to throw Allied armies into the Channel early, would not do so at all. The battle in the bocage became one of attrition, in which the Germans fought skillfully but with an increasingly strained and ultimately disastrous supply situation.  SS Obergruppenfihrer Josef “Sepp” Dietrich, commander of 1st SS Panzer Corps, said the seventy-three days of action defending Caen were the hardest of his career:  The supply problem became more and more difficult. Fuel and ammunition had to come more than 400 km [250 miles] over roads that were under the contr
Node: 5215, Score: 0.0586332130200099, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0920.txt, Content: l times  Page 241 of 423 58%  Fire, combined with blast damage, caused these fuel-storage tanks to warp and collapse. Most of these held gasoline, representing a major loss for the Germans. (USAFA)  A postwar intelligence report echoed the BAU’s findings:  Evidence from all sources clearly indicates that the continuous aerial attacks on transportation facilities prevented the enemy from effectively concentrating his men or material at critical times  and places. Transport proved to be the weakest link in the logistics chain, its failure was the immediate cause of the breakdown of the supply system, and consequently was a decisive factor in the collapse of the German Army.1%8  A related finding of great importance was the synergistic effect between transportation and oil attacks. Until late July, most fuel shortages were distributional—in other words, caused by the transportation network’s collapse. By August, however, the problem became increasingly one of absolute shortage. The Germans did themselves no favors by failing to move two of their three largest surface fuel depots, at Paris-Argenteuil, Bordeaux, and Lyon, into tunnels. They stored fuel from the Paris depot in subway tunnels but did nothing with stocks at Bordeaux and Lyon. Bombers des- troyed both on 2 August with a loss of 1,850,000 gallons of fuel, or two-thirds of the remaining strategic reserve in France.+92  Page 242 of 423 58%  Destroyed tanker cars and POL barrels, Gennevilliers, October 1944. This photo indicates severe damage. The large tanks scattered about and smashed were filled with POL products and set on tank car chassis in preparation for ship- ment to the front. The kind of damage evident here and in previous photos occurred at nearly every oil plant and depot. (USAFA)  Growing gasoline shortfalls began playing an increasingly important role in the ground campaign immediately after the 25-27 July American breakout from St. L6-Perriers. Shortages hampered  Page 242 of 423 58%  Destroyed t
Node: 4981, Score: 0.0583284162687046, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0686.txt, Content: spring 1944, USAAF heavy bombers and fighter escorts (once they received drop tanks in January 1944) took the air war to the Luftwaffe in an effort to gain air supremacy over the Reich. The battle was long and costly, and at times it teetered on the edge of failure. But the Americans gained the victory and with it air supremacy not only over the Reich, but also over Normandy. During this huge battle of attrition, intelligence specialists honed their analytical skills by assessing damage to aircraft factories, ball-bearing plants, marshaling yards, and oil plants.  The progress of this offensive against aircraft factories and ball-bearing plants during summer and fall 1943 is recounted in many scholarly works. Although unescorted raids resulted in high losses, they also demonstrated that USAAF aircrews could bomb with remarkable accuracy in good weather. When combined with Bomber Command's efforts, these American raids, though not yet capable of doing overwhelming damage, nonetheless served as clear notice of things to come.  The USAAF’s increasing accuracy resulted from intensive training for bombardiers, navigators, and pilots; from outstanding target materials, including aiming point reports produced by the EOU at the American embassy in London; target vulnerability notes authored by RE8; detailed target maps, charts, and diagrams from Bomber Command Int. 1 and the ACIU; and the Norden bombsight. The high losses resulted from a flawed doctrine stipulating that bombers could fly unescorted without excessive losses. This proved egregiously in error and placed the entire daylight bombardment effort in jeopardy after heavy losses during the Schweinfurt and Regensburg missions in August and October 1943.  Nonetheless, photointerpreters recognized how accurate USAAF bombing could be under the proper conditions. The 9 October 1943 attack on Marienburg, for instance, did such severe damage to the plant that it produced no new aircraft until February 1944. By then the Ame
Node: 5179, Score: 0.0577621864469771, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0884.txt, Content: ations were becoming static and defensive.122  In two subsequent reports, the RRS completed its assessment of the transportation campaign’s effects and effectiveness. During July, the Germans moved 395 trains, an average of thirteen every twenty-four hours in all of France. Of sixty-seven fuel trains dispatched by the end of June from Strasbourg, only four made it to forward depots. The rest were rerouted to more distant points, making for long supply runs by truck convoys. These detours led to major delays, greater stress on locomotives, serious fatigue for the shrinking pool of SNCF workers, and hence greater friction at all points in the transportation effort. Reconnaissance coverage allowed the Allies to see when trains were forming up, when units they were transporting arrived, and when the optimum time for attack—as trains were loading—had arrived.128  The critical locomotive shortage forced the Germans to bring 200 engines from the east, where they were sorely missed during the Russian summer offensive. Even more serious was the impact of the railroad crisis on units in southern and southwestern France once Operation DRAGOON (ANVIL) threatened to cut off German troops.22  Extended Operational Impacts: Southern France  Just before DRAGOON, Eaker, commanding 15th Air Force, cabled Spaatz a list of twelve bridges that had to be knocked out to achieve complete railroad interdiction before the landings. These were promptly dropped.14° The end result for German units of the 19th Army in southeastern France was a disaster. They quickly ran out of fuel and had no rail transportation, so they were thus forced to flee, for the most part on foot. A few had motorized vehicles, but these came under fighter-bomber attack and were destroyed or ran out of fuel and had to be abandoned.  Page 226 of 423 55%  another eleven partially unserviceable, most along the Seine and Loire. Of 467 locomotive repair sheds, 70 were destroyed, 20 rendered temporarily unusable, and many more