Node: 4725, Score: -0.0126420311902942, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0430.txt, Content: The Lloyd committee reported to a cabinet body known as the Hankey Committee on Preventing Oil from Reaching Germany, chaired by Lord Hankey. Its job was “to keep under review the action being taken to prevent oil supplies from reaching enemy powers and the organization required for this purpose,” a thankless task given Britain’s inability to stop Rumanian and (before 22 June 1941) Russian supplies from reaching Germany. In March 1942, the Hankey and Lloyd committees were disbanded. Sir Harold Hartley’s technical experts and analysts were placed under the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee and renamed the Technical Subcommittee on Axis Oil.®  Tha Tachninral Gaiheammittaa an Avice Oil nradiucod autetandina accacemante a fant eanfirmoad hu Titra intarrante (Carman ail nlant manacare 100d Titra ta eammuiunicata acnacially anca hamhinag  Page 99 of 423 25%  at new facilities. Of these intercepts, about 5 percent proved useful and 1 percent vital. One such message, received every week from 1940 until summer 1944 through intercepts of unencrypted Ruma- nian cables, provided exact figures on total oil deliveries up the Danube to Germany. It proved very useful as a damage-assessment tool when RAF bombers began mining the river in April 1944.22  To obtain the latest photoreconnaissance coverage, and to build what became a gargantuan set of files including every significant economic concern, MEW analysts developed a close liaison with the assistant director of intelligence for photography and the CIU. This started in late 1940, when MEW began producing all economic intelligence for third-phase reports in cooperation with CIU’s D and K Sections. Aerial photos provided crucial details, including the number of hydrogenation stalls at synthetic oil plants, reduction houses at aluminum plants, and assembly sheds at aircraft factories. Photoreconnaissance also worked well in conjunction with agent reports, which provided intelligence such as numbers of employees at a plant, the number
Node: 4462, Score: -0.0118474955797086, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0167.txt, Content: ition to an illogical extreme and made damage assessments a functional irrelevancy by advancing a tautology.  Trenchard nonetheless required submission of detailed raid reports immediately after each mission and reviewed them personally, often appending comments, most of which emphasized morale effects. In this sense, Trenchard used damage reports as political documents. He was determined to show the Air Ministry and the War Department that every bomb dropped on German cities degraded morale. Trenchard argued tirelessly that morale effects were great even when physical damage was minor.? Among his most notable claims during the IF air offensive was the statement that “it would be no exaggeration to say that every unit of the Independent Force immobilizes at least 50 times its fighting value from the ranks of the enemy.” When combined with his assertion that “at present the moral effect of bombing stands undoubtedly to the material effect in a proportion of 20 to 1, and therefore it was necessary to create the greatest moral effect possible,” it becomes clear that Trenchard  tira Barntad an mnvnla APants 9 Ula Alainnn elbinataler nenernd Lallacs Davhanan mach earnalina dannita Tran chaeda nhlin annactians that tha mavens aPant nf L am hin had Laan laennt veneer eennt Min bin  Page 32 of 423 9%  Perhaps the greatest irony is the fact that Trenchard, called the Father of the Royal Air Force, had no enthusiasm for strategic bombing under any circumstances until long after Armistice Day. Trenchard ignored Air Staff directives to attack industries and instead employed IF bombers against tactical targets, mostly airfields and marshaling yards. He also preferred attacking cities rather than specific industrial targets, saying such an approach would have the maximum morale effect on the German people. As one scholar notes,  Trenchard made this concept of air warfare the basis of his policy in the years following the war, and this led the peacetime air staffs to believe that
Node: 4307, Score: -0.0091314223635604, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0012.txt, Content: nd the war quickly and with the lowest possible loss of soldiers’ lives.  Anumber of individuals and institutions provided the counsel and support necessary to produce this work. My adviser at Ohio State, Professor John F. Guilmartin Jr., rendered tireless support, superb insights, and infinite patience as I produced this work. His ethic of service, learned as a young man in very demanding circumstances, is still very much alive. My deep thanks go as well to Professor Allan R. Millett and Professor Alan D. Beyerchen, both of whom took a good bit of time out of their busy schedules to review this study and offer valuable insights, as well as give me the basic under- standing of military and European history necessary to bring it to completion.  Special thanks go also to Colonel (Ret.) Thomas E. Griffith Jr. and Colonel (Ret.) Stephen D. Chiabotti at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS). Professor Chiabotti’s insights on air intelligence as conceptualized and practiced by the air force played a vital role in my decision to take on this project. Colonel Griffith and Professor Chiabotti generously supported my research, funding visits to five major archives in the United States and Great Britain. They are true champions. Sebastian Cox and Professors Conrad Crane, Richard Muller, and Hal Winton also provided exceptionally valuable insights, all of which made this book a better work of scholarship than it otherwise would have been. Having said this, any errors of fact or judgment are entirely my responsibility.  Ahost of people at the USAF Academy Special Collections Branch, National Archives and Records Administration, Air Force Historical Research Agency, Library of Congress, and the National Archives (formerly the Public Record Office) in the United Kingdom also proved helpful. I am grateful for their insights and assistance.  Finally, and most of all, I want to thank my family for their patience and devotion as I spent many long days at the computer co
Node: 4470, Score: -0.0089223566814544, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0175.txt, Content: .” Finally, Paul noted that German railroad officials referred to the bombing as an annoyance that resulted in a greater loss of work through alarms rather than damage. Morale problems were real but could usually be balanced by pay raises.12  Quantifying morale effects proved difficult at best. Nonetheless, both survey teams tried. Indeed, German reporting noted bombing’s limited morale effects. Unfortunately, the heavily edited final version of the British survey contained none of the original concerns about morale bombing’s likely ineffectiveness. Instead, it made outlandish claims, referring to “the immense moral effect of our air raids into Germany” and the “indisputable proof of the efficacy of air raids during the period under review.”!£ The final report also said of German workers: “Constant alarms and raids ruined their nerves. in same cases for life Had the war continued a few months longer. a more or less total hreakdown of lahour at several of the Works might have heen confidently exnected.”12 These renorts  Page 32 of 423 9%  ee a  Finally, it suggests how important bombing doctrine, objectives, and campaign planning would be in the development of an Allied air intelligence organization. Also central to Anglo-American bomb- ing developments—and divergence—were the postwar bombing surveys.  ee =~ in iia  a a Ae A  Postwar Bombing Surveys  Immediately after the Great War, ground survey teams traveled to western Germany to assess bombing’s effects and effectiveness. Their reports, which corroborated wartime damage reports with German reports of damage to the same targets, provide a superb means for checking the accuracy of wartime assessments.4 The two surveys occurred independently and involved visits to many of the same targets. Although the American survey report made it through the staffing process intact, the British survey went through three iterations before emerging in 1920 as Air Ministry Publication 1225, which, due in large measure due to Trencha
Node: 4490, Score: -0.0083683323929836, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0195.txt, Content: hin a reemerging intellectual infrastructure. This process was initially turbulent, given the uncertain extent of each organization’s responsibilities and the consequent turf wars, but as it gathered momentum, an impressive set of capabilities emerged.2  Organizational Retrenchment When the Great War ended, the component parts of the nascent Anglo-American air intelligence organizations went their separate ways, surviving on a sparse diet of interwar tasks and funds. In  mast anane thar did an her naefaeminn Funntiane that annnnend ta han littls av nnthina ta dn arith aie intalliannan a nennnce linlend in tha nuhlinla mind ta hambina cthish cme uridaler eiaumd duvine  Page 40 of 423 1%  1 ld  In assessing this retrenchment and subsequent advance, two distinct periods present themselves. The first, from the Armistice until the accession of Adolf Hitler to power in Germany in January 1933, saw the dissolution of the infrastructure into a collection of surviving component parts that developed for the most part in isolation from one another. After Hitler came to rule, a second and much more intense period of military developments began. The British responded by expanding and beginning to amalgamate several economic and air intelligence organizations established in the 1920s and early 1930s. Most important were the Committee of Imperial Defence’s Advisory Committee on Trade Questions in Time of War (ATB), founded in December 1923, and its Industrial Intelligence Centre (IIC), established in 1931. The British built on these during the late interwar period by establishing the Joint Chiefs of Staff’s Joint Intelligence Subcommittee in June 1936 and by subsuming the ATB and IIC within the Ministry of Economic Warfare in September 1939. This ministry would play a key role in the air intelligence process during the Second World War. There was, in addition, a major expansion of the Air Ministry, including the reemergence of a dedicated Directorate of Intelligence, which worked
Node: 4458, Score: -0.0081384591064899, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0163.txt, Content: oubtful whether he even seriously considered them. As the general officer commanding the IF, he exercised operational control independent of the Air Ministry. This allowed Trenchard to run the bombing campaign as he saw fit.  Trenchard  Perhaps the greatest irony is the fact that Trenchard, called the Father of the Royal Air Force, had no enthusiasm for strategic bombing under any circumstances until long after Armistice Day. Trenchard ignored Air Staff directives to attack industries and instead employed IF bombers against tactical targets, mostly airfields and marshaling yards. He also preferred attacking cities rather than specific industrial targets, saying such an approach would have the maximum morale effect on the German people. As one scholar notes,  Trenchard made this concept of air warfare the basis of his policy in the years following the war, and this led the peacetime air staffs to believe that the dropping of large tonnages on urban areas would present few difficulties. This in turn bred a complacency among the planners, and caused them to underestimate the problems concerned with finding the way to the target area and dropping bombs accurately on a specific objective.*  This is a telling insight. Indeed, Trenchard’s approach to bombing, which assumed that every bomb dropped successfully on cities had a morale effect on German civilians and was therefore automatically effective in lowering German morale, resulted in the overstated premise that each bomb dropped on German cities would bring the enemy a few steps closer to the negotiating table. Ironically, Trenchard and his staff relied on a definition of morale bombing developed by Tiverton in one of his staff papers characterizing it as anything “which hinders the German output of munitions, apart from actual material damage done to works.”* Trenchard’s view, however, took Tiverton’s definition to an illogical extreme and made damage assessments a functional irrelevancy by  Page 30 of 423 9%  a diver
Node: 4466, Score: -0.006104242329691, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0171.txt, Content: n bombing doctrine diverged, gradually during the interwar period, and then sharply during World War II. Finally, it suggests how important bombing doctrine, objectives, and campaign planning would be in the development of an Allied air intelligence organization. Also central to Anglo-American bomb- ing developments—and divergence—were the postwar bombing surveys.  Postwar Bombing Surveys  Immediately after the Great War, ground survey teams traveled to western Germany to assess bombing’s effects and effectiveness. Their reports, which corroborated wartime damage reports with German revorts of damage to the same targets. provide a suverb means for checking the accuracv of wartime assessments./4 The two survevs occurred indevendentlv and involved visits to manv of the  Page 32 of 423 9%  Trenchard nonetheless required submission of detailed raid reports immediately after each mission and reviewed them personally, often appending comments, most of which emphasized morale effects. In this sense, Trenchard used damage reports as political documents. He was determined to show the Air Ministry and the War Department that every bomb dropped on German cities degraded morale. Trenchard argued tirelessly that morale effects were great even when physical damage was minor.? Among his most notable claims during the IF air offensive was the statement that “it would be no exaggeration to say that every unit of the Independent Force immobilizes at least 50 times its fighting value from the ranks of the enemy.”® When combined with his assertion that “at present the moral effect of bombing stands undoubtedly to the material effect in a proportion of 20 to 1, and therefore it was necessary to create the greatest moral effect possible,” it becomes clear that Trenchard was fixated on morale effects.® His claims ultimately proved hollow. Perhaps most revealing, despite Trenchard’s public assertions that the morale effect of bombing had been “great—very great,” is his private diary entry
Node: 4728, Score: -0.0057222125425135, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0433.txt, Content: tion sources, including Ploesti.®  Interagency oil reports averaged 500 to 600 per week. Several agencies produced them, including MEW and the Lloyd committee. This committee, formed at the request of Chiefs of Staff in October 1939 under the chairmanship of Geoffrey Lloyd, secretary of mines, kept the German oil position under continuous review. Members included the directors of intelligence from all three services; representatives from the foreign office, MEW, the prime minister’s office, and the Petroleum Department; and civilian oil experts. A group of technical experts under Sir Harold Hartley collated all working materials. The Lloyd committee reported to a cabinet body known as the Hankey Committee on Preventing Oil from Reaching Germany, chaired by Lord Hankey. Its job was “to keep under review the action being taken to prevent oil supplies from reaching enemy powers and the organization required for this purpose,” a thankless task given Britain’s inability to stop Rumanian and (before 22 June 1941) Russian supplies from reaching Germany. In March 1942, the Hankey and Lloyd committees were disbanded. Sir Harold Hartley’s technical experts and analysts were placed under the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee and renamed the Technical Subcommittee on Axis Oil.  The Technical Subcommittee on Axis Oil produced outstanding assessments, a fact confirmed by Ultra intercepts (German oil plant managers used Ultra to communicate, especially once bombing restricted other means) and after the war by captured documents and interrogations of oil plant managers and other officials. These assessments of production and reserves were almost always within 5 percentage points of actual capacity and often within 1 or 2 percentage points. The subcommittee used many intelligence sources, among the most useful of which were cables between oil plants and Reich offices concerned with oil matters.  As it became available in increasing quantities, photoreconnaissance provided vital insigh
Node: 4557, Score: -0.0049239684608114, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0262.txt, Content: C worked increasingly closely with the Air Ministry’s Directorate of Intelligence to determine the German economy’s vulnerabilities to bombing. The obvious connections between economic intelligence and air intelligence, particularly relating to the vulnerabilities of an enemy’s war economy, made themselves felt throughout the growing intelligence community in the early 1930s. The fit between the two for air intelligence was not lost on those involved in discussions on cooperation and coordination during a future war, and engagement on these topics gathered momentum even though turf battles and bureaucratic inertia sometimes threatened to derail the process.&  Although cooperation between these intelligence organizations was initially tentative, it had dramatic implications for the development of air and economic intelligence agencies during the Second World War. F. H. Hinsley and his coauthors, including air intelligence specialist Edward Thomas, emphasized this point at the start of their five-volume study of British wartime intelligence:  In the years before the Second World War several bodies within the British structure of government shared the responsibility for intelligence. They were far from forming a single organization. They had evolved on different lines, within different departments, and no one authority directly supervised them all. Nor could any one authority have done so, given the nature of their re- sponsibilities and the variety of their activities. In some ways, however, they were coming to think of themselves as being parts of a single system for the first time. Perhaps the most significant development of these years is reflected in the fact that they recognized by 1939, as they had not recognized before 1918, the need to strike the right balance between the impracticability of cen- tralization and the dangers and drawbacks of independence and sub-division.  The process by which British intelligence agencies achieved this crucial goal proceeded r
Node: 4560, Score: -0.0040567110110681, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0265.txt, Content: mic intelligence team focused exclusively on these questions was indispensable. Accordingly, they established the IIC in 1931. The IIC worked increasingly closely with the Air Ministry’s Directorate of Intelligence to determine the German economy’s vulnerabilities to bombing. The obvious connections between economic intelligence and air intelligence, particularly relating to the vulnerabilities of an enemy’s war economy, made themselves felt throughout the growing intelligence community in the early 1930s. The fit between the two for air intelligence was not lost on those involved in discussions on cooperation and coordination during a future war, and engagement on these topics gathered momentum even though turf battles and bureaucratic inertia sometimes threatened to derail the process.&  Although cooperation between these intelligence organizations was initially tentative, it had dramatic implications for the development of air and economic intelligence agencies during the Second World War. F. H. Hinsley and his coauthors, including air intelligence specialist Edward Thomas, emphasized this point at the start of their five-volume study of British wartime intelligence:  In the years before the Second World War several bodies within the British structure of government shared the responsibility for intelligence. They were far from forming a single organization. They had evolved on different lines, within different departments, and no one authority directly supervised them all. Nor could any one authority have done so, given the nature of their re- sponsibilities and the variety of their activities. In some ways, however, they were coming to think of themselves as being parts of a single system for the first time. Perhaps the most significant development of these years is reflected in the fact that they recognized by 1939, as they had not recognized before 1918, the need to strike the right balance between the impracticability of cen- tralization and the dangers and d
Node: 4730, Score: -0.0038615382563991, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0435.txt, Content: e directors of intelligence from all three services; representatives from the foreign office, MEW, the prime minister’s office, and the Petroleum Department; and civilian oil experts. A group of technical experts under Sir Harold Hartley collated all working materials. The Lloyd committee reported to a cabinet body known as the Hankey Committee on Preventing Oil from Reaching Germany, chaired by Lord Hankey. Its job was “to keep under review the action being taken to prevent oil supplies from reaching enemy powers and the organization required for this purpose,” a thankless task given Britain’s inability to stop Rumanian and (before 22 June 1941) Russian supplies from reaching Germany. In March 1942, the Hankey and Lloyd committees were disbanded. Sir Harold Hartley’s technical experts and analysts were placed under the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee and renamed the Technical Subcommittee on Axis Oil.  The Technical Subcommittee on Axis Oil produced outstanding assessments, a fact confirmed by Ultra intercepts (German oil plant managers used Ultra to communicate, especially once bombing restricted other means) and after the war by captured documents and interrogations of oil plant managers and other officials. These assessments of production and reserves were almost always within 5 percentage points of actual capacity and often within 1 or 2 percentage points. The subcommittee used many intelligence sources, among the most useful of which were cables between oil plants and Reich offices concerned with oil matters.  As it became available in increasing quantities, photoreconnaissance provided vital insights by corroborating other sources and providing imagery of every new oil plant and refinery in German- occupied Europe. This allowed intelligence analysts to determine each plant’s dimensions and layout. CIU photointerpreters then worked with MEW analysts to determine product output and, once the major oil offensive began in April 1944, reductions in output and like
Node: 5533, Score: -0.0037673502609814, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_1238.txt, Content: oposing true morale bombing, that is 2,000 tons of H.E. per square mile not 100 to 200 tons as of old containing 50% or more of incendiaries. . . . If we do not win this war in the next 60 or so days trying to get oil down, in the winter, we may be faced with a considerably stronger G.A.F. next Spring!+%+  Now we are faced with one of the champions of precision bombardment claiming that there was somehow a great deal of difference between “true” morale bombing based, presumably, on weight of tonnage delivered per square mile and the more mundane and ineffectual morale bombing that had already ravaged Hamburg, every city in the Ruhr, and so many other urban areas. Things were in- deed getting strange in the morale-bombing debate, all at a point when morale was no longer mentioned in the POINTBLANK directive!  Spaatz made his volte-face in January 1945, by which time he was an ardent supporter of THUNDERCLAP’s Berlin variant.12 Doolittle now had to apply common sense and question the need to bomb a city with no military targets anywhere near the aim point, which happened to be the city center. He reminded Spaatz: “The chances of terrorizing into submission, by merely an increased concentration of bombing, a people who have been subjected to intense bombing for four years is extremely remote.”1©3 Spaatz remained adamant and instructed Doolittle that Berlin was to be attacked “whenever conditions do not—repeat not—indicate possibility of visual bombing of oil targets.”14 Spaatz’s motives are unclear to say the least. He fought publicity for the THUNDERCLAP raid on Berlin and its potential to disrupt the flow of reinforcements to the Russian Front. Spaatz thus appears at least momentarily to have abandoned opposition to morale bombing, given his insistence that the city center, not its marshaling yards, be the aim point. The raid on Berlin by more than 1,000 USAAF bombers on 3 February 1945 featured visual bombing with the aim point at city center—hardly in line with USA
Node: 4467, Score: -0.0010378392523141, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0172.txt, Content: effects.® His claims ultimately proved hollow. Perhaps most revealing, despite Trenchard’s public assertions that the morale effect of bombing had been “great—very great,” is his private diary entry on the day of the Armistice: “Thus the Independent Force comes to an end. A more gigantic waste of effort and personnel there has never been in any war.”12  Despite the fact that Trenchard’s views on bombing prevailed in Great Britain, Tiverton exerted tremendous influence on American strategic bombing advocates during and after World War I. His advocacy of precision bombing, by definition, required damage assessments to determine bombing’s effects and effectiveness, a fact not lost on American airmen. Ironically, Tiverton had far more in- fluence on American bombing theory, doctrine, and practice than he did on his countrymen, who filed his records away.  Gorrell  Then-Major Edgar S. Gorrell became head of the Strategical [Bombing] Section, Zone of Advance, American Expeditionary Force, in September 1917. While serving in Paris, he met Lord Tiverton, whose writings on strategic bombing he read avidly. In fact, it is now clear that the “Gorrell Plan” for the strategic bombing of Germany, long attributed to the American, was in fact a copy of Tiverton’s draft strategic bombing plan combined with Trenchard’s ideas about morale effects and Gorrell’s own views that bombing should be a day-and-night, around-the-clock effort to destroy key target sets, and especially the bottleneck targets within them. A letter from Gorrell to Tiverton thanking him for the loan of his notes on strategic bombing is particularly revealing, as is a review of the two men’s bombing plans, which are nearly identical.14 Gorrell’s plan was a synthesis of Tiverton’s emphasis on analytical planning and systematic implementation, Trenchard’s ideas about morale effects, and his own views that bombing could be decisive by depriving the German army of certain key items through the destruction of certain in
Node: 4461, Score: -0.001004103856068, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0166.txt, Content: e IF, he exercised operational control independent of the Air Ministry. This allowed Trenchard to run the bombing campaign as he saw fit.  Trenchard  Perhaps the greatest irony is the fact that Trenchard, called the Father of the Royal Air Force, had no enthusiasm for strategic bombing under any circumstances until long after Armistice Day. Trenchard ignored Air Staff directives to attack industries and instead employed IF bombers against tactical targets, mostly airfields and marshaling yards. He also preferred attacking cities rather than specific industrial targets, saying such an approach would have the maximum morale effect on the German people. As one scholar notes,  Trenchard made this concept of air warfare the basis of his policy in the years following the war, and this led the peacetime air staffs to believe that the dropping of large tonnages on urban areas would present few difficulties. This in turn bred a complacency among the planners, and caused them to underestimate the problems concerned with finding the way to the target area and dropping bombs accurately on a specific objective.>  This is a telling insight. Indeed, Trenchard’s approach to bombing, which assumed that every bomb dropped successfully on cities had a morale effect on German civilians and was therefore automatically effective in lowering German morale, resulted in the overstated premise that each bomb dropped on German cities would bring the enemy a few steps closer to the negotiating table. Ironically, Trenchard and his staff relied on a definition of morale bombing developed by Tiverton in one of his staff papers characterizing it as anything “which hinders the German output of munitions, apart from actual material damage done to works.”® Trenchard’s view, however, took Tiverton’s definition to an illogical extreme and made damage assessments a functional irrelevancy by advancing a tautology.  Trenchard nonetheless required submission of detailed raid reports immediately after each
Node: 4297, Score: -0.0007590033227635, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0002.txt, Content: ess of Kansas All rights reserved  Published by the University Press of Kansas (Lawrence, Kansas 66045), which was organized by the Kansas Board of Regents and is operated and funded by Emporia State University, Fort Hays State University, Kansas State University, Pittsburg State University, the University of Kansas, and Wichita State University  Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data  Ehlers, Robert. Targeting the Third Reich: air intelligence and the Allied bombing campaigns / Robert S. Ehlers, Jr. p. cm. — (Modern war studies) Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 978-0-7006-2144-6 (pbk. : alk. paper) ISBN 978-0-7006-2181-1 (ebook) 1. World War, 1939-1945—Military intelligence. 2. Military intelligence—Europe—History—20th century. 3. Aerial reconnaissance—Europe—History—20th century. 4. Bombing, Aerial—Europe—History—20th century. 5. World War, 1939-1945—Aerial operations, American. 6. World War, 1939-1945—Aerial operations, British. 7. United States. Army Air Forces—History—World War, 1939-1945. 8. Great Britain. Royal Air Force—History ‘  —World War, 1939-1945. 9. World War, 1939-1945—Campaigns—Europe. 10. Germany—History—1933-1945. I. Title. . D810.S7E395 2009 940.54'86—dc22 2009021981  British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data is available. Printed in the United States of America  Location 13 of 10349 1%  10987654321  The paper used in this publication is recycled and contains 30 percent postconsumer waste. It is acid free and meets the minimum requirements of the American National Standard for Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials 239.48-1992.  TO DR. JOHN F. GUILMARTIN JR. DECORATED COMBAT VETERAN, SCHOLAR, MENTOR, FRIEND  CONTENTS  Preface List of Abbreviations CHAPTER ONE Air Intelligence in Its Historical Context CHAPTER TWO The Great War and the Beginnings of Air Intelligence CHAPTER THREE Lessons Learned, Unlearned, and Forgotten: Analyses of Aerial Bombardment in World War I and Their Consequences CHAPTER FO
Node: 4604, Score: -0.0005499764200755, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0309.txt, Content: all accounts been working well since its formation in 1931, the rapid growth of the intelligence community, and the huge increases in materials required, drove an expansion of its duties. By summer 1937, the Committee on Imperial Defence recognized the need for an expanded body to make assessments on the basis of economic intelligence provided by the IIC. On 2 July 1937, it formed the Subcommittee on Economic Pressure, the forerunner of MEW, “to consider the problem of exerting economic pressure on Germany in the event of war with that country in 1939 and to draw up definite plans.” By 30 June 1938, this subcommittee was drafting plans for economic warfare against Germany. Its small staff surveyed the scope of economic intelligence still required and realized a larger and permanent body, with its director a member of the cabinet, would be required to provide economic intelligence to service ministries for war planning. The Committee of Imperial Defence agreed, resulting in the formation of MEW, initially composed of 78 analysts, in September 1939.26  The practical effects of these decisions from an air intelligence perspective were a requirement for the Air Ministry to collect most of its air targets intelligence solo, with only occasional support from MEW once it became active in September 1939, and a consequent delay in collecting the economic intelligence Bomber Command required for campaign and mission planning. Official historian F. H. Hinsley said, “In the field of economic intelligence inter-departmental cooperation declined, rather than improved, on the outbreak of war.”22 It took another six months before the COS, MEW, the Air Ministry, and Bomber Command recognized that bombing had to have a more prominent place in grand strategy and that closer cooperation and additional manpower were needed to make this happen.  Gathering Air Intelligence: Lessons and Data  The Air Staff Directorate of Intelligence therefore assumed a leading role as supplier of air int
Node: 4434, Score: -0.0002107263814919, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0139.txt, Content: orming their duties. Each observation group kept one copy of every photo in the Intelligence Office and two in the Operations Room. “The Intelligence Officer,” it continued,  will keep a card index of photographs taken, showing the size of camera used, coordinates of the center, index number of the photograph, altitude and date on which taken, together with a record of the character of the photograph. . . a stereoscopic instrument and magnifying glass must be available for the study and interpretation of photographs.**  This guidance hints at two quintessentially Anglo-American qualities vital to air intelligence developments in both world wars. The first was a penchant for organizing, storing, analyzing, and disseminating intelligence systematically. The second was an affinity for technology to improve organizational effectiveness. The stereoscopic instrument is a humble example, but an important one for the development of photointerpretation. It allowed users to view photographs in three dimensions where there is a 60-degree overlap between frames. The British and Americans discovered this in 1918 and took full advantage of it to reveal secrets hidden in the shadows, light, and perspective that comprised aerial photos.  Despite intelligence organizational evolution in the Air Service, problems hampered the tasking of intelligence collection platforms as well as the reporting and dissemination of damage assess- ments. For instance, every branch of the army had its own photo sections at unit and headquarters level, all of which received tasking in isolation, resulting in duplication of effort. The huge number of photos coming from units also overwhelmed intelligence officers at headquarters. Finally, the lack of a centralized photointerpretation unit was a major weakness that would await correction with the British (later Allied) Central Interpretation Unit at RAF Medmenham in World War II.*©  Intelligence: A Contested and Political Commodity  By summer 1918, the Br
Node: 4584, Score: 0.0004095151673974, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0289.txt, Content: Committee on Trade Questions in Time of War, Industrial Intelligence in Foreign Countries Subcom- mittee (FCI), and Industrial Intelligence Centre (IIC)—charged with gathering data on German industries. During the late interwar period, they matured and were joined by several air and military intelligence organizations charged with air intelligence functions. The increasingly close working relationships between these intelligence providers resulted, by summer 1939, in the first clear indi- cations that a new, much larger, interagency air intelligence organization was emerging.  This process got into high gear on New Year’s Day 1936, when the deputy chiefs of staff (DCOS), who had been appointed by the chiefs of staff (COS) in 1932 to ensure adequate preparations for war in the event of a conflict with Germany, issued a report favoring the creation of a centralized intelligence structure to facilitate coordination of intelligence between various military and civilian intelligence organizations. The report said the intelligence business had become immensely complex under the strains imposed by modern warfare. The problem was even more complex because air forces could now extend battle zones by hundreds of miles and perhaps to the heart of an adversary’s country, including its civilian population and war industries. All of this pointed to the need for closer cooperation between economic and air intelligence agencies.12  The FCI, composed of representatives from the treasury, foreign office, board of trade, and the service ministries, was thus designed to establish direct liaison for exchange of industrial intelligence between the board of trade and the service ministries, address all issues requiring collective action, and track key developments in Germany and Italy. To support the FCI, the IIC, established in 1931, provided industrial intelligence assessments. By 1934, the FCI had become the focal point for the collection and interpretation of air intelligence. This or
Node: 4486, Score: 0.0005099152595491, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0191.txt, Content: two states in which industrial society was most fully developed and in which the planning and preparation for war relied much more on civilian initiative and a close col- laboration of the politicians and industrialists.”2  The same thing might be said of the development of intelligence-related capabilities. Indeed, given the overarching contextual factors just described, the surprise is not that the nascent air intelli- gence organization withered away, but rather that several of its component parts remained and that there were impressive advances.  In assessing this retrenchment and subsequent advance, two distinct periods present themselves. The first, from the Armistice until the accession of Adolf Hitler to power in Germany in January 1933, saw the dissolution of the infrastructure into a collection of surviving component parts that developed for the most part in isolation from one another. After Hitler came to rule, a second and much more intense period of military developments began. The British responded by expanding and beginning to amalgamate several economic and air intelligence organizations established in the 1920s and early 1930s. Most important were the Committee of Imperial Defence’s Advisory Committee on Trade Questions in Time of War (ATB), founded in December 1923, and its Industrial Intelligence Centre (IIC), established in 1931. The British built on these during the late interwar period by establishing the Joint Chiefs of Staff's Joint Intelligence Subcommittee in June 1936 and by subsuming the ATB and IIC within the Ministry of Economic Warfare in September 1939. This ministry would play a key role in the air intelligence process during the Second World War. There was, in addition, a major expansion of the Air Ministry, including the reemergence of a dedicated Directorate of Intelligence, which worked increasingly closely with the Ministry of Economic Warfare. One of its new offices, R.D.Arm.4 (Analysis of Bombing Results), was dedicated to an
Node: 5032, Score: 0.0005982823137611, Chunk File: ehlers_targeting/chunks/ehlers_targeting_0737.txt, Content: best available intelligence to make their cases. This preinvasion debate, one of the most acrimonious of the war, highlighted the degree to which intelligence was in fact a highly political commodity liable to either proper use or misuse—or both—for the purposes of establishing strategic, operational, and tactical objectives and methods. Air Vice Marshal E. J. Kingston- McCloughry, chief operations planner for the Allied Expeditionary Air Force (AEAF), said, “Frequently the various authorities in the Services and departments each interpreted and sometimes twisted intelligence material to suit their own particular purposes. There was probably no more outstanding case of this partisan use of intelligence than in ‘Overlord.””2 He continued: “The arguments put forward by the opponents of the plan were completely confounded by the facts.”® As will become clear, his first statement was entirely correct, and the second one only partially so because of the vary- ing degree to which each player used intelligence for political purposes and in a manner not consistent with the facts. Even Lord Tedder, generally known for a level-headed approach to most issues, said of the Normandy transportation campaign, “This plan was to run like a thread through all the operations up to the end of the war; true, sometimes a very tangled thread—tangled sometimes by deliberate intrigue and sometimes by ignorance and misunderstanding.”” Before we delve into this battle and its outcomes, however, it is important to understand each of the plans and how compet- ing interests championed them.  There were four competing plans for isolating the Normandy battle area and giving Allied armies time to establish a lodgment: one put forth by Tedder and his scientific advisor, Professor Solly Zuckerman; the second by Spaatz; the third by the Enemy Objectives Unit (EOU) with Spaatz’s tacit support; and the fourth by Harris.® Tedder, as Eisenhower’s deputy supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces,