Node: 18247, Score: 0.0653843361355709, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_1008.txt, Content: evelopment of the follow-on F-106 Delta Dart was slowed by the attention given to the F-102. The F-106A made its first test flight on 26 December 1956; the two-place F-106B was first flown on 9 April 1958. The F-106 was placed in quantity production in fiscal year 1957 when F-102 production was closed out.  Viewed in retrospect the F-102 story revealed a long gap between perception  of need and program accomplishment. The time from the establishment of the requirement in 1948 to the completion of the program in 1958 was ten years. The cost of the F-102 program was some $2.3 billion, and at least $30 million worth of tooling was said to have been discarded in the process of developing this plane. In view of the gap that was going to exist before the F-102 and F-106 could become operational, the Air Defense Command accepted another interim interceptor — the F-104 Starfighter. The F-104 had not been designed as a fighter-interceptor and possessed electronic equipment that was not compatible with the semiautomatic ground environment that the Air Defense Command was installing. Although reluctant to take the day fighter, the Air Defense Command recognized that it could get the F-104 without great delay, and in April 1956 it asked for six squadrons of the plane. Although the F-104 was a flashy performer, it never met air defense requirements. In August 1957 the Air Force limited F-104 programming to only two wings of aircraft and canceled further production of the plane. At this time the Air Defense Command was rescheduled to receive only four squadrons of F-104s.%8  At the same time that it was seeking an optimized interceptor aircraft, the Air Force was visualizing the requirements for a ground control environment that could handle a jet air battle. A modern jet bomber could cross the entire area covered by one radar in a very few minutes. The air defense rule of thumb thus  531  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 553 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  visualized
Node: 18229, Score: 0.0634375675532084, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0990.txt, Content: was assumed that a similar system would be acceptable in the F-100 and no complete weapon system specification was written for the F-100. This was not to be the case; trouble with the Super Sabre’s fire control system proved costly to correct and delayed operational availability of the plane. 198  Afterwards the Air Force was unwilling to gamble and followed the Cook-Craigie production plan quite methodically. Aircraft were put into production at a very low monthly rate for one or two years with a minimum of hard tooling, while engineering tests uncovered deficiencies enabling corrections to be fed back into the production line. This procedure reduced the risk of a loss of money that might occur if production tooling were created too early, but four to six years could elapse before production could provide operational quantities of new aircraft. Only then could operational readiness testing begin. "It has been my unfortunate experience in the aircraft business," remarked General Irvine, "that you can test until you are black and blue in the face on a handful of machines, but you never know what you really have, you never get a real operational capability until you have a whole wing’s worth, a tactical unit in operation and actually submit them to the test of a true military mission a number of times."  Even though the modernization of air defense and tactical air wings progressed slowly and methodically, the sharply increased costs of this new equipment, when added to the soaring costs of missiles development, made it impossible for the Air Force to retain a modernized 137-wing force in being, once it was attained in June 1957, without promise of a substantially increased annual budget.” As a matter of fact the Air Force attained a 137-wing strength— which included 50 strategic, 32 air defense, and 55 tactical air wings—only by seizing upon the expedient of redesignating a strategic fighter escort wing as a fighter-bomber wing and by counting a Matador wing and four
Node: 17381, Score: 0.0620589287941888, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0142.txt, Content: XB-15 that the Boeing Company would deliver under this contract in 1937 would be too large for existing engines (someone once humorously remarked that if the engines on the XB-15 had ever looked back to see what they were pulling, all four of them would have quit simultaneously). But technology was catching up with requirements, and the Air Corps was learning to write military characteristics for planes that would be good yet attainable. In 1933 the Air Corps distributed proposals to manufacturers specifying a design competition for a multiengine bomber with a range of 2,000 miles and a speed of 250 miles per hour. In the design competition the following year, Douglas offered the DB-1 (an extrapolation from its DC-3 transport that would be the prototype for the twin-engine B-18); Martin  69  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 91 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  proposed a modification of its already successful B-10; and Boeing offered a four-engine Model 299, which would be the prototype of the B-17 Flying Fortress.*4  Baker Board Influences Air Organization  While making plans to implement the recommendations of the Drum board in the winter of 1933-34, the Air Corps was suddenly launched into a tragic undertaking that would center public attention and criticism upon it. Convinced that there was evidence of collusion and fraud in airmail contracts with commercial air transport companies, President Franklin D. Roosevelt ordered the Air Corps to start flying the airmail effective on 19 February 1934. Undertaking this mission without proper equipment, with inadequate ground organization, in the face of extremely bad winter flying weather, and with only ten days’ preparation, the Air Corps experienced 57 accidents and suffered 12 fatalities while flying 1,590,155 miles with 777,389 pounds of mail. Alarmed by the loss of life, President Roosevelt, on 10 March, directed the Air Corps to operate only in favorable weather conditions. On 8 May new contracts with priv
Node: 17537, Score: 0.0593261716308692, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0298.txt, Content: etation was going to be that bombers required fighter escort to operate safely and effectively. Brig Gen Orvil Anderson, however, would point out that attaining Allied air superiority over Europe was in no small part attributable to mistakes made by Hermann Goering. For one thing, the German fighters never attempted significant morning attacks over Great Britain when the American bombers were taking off and laboriously forming up for missions and would have been most vulnerable. For another, the German fighters could have met the P-47s and P-51s near the channel coast and forced them to drop their wing tanks, thus making it impossible for the Americans to continue their missions. Instead, the German fighters preferred to meet the American formations deep within Germany, usually over the bomber target. In Anderson’s opinion, Goering made his greatest mistake at the end of December 1943 when he ordered his fighter pilots to avoid Allied fighters and concentrate their attack on the bombers. This order ignored the basic fact of air fighting that when aircraft of roughly equal performance meet, the one that seeks to avoid combat is automatically at an almost certainly fatal disadvantage. After some argument, Anderson was able to persuade Maj Gen James H. Doolittle to issue orders on 4 January for the Eighth Air Force fighters to take the offensive —"to pursue the Hun until he was destroyed"—rather than to continue to provide position defense to friendly bombers. Goering’s mistake and the Eighth Air Force’s quick recognition of his error helped assure the attainment of Allied air superiority.  A close reading of Air Force correspondence of the Schweinfurt-Regensburg time period reveals a confidence that although strategic bombers, employed in force, could perform their missions over Germany even without air superiority, most planners and commanders acknowledged that an early attainment of Allied control of the air was necessary if the surface invasions of Europe were to s
Node: 17436, Score: 0.058762730841677, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0197.txt, Content: affe launched the Battle of Britain and began a phase of air combat that fostered still  98  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 120 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  more thinking. As a special observer in London from May to September 1940, Colonel Spaatz had a firsthand view of some of the heaviest fighting of the Luftwaffe blitz. As shown by his diary and his reports, Spaatz quickly reached a conclusion that the Germans had developed "a mass of air geared to the Army" which was not going to be able to prevail against the "real air power" developed by the British. German bombers were inadequately armed and lacked capabilities for heavy bombing attacks. Held to close support of bombers, German pursuit forces were unable to gain a general control of the air. Spaatz noted that British airmen discredited the American concept that a hostile air force was easiest destroyed on the ground. They found a well-dispersed air force to be an exceptionally difficult bombing target, and they believed that it was more efficient to destroy hostile aircraft in the air by fighter attack. When enemy planes were shot down, both planes and crews were destroyed. "General opinion," Spaatz noted in his diary, "is that German fighters will not attack a well-closed-in day-bombing formation." Visiting Great Britain in August and September 1940, Emmons reached much the same conclusion. He attributed the severe losses taken by the Luftwaffe to the large volume of fire that could be delivered by British fighters, the poor rear-hemisphere gun defenses of German bombers, the Germans’ use of vulnerable dive-bombing tactics and large inflexible formations, and the Germans’ poor air discipline. Emmons also reported that the British believed that six-plane formations of bombers with sufficient guns and armor could conduct daylight attacks without sustaining serious losses. *” Early in 1941 Spaatz urged that every effort be made to expand American production of four-engine bombers. The British, he sa
Node: 17705, Score: 0.0586713399308138, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0466.txt, Content: medium reconnaissance group should be equipped with speedy but limited range B-47s. The remaining three medium bomber groups would continue to be equipped with B-29s and RB-29s, but the board noted that the Air Force had issued procurement orders for 30 B-54A aircraft — an ultimate development of the B-50—which would probably become the replacement for the B-29s and RB-29s.40  243  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 265 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  The Senior Officers Board made no recommendations as to the aircraft to be used for modernizing the two strategic weather reconnaissance groups and the one strategic mapping group that would be retained in the 48-group program. The five light bomber groups that had been put in the 70-group program to perform ground support missions were reduced to a single group. Tactical reconnaissance also was reduced to the equivalent of one group (two squadrons in the United States and one in the Far East). The board postponed consideration of the aircraft requirements for the four heavy troop carrier groups and two light troop carrier groups that would remain in the 48-group program, but it gave careful attention to the equipment and composition of the 20 fighter groups that would be kept in active service. In World War II the P-47 and P-51 had served as admirable all-purpose fighters, but the board reasoned that the advent of jet power probably prevented the development of a successful all-purpose jet fighter. The F-80s, F-84s, and F-86s would be no more than marginally effective against any bomber faster than a B-29. Accordingly, the board recommended that a pure interceptor fighter should be developed by 1953-54. Pending further developmental work in fighters, the board recommended that the F-84 and F-86 should perform both interceptor and penetration missions, but it stated that the 20 fighter groups should be divided into eight penetration groups, seven interceptor groups, and five all-weather fighter groups.  The cu
Node: 17433, Score: 0.0583423657982995, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0194.txt, Content: d fitted with whatever armament possible.!4 Working through the Christmas holidays, the Air Corps Board completed its report on 3 January 1940. This report, "Fire Power of Bombardment Formations," noted that the firepower of American bombers was decidedly greater than that of European bombers. It recommended increased numbers of guns as practicable, better sighting systems, and increased gunnery training. It also recommended that consideration be given to developing a long-range fighter, a means whereby bombers could refuel accompanying fighters in flight, or a means by which bombers could carry, release, and recover high-performance pursuit aircraft. Despite the demonstrations of the vulnerability of bombardment aircraft, the Air Corps Board recommended that no thought should be given to reducing the importance attached to bombardment aviation in Air Corps doctrine. While pursuit escort was highly desirable for bomber penetrations into heavily defended areas in order to minimize losses of bombardment aircraft, the absence of such pursuit protection should not justify the abandoning of important missions.  Even though he remained committed to heavy bombardment, General Arnold continued to be troubled about the ability of bombers to operate in the face of strong hostile fighter operation. Accordingly, on 2 March 1940, he instructed the Air Corps Board to obtain a consensus at Maxwell Field on the types of pursuit and fighter aircraft required and the steps that could be taken to develop them from existing aircraft types. Taking into consideration the existing defensive mission of the Air Corps, the board after seven days of study recommended that highest priorities be given to the development of a fighter-interceptor for local air defense. The only possible solution that the board could see for developing bomber escort aircraft was to adapt some bombers to defensive purposes. While the board was not entirely certain that such would be necessary if the bomber defenses
Node: 17534, Score: 0.0572795324546643, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0295.txt, Content: the German Fighter Force in the air, on the ground, and the industry which supports it.... A sufficient depletion of the German Fighter Force is the one essential preliminary to our imposing our will by the use of air power on any portion of the German war effort which may be subsequently selected, be it submarines, oil, transportation or morale." Back in the United States, following the old Air Corps Board’s idea for the development of a "bomber-destroyer" aircraft, the AAF Board tested several YB-40s— heavily armed B-17s designed to provide tremendously augmented firepower to a bomber formation. A similar modification of the B-24, called the YB-41, also was tested at Eglin Field. These experiments indicated methods of increasing the armament on basic B-17s and B-24s. However, when the YB-40s were employed in combat in May 1943, they were too heavy to stay in formation with B-17s and the whole concept proved impracticable.  Alarmed by the increasing success of Luftwaffe fighters (which were not armed with cannon and could outrange the bombers’ defensive fire), the Combined Chiefs of Staff, in June 1943, directed that the "first priority in the operation of British and American bombers based in the United Kingdom shall be accorded to the attack of German fighter forces and the industry upon which they depend." On 28 June, Arnold gave the Army Air Forces six months to provide some escort aircraft that could accompany bombers to targets deep within Germany, but the heavy losses suffered by Eighth Air Force bombers on the long-range missions to Schweinfurt and Regensburg on 17 August and on the repeat attack on Schweinfurt on 14 October gave warning that escort planes would be required well before 1 January 1944, In Washington, Kuter pointed out to Arnold that the invasions of  152  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 174 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  Europe—Overlord on the Normandy coast and Anvil in southern France (tentatively set for May or June 1944) — might
Node: 17372, Score: 0.0572527898440516, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0133.txt, Content: ve formation of bombardment airplanes properly flown, can accomplish its mission unsupported by friendly pursuit, when opposed by no more than twice its number of hostile pursuit" and that "defensive formations of attack can accomplish their missions, unsupported by friendly pursuit, when opposed by no more than their own number of hostile pursuit."! Bombers would rely upon superior speed and firepower for protection in deep penetrations into enemy territory; the only  64  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 86 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  pursuit support they would require would be in cutting through the crust of enemy air opposition along the front lines.}°  To Olds and Walker the supremacy of the bomber held important significance. Under the older air doctrines, air superiority, air supremacy, or control of the air had been considered to be fleeting and attainable only by the concentration of a predominant number of pursuit aircraft in a local area. And although the April 1930 version of The Air Force continued to mention the old doctrine, it marked a shift in air force thinking by suggesting that bomber attacks against enemy airdromes would be the best method of destroying enemy aircraft.!” The next revision of The Air Force (February 1931) went even further, boldly predicting that control of the air, air superiority, or air supremacy (the terms were said to be synonymous) would be attainable throughout a combat theater by destroying the hostile air force in the air, on its airdromes, and in the enemy’s depots and factories. "Victory is practically assured to the commander whose air force has gained and can maintain, control of the air," the text stated, "even if his ground forces are merely equal or somewhat inferior to those of his enemy."8 "Pursuit alone," the text continued, "cannot ensure protection from air attack, but .. . bombardment and attack must participate to a degree undreamed of in the World War in the contest for control of the air, but attacks ag
Node: 18256, Score: 0.0569565837434028, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_1017.txt, Content: composed of various types of weapons — subsonic, supersonic, and hypersonic."  Although the Air Force successfully secured continued budgeting for its air defense programs in fiscal year 1959, many factors began to impinge on the level of air defense progamming during calendar years 1958-59. In January 1958 Secretary McElroy remarked that he was "not enthusiastic about the solution we have among roles and missions . . . in the area of continental air defense" and revealed that the Joint Chiefs of Staff was reviewing the matter. As has been seen the congressional appropriation of military construction funds for fiscal year 1959 called upon the secretary of defense to determine which missile or combination of missiles would be employed in a given area. Early in 1959 McElroy again stated that air defense continued to be a field in which the Department of Defense was having difficulty making decisions?” In March 1959 Senator Symington was very critical of the fact that the Air Force was  spending $5.5 billion every year to defend against ... bombers, but... not spending enough to maintain a position in the modern weapons of reasonable equality with what we agree the Russians are probably doing. ... We are cutting down on producing Atlas and on producing supersonic B-58s, and so forth, and yet we are still spending $5.5 billion annually to defend ourselves against something which we know the Russians are cutting down very heavily on and haven’t many of.  Despite these criticisms, the Air Force continued to program air defenses for fiscal year 1960 that would defend against a mixed aircraft and missile attack. Fighter-interceptor strength would be reduced to 25 wings, this reduction was justified by the increased effectiveness of century-series interceptors, an increase in the number and effectiveness of air-to-air missiles, and the acquisition of an initial operational capability with Bomarc A missiles.” Rather than sacrifice funds required for the development of the Mac
Node: 17432, Score: 0.0568616870532183, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0193.txt, Content: flying in defensive formations had been "proven wholly untenable." Arnold blamed the problem on the teachings of the Air Corps Tactical School and the fact that older and higher ranking Air Corps officers had sought to avoid strenuous service in pursuit units. He called on Maj Gen Delos C. Emmons, commander of the GHQ Air Force, to submit a study  96  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 118 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  looking toward the development of pursuit tactics, planes, and equipment. In the GHQ Air Force, Maj Harold L. George, commander of the 96th Bombardment Squadron, advised Emmons: "There is no question in my mind but that American bombardment units could not today defend themselves against American pursuit units." Pilots in the 8th Pursuit Group, as reported by Lt Col William E. Kepner, unanimously agreed that existing types of bombers would probably suffer a 50-percent loss from attacks by existing fighters unless the bombers operated at night. On the basis of these opinions, the GHO Air Force stated: "Aerial operations of the present European conflict confirm the results of the World War; that is that the present bombardment airplane cannot defend itself adequately against pursuit attack."  In the winter of 1939-40 the Air Corps considered the matter of pursuit and bombardment to be grave, but no one found any definite answers. Even though prevailing testimony indicated that existing pursuit aircraft were already superior to existing bombers, the GHO Air Force recommended improving both pursuit aircraft and the caliber of pursuit personnel. Antedating what would later be called the weapon system concept, the GHQ Air Force suggested that a pursuit plane should be built around a previously determined armament rather than being built as an airframe and fitted with whatever armament possible.!4 Working through the Christmas holidays, the Air Corps Board completed its report on 3 January 1940. This report, "Fire Power of Bombardment Formations," not
Node: 17825, Score: 0.0568116657239329, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0586.txt, Content: y for close air support roles, to include types of missions and targets, necessity for all weather operations, reasonable operational endurance, and ability to operate from advance strips in combat zones." Collins stated that tactical air units ought to be provided overseas on a basis of one fighter-bomber group per field army.!!9 In an article published in December, Gen Mark W. Clark, chief of the Army Field Forces, emphasized that the Army wanted a plane specifically designed for the close support mission. Ifthe plane required protection from hostile fighters, the support plane could be escorted by Air Force high-performance fighters. At a conference of Army and Air Force representatives, held in Washington on7 February 1951 to discuss the development of a light close-support aircraft, Army representatives reportedly made the point that multipurpose tactical fighters frequently were diverted away from close-support operations, whereas a light, support aircraft that could do nothin but this mission would always be available when it was needed for air support!  The Army proposals to attach supporting air groups to army units and to develop special close-support aircraft struck at the heart of the Army-Air Force air-ground doctrine that had emerged from World War II. General Cannon thought it significant that the concept of specially committed air support units had originated in the Central Pacific and had been fostered in Korea under conditions in which the maintenance of air superiority was quite different than it had been in Europe. In the event of a war with the Soviet Union, Cannon urged that all available aircraft initially be committed to gaining and maintaining friendly air superiority; he accordingly objected to the development and procurement of light close- support aircraft that would be too vulnerable to participate in an air war. "It  308  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 330 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  appears infinitely wiser to direct our
Node: 18222, Score: 0.0567400402099562, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0983.txt, Content: 1960s. At another meeting of the board in November 1957, however, the Air Force Directorate of Operations recommended additional B-52s rather than B-58s. General LeMay also indicated that he favored the B-52 over the B-58 because it could carry more electronic equipment and had an intercontinental range. The Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD) had ruled against procurement of additional B-52s, however. On 26 December General White made the final decision that SAC would receive some B-58s, the final number to be determined after operational testing. As a result of these decisions, the Department of Defense budget for fiscal year 1959, submitted to Congress in January 1958, contained no funds for additional B-52s but included the purchase of 47 B-58s at an estimated cost of $796.6 million. This initial order was intended to be a test quantity rather than a production order, and because of increased cost quotations the number of aircraft to be procured had to be reduced to 36 planes. While the budget hearings were in progress, LeMay emphasized that SAC ought to have one KC-135 tanker for each B-52 bomber, but the Air Force continued to program the three-to-two bomber-tanker ratio.182  At least a part of the Office of Secretary of Defense opposition to the procurement of additional B-52s arose from the belief that these planes would be vulnerable to Soviet missile defenses. Early in 1958 two separate developments promised to reduce B-52 vulnerability. The Strategic Air Command demonstrated that it would be feasible to conduct low-altitude attacks with the B-52s, thereby reducing the effectiveness of Soviet antiaircraft defenses. Following the award of a research and development contract on 16 September 1957, moreover, the North American Aviation Company made rapid progress in developing the GAM-77 Hound Dog missile. This turbojet missile would allow B-52s to deliver nuclear warheads against hostile targets or defenses without entering defended areas. The B-52s would be
Node: 17654, Score: 0.0562897421933358, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0415.txt, Content: bility for B-29 operations.!7!  Problems of Aircraft Procurement  Besides the explosive demobilization of its strength, the Army Air Forces found it impossible to procure new aircraft that were needed for modernization and to keep the aircraft producers of the United States in a solvent condition. Believing that national security required the maintenance of a healthy aircraft industry that could rapidly expand within a one-year period, Assistant Secretary of War Robert A. Lovett had sponsored the establishment of an Air Coordinating Committee with members from the War, Navy, and Commerce departments in December 1944.  216  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 238 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  After detailed study of mobilization requirements, the Air Coordinating Committee recommended on 22 October 1945 that the military services procure a minimum of 3,000 aircraft, or an airframe weight of 30,700,000 pounds, each year to keep the nation’s aircraft industries in a condition that would permit rapid expansion. This recommendation was predicated on an assumption that there would be a civilian requirement of 325 commercial transports and 20,000 private airplanes each year.)  As it finally materialized, the Air Force 70-group and 22-squadron program called for a total of 6,869 aircraft, while the 27 Air National Guard and 34 Air Reserve groups would be authorized an additional 5,572 aircraft, making a grand total of 12,441 aircraft. To replace losses in a period of conflict in which the aviation industry was gearing up for war production, the Air Force wanted to maintain an additional reserve of 8,100 aircraft.!”> Based on estimates of attrition and a planned program of obsolescence that would transfer aircraft from primary to secondary missions, such as training, after a given number of years, the Air Force computed that the annual procurement requirements of the 70-group and 22-squadron program would be its proportionate share of the 3,000 planes which the Air Co
Node: 17434, Score: 0.0559931026641045, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0195.txt, Content: the board could see for developing bomber escort aircraft was to adapt some bombers to defensive purposes. While the board was not entirely certain that such would be necessary if the bomber defenses were  97  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 119 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  strengthened by additional machine guns, it suggested that some bombardment planes might be very heavily armed with extra guns and gun turrets. Three of these special aircraft could be employed as the rear element of a nine-plane bombardment flight to defend the vulnerable rear area of the formation from attacks by hostile fighters.1? This solution apparently caught the attention of General Marshall, who asked Arnold on 13 June to consider the practicability of developing an air cruiser that would perform both air combat and bombardment missions. At this juncture, however, Arnold argued that the Air Corps had to emphasize production of existing equipment instead of research and development on an entirely new aircraft.)  During the spring of 1940 a steady steam of reports from France and England kept the War Department informed of the doctrinal lessons of the war in Europe. These reports noted that the Luftwaffe preserved the integrity of its air fleets and air corps, employing them as unified and flexible striking forces in support of the blitzkrieg. On 11 and 12 May, for example, two air fleets supported the German northern army group in Belgium and Holland, but on 13 and 14 May the whole air mass shifted southward to place a tremendous concentration of fire on French defenses at Sedan in support of a few armored divisions. In contrast, the British initially attached a Royal Air Force component to the British Expeditionary Force in France and maintained an independent advanced air striking force on the continent. On 15 January 1940, however, the British Air Ministry put all this aviation under the commander, British air forces in France, who was directed to use the whole force to
Node: 18251, Score: 0.0558488291028106, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_1012.txt, Content: istance the Soviets.  However, the Soviets achieved qualitative surprise and demonstrated on 1 May 1955 that their offensive capabilities had risen to a new plateau much sooner than had been anticipated. "We now have a good system to fight the Tu-4," observed General Partridge, who became commander in chief, Continental Air Defense Command, on 20 July 1955, "unfortunately the Russians came along a little more rapidly than we anticipated in their technical developments, and they introduced the jet bombers and the Bear more rapidly than was forecast." Partridge also warned that "the defenses which we are... planning ... take care of the Soviet threat up through the manned bomber, but the Soviets are said to be building an intercontinental ballistic missile, and we must somehow devise a defense against this type of attack.'8 The immediate air defense problem in 1955-56 concerned the development of capabilities to counter the Soviet Bison and Bear, both of which would likely possess a standoff missile equivalent to the Hound Dog. With one aerial refueling, moreover, the Soviet Bear would be able to fly a circuitous route and evade existing early warning lines in the Arctic. Since it was a turboprop aircraft, the Bear not only would have a very long range, but also would be able to operate effectively at low altitudes. After General LeMay had assessed the new Soviet bomber capabilities, which would be magnified once they developed intercontinental ballistic missiles, he observed: "The best thing that the Air Defense Command can do for SAC is to provide warning time. That is the most important thing they can do for us."" Less optimistic than his predecessors about the kill  533  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 555 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  capabilities of the Air Defense Command, General Partridge returned to a more limited concept of air defense. "As a matter of doctrine," he stated in April 1956,  we believe that the best defense is a good offense, and
Node: 17539, Score: 0.0555341247470594, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0300.txt, Content: d little concern for the effect that hostile antiaircraft artillery fire might have on strategic bomber missions. Ground fire had not been effective against aircraft in World War I or in the Spanish Civil War. When American heavy bombers began to make daylight strikes against enemy targets in France in the autumn of 1942, however, it suddenly appeared that hostile flak might be more of an obstacle to the bomber mission than enemy fighters. When Col Curtis E. LeMay was en route to England with the 305th Bombardment Group in October, he and his key officers happened to be in Prestwick at the same time as Col Frank A. Armstrong, Jr., who was heading back to Washington. Armstrong had led the first daylight bomber mission to Sotteville-Rouen on 17 August, had flown two additional missions, and was as much of an expert as the fledgling airmen had ever seen. Armstrong told LeMay and his staff that a heavy bomber crew would not be able to survive over a gun-defended target if it maintained a straight course for more than 10 seconds. "This," LeMay recalled, "was pretty discouraging information." Even good peacetime bombardiers could hardly hit a target precisely with such a short run. LeMay knew that his crews would need to fly a straight-in bomb run in order to get enough aiming time, but the question was whether they could survive with such tactics. Using an old ROTC manual on the French 75-millimeter field artillery gun, LeMay worked out a fire problem on the number of rounds that a gun crew would require to hit a target the size of a B-17, sitting still on a hillside at a distance of 25,000 feet. He computed that the gun crew would have to fire 372 rounds. These looked like good odds, and LeMay convinced his group that it would go straight in and make its attack without evasive action. Over Saint-Nazaire on 23 November 1942, with LeMay leading, the 305th encountered intense flak that damaged 6 of the 16 B-17s on the mission (including LeMay’s lead plane), but no planes w
Node: 18246, Score: 0.055516534312287, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_1007.txt, Content: ly wanted more than industry could provide prior to 1960, unless the Air Force would be willing to accept a four-engine fighter of virtually the same size as an airborne early warning aircraft. Facing these facts the Air Council on 16 February 1955 directed the procurement  530  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 552 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  of two-place F-101B Voodoo fighters to serve as interim long-range interceptors.  In view of the importance of attaining this long-range interceptor capability as soon as possible, the Air Force ordered the expedited development of the F-102. Early in the program the contractor was authorized to construct an initial quantity of 42 test aircraft and to tool up for a production of 125 a month. Even before the first F-102 was produced it was evident that the plane would be subsonic rather than supersonic. In cooperation with the Air Force and the Navy, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) had been studying supersonic flight, and a NACA scientist provided an area-progression rule that showed that an aircraft with a fuselage shaped in a "Coke bottle" configuration could sustain supersonic flight of the highest regime. By the time that Convair recognized that it would have to redesign the F-102 according to the area-progression rule, the first 10 vehicles were so far along the production line that they had to be built in the original subsonic configuration. The contractor then had to retool, but the next model was also unsatisfactory because it was too heavy. Four of the overweight versions were produced before the contractor was able to tool up a third time for the first acceptable version of the F-102 Delta Dagger, which made its first successful flight on 19 December 1954 and became operational in mid-1956. Development of the follow-on F-106 Delta Dart was slowed by the attention given to the F-102. The F-106A made its first test flight on 26 December 1956; the two-place F-106B was first flown on 9 April
Node: 18205, Score: 0.055490747843936, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0966.txt, Content: erican intelligence continued to be fearful of Soviet aircraft development. At the 1955 May Day celebration in Moscow, the Soviets displayed 13 type-37 Bisons and at least three (some observers counted nine) turboprop Tu-95 Bear heavy bombers. This display indicated that the Soviets had put the intercontinental Bison into production fully a year before predicted and that the even more formidable Bear also might be in production. At this same air show the Soviets displayed 43 twin-plate, all-weather Flashlight jet interceptors, enough to make it evident that these very dangerous, swept-wing fighters were already operational in air defense units.“? These aircraft sightings demanded an immediate reassessment of Air Force capabilities. The size and composition of the Strategic Air Command had been computed early in 1954 on a wargaming of the then existing JCS target list and expected combat attrition rates. Based ona floating D-day, B-52 production rates were fairly leisurely and were predicated on a 40-hour week without overtime at Boeing’s plant in Seattle. To reduce the potential vulnerability of a single-source production of B-52s the Air Force had already asked for a second source of production. When he received the news of the Soviet aircraft sighted over Moscow, Secretary Wilson acted swiftly to expand B-52 production and to bring a second Boeing plant into operation in government-owned facilities in Wichita, Kansas. In an expeditious action, Wilson secured Eisenhower’s approval for the action within the National Security Council and bypassed the Bureau of the Budget. On 26 May, Secretary Talbott and General Twining appeared in executive session with the Senate Armed Services Committee and received approval for accelerating B-52 production by 35 percent. Emergency budget actions added some $356 million for increased aircraft procurement to the budget for fiscal year 1956.4  509  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 531 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Even
Node: 17845, Score: 0.0554213939820487, Chunk File: futrell_ideas/chunks/futrell_ideas_0606.txt, Content: pread very thinly and  318  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 340 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  there are many holes. In the 95- Sgt oup program, the provision of defense will still be, in my opinion, inadequate.""™~ To bulwark continental air defense, the 95-wing planning called for the rebuilding of 11 Air National Guard wings and their equipment with jet fighter-interceptors.1“  In comparison with fiscal year 1950, when only 1,246 aircraft had been authorized for its procurement, the Air Force’s expanded aircraft procurement funds of fiscal year 1951 permitted it to place orders for 8,578 planes. Included were 44 B-36Hs, 39 RB-36Hs, 532 B-47s, 52 RB-47s, 3,993 jet fighters, 130 RF-84F tactical reconnaissance planes, 22 SA-16A search and rescue amphibians, 231 KC-97 tankers, 656 cargo aircraft, 2,373 trainers, 182 helicopters, and 111 liaison aircraft.!> Even though the procurement program was greatly expanded, the Air Force had not been able to lay down a single new basic aircraft design since 1947, and the fiscal year 1951 procurements did not represent any substantial increases in the state of the aeronautical art. The B-47 jet bombers — ordered in substantial quantities as successors to B-29s—could cruise at 500 miles an hour, but their limited combat range would force them to operate from overseas bases.  The fighter-interceptors that were procured in quantity—the F-89, F-86D, and the F-94—were designed to counter a Soviet Tu-4 capability that probably would not be a major threat after 1954. The only long-range escort fighter that could be provided to the Strategic Air Command was the F-84F, which would have in-flight refueling capabilities. However, because of a pressing requirement for fighter-bombers in autumn of 1951, most of the Strategic Air Command’s fighter-escort wings were reassigned to the Tactical Air Command.  During fiscal year 1951 the Joint Chiefs of Staff were no longer limited by a dollar budgetary ceiling given to them in advance.