Node: 24977, Score: 0.0260363239515484, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0031.txt, Content: clash of military forces. Famously, in War and Peace Tolstoy wanted to smash the Clausewitzian mythol- ogy of Napoleon and with it the whole idea that war was amenable to intentional control. As for theorizing about battle at windy alti- tudes, Tolstoy found it ridiculous, and Clausewitz trots through his scene to imply as much. Yet Tolstoy also has Clausewitz, in addi- tion to delivering a disastrous plan for the next day's battle, defend brutality, too: "The only aim is to weaken the enemy," Clausewitz | 31| remarks from his saddle (in German in the Russian novel), "so one cannot, of course, take into account the losses of private persons." In his dream of not taking prisoners, Tolstoy's character ironically sounded a Clausewitzian note. What Prince Andrei was suggesting in his speech was that intensification would lead to more humanity and less suffering over time for all its brutality in the short run- precisely because it would lead to more peace. Not taking prisoners "by itself would change the whole war and make it less cruel," An- drei says. If Clausewitz was right that intensity led indirectly to pacification, intensification also turned out to be more humane than humanization! On its own, paradoxically, humanization could foment more war, and less humane outcomes. Furthermore, Andrei insisted, making war more humane could lead war to be an easier matter to start: a less fateful and momentous choice, because the stakes were lower. "If there was none of this magnanimity in war," he continued in his impassioned homily, "we should go to war only when it was worthwhile going to certain death." When audiences shrank from the argument that intense wars were good in themselves, advocates of intensification offered blind guesses about the future. It wasn't just that bloody wars would be- come less routine. They also suggested that shock and awe would end more quickly once it started. As Lieber forecast, "intense wars are of short duration." Yet advocates of making
Node: 25087, Score: 0.0210609912825526, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0141.txt, Content: e of cosmopolitans who would never fight. Now, she rued, they had gotten more money than they needed from states willing to arm themselves for doomsday. The limited but real use of bombs from the skies in World War I was widely understood to be a dry run for a future age of air power. Aviators had had only a short time to prepare, and the logistical dif- ficulties of dropping bombs from dirigibles and planes were almost insurmountable. A few frightening runs in the sky were all that the European powers conducted against one another-but enough to convince everyone below that if World War I did not end all wars, the future would be terrible. Air attacks in "the present war," The New York Times reported in 1914, "violate no law, however much that might offend the world's sense of humanity." Although the fifty Zeppelin raids over Britain in 1915-16 and twenty-five plane sorties in 1917-18 caused little damage, they were portents of the nature of future war that everyone could read. While Europeans struggled to end war with one another, new practices of "strategic bombing" to sap the morale of populations were used with abandon in Europe's colonies. Following its use in North Africa, air control became a fashionable means of pacifying re- sistance across the colonial world. In World War I, the British used it on India's Northwest Frontier in 1915, where Pathans were bombed, then in Darfur and Egypt in 1916. Three years later, Mohammad Abdullah Hassan, dubbed the "Mad Mullah," saw his long-running and tenacious Somali insurgency easily terminated by a squadron of twelve DeHavilland aircraft. The planes singed him while killing his entourage on the first strike and eventually drove him into the wasteland, where he would die of influenza months later. The practice came into its own in Iraq (the part of the former Ottoman Empire given as spoils to the victorious British after World War I). Arthur "Bomber" Harris, later the hero of Britain's destruc- tion of German cities in
Node: 24976, Score: 0.0174126330701497, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0030.txt, Content: ssages of the Bible were to be taken literally, no book would contain greater contradictions.") When he was given the chance as a Columbia University law  HUMANE |30| THE WARNING professor and government consultant to write rules for the Union Army in 1862, Lieber made them most consistent with the Clause- witzian agenda of intensifying war. Erected as one of its founding fathers later, Lieber was not really part of the tradition of making war humane. He condoned horrendous acts such as punishing civilians and denying quarter-which meant that, when enemies surrendered in hopes of avoiding death, you could kill them anyway. Instead, Lie- of how those actu- ber was an excellent example like Clausewitz- ally committed to intense war sometimes pretended to be friends of peace. For Lieber, anything necessary in war, more or less, ought to be legal; if there was such a thing as excess violence and suffering. it was because it was necessary to achieve victory, which hastened peace. Clausewitz already got into the act. "Battle exists for its own sake alone," he had insisted. But it also had an extra advantage. It "led directly to peace." Lieber told a similar story as his master. "If de- struction of the enemy is my object, it is not only my right, but my duty, to resort to the most destructive means." But thankfully, he added, "the more actively this rule is followed out, the better for humanity." Intensity bred pacification, albeit as a fringe benefit of an already great thing. Just before he gives his speech, Prince Andrei is passed on horse- back by none other than Clausewitz himself. Tolstoy probably never read him. He gave the Prussian theoretician a cameo in War and Peace all the same, to doubt the value of "theory" in the face of the chaos and confusion that defined the clash of military forces. Famously, in War and Peace Tolstoy wanted to smash the Clausewitzian mythol- ogy of Napoleon and with it the whole idea that war was amenable to intentional control. As for
Node: 25081, Score: 0.0155450966224195, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0135.txt, Content: arbor, they assumed responsibility for global affairs despite previous decades of skittish doubts. Yet the consequences of World War II were ambiguous. With America's help, European dreams of a continent beyond military strife were finally realized. But the militarized standoff that counted as the Cold War's ver- sion of peace in Europe coexisted with American wars in Asia and elsewhere. American internationalists such as Quincy Wright had argued for their country to be involved in the struggle for global peace. Perpetual war was the price. And it was pitilessly violent. The United States guaranteed the European peace by exporting to  HUMANE | 120| | 121 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE Asia the total-war tactics Europeans had previously used in colonial wars, and that Americans themselves had employed against Native Americans and Filipinos. On the land and in the air, U.S. power was deployed ruthlessly not just to end World War II but also to hold the line against communism in Korea five years later. It was no accident that American peace and brutal war went together; it was a matter of fervent belief. "I am a one hundred percent disbeliever in war," General Douglas MacArthur remarked at one point. Some might have seen it as a peculiar claim, coming from the most celebrated U.S. soldier of the middle of the twenti- eth century, famous for his brave acts, corncob pipe, and dashing ways. Yet it was precisely war's brutality, MacArthur thought, that would guarantee peace on acceptable terms. If Americans now em- braced global order as their mission, it was at first as ardent foes of humane war. MacArthur hoped to be remembered, as he famously put it when arriving in Tokyo in 1945, "not as a commander engaged in cam- paigns and battles, even though victorious to American arms." In- stead, he was an emissary with a "sacred duty" to "carry to the land of our vanquished foe the solace and hope and faith of Christian morals." Christian Europeans were finally pacified a
Node: 25083, Score: 0.015513121970891, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0137.txt, Content: this option meant committing the country to global war. At this critical moment, Quincy Wright began ruminating on the consequences of the fall of the comparatively peaceful British ascendancy: "The pax Britannica had given Europe the best two centuries it had had-at least since the pax Romana a millennium and a half earlier." It was a long-established fact: empires brought peace, too. "The excessively brutal civil and imperial wars which characterized the last century of the Roman Republic were followed by such a will to peace that most of the western world submitted to the Pax Romana of Augustus and his successors for two centuries," Wright mused. Could the twentieth century offer something similar, he wondered, without requiring the humiliating subjugation of vas- sals and ceaseless violence at the savage frontiers of empire? Could a world organization under international law keep aggressors from bringing ruin to liberal democracies at peace? Would peace come, if it did, under the auspices of another empire or in some unprece- dented guise? Following World War I, internationalists such as Wright had ear- nestly sought a new answer to the problem rather than a new empire. But he knew there was a crucial instability in Woodrow Wilson's his- toric "internationalism." To enter World War I, the president had  HUMANE | 122 | | 123 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE united progressives with a promise to "end all wars" that portended a global order beyond power politics. It wasn't supposed to be a scheme for American hegemony. But what if it was precisely such hegemony that would allow skittish conservatives to support an American-led peace? And what if that hegemony required precisely the militariza- tion of the globe that progressives had once denounced? As the great debate raged through the 1930s, those who had objected to U.S. entry into World War I were no longer seen as vin- dicated by events; now they entered the ranks of the disastrously shortsighted. A broad
Node: 25080, Score: 0.014324506188687, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0134.txt, Content: far as to blame humane war for endless war. But it was clear to him that if international law did not institu- tionalize peace, it was not worth much. "The war has . . . shown that international law can not greatly reduce the destructiveness of war" he observed in 1920. If so, "the effort of international law to regu- late war" was "of slight practical value," and "international law must more seriously devote itself to the regulation of the conditions which lead to war and the elimination of war itself." World War II would have to be the war for peace that its pre- decessor had turned out not to be. As it turned out, the American- run peace that took hold in Europe after 1945 would lead the very people for whom humane war was devised-white Europeans-to stop slaughtering one another. But in those same years, Americans would commit to fighting all around the world. If their wars were ever to become humane in intent or effect, it was, alas, not going to be anytime soon. CHAPTER FOUR Air War and America's Brutal Peace WORLD PEACE THE AMERICAN WAY WAS BRUTAL WHEN ESTABLISHED IN the 1940s, and for a long time after. One of the biggest reasons was airborne weapons, which would do more than any development to make dreams of humane war incredible, even as-in our time-they would indicate the possibility of hostilities that are less cruel. Fall- ing from Prince Andrei's sky, free of the rules of warfare, the bombs that killed civilians by the millions and on purpose in World War II contributed mightily to the intensification of brutal war. They also helped bring about the establishment of a Pax Americana that has existed ever since. From the 1930s to the 1950s, Americans lived through the most transformational era in their foreign affairs. Swept into conflagra- tion after Pearl Harbor, they assumed responsibility for global affairs despite previous decades of skittish doubts. Yet the consequences of World War II were ambiguous. With America's help, European dreams of a contin
Node: 25085, Score: 0.0142146640105849, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0139.txt, Content: t someday become humane and precise. At The Hague, the U.S. delegate and army captain William Crozier, with a record of fight- ing the Sioux after graduating from West Point, had anticipated this development, with the prospect of dirigible balloons in mind. He foresaw that air power would eventually allow for "localizing at impor- tant points the destruction of life and property and [permit] sparing the sufferings of all who are not at the precise spot where the result is decided." The immediate question for those tinkering with the rules of war was how-and against whom-air power was to be used in its orig- inally indiscriminate form. Since the introduction of the Zeppelin in 1900 made dirigible ballooning more plausible, the same consensus did not exist to ban aerial bombardment at the next Hague confer- ence in 1907, though a majority supported another temporary ban. Never again did international law specifically prohibit it. The rules updated at The Hague in 1907 did exclude "bombard- ment" of "undefended" towns "by whatever means." But in prac- tice, this modification ruled out very little. It all depended what "undefended" meant. Meeting at Oxford in the halcyon summer of 1913, some urged reading this provision as "not being defended in fact" rather than "capable of being defended in theory," to restrict aerial wrath to towns fighting back. But these progressive voices were drowned out. Lawyers wrangling the rules for states reasoned that the small payload of airplanes compensated for their impre- cision. Aerial bombing, they reasoned, would not necessarily be more brutal than accepted conduct like the famously cruel daylong British shelling of Alexandria in 1882, amid a nationalist uprising against the ruling Egyptian khedive (a European client). Across the Atlantic, peace activists mobilized against the prospect of weapons being released with high-altitude immunity and causing indiscriminate carnage. In 1911, Italy dropped the first bombs from airplanes, on A
Node: 25070, Score: 0.0138960714757676, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0124.txt, Content: Y LATER, ACROSS THE PACIFIC OCEAN IN ITS burgeoning overseas empire, the United States found itself em- broiled first in a conventional war and then a decades-long counter- insurgency. It received the Philippines in the peace treaty following America's brief, decisive, and glorious war with the mother country of Spain in 1898. There was just one problem: Spain's bitter oppo- nent in the Philippines, the diminutive former mayor Emilio Agui- naldo, wasn't buying it. On his return from exile, Aguinaldo, still only thirty years old, declared a republic after taking control of most of the country during the imperial handoff. He then fought his new master tooth and nail. After the United States put down Aguinaldo's armies in their strong- hold in and around Manila, a protracted rebellion followed. Aguinaldo, with no previous fighting experience, succeeded in leading a guerrilla resistance, which sprang up across the islands. Even after Aguinaldo's own capture in March 1901, it lasted for years, especially in the Muslim Moro provinces. For Americans, the legal situation was clear from the start. As with "Indian war" before, they were simply putting down resistance in their justly claimed lands. It was not an international war. Where the United States had waited decades on the original Geneva Con- vention of 1864, the Senate promptly ratified the new Hague rules of 1899 in 1902. But even after it did so, the international treaty governing the fighting of war wasn't formally applicable, since the conflict was not a war between nation-states but between the United States and its disorderly imperial subjects. Still, the hot contest and the deployment of a humongous military presence meant it could be conceived as a war, and some rules of fighting might matter. In the Boer War, the United Kingdom had faced opponents such as William Stead, who cited chapter and verse from a new treaty calling for restraint (for white people). By contrast, the United States waged its biggest camp
Node: 25001, Score: 0.0134216868295488, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0055.txt, Content: all the dead alive was what the latter sym- bolizes, by nipping the possibility of the coming war itself in the bud." In Lay Down Your Arms, even Martha's once-militaristic father converts to her pacifist cause on his deathbed. Unfortunately, even as she discovers and joins the cause of the "war on war" of the new peace associations of Europe, Martha's second husband perishes in the midst of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870, in spite of his attempt to steer clear of the fracas. When Lay Down Your Arms appeared in 1889, it set fin de siècle Europe and the United States on their ears. After selling more than 200,000 copies in German-speaking lands, more than a million cop- ies circulated in at least sixteen languages elsewhere. Before World War I, no document of Western civilization did more to turn what had been a crackpot and marginal call for an end to endless war into a mainstream cause. But it also helped that the cause itself was trans- forming, becoming more professional, realistic, and "scientific." THE MOVEMENT SURGED IN EUROPE DURING THE SLOW BREAKDOWN OF peace between the 1860s and the outbreak of World War I. The rea- son was the crystallization of a new sensibility that despised ex- posure to occasional wars in the midst of progress and plenty. The same nations whose populations were learning to demand a Euro- pean peace, of course, were at the height of an imperialist scramble to parcel out the world among themselves. States faced far less crit- icism at home when they committed violence on other continents, in perpetual counterinsurgent war to conquer new colonies or in the maintenance of ongoing overseas holdings. Still, the transatlan- tic expectation of peace among white people and Christians telling | 53 | themselves they shared a common "civilization" was nothing short of extraordinary. For the first time, the inevitability of war in human affairs was not taken for granted. Uncoordinated, new peace groups sprang up across the Atlantic, championing h
Node: 25063, Score: 0.0129750740208419, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0117.txt, Content: rus, Indians were still "in a savage state" with "continual war" as "the natural instinct and appetite." And when the law was taken to be relevant, it was because Indians, them- selves not following the rules, did not get the protection of any. America's default way of war-honed in the imperial encounter with native peoples and lasting into the twentieth century across the globe-recognized no limits. There was no protection for noncombat- ants, since the people were the enemy; prisoners, if captured instead of killed by choice, were entitled to no respect; and torture, eventually the most important taboo in an age of more humane war, was rampant. "Will it not be strictly just and absolutely necessary," one newspaper asked in the eighteenth century, "that we . . . make some severe exam- ples of our inhuman enemies when they fall into our hands?" If justification was needed-and the point is that it usually | 105 | wasn't-the new Americans were just punishing their predeces- sors for having taken the low road first. "The known rule of war- fare with the Indian Savages is an indiscriminate butchery of men, women, and children," Thomas Jefferson maintained in 1779. It was scandalous when white men visited such cruelties on fellow white people. But it was noble or at least necessary when the "Sav- ages" themselves needed to be cleansed from the land, and Jefferson cheered two years later when seven hundred Virginians burned and terrorized Cherokee country, as if no limits applied. Two centuries after the Pequot War, the First Seminole War, in 1816-19, was conceived as one episode in an endless and inhumane war by necessity. Hillis Hadjo, leader of the Red Stick tribe, known by white people as Josiah Francis "the Prophet," raided Fort Sinque- field in Alabama before his men were decisively beaten and fled into the Florida Panhandle wilderness. Apprehended a few years later by Andrew Jackson, leading U.S. forces in a reign of terror at the head of the Tennessee militia, Had
Node: 25035, Score: 0.0129707524634405, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0089.txt, Content: nvention, yet across northern France, they both disrespected it while charging that all the blame fell on the other side. When the American nurse Clara Barton and other humanitarians sought to ameliorate the suffering, they could not easily get their neutral rights respected by peasants in hot zones  HUMANE | 82| LAWS OF INHUMANITY who had never heard of international law, though Prussia's wounded received great care from its own Red Cross society. Worse was what happened to those left unprotected even on paper. The French citizens of Strasbourg held out for weeks under bombard- ment, earning for their trouble the allocation of their historic town to the new German empire formed under Prussian auspices. Hundreds died while cannons razed libraries, and the main cathedral-at the time, the tallest building in the world-was set on fire. Across the north of France, the Prussian armies encountered irregular and snip- ing enemies. After Paris fell, the city's National Guard refused to dis- arm, sparking an intermittent citizens' uprising that required several months and unparalleled violence to suppress. The Prussian Army was not happy about the disorder, though its efforts to contain it never became a full-scale anti-guerrilla war. The ex- traordinary siege of Paris in the fall and winter of 1870-71 killed up to fifty thousand noncombatants, many intentionally starved to death. It was one of the most extreme bouts of repression on the European continent in the nineteenth century, driving the city's inhabitants to eat even the elephants and kangaroos in the zoo (the hippo was spared only because butchers suspected that even starving Parisians would not stoop that low). But the violence was not over: no sooner had the siege ended and France surrendered than the Commune seized power in Paris, incubating radical democratic ideals as it faced down the gruff rejection of France's newest republic. In May 1871, when the French Army entered Paris amid pitched battles, thousands di
Node: 25095, Score: 0.0128079915252724, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0149.txt, Content: tration, as to "isolation." World War II enshrined a European peace through the ascendancy of one great power. It wasn't what Wright had intended. He was a charter member of the World Citi- zens Association, founded in 1938, and joined his Chicago colleagues in drafting a world constitution after 1945. World War II, as he saw it, was a war fought on behalf of the rule of international law, for "the ramparts to defend are the ramparts of law, and the place to defend them is the place where lawlessness be- gins." Totalitarian states, Wright explained in summer 1941, were so perverted that their existence was simply incompatible with the new destiny of international law to abolish recourse to force. The Soviet Union's move from peace policies to the offensive invasion of Finland in November 1939 proved that point long before Hitler moved west and then east, rupturing his erstwhile alliance with Stalin and in- vading his lands. To Wright, "Totalitarianism both in principle and practice rejects all standards above the legislation of the totalitarian government." WORLD WAR II WAS THE MOST BRUTAL WAR YET, AND NOT ONLY BECAUSE the Axis powers disregarded all constraints. America's reconquest of the islands of its Pacific empire proved so costly and difficult that it shaped a still-debated endgame to the conflict. The recourse to aerial bombing in 1944-45 lessened the more symmetrical horrors of close- range engagement, but only in favor of mass death of civilians, first as Japanese cities were razed by fire and then as two nuclear bombs were dropped with no thought about the rules of international law. The propriety of morale or strategic bombing, with openly ad- vertised roots in colonial counterinsurgency, was already secure enough by the early 1920s to inform a doctrine of the United States Army (of which the United States Air Force was formally part until  HUMANE | 132 | | 133 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE 1947). According to one 1922 manual, "The effect of bombi
Node: 25016, Score: 0.01258916883972, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0070.txt, Content: ing the ultimate goal of final peace in mind at the same time. But his father made a gross error in thinking that peace was utopian. "There is no problem so small that its solution in the better way is not worthwhile." War was the problem from hell. But it could be solved. For every skeptic who said that the mounting political hostilities that had climaxed in World War I proved definitively that peace was beyond reach, there were droves of survivors of the horror who de- manded that statesmen never loose such a blood-dimmed tide again. Certainly, in the summer of 1914 it had not seemed that pressure for peace would result from the war. Europeans on all sides were fervent for victory, a gory one if necessary. In spite of a generation of peace activism, patriotism surged in Europe to the point of swamping oppo- sition. Even socialists who claimed to represent workingmen across borders and who had regularly stood for peace in international affairs in various crises ended up embracing the war when it came. Almost as floridly, the leaders and members of peace movements sided nearly | 65| unanimously with their respective countries' decision to go to war in August 1914. Even in the United States, the die was cast when some progressives and socialists took Wilson's rationale for one last war seriously in 1916-17, although Wilson soon engaged in a ferocious crackdown on dissent as the intervention began. Perverse as it may seem to say so, World War I was also "the great war for peace." The death of ten million soldiers and forty million ci- vilians, at a price tag of $200 billion (more than $3 trillion by today's reckoning), made the old warnings of the peace movement about the stakes of conflict seem both justified and prescient-once war fever passed. Over the course of its terrible four years of death, what had been a marginal agenda became central to national life everywhere and global diplomacy forever, beyond the wildest dreams of earlier generations of activists. Iron
Node: 24978, Score: 0.0125584252124258, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0032.txt, Content: loody wars would be- come less routine. They also suggested that shock and awe would end more quickly once it started. As Lieber forecast, "intense wars are of short duration." Yet advocates of making war humane offered an exactly paral- lel guess on behalf of their own cause. Already in 1864, Gustave Moynier called the Geneva Convention the path down "a slope where there is no stopping; the end of the road cannot be less than the condemnation of war in absolute terms." The laws of war would become "secret agents of pacification," Moynier foresaw in one of his rare moments of visionary enthusiasm. "The humanization of war could end only in its abolition," he promised his funders. "The [Ge- neva] Convention has furnished an argument in favor of the broth- erhood of men. Recognizing that after all they all belong to the same  HUMANE | 32| THE WARNING family, men have concluded that they ought to begin by showing some regard for another's suffering, up to a certain point . . . pending the time when a still stronger conviction of their common humanity shall lead them to understand that the very idea of their killing one another is monstrous." In short, it was not intensification that would indirectly abet pacification, but humanization. In fact, the argument that Tolstoy the novelist puts in Prince An- drei's mouth depends for its success on complete speculation. Could it really work to make war more brutal in the short run so that it became less common and more humane in the long run? Was there evidence for that proposition in the history of Tolstoy's own time let alone the brutal and long wars of the twentieth century he did not live to see? Equally hypothetical and unproven, however, was the occasional suggestion of advocates of humanization like Moynier that they were the ones bringing about peace indirectly. After a conversion experience, Tolstoy gave up Prince Andrei's shortsighted view. But Aylmer Maude, his biographer and friend, was absolutely right that the sp
Node: 24956, Score: 0.0123098207545134, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0010.txt, Content: the millennialist Christian idea that war might end on this earth. They led the effort to impose international limits on making war. From the beginning, however, there was lively debate about how that ambition fit together with the noble goal of making war more humane. Those worries were, in fact, more lively in the nineteenth century when it was novel to pursue peace and humanity, and the ragtag advocates of each agenda sometimes worked together even as they wondered if one goal threatened the other. For more than a century, however, suspicions that the pursuit of humane war could postpone peace were entirely abstract. War was too brutal, and early laws to govern it did not aim to make it more humane. In 1945, the United Nations Charter, which the United States did the most to draft, prohibited force-and therefore most wars-with only narrow exceptions. At the Nuremberg trials, the country took the lead in charging Adolf Hitler's henchmen with "aggression." Yet as the United States crossed the Rubicon in the mid-twentieth cen- tury to become the guarantor of global order, it began fighting wars in many more places than before. As it did so, America's worldwide presence became as brutal as the imperial history from which the country itself emerged. For a while after 1945, the whole world be- came "Indian country" as the United States exported homegrown violence and adapted the no-holds-barred practices such as geno- cide and torture refined over centuries by European empires fight- | 11 | ing counterinsurgent small wars or conventional big ones. The Pax Americana made a difference but not because it was humane-or even peaceful. The United States preserved order in part of the world after 1945-but did so in a way that postponed the coming of humane war. Yet even as Americans began to fight brutally in more and more places after World War II, their country's ascendancy occurred in a novel time. It was now less and less allowable (or at least feasible) to exclude the b
Node: 25038, Score: 0.0120655006930385, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0092.txt, Content: better world through whatever compromises might be required. They knew that any regulation of war would re- quire military representatives in the room, and those representatives were likely to budge only in small steps, counting on rising civilian militarism to overcome any public wish that war become less cruel. For decades, talk of "humanity" could not conceal the churn of ide- ologies of military force. Moynier put the best face he could on the dispiriting situation. He hoped the Geneva Convention, in spite of its original restriction to a narrow cause of wounded soldiers, would open the door to "a general codification of war law." And there was much opportunity to generate law that militaries and states would embrace. A great deal of it simply could make more formal customs of war that mil- itaries already respected, at least in normal circumstances (such as good-enough treatment of one another's prisoners of war). It could also ban weaponry they were happy to relinquish if there were cred- ible guarantees their potential foes would do the same, or if technol- ogy had already evolved beyond the means of war in question. In exchange for their blunted idealism, international lawyers got no love from the warrior class. In 1880, the leading European inter- national lawyer Johann Caspar Bluntschli wrote to the longtime chief of the Prussian General Staff, the field marshal and Reichstag member Count Helmuth von Moltke, architect of victory in 1870-71 and at the time the most famous soldier in the world. Bluntschli showed Moltke the law-of-war manual that the new Institute of International Law had devised and planned to propose for adoption by states. In a notorious response that scandalized pacifists everywhere, Moltke curtly dismissed any attempt to eliminate war legally. "Eternal peace is a dream-and hardly a beautiful one," he said. Indeed, "war is part of the world order that God ordained." Regular violence was the font of virtue for males, without which humanity
Node: 25093, Score: 0.0106270113820879, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0147.txt, Content: and a symbol that that God has withdrawn his favor." Colby stressed that even those who made the category mistake of think- ing there were nonwhite innocents ought to buy in: "If a few 'non- combatants'-if there be any such in native folk of this character-are killed, the loss of life is probably far less than might have been sus- tained in prolonged operations of a more polite character." Hard as it might be to accept, Colby concluded, "there were no non-combatants" anymore in an age of looming total war. What had always been true of war against savages was now true about war of nation against nation. "There is a popular fallacy to the effect that with the passing of time and the adoption of international conven- tions war has become more and more humane," he recorded, almost gleefully. "It is actually true that warfare has become more and more vicious and vigorous as time goes on." Nor should states move to punish individuals for infractions of whatever rules there were, Colby added. "When airplanes destroy towns occupied only by non-  HUMANE | 130| | 131 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE combatants" or "when atrocious acts are committed on a large scale and with universal frequency," it is normally because "governmental policy or General Staff strategy have so prescribed." AS A RESULT OF THIS PREHISTORY. THE PAX AMERICANA CAME TO THE world umbilically linked to air war. The fall of France in the summer of 1940 sparked an astonishing transformation in intellectual and policy circles. If a future peace could be established, it would need to be guar- anteed. As war loomed, the world was going Wright's way. But with the Japanese attack on America's Pacific empire on December 7, 1941, the meaning of "internationalism" began to drift beyond Wilson's ap- parent commitment to the equality of democratic sovereigns-at least in states of white peoples. As the war went on, and the postwar order was planned, internationalism became a commitment to an arrange- ment in whic
Node: 25175, Score: 0.0103668835694543, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0229.txt, Content: -Shek's Ac- count," The Times (London), June 14, 1939. 133 "ruthless bombing from the air": "Start of Strife Brings Quick Action by President in Behalf of Noncombatants," New York Times, September 2, 1939; "Roosevelt Plea for Civilians," New York Herald Tribune, December 1, 1939. There had been a number of earlier Department of State condemnations of Japanese civilian bomb- ing: Foreign Relations of the United States: Japan, 1931-1941, 2 vols. (1943), 1: 498-506 and 595-96. 133 "absolutely convince the Germans": Cited in Mark Clodfelter, Beneficial Bombing: The Progressive Foundations of American Air Power, 1917-1945 (2010), 179. 133-34 "The Allies stand for something": George Bell, "Bombing Policy," in House of Lords Speeches, ed. Peter Raina (2009), 61-62. 134 "in this matter": Arthur Harris, Bomber Offensive (1947), 177. 134 "Attempts to humanize": "Massacre by Bombing," New York Times, March 1944, responding to Vera Brittain, "Massacre by Bombing: The Facts Behind the British- American Attack on Germany," Fellowship 10 (1944): 50-63; for the American stir it caused, see A. C. Grayling, Among the Dead Cities: The History and Moral Legacy of the World War II Bombing of Civilians in Germany and Japan (2006), chap. 5. 135 "the prophets of calamity": J. M. Spaight, Bombing Vindicated (1944), 15, 50, 156; the articles of the late 1930s were "The Lawless Arm," Army Quarterly 31 (1935): 66-72, and "The Chaotic State of the International Law Concerning Bombardment," Royal Air Force Quarterly (January 1938). 135 "the war was over": Richard Kohn and Joseph Harahan, eds., Strategic Bombing: A Conversation (1988), 69.  NOTES |350| NOTES 136 "Emotions forgotten since": Cited in John Dower, War Without Mercy: Race and Power in the Pacific War (1986), 33. 137 "Even a dead Jap": Ibid., 152-53, in the midst of a whole chapter on the common analogy of Japanese with Native Americans. 137 "The use of atomic bombs": Cited in Tsuyoshi Hasegawa, Racing the Enemy: Stalin Truman, and the
Node: 25034, Score: 0.0101540826808883, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0088.txt, Content: Humane war did not get off the ground, so it could not yet threaten peace. States began to engage in more international law- making after Dunant's Geneva Convention, but they took advantage of Geneva's reputation to push forward protections that were com- patible with almost any form of military force. Far more gallingly, the protections did not even apply to the most atrocious forms of combat-colonial and counterinsurgent warfare, especially against racialized foes. And in World War I and long after, what rules did apply were almost universally ignored. Like Leo Tolstoy's, Suttner's anxieties that the idea of humane war would entrench war itself were creditable-but they had been expressed far too early to apply. The laws of war were not humane. In fact, the essentially limitless war they allowed reveals that it is only the partial humanization of conflict in our own time, with new rules propounded and new observance of old ones, that incurs the risks of which moralists had warned from the first. IT WAS THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR OF 1870-71 THAT DROVE EUROPEAN statesmen to begin forging more treaties about how to fight war-so that it could be fought with maximum forcefulness. On both sides of the Atlantic Ocean, it was an age of writing rules in domestic codes and international treaties. In the case of war, most of the law that emerged remained permissive-a trend reinforced by the frighten- ing reemergence of armed partisan warfare and civil resistance on the European continent. In fall 1870, Prussia won a quick victory at Sedan over Emperor Napoleon III, who was sent packing by a new French republic that went on to fight for another five months. As the Prussian forces ad- vanced, the French population did not greet its occupiers meekly. Both sides had signed the Geneva Convention, yet across northern France, they both disrespected it while charging that all the blame fell on the other side. When the American nurse Clara Barton and other humanitarians sought to amelior
Node: 25174, Score: 0.0100121909974425, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0228.txt, Content: 509. 130 first among equals: Stephen Wertheim, Tomorrow, the World: The Birth of U.S. Global Supremacy (2020). 130 still possible to create: Quincy Wright, "International Law and the World Order," in Walter Laves, ed., The Foundations of a More Stable World Order (1941), 124-25. "A transition from a hegemonic": Quincy Wright, "The Present Status of Neutral- ity," American Journal of International Law 34 (1940): 414-15; see also Quincy Wright, The Causes of War and the Conditions of Peace (1935), esp. chap. 4. 130 131 what Wright had intended: See Daniel Gorman, "International Law and the Inter- national Thought of Quincy Wright, 1918-1945," Diplomatic History 41 (2017): 336-61, and Or Rosenboim, The Emergence of Globalism: Visions of World Order in Britain and the United States, 1939-1950 (2017), chap. 6. 131 "the ramparts to defend": Quincy Wright, "American Policy and the War," in Wil- liam Allen White, ed., Defense for America (1940), 16. 131 "Totalitarianism both in principle": Quincy Wright, "International Law and the Totalitarian States," American Political Science Review 35 (1941): 742. 132 "The effect of bombing": U.S. Army Training Regulations, No. 15-70 (1922), para. 24; compare M. W. Royse, Aerial Bombardment and the International Regulation of Warfare (1928), and Paul Whitcomb Williams, "Legitimate Targets in Aerial Bombardment," American Journal of International Law 23 (1929): 570-81. 132 "if a nation ambitious": Billy Mitchell, Winged Defense: The Development and Pos- sibilities of Modern Air Power (1925), 14, 25-26. 132 until the success over Japan: Tami David Biddle, Rhetoric and Reality in Air Warfare: The Evolution of British and American Ideas About Strategic Bombing, 1914-1945 (2002). 132 "raging infernos": "The Bombing of Chungking: Mme. Chiang Kai-Shek's Ac- count," The Times (London), June 14, 1939. 133 "ruthless bombing from the air": "Start of Strife Brings Quick Action by President in Behalf of Noncombatants," New York Times, September 2,