Node: 25019, Score: -0.0364541898645603, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0073.txt, Content: m, though it by no means silenced clamor for another conflict. Milne's own pacifist bestseller Peace with Honour (1934) didn't either- | 67| especially since Milne, like so many other pacifists, was ultimately to support war to put Adolf Hitler down. But like never before and to this day, cycles of cynicism and weariness toward international war became familiar features of the moral culture of elites. Before debates about how much to "appease" Hitler set in in the 1930s, the peace movement had altered the conditions of legitimacy that governed states' relations to their own people-at least when it came to European wars that could hurt them the most. Supporters of European harmony were much less sure that they opposed the constant violence of empires, except if geopolitical jockeying threat- ened to engulf Europeans themselves in war. Indeed, some openly urged "white peace" for the sake of a more harmonious global rule over non-European populations. But a transatlantic ascendancy of peace was better than nothing. With their distinctive peace culture, Americans kept pace with the activism of Europeans who threw themselves into the cause of peace after bearing the brunt of its implosion in World War I. A mot- ley crew of liberals and socialists, and noninterventionists in both major American political parties, had delayed the country's entry into World War I. In spite of President Wilson's decision to persecute them viciously thereafter, most critics of interventionism regrouped. By 1933, as old outfits swelled and new ones formed, Americans could boast twelve million adherents to the peace movement and an annual combined budget of more than $1 million (more than $20 million today). The old Tolstoyan Jane Addams, cofounder of the Women's Inter- national League and speaker at its first conference, and later second woman (after Suttner) to win the Nobel Peace Prize, continued her activism. The indefatigable and well-known feminist pacifist Lu- cia Ames Mead, a former pia
Node: 25075, Score: -0.0278483318693678, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0129.txt, Content: " Even so, he allowed that American "friendship" proved dif- ficult when "it was impossible to distinguish friend from foe." The hypocrisy of the statement, its pretense that the efforts in the Phil- ippines signaled a rising consciousness of the laws of war, counted for little. It is best understood as a distant anticipation of those laws centrality to U.S. politics later. The same could be said of the fact that Smith was caught up in a court-martial, receiving a light sentence before Roosevelt pardoned him altogether. After September 11, 2001, a few observers recalled that many Americans had been furious about reports of imperial violence in the Philippines a century earlier. The first to raise the alarm were Democrats backing William Jennings Bryan's pacifist candidacy in the 1900 presidential campaign. Philippine insurgents, for their part, cast an eye on an election they hoped would lead to their inde- pendence, and they also wanted the war to seem unsavory to Ameri- can audiences. But Bryan and his allies were less concerned with brutality of conduct than with openly stigmatizing global entangle- ments and military empire. Many of them were advocates of white American isolation rather than humane war. After Bryan's loss, an early version of a "torture debate" over the ethics of wartime infraction occurred in 1902. That year, the Re- publican Senate willingly investigated and substantiated some of the more toxic rumors swirling around the use of the "water cure," an | 115 | early euphemism for waterboarding. As in the Boer War, atrocity consciousness was an open tactic of political opposition. Once again, it failed. Roosevelt's damage control and public relations efforts helped pave the road to his landslide victory in 1904, as accusations of malfeasance were excused and whitewashed. "I believe in God who made of one blood all races that dwell on the earth," the African American intellectual W.E.B. Du Bois prayed in 1904 in his prose-poem "Credo," anticipating
Node: 25177, Score: -0.0258265485016151, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0231.txt, Content: to the editor, Forum and Century 103 (1940): 206, cited in Trygve Throntveit, "A Strange Fate: Quincy Wright and the Trans-War Trajectory of Wilsonian Internationalism," White House Studies 10 (2011): 367; see also Robert Divine, Second Chance: The Triumph of International- ism in America During World War II (1971). "institutions to determine": Quincy Wright, "Peace Problems of Today and Yester- day," American Political Science Review 38 (1944): 517. 140 141 There was no legal barrier: Quincy Wright, "War Criminals," American Journal of International Law 39 (1945): 257-85. 140 "like a wild beast": Quincy Wright, A Study of War (1942), 1348. 141 "This inquest": Trial of the Major War Criminals Before the International Military Tribunal, 42 vols. (1947-49), 2: 98. "War is essentially": Ibid., 22: 426. 141 141 The Soviets, insisting: Francine Hirsch, Soviet Judgment at Nuremberg: A New His- tory of the International Military Tribunal After World War II (2020). "main preoccupation": Judith N. Shklar, Legalism (1963), 174. 141 142 "Once the evil of war": Herbert Wechsler, "The Issues of the Nuremberg Trial," Political Science Quarterly 62 (1947): 17. On the marginality of the Holocaust at Nuremberg, see Donald Bloxham, Genocide on Trial: War Crimes Trials and the Formation of Holocaust History and Memory (2001). 142 "Sanctions to be effective": Quincy Wright, "The Law of the Nuremberg Trial," American Journal of International Law 41 (1947): 47. |351 | 143 "The record on which": Trial, 2: 100. 143 American internationalism mutated: Stephen Wertheim, "Instrumental Internation- alism: The American Origins of the United Nations, 1940-3," Journal of Contempo- rary History 54 (2019): 265-83. 143 "International law has a secondary": Clyde Eagleton, "International Law and the Charter of the United Nations," American Journal of International Law 39 (Octo- ber 1945): 752, and for a more general presentation, my The Last Utopia: Human Rights in History (2010), chap. 5. 144 "We hav
Node: 25030, Score: -0.0256432367097229, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0084.txt, Content: l offenses against the victim  HUMANE 1761 |7| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS alone, but legal offenses against every state party to these multilat- eral treaties." The only question remaining in the face of bad behav- ior by another was: "What will the United States do about it?" THIS WAS NO MERELY HYPOTHETICAL QUESTION, FOR HITLER ROSE TO power in Germany three years later. Even before, Wright had cause for encouragement when the Re- publican Henry Stimson, a Wall Street lawyer and Herbert Hoover's secretary of state, responded to Japanese "aggression" in invading Manchuria in 1931 by saying the United States would not recognize this brazen act of colonialism as lawful. Stimson's announcement, Wright celebrated, "is likely to go down in history as of greater significance in the development of international law" than any other "of recent or even more distant years." International law had once "converted violence into legality, robbery into title, might into right." The idea that it would consecrate peace instead was not new in content but had suddenly moved from books into practice. Of course, this didn't solve the real problem. Somebody would have to boot Japan out rather than deem its annexation illegal alone. That the United States now withheld recognition from the fruits of some- one else's war hardly meant it was committing to keep the peace. Wright knew, of course, that reinterpreting words was not the same as inciting deeds. The question remained: Would the United States step up to guarantee eternal peace after its missed opportu- nity when World War I ended? Already the greatest world power, would it not have to accept the risk (however hypothetical and unlikely) of seeing its own wars condemned as illegal? Either way, wouldn't the United States also have to help put down any newly recognized aggression-or even lead the way in doing so? "The col- lective system for preserving peace, which has developed in spite of the initial abstention of the United States,"
Node: 25127, Score: -0.0245287651987473, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0181.txt, Content: nment," but- Wright commented in 1960-"the moral basis for such government is still lacking." Thirty years after his campaign for a new U.S. for- eign policy in the 1930s, he wondered: Was the long peace across the Atlantic that the United States achieved after World War II the internationalist one Wilson had portended, or an imperial one with the familiar afflictions of degradation at home and violence abroad? Wright, who now wore up-to-date glasses and a shock of white hair with the same part in the middle, never said. That America could bring world peace, by whatever means nec- essary and beyond the borders of Europe, looked like an ever dim- mer possibility by the time Wright reached old age. Before passing away, he joined a small band of lawyers to devise arguments for why the United States, in escalating its military presence in Vietnam, was now reneging on its own commitment never to begin an aggressive war. Outside Europe, shouldn't the United States have to drink from its own chalice? That a war in Vietnam was likely to be inhumane was a near certainty in 1965. But Wright did not prioritize making the conduct of the conflict more law-abiding. Instead, he pinned everything on the hope that the internationalist structure and legal claims he had championed still had enough force to restrain the new hegemon his country had become. After Wright died in 1970, just shy of his eightieth birthday, and with global peace as elusive as ever, his allies in the movement against the Vietnam War organized a prize in his honor. It was first awarded in February 1972 to a dissident analyst in the Defense De- partment, who after years of misgivings had concluded that-for the moment, at least-American peace was still an oxymoron. That honoree was Daniel Ellsberg.  PART II HUMANITY  Epilogue ON JANUARY 3. 2020. AN AIRBUS 320 CARRYING QASSIM SOLEIMANI landed in Iraq. A popular Iranian general, Soleimani was also the master of regional proxy war. He was there to meet high-ranking
Node: 25133, Score: -0.0230833111286785, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0187.txt, Content: ctivists have found that people who live in permanent fear are prey to the same sorts of responses caused by suffering from or witnessing outright violence, including classic symptoms of post-traumatic stress. After all, they live in a situation in which anyone can be targeted without notice and the constant risk of fatality or injury cannot be eliminated. What is most appall- ing, in this view, is a new "military humanism" that masks the same old death-dealing. It is hard to argue with these conclusions, not merely in Afghan- istan but across Syria, where in recent years the United States has complied with (its version of) the laws of armed conflict, razing a city in the midst of an internationalized civil war, as Americans de- bated whether they were too involved or uninvolved in the gory catastrophe. And this is not even to mention the charnel house of Yemen, in recent years the scene of a proxy war-led by Saudi Ara- bia, joined by Obama, and intensified by Trump-or the trade in U.S .- made arms that others use to kill and maim around the world. The bitter truth, however, is that exposing America's illicit vi- olence, and showing that humanity is just a cover for it, has not worked. The claim that the carnage is humane in form and legally contained by rules has provided it legitimacy. Ripping off the mask and revealing ongoing magnitude of violence by government actors  HUMANE |318| EPILOGUE has changed nothing. And without downplaying the residual vio- lence of our wars, humane war is more than a mask: four thousand dead-on the high side of current civilian mortality estimates for Waziristan-is not four million or even four hundred or forty thou- sand. The degree of residual violence is lower than when Vietnamese rice growers faced America's intense bombardments in 1968, or when Algerian sheep herders got caught up in French counterinsurgency in 1958, or when Malayans suffered under similar treatment from the British in 1948, to say nothing of the genocidal brut
Node: 25029, Score: -0.0222525374223732, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0083.txt, Content: were trying to close. By the 1920s, Americans who had refused to join the League itself were willing to join in hallowing European peace rhetorically. The outlawry of war became completely mainstream for Americans. It was endorsed by Calvin Coolidge in accepting the Re- publican Party nomination for 1924 and figured in the Democratic Party platform the same year. William Borah, a Republican senator from Idaho who offended some by wearing a ten-gallon hat around Washington, D.C., had been one of the "Irreconcilables" at the end of World War I, keep- ing the country from joining the League of Nations. He became a "crusader" for the outlawry of war five years later without missing a beat-even before the Kellogg-Briand Pact-and he saw no con- tradiction in doing so. The League peace had committed the United States to something far worse than a defensive pact with any partic- ular ally. It entangled his country in obligations to an international organization, potentially to keep global peace. As Borah saw it, the Kellogg-Briand Pact, by contrast, merely involved the obligation to abstain from war. No wonder that Borah loved outlawry, understood in these terms. At best, Kellogg-Briand could keep Europeans from descending into their own strife; at worst, it made no more difficult America's project of keeping itself from being sucked into it again at all costs. Wright knew the hard part was going to be inciting Americans to interpret the commitment they had now made in his way rather than Borah's. When an aggressor rose anywhere, Wright wrote, it violated the rights of the United States under treaty no matter what the country chose to do about it. No uninvolved bystander any- more, America was an injured party. "Wars of aggression," Wright explained in 1930, "are no longer moral offenses against the victim  HUMANE 1761 |7| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS alone, but legal offenses against every state party to these multilat- eral treaties." The only question remaining in the fac
Node: 25065, Score: -0.0217447366299233, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0119.txt, Content: No such controversy about the applicability of the law occurred when it came to nonwhite foes. Unlike Hadjo, the Modoc chief known to white men as Captain Jack got a trial fifty years later, but not because it was legally required. Born around 1837, Kintpuash-as he was called among his own- was hanged on October 3, 1873, at Fort Klamath, just over the Oregon border from his tribe's Northern California home. From the U.S. gov- ernment's perspective, Captain Jack had violated the most sacrosanct of the laws of war when he shot down a U.S. general in a peace talk. Kintpuash had not technically killed Edward Canby. The Modoc faced a campaign of extermination. In the tribe's holdout in the lava beds of the area, Kintpuash and fifty Modocs lived for more than five months eluding capture and confrontation, assenting to a chat on Good Fri- day, April 11, 1873, about how to resolve the standoff. After screwing up his courage, Kintpuash followed through on his plan for premedi- tated killing, shooting Canby at point-blank range. His weapon mis- fired, and his second shot caromed off Canby's cheek, before one of Kintpuash's men executed their foe in the melee that followed. George Henry Williams, attorney general under President Ulys- ses Grant, solemnly affirmed that the military could do whatever it wanted with Captain Jack. A New Yorker who moved to the Oregon territory as a judge and then, after switching parties, became a one- term Republican senator for the newly spun off Oregon state, Wil- liams almost became Supreme Court chief justice. (Grant withdrew his nomination as rumors flew that, as attorney general, his man had spent government funds on his wife's fancy horse-drawn carriage and footmen). In summer 1873, in an opinion endorsing the pro- priety of an ad hoc commission later cited by President George W. | 107 | Bush's lawyers, Williams said the law allowed the drumhead court that General William Tecumseh Sherman proposed. "It is difficult," Williams suggested, "t
Node: 25155, Score: -0.0210059450545166, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0209.txt, Content: 244. 51 "What is the flag": Anonymous [Bertha von Suttner], Das Maschinenalter: Zu- kunftsvorlesungen über unsere Zeit (1899), 285. Ironically, Suttner is somewhat more favorable to the Red Cross in Lay Down Your Arms, 220. 52 53 more than a million members: A.C.F. Beales, A History of Peace: A Short Account of the Organized Movements for International Peace (1931), is still worth consult- ing; the leading survey since is Sandi Cooper, Patriotic Pacifism: Waging War on War in Europe, 1815-1914 (1991); on Britain, Martin Ceadel, Semi-Detached Ide- alists: The British Peace Movement and International Relations, 1854-1945 (2000); on Germany, Roger Chickering, Imperial Germany and a World Without War: The Peace Movement and German Society, 1892-1914 (1975); on France, Nadine-Josette Chaline, Empêcher la guerre: Le pacifisme du début du XIXe siècle à la veille de la Seconde Guerre mondiale (2015); on the United States, see below. "a comical sewing bee": Cited in Chickering, Imperial Germany, 93. 53 "There is no reason": Bertha von Suttner, "Die Friedensbewegung und die Frauen," 53 Die Waffen nieder! 4 (1895): 254. 53 "Although it is self-evident": Bertha von Suttner, "Universal Peace: From a Woman's Standpoint," North American Review 169 (1899): 50-51; see also Hamann, Bertha, chap. 13. 54 Selling millions of copies: It was originally published as Europe's Optical Illusion (1909); Howard Weinroth, "Norman Angell and The Great Illusion," Historical Journal 17 (1974): 551-74; Martin Ceadel, Living the Great Illusion: Sir Norman Angell, 1872-1967 (2009). 55 bilateral treaties with partners: William Jay, War and Peace: The Evils of the First and a Plan for Preserving the Last (1842). Arbitration in bilateral relations was commonly traced back to the treaty concluded by his father, John Jay, between the United Kingdom and the United States in 1795, or even to the Middle Ages or the Greeks. James Brown Scott, The Hague Peace Conferences of 1899 and 1907, 2 vols. (1909), chap.
Node: 25064, Score: -0.0207837599237019, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0118.txt, Content: re decisively beaten and fled into the Florida Panhandle wilderness. Apprehended a few years later by Andrew Jackson, leading U.S. forces in a reign of terror at the head of the Tennessee militia, Hadjo was hanged without any legal proceeding-not deserving one, in Jackson's estimation. In the midst of America's Civil War, the Prussian American Fran- cis Lieber issued Rules for the Union Army that purported to codify the unwritten rules of war. His project shared almost nothing of the aspiration for humane war that Swiss gentlemen breathed deeply across the ocean at the same time. And he restricted the code to conventional rather than counterinsurgent war. Each of "the Ma- rauder, the Brigand, the Partisan, the Free-corps, the Spy, the Rebel, the Conspirator, the Robber, and especially the Highway Robber," Lieber concluded, was no more than "a simple assassin." Essentially no limits applied to their treatment. "They know what a hazardous career they enter upon when they take up arms," he offered, trying to come off as avuncular. In the Civil War itself, the general practice of Union forces in the field (who didn't need Lieber's advice in this regard) was harsh. They shot on sight anyone deemed a partisan. As for anyone suspected of falling into that category, the most rudimentary trials approved their  HUMANE | 106 | LAWS OF INHUMANITY execution. If Lieber didn't bother to mention "Indian war" in his learned survey of how European examples of irregular partisan war could inform American rules, it was because it was so obvious that no rules applied to it. In the Civil War, a controversy arose over how to treat bushwhackers and John Singleton Mosby's Virginian cavalry battalion, which maddeningly crossed Union lines in secret. All were found fair game for harsh treatment. No such controversy about the applicability of the law occurred when it came to nonwhite foes. Unlike Hadjo, the Modoc chief known to white men as Captain Jack got a trial fifty years later, but not b
Node: 24971, Score: -0.0204142681577076, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0025.txt, Content: a humanitarian brigade could assist the medical services of European armies if and when they failed on their own. Of these notables, the most consequential was Gustave Moynier, who would prove in the long run far more important than Dunant for his long service, his pragmatic sensibility, and his distinctive moral vision. A Swiss lawyer, Moynier gruffly rejected the visionary idealism that annoyed him in Dunant and insisted on bringing mil- itaries themselves on board the humanitarian project. In doing so,  HUMANE | 26| THE WARNING he hoped for Christian virtue and humanitarian compassion to be advanced through state connivance in general and military consent in particular. He did not hesitate to affirm that making war humane would "advance God's reign on earth." Apparently, God would have to work in mysterious ways. From the start, General Guillaume Du- four, a Swiss war hero, was recruited to help brand and lead the humane war project. From the start, too, however, Moynier advertised his realistic movement as one that could fulfill the peace movement. Treating en- emies better, he hoped, might prove a stepping-stone to turning the other cheek. "We must leave to war all its horrors, as the only way to open the eyes of those who order it and those who pay the price," a Lyons doctor had complained of the Red Cross project of humanizing unnecessary evil. Moynier responded that such an objection, taken to an extreme, would imply the abolition of all army medical services. not merely the backup the Red Cross hoped to provide. And in any case, humanizing war might work better than the "sterile sentimen- talism" of the peace movement in revealing war's cruelties. True, Moynier later acknowledged grudgingly, the notion of "civ- ilized war" was "nonsense" and there was a hard core of immorality that would always remain even once humanization was done. "War without the spilling of blood would no longer be war," Moynier ad- mitted. Even if states played along, an essentially i
Node: 25051, Score: -0.0201696910967829, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0105.txt, Content: hose peoples considered "uncivilized" were beyond the pale of the protection of the rules by their very sponsors. A rare exception to such patterns, the Swiss international law- yer Joseph Hornung proved the rule. In the 1880s, he urged his col- leagues to save international law from its hypocritical restriction to Christians and white people, which was making "selfish interest and, too often, unmitigated violence" the global norm. The world's bar- barians and savages were "children," Hornung acknowledged, in a paternalist streak, but children needed to be treated with care. "We burn their poor towns, we chop their trees down, and we massacre their women ... Is that the best way to make them love civilization?" It may have been a rhetorical question, but for a long time it received no answer. Moynier spent most of his working life trying from Geneva to make war Christian and humane. But on the side, he supported Eu- ropean imperialism in general and worked on behalf of Leopold II's notorious Congo adventure in particular. In 1879, Moynier founded a newsletter for the imperial project, L'Afrique explorée et civilisée (Africa Explored and Civilized), which made the case for Leopold's potential role as votary of civilized values. After the Berlin Confer- ence of 1884-85, which parceled Africa out among the great powers, and gave Leopold the vast territory of the Congo, Moynier served as the Belgian king's representative in Switzerland. Moynier expressed the hope that both Europeans and their wards abroad were finally ready for progress. "The men of the white race, after having hated and cruelly exploited men of the Black race for centuries, refusing to see them as their fellow human beings, have now come to their senses," Moynier reported. To begin with, white people could and must end the slave trade among Black people. Unlike the usual impe- rial enterprises, in which the national interest inevitably got mixed up with the "tutelary" one, Leopold's personal rubber col
Node: 25031, Score: -0.0197927280642898, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0085.txt, Content: put down any newly recognized aggression-or even lead the way in doing so? "The col- lective system for preserving peace, which has developed in spite of the initial abstention of the United States," Wright noted in 1933, "has received rude blows during the past year and its fate may in a large measure depend on the attitude of the United States." Skeptics, like the elderly then-dean of American international lawyers, John Bassett Moore, felt it was not a good idea for their country to renounce its birthright in exchange for the pottage of end- less war to keep other countries from fighting one another. The low dishonest decade of the 1930s convinced most Americans that, with Europeans at one another's throats again, Wilsonianism had been catastrophic and global entanglements were not a dream but a ruse. Wright replied that the world had changed, as ultimate American entry in World War I already proved. Why not arrest the coming of faraway unwanted conflict early rather than get swept in again? "If it is practically certain that we will become involved in any war between great powers which lasts for a considerable length of time, whatever we do," he observed in 1935, "then a policy of co-operation to prevent war could add little to the risk." Unfortunately for an internationalist vision of peace, not many Americans were buying it. Suttner, dead twenty years, had left a bequest in the form of a new ideal but without any guarantee of its realization. Now the next terrible blow to that dream-World War II-was on the way. Had Suttner lived in vain? Had Wright wasted his time? War remained endemic, or even worsening, its brutality increasing along with its frequency. It was hard to take seriously Tolstoy's warning that making warfare humane could post- pone peace-yet.  CHAPTER THREE Laws of Inhumanity IT WAS AN OUTRAGE. WHEN BERTHA VON SUTTNER LEARNED THAT HENRY Dunant might win the first Nobel Peace Prize for the year 1901, she sprang into action. Why was the founder of
Node: 25146, Score: -0.0193573447299355, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0200.txt, Content: l, inhumane, and degrading treatment in all circum- stances, both within and outside the territory of states that ratify. The United States does so in 1994. 1990-91: The first Gulf War, ordered by President George H. W. Bush to repel the Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's aggression against Kuwait, becomes the first American war in which military lawyers assist in target selection, as well as the first international conflict that Human Rights Watch monitors for violations of the laws of war. 2001-2002: After attacks in Manhattan and Washington, D.C., the George W. Bush administration resolves-following memos by the lawyer John Choon Yoo-that Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions should not apply to Al-Qaeda terrorists. Yoo also pro- |331| poses to exclude fighters for the Taliban altogether from coverage under the laws of war. 2004: The U.S. Supreme Court decides Rasul v. Bush, which permits federal courts to entertain petitions for writs of habeas corpus from de- tainees at Guantánamo Bay, even as the Bush administration official Jack L. Goldsmith warns against reliance on some of Yoo's prior guidance. 2006: The U.S. Supreme Court decides Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, which finds that Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions (if not a more stringent standard) applies to the war on terror, and rules that the Bush administration's military commissions were therefore inadequate to try detainees. 2009: President Barack Obama's new administration formally re- scinds the Bush-era guidance on detention. It files a Memorandum Regarding the Government's Detention Authority Relative to De- tainees Held at Guantánamo Bay that classifies the war on terror as a "non-international armed conflict," mentioning no boundaries in time and space. That choice, without saying so, provided a framework for killing operations already under way and left opaque whether and what standards did apply to a globalizing war. 2011: After long study, the Obama administration concludes that what Hamdan v. Ru
Node: 24966, Score: -0.0181304695179174, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0020.txt, Content: neteenth century was the Englishman William Cobden, who insisted that free trade could someday unify humanity where Christianity had graph- ically failed to do so. The American Non-Resistance Society never numbered more than two hundred members and was shuttered after a decade. To achieve greater impact, the movement would have to shift away from Christian ethics. It would have to make compro- mises, especially with those who proposed arbitration schemes and supranational organizations that did not establish a complete ban on armed force in all circumstances. Fragmented by tenacious debates over the use of force to destroy slavery, the U.S. wing of the peace movement declined through the coming of the Civil War. In Europe, by contrast, it took off after  HUMANE | 22| THE WARNING 1850. Lulled by more than three decades of post-Napoleonic peace, the continent's burghers and Christians were shocked by the Crimea events and then the Austro-Sardinian War of 1859. Across the Atlantic and in the United States, peace circles debated a recurring issue: Was it permissible for a state to undertake "defen- sive" responses when unbidden attacks occurred? Should pacifists scorn those who left room for some wars? Many were skeptical from the start about any exception for self-defense, which later became almost the sole legal basis for war in the United Nations Charter of 1945, as it remains today. Any exception, purists said, could easily become the pretext for aggression. As one agitator angrily put it, "A peace society which allowed a right of defensive war was one to which a Tamerlane or a Napoleon might consistently belong." Meanwhile, a new breed of internationalists offered scores of pro- posals for peace through the second half of the nineteenth century. Often they relied on international law, envisioning new bilateral and multilateral treaties. Sumner, to take only one example, proposed the use of international law to banish war. Tolstoy was to be more skep- tical that sta
Node: 25167, Score: -0.017856913329847, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0221.txt, Content: in Official Opinions of the Attorneys-General of the United States, 43 vols. (1852-1996), 14: 250, 252-53. 107 tried by commission: James Speed, "Military Commissions," Opinions, 11: 316, 306-307. 107 was a sham: Doug Foster, "Imperfect Justice: The Modoc War Crimes Trials of 1873," Oregon Historical Quarterly 100 (1999): 247-87. 107 Even when it was invoked: Neither Speed nor Williams mentioned it, but the same applied during the Dakota wars of the 1860s, where native enemies were tried by mil- itary commission because direct (though still legal) killing proved difficult or impos- sible for logistical and strategic reasons. Maeve Glass, "Explaining the Sioux Military Commission of 1862," Columbia Human Rights Law Review 40 (2009): 743-98. 107 army colonel A. B. Meacham, on his own and after touring the country with Wi- ne-ma, Kintpuash's cousin who married a white settler from Kentucky and then served the Americans as a translator during the war, saving Meacham's life at the peace meeting after warning of a likely Indian plot to strike there; forty years later, Wi-ne-ma's son also told the "Indian history" of the war. The account that follows cites and synthesizes the versions in A. B. Meacham, Wigwam and Warpath, or, the Royal Chief in Chains (1875), chaps. 19-21; A. B. Meacham, Wi-ne-ma (The Woman- Chief) and Her People (1876), citation at 8; and Jeff C. Riddle, The Indian History of the Modoc War (1914). Of the many excellent secondary accounts, my views are closest to the recent unvarnished reconstructions by Benjamin Madley, "California and Oregon's Modoc Indians: How Indigenous Resistance Camouflages Genocide," in Alexander Hinton et al., eds., Colonial Genocide in Indigenous North America (2014); Benjamin Madley, An American Genocide: The United States and the Califor- nia Indian Catastrophe, 1846-1873 (2016), chap. 9; and Robert McNally, The Modoc War: A Story of Genocide at the Dawn of America's Gilded Age (2017). Also brilliant on how the war has been re
Node: 24958, Score: -0.0176311796961293, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0012.txt, Content: fter Septem- ber 11, there was one extraordinary day in February 2003 when, with  HUMANE /12/ PROLOGUE the Iraq War looming, Americans joined nearly ten million protestors across the world in the most gargantuan moment of dissent against any war in history. A little more than a year later, the revelation of photographic mementos of torture at Abu Ghraib had a galvanizing effect, but it was a different one: the blemish of inhumanity was re- moved from a continuing war on terror. With high dudgeon on both sides, Americans had a torture de- bate. It diverted them from deliberating on the deeper choice they were making to ignore constraints on starting war in the first place. Some radioactive memos were torn up, others left on the books. News- papers covered the laws of war like never before, elevating experts on the subject as if they had a privileged relationship to morality and to policy, which are very different things. Reports issued from activists who shamed the United States for violating laws governing the fight, while the government's lawyers and soldiers interpreted the rules more permissively; the remarkable thing was the consensus all the parties shared that these were the rules that mattered. As for rules keeping the United States from embroilment in endless global violence in the first place, to say nothing of broader ethical and stra- tegic frameworks, they became casualties of "counterterror." Of course, there are many reasons for America's militarization of contemporary geopolitics, including the existence of real threats in a dangerous world, the move from conscripted to volunteer armed forces, and a Beltway expert "blob" and military procurement sys- tem that have both become self-perpetuating over the years. But the effort to reform conflict and make it more humane also had a role in this story, and that element requires attention precisely because such reform is always a good thing. It is easy to overlook it or down- play its coexistence with evil o
Node: 25157, Score: -0.0171426343760326, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0211.txt, Content: Conferences and the Rise of Ius Contra Bellum," in Maartje Abbenhuis et al., eds. War, Peace, and International Order? The Legacies of the Hague Conferences (2017). "an epoch-making date": Suttner, Memoirs, 2: 228, 249. 58 "No other brief for peace": "Bertha von Suttner," The Nation, June 25, 1914. 58 "Law, the first daughter": Cited in Cecilie Reid, "Peace and Law: Peace Activism and International Arbitration, 1905-1907," Peace and Change 29 (2004): 531. 58 "I wish to dwell": Bertha von Suttner, "Nobel Lecture," in Frederick Haberman. ed., Nobel Lectures: Peace, 1901-1925 (1972), 89. 58 "America's glory and grandeur": Suttner, Memoirs, 2: 416. 59 59 "lead the lion": Bertha von Suttner, Speech Addressed to Pacifists in San Francisco (1912) 60 "regarded it as a settled thing": William Barton, The Life of Clara Barton: Founder of the American Red Cross, 2 vols. (1922), 2: 146. 60 "the Monroe Doctrine": Cited in ibid., 2: 150. On the origins of the American Red Cross for humanitarian relief abroad, and its mainstreaming among political elites in the decades straddling World War I, see Julia Irwin, Making the World Safe: The American Red Cross and a Nation's Humanitarian Awakening (2013). 60 Nothing so far interfered: Frederick W. Holls, "The Results of the Peace Conference in Their Relation to the Monroe Doctrine," Review of Reviews 20 (1899): 560-66. 61 "one of the greatest events": Cited in David Patterson, Toward a Warless World The Travail of the American Peace Movement 1887-1914 (1976), 39. 61 The new breed of practitioners: Benjamin Coates, Legalist Empire: International Law and American Foreign Relations in the Early Twentieth Century (2016). 61 Peace was a mainstream idea: C. Roland Marchand, The American Peace Movement and Social Reform, 1898-1918 (1972). 61 "great apostle of arbitration": Cited in David Nasaw, Andrew Carnegie (2006), 653; see also David Patterson, "Andrew Carnegie's Quest for World Peace," Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society 114
Node: 24980, Score: -0.01690590028554, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0034.txt, Content: , with two of his children in early graves, the novelist largely put fiction behind him. From his deathbed in 1883, Ivan Turgenev begged Tolstoy to return to his better talent. Even Tolstoy's earlier novels, however, were only to become world-famous in tandem with his self-transformation into a railing moralist with global appeal. A cantankerous attitude toward his once-beloved wife, Sonya, overtook him, and his ten children increasingly found him overbearing and unbearable, before his family decamped to Moscow and left him in the countryside, where he increasingly adopted peasant ways. One of the many over the centuries who chose Christ over Chris- tianity, Tolstoy adopted a vision of nonresistance so personal and totalistic that it bears little relationship to the faith most Christians have taken as their own. Tolstoy translated the Gospels himself, el- evating the message of the Sermon on the Mount into a personal religion that transcended existing sects (and certainly Russian Orthodoxy, which returned the favor by excommunicating him). Thunderous disquisitions on ethics and religion flowed from his pen for more than thirty years. As the extraordinary if rare fiction from these years, The Death of Ivan Ilyich, illustrates, Tolstoy's own grappling at middle age with his mortality-though he would live a long time-lurked among the causes of his philosophizing. Along the way, Tolstoy became not only the most renowned pacifist in the world, and the best-known vegetarian, but also an idiosyncratic holy man who changed the spiritual face of the twentieth century. Tolstoy's whole ethics drew substantially on the Christian vision  HUMANE | 34| THE WARNING Americans had developed for opposing slavery and war alike earlier in the nineteenth century. Very quickly after his conversion, and work- ing on his own, Tolstoy centered his interpretation of Jesus's message on the same passage that had inspired Ballou's nonresistance ethics fifty years before-Matthew 5:39: "But I say
Node: 25115, Score: -0.0161915222667655, Chunk File: moyn_humane/chunks/moyn_humane_0169.txt, Content: process had few implications for the actual fighting of war, which the spotty old Hague rules still governed. Even the new civilian convention did not clearly provide new protection from ae- rial bombardment by conventional or nuclear weaponry, and it didn't challenge the idea that any amount of military gain could justify any amount of innocent death. What today seem the worst cruelties of World War II were not the problem the delegates were there to solve. Part of the reason was that the Holocaust of European Jewry had not become central to public consciousness. And the power of states to deliver death from the sky was viewed at worst as a necessary evil. It was a large achievement to ban civilian punishment, individu- ally or collectively, of the kind typified by Hitler's decision to order the Czech town of Lidice razed in 1942 as a reprisal for the assassi- nation of his trusted aide Reinhard Heydrich. But the new treaty did not prohibit the mass starvation that had killed most civilians in World War I. It had recurred in World War II in Nazi Germany's Hunger Plan-but also in the U.S. attempt to induce mass famine via Operation Starvation in Japan and its shrinking empire of islands. Humanitarians tried for more, but the treaty prohibited only the interdiction of foodstuffs destined for children and expectant mothers, unless there was reason to believe someone else would eat them: "humane blockade." As a default, growing clarity that civilians mattered still meant something. And this spirit also affected Common Article 3, which held that in "armed conflict not of an international character," those  HUMANE | 148| | 149 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE "taking no active part in hostilities," including captured or wounded soldiers as well as civilians above the fray, had to be treated "hu- manely," no matter their "race, colour, religion or faith, sex, birth or wealth." Specifically, humanity barred killing, torture, and other "cruel" or "humiliating and degrad