Node: 24163, Score: 0.0828418301934529, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0213.txt, Content: e law for the trained, the experienced and the properly equipped, and another for the untrained, the inexperienced and the ill-equipped. The art of high-level daylight formation flying was an advanced one in which the American crews were deeply versed both by special training and 1 In the first two cases the fundamental restriction upon the offensive potential of the fighters was their limited range which afforded them a short time in which to fight and a limited space in which to pursue their enemies. Another important factor was the relatively poor performance and wholly inadequate armament of the bombers which were, therefore, far more dependent upon the immediate presence of escorting fighters than the later American formations which flew at much greater heights and carried much more formidable armament.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 134 NEW OPERATIONAL FACTORS by considerable operational experience. The Bomber Command crews, on the other hand, were scarcely versed in it at all and few of them had ever undertaken an operational flight of any kind in day- light. Nor, on account of the constant pressure of operational duties, was there any prospect of their being trained to American standards. Moreover, the British Lancasters and Halifaxes could not climb to the great altitudes at which the American Fortresses and Liberators habitually operated. Nor did the British bombers possess anything like the fire power which had been built into the American forma- tions. Therefore, if Bomber Command was to seize the undoubted opportunity to attempt daylight bombing, it had to do something more than merely to imitate American methods. It had to devise its own tactics and techniques. During the summer of 1944 this process was begun, and, on the basis of cautious beginnings against relatively safe targets, Bomber Command eventually contributed a substantial daylight element to the Combined Bomber Offensive. Thereby the versatility of the force was yet further increased and another o
Node: 24162, Score: 0.0757536273311481, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0212.txt, Content: the bomber formations in a strictly escorting role. To an in- creasing extent, the role of the long-range fighters became that of seeking and destroying the enemy wherever he could be found. The immediate protection of individual bomber formations, though naturally always important, was of secondary importance. What was sought was the safeguarding of the bombers by general air supremacy and not merely by local air superiority. The American bomber formations did, of course, have to pay in casualties for this policy from time to time, but a more important con- sequence was that wherever the German fighters rose they were generally engaged by superior forces. Despite their continuing occasional and local successes, the German fighters, therefore, failed to inflict decisive damage upon the American bomber formations, their own casualties increased sharply and, aided by the harsh criticisms of their superiors, the morale of their pilots and their commanders in- evitably declined. In this way the command of the daylight air over Europe passed from the Germans to the Americans. The effect of this upon the whole course of the war both in the air and on the surface was fundamental and far-reaching but, as far as the Bomber Command offensive was concerned, the favourable con- sequences were not all entirely direct, nor were they by any means immediately felt. The new conditions did mean that the American heavy bombers could now develop their daylight offensive at a cost in casualties which was far lower than that of 1943 and which was also lower than that which Bomber Command continued to sustain at night. This was remarkable, but it did not mean that Bomber Com- mand could remedy its situation by an immediate switch from night to day operations. In most forms of war there is one law for the trained, the experienced and the properly equipped, and another for the untrained, the inexperienced and the ill-equipped. The art of high-level daylight formation flying was an advanced
Node: 24190, Score: 0.0695233027763897, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0240.txt, Content: n performance in providing their day bombers with long range fighter escort within a few weeks of the necessity for this step becoming apparent, though the difficulties which confronted them were far greater than those with which we are now faced.' 2 Thus, believing that Bomber Command could not, on account of 1 Presumably he meant Mark X A.I. 2 Letter Harris to Evill, 7th April 1944 149 its relatively low ceiling, exploit the day air superiority which had been gained by the Americans, Sir Arthur Harris now sought to gain the same kind of air superiority by the same kind of means at night. In this attempt, however, he was to be frustrated. A conference sum- moned at the Air Ministry by Sir Charles Portal on 20th April 1944 decided to transfer to 100 Group, not ten night fighter squadrons, but three.1 All these had to undergo retraining and a considerable measure of re-equipment. Their efforts undoubtedly caused some disturbance to the German night fighter force and, perhaps, to some extent, deterred the German crews from using their own radar equip- ment which was liable to reveal their position to the 100 Group squadrons. But the total claims of all the 100 Group fighter squadrons over the whole period between December 1943 and April 1945, a period of seventeen months, amounted only to the destruction of 257 enemy aircraft and the probable destruction of a further twelve.2 This relative failure was not due purely or even mainly to lack of strength in the 100 Group long-range fighter arm. Indeed, in one respect, greater strength would have caused greater difficulties. As it was, much time and effort was wasted in the pursuit of what proved eventually to be friendly fighter aircraft. The main problem was that of interception. The always limited efficiency of Serrate declined even further as time went on. The average number of contacts obtained with this equipment per sortie completed declined from 1·1 in May 1944 to 0.005 in September and the number of A.I. contacts
Node: 24242, Score: 0.0658326527519701, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0292.txt, Content: ccess of area attacks, like the one against Königsberg which has just been mentioned, did not depend upon the introduction of new weapons. In the Königsberg operation the attacking force dropped about 135 tons of high explosive and about 345 tons of incendiary bombs. The fire-raising technique, introduced in 1941, was still the standard procedure of Bomber Command in area attacks and the principal means of achieving it was still the four-pound incendiary bomb. This weapon, though now dropped in ingeniously designed clusters with a reasonable ballistic performance, was essen- tially the same as that with which Bomber Command had begun the campaign against German cities.2 The greatly increased area 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Report. For the night photographic plot see Map 5. The damage at Stettin was not so severe, but it seemed that 34,000 people had been made homeless. In addition, three merchant vessels were sunk in the port. These targets were selected with a view to the disruption of German communications with the Russian front. This was the second attack on Königsberg within a week. Stettin had also been bombed on the night of 16th August. 2 A.H.B. Monograph. A thirty-pound liquid-filled incendiary weapon known as the 'J' bomb was operationally introduced in the 5 Group attack on Brunswick on the night of 22nd April 1944. It was not a success and Sir Arthur Harris later heard after its further use that the Germans were picking up large numbers of duds and using the fuel in their M.T. vehicles. bombing efficiency was produced by the high standards of accuracy which had been achieved as a result of the new techniques, such as 5 Group visual marking and the introduction or more widespread use of equipment, such as the Very High Frequency Radio Telephone, which made those techniques possible. The result was that the distinc- tion between area and precision bombing was no longer so much one between the accuracy of attack, as the object of attack. Nevertheless, this deve
Node: 24166, Score: 0.0651911492025451, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0216.txt, Content: have been virtually alone in the oil campaign. It is, indeed, difficult to see how night air superiority could ever have been gained if day air superiority had not first been achieved. To this extent, the ultimate success of the night offensive was controlled by the winning of daylight air superiority.1 The realisation of the significance of air superiority should not, however, be allowed to obscure the fact that both in daylight and in darkness it was never anything more than a means to an end. The value of air superiority lay, not in itself, but in the way that it was exploited. The collapse of the German night fighter force would not have been an important event had it not been for the great and flexible striking power of Bomber Command which had been built up during the previous four years. Nor should the connection which has now been established between day and night air superiority be 1 Professor L. Brandt, who was responsible for the development of German radar installations, states that during the war, 1,500 German night fighters were equipped with the Naxos radar device which enabled them to home upon H2S transmissions from a distance of fifty kilometres. He adds that never more than fifty Naxos night fighters were able to operate on a single occasion 'due to the decline in synthetic fuel production from 500,000 tons in January 1944 to 10,000 tons in October 1944. This in turn was due to a considerable extent to the fact that there were insufficient day fighters avail- able ... ' Translated extract from Paper read at Radar Conference in Frankfurt, 1953, by Professor Brandt. S.A.O .- VOL. III Pt. 5-K  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 136 NEW OPERATIONAL FACTORS allowed to lead to a confusion of the two issues which were, in fact, quite different. The defeat of the German day fighter force had little direct and no immediate effect upon the night fighter force other than, perhaps, to involve it to some indeterminate extent in the general decline of Luftwaffe morale. Nor
Node: 24215, Score: 0.0650307875564462, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0265.txt, Content: 2 resisted Air Staff pressure to persevere with the development of the Lancaster as a day bomber still seemed to him to be firm and valid in the spring of 1944. 'Even the Lancaster', he wrote to the Vice-Chief of the Air Staff on 7th April, 'would be incapable of operating in formation above 18,000 or 19,000 feet', and at this height, the Commander-in-Chief thought, the effect of flak would be 'lethal'.1 The Air Staff, on the other hand, was inclined to believe that the 'general situation' might at any time make day bombing by heavy aircraft of Bomber Command 'both practicable and profitable. It is appreciated', Sir Arthur Harris was told on 18th April 1944, 'that under present conditions, by reason of their armament and limited ceiling, our existing types of heavy bombers, when flying in forma- tion are unsuitable for a full scale offensive against Germany. Never- theless,' the Air Staff letter continued, 'it should be possible for them, under cover of an adequate fighter escort, to penetrate to targets in the occupied countries and even into Western Germany. In the clear conditions required for visual bombing the flak risk would be appreciably higher than at night, but provided the targets selected are not too heavily defended by flak and the forces are carefully routed, losses due to this cause should not be unduly heavy.' 2 There were, as was explained in this letter, a number of important reasons to account for the Air Staff desire to resume daylight opera- tions. Bomber Command would be enabled to exploit any sudden deterioration of the German day fighter force and achieve successful attacks upon 'vital precise objectives'. The reinforcement of the American day offensive would, it was thought, do much 'to confuse and further reduce the efficiency of the enemy fighter defences.' Greater accuracy, it seemed, could be expected in daylight attacks upon small targets, 'particularly those of a tactical nature.' The potentialities of 617 Squadron and of the new Tallb
Node: 24227, Score: 0.064689188337864, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0277.txt, Content: the nine aircraft of Bomber Command which failed to return were shot down by flak or in some cases, perhaps, brought down by bombs from friendly bombers. All three attacks, and especially those on Kamen and Castrop Rauxel, achieved considerable accuracy.1 The way, at least to the Ruhr, was now clearly open to Bomber Command in daylight. Sir Arthur Harris' wish to have the escorting fighters under his own command was not gratified, but despite this and despite the fact that the Spitfires and Tempests were, on these occasions, oper- ating at the very limit of their range, the substantial fighter cover provided was more than adequate to hold off the practically non- existent reactions of the German fighter force, which, of course, though with scarcely more success, was at the same time contending with the deeper penetrations of American fighters and bombers. In these circumstances, the poor armament, limited ceiling and some- what loose formation tactics of the Lancasters and Halifaxes were of no ill-consequence and a most convincing demonstration of the meaning of daylight air superiority was given. From the 803 sorties despatched by Bomber Command in these five daylight operations, only ten bombers failed to return and none of these was shot down by an enemy fighter. The attacks had also achieved a considerable degree of success. Particularly heavy damage had been done to the centre of Emden and to the oil plants at Kamen and Castrop Rauxel. Moreover, the operations against the oil plants at Homberg and Gelsenkirchen had by no means been failures. But all these attacks had been carried out by visual bombing upon target indicators laid by the Pathfinder 1 Bomber Cmd. Interception/Tactics Reports, 10th and 16th Sept. 1944, Photographic Interpretation Reports, 22nd, 13th and 14th Sept. 1944.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 172 DAY ATTACK AND NEW NIGHT CONDITIONS 173 Force. They had, therefore, depended upon the reasonably clear weather which had, in fact, been encountered on ea
Node: 24165, Score: 0.0642697694171128, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0215.txt, Content: e achievement of day- light air superiority. Some of the great feats performed by Bomber Command in the later stages of the war, ranging from the destruction of the battleship Tirpitz to the devastation of certain oil plants and communications I35 targets, were the results of daylight actions. These, like practically the whole of the American offensive from Britain and Italy in the same period, were direct products of a fruitful exploitation of day light air superiority, but the latter also had a bearing which was much less direct, though not less important, upon the issue of night air superiority. Two great factors in the collapse of the German night fighter force in the late summer of 1944 were the loss of territory in western Europe which contained forward bases and radar early warn- ing installations, and the reduction of fuel supply which followed from the air attacks on oil production and particularly aviation petrol. This collapse, which was both abrupt and irretrievable, did not offer Bomber Command absolute security at night, but it did enable the force, at a very low cost in casualties, to translate the techniques which had been developed in France and to apply them to the des- truction of Germany herself. Thus, the heart of Germany was exposed to a night offensive which was no less accurate and far more destruc- tive than the contemporary daylight offensive. A fundamental con- dition of the night offensive was, therefore, changed primarily by the advance of the allied armies to the Rhine and by the initial effects of the strategic air attacks upon oil plants. But without daylight air superiority the allied armies would hardly have got ashore, or at any rate remained ashore, in Normandy in June 1944, and without day- light air superiority Bomber Command would have been virtually alone in the oil campaign. It is, indeed, difficult to see how night air superiority could ever have been gained if day air superiority had not first been achieved. To this extent,
Node: 24218, Score: 0.0634390023219925, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0268.txt, Content: the decisive hours of the war, had been singular and encour- aging. Moreover, the feebleness of the German day fighter force bore interesting comparison with the still severe and effective reaction of the night fighter force. These factors had led Sir Arthur Harris to expect that, at any rate against targets in occupied territory, opera- tions might be more cheaply executed in daylight than at night. Nor was the Commander-in-Chief disappointed in this expecta- tion. From the 2,716 daylight sorties, the bulk of which were flown by Lancasters and Halifaxes, despatched in June, only 0.4 per cent failed to return. From the 6,847 similar sorties despatched in July the missing rate again was only 0.4 per cent. Being of very short range, all these operations were covered by Fighter Command Spit- fires of 11 Group and being for the most part directed against relatively ill-defended targets no undue flak risks were encountered.1 These operations, to which many different squadrons in all the bomber groups contributed, did not involve the elaborate formation tactics which had been developed in the United States Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces. Most of them were undertaken, often at short notice, by ordinary squadrons whose crews had little training in and no operational experience of daylight bombing. Indeed, because of the vast training effort which would otherwise have been required, it was initially decided that no attempt should be made to carry out the operations in formation. Squadrons were merely instructed to keep reasonably close to each other so that the escorting Spitfires could provide cover for at least the bulk of the force. This naturally meant that, unlike the American crews, who dropped their bombs in the pattern of the formation on a signal from the leader, the Bomber Command crews each had to sight and aim individually at the target. For that reason, the aiming points were marked in much the same way as at night and the attacks were usually controlled, also
Node: 24450, Score: 0.0631601876471573, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0500.txt, Content: led members of the bomber crew who needed the longest training, would also have been enormously inflated. Such questions, however, are largely hypothetical. But it may reasonably be asserted that Bomber Command would have been ultimately stronger if the Manchester had never been produced and if the production of Stirlings and Halifaxes could have been ex- changed for that of Lancasters as Sir Arthur Harris so often asked and for so long without response. The front-line aircraft of Bomber Command were eventually equipped with a variety of remarkable devices ranging from highly complicated radar aids which made precise navigation and much improved bombing possible to the very simple metallised strips of paper known as Window which confused the German defences. But, in spite of the wonderful scientific inventions which were responsible for these devices and the operational research which had revealed the need for them, all this equipment had inevitable defects which were sometimes more apparent to those who used them on opera- tions than to those who did not. It is, for example, an exaggeration to say that H2S enabled a bomber crew to see through cloud. It is also true that H2S enabled German fighters to home on bombers which were using it. Similarly, it is not true to claim that the Air Position Indicator enabled the navigator to abandon with safety the laborious and meticulous business of keeping an air plot. Nor were these devices always as good as they might have been and sometimes their introduction was delayed beyond the necessary period required for production. The decision as to the moment at which a new device should be put into production and further modifications abandoned was, indeed, an extremely complicated one, and it is not surprising that the most advantageous result was sometimes not achieved. A different kind of decision was involved when the danger of revealing a new device such as the magnetron valve or Window had to be considered. All such defensi
Node: 24231, Score: 0.0629959639480655, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0281.txt, Content: ottrop and Wanne-Eickel as well as to massive area attacks on Kiel, Hamburg and Stuttgart, the last of which was bombed three times. These ten operations involved the despatch of 3,419 sorties seventy-seven of which were by Mosquitoes of the Pathfinder force. 132 bombers, all of which were Lancasters and Halifaxes, failed to  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 174 return and this missing rate of 319 per cent of the despatched force was mainly attributable to night fighter action. It was a much lower casualty rate than had been suffered against German targets in June, or, for that matter, in the Battle of Berlin in the previous winter. There were signs that the German night fighter effort had been somewhat confused or obstructed by the Bomber Command tactics and by the use of the Mandrel screen as well as by that of a new kind of Window designed to swamp the latest version of German A.I. equipment. On the night of 25th July, for example, a force of 135 aircraft despatched to Wanne-Eickel suffered no losses at all. The German night fighters were concentrating upon the much larger force going to Stuttgart, but owing to somewhat poor visibility and Window interference, they failed to inflict serious losses upon it. From the 550 bombers despatched to Stuttgart, only. twelve failed to come back. Earlier, on the night of 18th July, Bomber Command attacked the oil plants at Wessling and Scholven-Buer with devastating effects and negligible losses. From the 194 bombers sent to Wesseling and the 170 sent to Scholven only five failed to return. The German fighters were almost wholly engaged in Belgium and eastern France and the bombers going to the oil plants emerged from behind the Mandrel screen to find the approach to the Ruhr virtually un- defended except by flak. To some extent, these were encouraging results, but there were still some extremely disagreeable aspects of the situation. While the effective and inexpensive operations against Wesseling and Scholven were taking place, anot
Node: 24236, Score: 0.0625924421343246, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0286.txt, Content: ONDITIONS 177 mans were getting even slightly less good results than before was highly significant.1 In itself, it indicated that the rising efficiency of the German night fighter force had been checked, but in view of what happened in September, it showed clearly that an actual and severe decline had set in. Operations in September were admittedly mostly of short penetration, but there were twelve major night attacks on German targets which involved the despatch of 3, 188 sorties, including 132 by Mosquitoes, and one by a Lightning. From these operations, sixty-nine Lancasters and Halifaxes and three Mosquitoes, amounting to only 2.4 per cent of the despatched force, failed to return.2 The reasons for the decline of the German night fighter force were complex and manifold and not all of them were due to the events of the spring and summer of 1944. To some extent they must remain obscure until a definitive study of the Luftwaffe is undertaken. There were, nevertheless, in the summer of 1944, certain salient develop- ments which undoubtedly had a most important effect. These were 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Report and Nt. Raid Reports. The twelve operations were as follows. The figures in brackets refer to Mosquitoes. Aug. Target Despatched Missing 12/13 16/17 Kiel 348 (9) (O) 18/19 Bremen 289 (7) I 25/26 Rüsselsheim 412 (o) 15 (0) 7 (o 26/27 Kiel 382 (10) Brunswick 379 (o) 27 (0) Rüsselsheim 297 (10) 20 (0) Stettin 461 (o) 5 (0) Sterkrade 234 (14) 2 (0) Darmstadt 196 Königsberg 174 (o) Stettin 403 (I) (6) 17 4 (0) 29/30 Königsberg 189 (O 15 (0) 23 (0) 2 O.R.S.(B.C.) Report and Nt. Raid Reports. The operations were as follows. Mosquito figures are in brackets. Sept. Target Despatched Missing 9/10 11/12 12/13 15/16 18/19 19/20 München-Gladbach 237 23/24 " München-Gladbach 137 Darmstadt 240 (14) 12 (0) Frankfurt 387 (9) 17 (0) Stuttgart Kiel 490 (7) Bremerhaven 213 (7) 2 (I) Neuss 549 (17) 7 (0) Münster (Canal) 141 Münster (A/F) 113 (5+1)* I 0 Karlsruhe 237 (II) 2 (0) (24) 0 217 (1
Node: 24217, Score: 0.0623949392206123, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0267.txt, Content: s would, he believed, quickly redress the disadvantageous position of the night bombers and he thought it would be better to concentrate on the production of such equip- ment and devices rather than to embark upon day bombing. The only tangible gain which Sir Arthur Harris expected from day bombing was an increased ability to deal with 'small but important tactical objectives. This, however,' he said, 'would be of real moment only if the U.S. Bomber Force available were inadequate in size to deal with such objectives. This, however,' it appeared to him, was 'not the case. Furthermore,' Sir Arthur Harris wrote, 'it is very doubtful whether our heavy bombers could in fact achieve greater accuracy in daylight than we have already achieved at night on fairly lightly defended targets by means of Oboe.' In addition, owing to the rarity of clear days, they would, he pointed out, have many fewer opportunities.1 In the light of further developments, however, Sir Arthur Harris' views underwent a complete change and in June he decided to under- take the experiment which had been urged upon him by the Air Staff in April. The 234 Lancasters and Mosquitoes despatched in daylight to the docks at Le Havre on the evening of 14th June were the first of a total 2,716 daylight sorties sent out to targets in occupied territory during the rest of the month. By that time, it had 1 Letter Harris to Air Min., 25th April 1944.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 166 become evident that the German day fighter force had lost the will or the ability to offer a sustained challenge to allied air operations in daylight provided that the latter were protected by fighter cover. In particular, the almost complete lack of reaction by the Luftwaffe in daylight over the Normandy beach-heads at what was obviously one of the decisive hours of the war, had been singular and encour- aging. Moreover, the feebleness of the German day fighter force bore interesting comparison with the still severe and effective reaction o
Node: 24216, Score: 0.061875691230391, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0266.txt, Content: ter defences.' Greater accuracy, it seemed, could be expected in daylight attacks upon small targets, 'particularly those of a tactical nature.' The potentialities of 617 Squadron and of the new Tallboy earthquake bomb might be more fully exploited in daylight than in darkness. 1 Letter Harris to Evill, 7th April 1944. 2 Letter Bottomley to Harris, 18th April 1944. If there was an emergency in the course of the invasion, the ability to bomb by day would make it possible to increase the scale of effort for a short time against certain critical targets. Finally, the increasing success of the German night fighter force might eventually make a change over to daylight bombing necessary in order to reduce casualties. Sir Arthur Harris was far from convinced by these arguments. Daylight operations by Bomber Command would, he thought, be uneconomical unless carried out in clear weather because in cloudy weather they would be no more accurate than night attacks and they would be pointless unless mounted on a scale to produce a material reinforcement of the American effort. If the first condition was fulfilled, he considered that the casualties would be prohibitive owing, in addition to the increased flak risk, to the vulnerability to enemy fighters of heavy aircraft equipped only with ·303 guns. No fighter escort, Sir Arthur Harris observed, could ever provide con- tinuous cover. If the second condition was fulfilled the night offensive would be gravely weakened and the effects of 'round the clock' bombing greatly diminished. The argument that German night fighter successes might develop to such an extent that day bombing would become inevitable was, in Sir Arthur Harris' view, more important. All the same, he did not regard it as valid. Improved turrets and radar warning devices would, he believed, quickly redress the disadvantageous position of the night bombers and he thought it would be better to concentrate on the production of such equip- ment and devices rather than t
Node: 24191, Score: 0.061171471928334, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0241.txt, Content: ined even further as time went on. The average number of contacts obtained with this equipment per sortie completed declined from 1·1 in May 1944 to 0.005 in September and the number of A.I. contacts needed to result in one successful combat increased from an average of nine in May 1944 to sixty in September.3 The reasons for these set-backs were that the German pilots became more wary, that interference with the Mark IV A.I. increased and more and more German fighters were equipped with a new kind of A.I. which did not register on Serrate. Low-level offensive fighter patrols carried out by aircraft without radar interception devices were even less successful. In June 1944, for example, some 138 of these sorties resulted in the claim of only one enemy aircraft being destroyed.4 Nor did the in- creasing introduction of the Mark X and later the Mark XV A.I. make any substantial difference. No effective means was ever found of engaging the German night fighter force in direct combat and it was certainly not to direct combat that its ultimate collapse was due. Though it must be remembered that Sir Arthur Harris' minimum requirement for long-range fighters in 100 Group was never met, it 1 Air Min. Conf., 20th April 1944. Two of these Squadrons, 85 and 157, came from A.D.G.B. The third, 23, was brought home from the Mediterranean theatre. 2 100 Group Review. Of these 257 aircraft, 236 were claimed as destroyed in the air and twenty-one on the ground. 3 100 Group Review. 4 do.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 150 I. The marshalling yards at Trappes after attack on the night of 6th March 1944. would, all the same, appear that his expectation of this kind of attack on the German fighter force was not realistically related to the interception equipment and tactics which could be developed and that it was, therefore, somewhat over-optimistic. On the other hand. the belief, which he expressed at the beginning of April to the effect that Bomber Command could expect little protection from
Node: 24164, Score: 0.0608262621897669, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0214.txt, Content: tively safe targets, Bomber Command eventually contributed a substantial daylight element to the Combined Bomber Offensive. Thereby the versatility of the force was yet further increased and another of the conditions which had governed the conduct of operations up to that time was changed. The achievement of air superiority in daylight meant, as has already been indicated, that the American bomber forces were at last able to mount an offensive in daylight which, in vigour, penetration and duration, if not always in object, was comparable and in some respects even superior to that of Bomber Command at night. In March 1944 the Eighth Air Force intervened in the Battle of Berlin. In April, the Fifteenth Air Force struck the first blows in the oil cam- paign and, in May, the Eighth Air Force seized upon the same target system which, in the following month, was also to be attacked by Bomber Command. Thenceforth, the strategic air offensive became a Combined Bomber Offensive not, as hitherto, in name only, but in practice as well. The long period of frustration which had beset the American day bombers was ended by the achievement of daylight air superiority and the great contribution of Bomber Command to ulti- mate victory now became irretrievably entangled with that of the United States Strategic Air Forces. Had this Bomber Command con- tribution remained in isolation it would certainly have amounted to much less. Many of the tasks which were eventually successfully com- pleted by the combined forces could not have been discharged by Bomber Command alone any more than they could have been per- formed by the Americans alone, and several of them would, perhaps, not even have been attempted. To this extent, the eventual effect of the strategic air offensive was controlled by the achievement of day- light air superiority. Some of the great feats performed by Bomber Command in the later stages of the war, ranging from the destruction of the battleship Tirpitz to the devastati
Node: 24013, Score: 0.060825672635936, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0063.txt, Content: the final offensive and the earlier campaigns lay in the change of the conditions bearing upon strategic bombing which is generally described as the achievement of air superiority, air suprem- acy or command of the air. As far as the daylight offensive was con- cerned these somewhat vague terms convey the correct meaning for it undoubtedly was the reduction and gradual defeat of the German day fighter force which gave the United States Strategic Air Forces the opportunity to begin in May 1944 the tasks which had been planned for January 1943. In the night offensive of Bomber Command the change of conditions was, however, due to somewhat different and more complex reasons. The defeat of the German day fighter force, the supremacy of the P.51 Mustangs and the relative immunity of the B.17 Flying Fort- resses as also of the Bomber Command aircraft, when they presently began to undertake daylight attacks, did not lead to the defeat of the German night fighter force. No really effective means of engaging night fighters in the air was ever devised. Moreover, relatively small numbers of them could inflict tremendous damage on a night bomber force as had often been shown.1 Nor did the American daylight supremacy contribute in any way to the solution of Bomber Com- mand's old problems of target identification and bomb aiming which, even with the advent of radar, the formation of the Pathfinder Force and the development of specialised techniques by 617 Squadron, still remained formidable. Yet in the final offensive Bomber Command did gradually come to exercise command of the air at night over Ger- many as is shown by the falling and ultimately very slight casualty rate which was sustained after July 1944 and especially after Sep- tember 1944. Bomber Command also developed the ability to strike massive and highly effective blows at relatively small targets such as 1 Sir Arthur Harris had been aware of this at least since the summer of 1942. Of the German night fighters he wro
Node: 24167, Score: 0.0606209157085703, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0217.txt, Content: day fighter force had little direct and no immediate effect upon the night fighter force other than, perhaps, to involve it to some indeterminate extent in the general decline of Luftwaffe morale. Nor did the method of victory in the daylight struggle even provide a useful precept for the solution of the problem at night. Indeed, the German night fighter force was never engaged in decisive combat by allied fighters, and the somewhat meagre efforts of the long-range night fighters of Fighter Command and 100 Group, the special counter-measures formation, were rewarded with an even more meagre result. Moreover, the collapse of the day and night arms of the German fighter force occurred not only in substan- tially different ways but also at substantially different times. Though it is difficult to date precisely the achievement of day air superiority, it can now be seen that the battle had swung decisively in favour of the Americans by the beginning of April 1944.1 The coming of night air superiority was somewhat more abrupt and it is clear that the German night fighters ceased to operate as an efficient force in August 1944. Between these two events, it will be noticed, there was an interval of fully three months during which the day fighter force was contained more or less constantly in a condition of virtual neutralisation, but during which the night fighter force continued to operate with formidable and even increasing efficiency. This shows the extent to which the connection between the two events was non- immediate and indirect. This fact was, however, to some extent obscured by the general and constant decline in Bomber Command casualties which occurred over the period between January, when the missing rate was about five and a half per cent of the despatched sorties, and June 1944, when it amounted to little more than two per cent. This apparently satisfactory trend was, however, primarily due not to a decline in the German night fighter force, but to the dispers
Node: 24225, Score: 0.0605753528253513, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0275.txt, Content: an Oboe formation or visual bombing by day and the 5 Group technique by night, the G-H formation technique was, therefore, in some respects a more important and at least a complementary develop- ment. When precision attack on German targets in winter weather was contemplated this became fully apparent. The idea that daylight operations over occupied territory might eventually develop into daylight attacks on German targets had been in the mind of the Air Staff in April 1944. It had been mentioned in the Bomber Command directive on day operations on 9th July and at the end of August it began to come to fruition. On 27th August a force of 216 Halifaxes from 4 Group and twenty-seven Mosquitoes and Lancasters from the Pathfinder Force was despatched to attack the oil plant at Homberg in the Ruhr. The bombers were accom- panied by an almost equal number of Spitfires from 10, 11 and 12 Groups of Fighter Command. The first nine of the fighter squadrons made a rendezvous with the bombers near Overflakkee at 17,000 feet. The remaining seven fighter squadrons met the bombers at the target and augmented the escort on the return flight. The only German fighter sighted by the Bomber Command crews was an Me. 110 which was driven off by the Spitfires before it had done any damage. Homberg lay in the most heavily defended area of the Ruhr and intense anti-aircraft fire was encountered in the target area, but its main characteristic was its inaccuracy and none of the bombers in the Pathfinder marking force, or in the large 4 Group gaggle of Halifaxes, was brought down. All the aircraft subsequently returned safely to base. There was five to eight-tenths cloud up to seven thousand feet at the target which could, nevertheless, be seen through gaps from the bombing height. The damage to the plant was some- what scattered, but in places quite severe.1 Such, at least from the point of view of the absence of casualties, was the happy outcome of the first major daylight operation by Bomber
Node: 24171, Score: 0.0597851472004825, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0221.txt, Content: es Portal observed to the Prime Minister soon after these oil attacks in June, the casual- ties were 'another pointer to the increasing efficiency of the enemy's night defences . . . ' and they showed the extent to which he was 'sur- mounting the difficulties presented by our radio counter-measures'. If the losses were to be kept down, Sir Charles Portal said, 'great flexibility of tactics and improved defences by our heavy bombers and by accompanying night fighters will be needed . .. ', but, as though he was aware of the probable limitations of such measures, which in any case were already being vigorously prosecuted, Sir Charles Portal reminded Mr. Churchill that it was 'hoped to extend the scope of our daylight operations and to attack suitable targets in Germany as experience is gained.' 2 This extension of daylight operations took place rapidly in Bomber Command, and by August they accounted for slightly more than half the total effort of the force. Moreover, under the cover of growing day air superiority, they were accomplished at a surprisingly low cost in casualties. The damage from flak was necessarily much greater, but Bomber Command aircraft were generally able to survive it. 3 Never- 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Reports. 2 Min. Portal to Churchill, 3 1st July 1944. 3 In August 1944, Bomber Command flew 10,345 sorties by day and 10,314 by night. The loss rate for the daylight sorties, which, however, included only one penetration of Germany, was 0·48 per cent. Ten per cent of these sorties were damaged by flak. In September, the day and night sorties amounted to 10,832 and 6,540 respectively. The daylight loss rate was o·4 per cent and even from the 2,071 daylight sorties over Germany  SWEDEN Advance of the Allied Armies August 1944 - April 1945 NORTH ESTONIA PETSERI . Map 3 @ RIGA ELGAVA .... .. .. · MADONA BAUSKA LATVIA the missing rate was only 8 per cent, Or eleven per cent for sumiller sorties aguilast stiller September 19st the overall low rate at night