Node: 6829, Score: 0.068740613307612, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0269.txt, Content: that neither pilot was trained to the standard that was rapidly becoming necessary, the standard required for the heavy bombers. So the second pilot was left out of the crew, and the air-bomber put in his place. At this time all night bombers carried front guns, so the air-bomber was trained to man the front guns, and he was also given a small amount of training as pilot, so that he could at a pinch take over the controls. Another change was also made at the same time; only one man was from then on trained both as wireless-operator and air-gunner; the fifth member of the crew was trained as a full-time gunner. The O.T.U.s then settled down to a five-months’ course involving 80 flying hours, and maintained this standard until the end of the war; there were times when it looked as if we should have to reduce the length of the course, but in the end we got through without lowering the standard of training. It would, of course, have been easy at  B.O. c  96 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  tion of targets was impossible except in moonlight and clear weather, and this meant that we had for the time being to accept a high casualty rate from fighter and flak. And we had to accept the fact that the Ruhr was for the time being impregnable, because in this area industrial haze made visual identification almost impossible.  The advantages to be got from Gee, at any rate as soon as the whole force was equipped with it, was very great. Con- centration along the route, as a protection against night fighters, and over the target, as a protection against flak and fighters and as a method of increasing the damage, demanded accurate track and time-keeping, and Gee was indispensable for this. With such a concentration, large numbers of bombers had to be landed at the same time, and here again this could not haye been done without Gee, which increased in accuracy as the aircraft got nearer home so that a large force could be marshalled with great pre- cision over England. Hitherto the last lap had b
Node: 6868, Score: 0.066722481761439, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0308.txt, Content: ed Blenheims, before we had anything else, for an improvised defence during the Blitz; the modification was easily made and at first the enemy naturally used the least successful type of bomber, the Messerschmitt 110, as his main night fighter. Thus in 1941 a force of about 250 Messerschmitt 110s was formed for defence against night attacks on Germany. In June of 1942 this force was not substantially altered in numbers or character, though the ground control stations and searchlights with which it co-operated had become far more numerous and efficient.  Within the next year, as a result of decisions made after the Cologne attack, the force had increased to 530 twin-engined night fighters, with a corresponding decrease in the front line strength of the bomber force; the more efficient type of army co-operation bombers were now being turned into night fighters. But the front line strength on paper of the two forces which used the same type of aircraft, the bomber and the night fighter forces, was deceptive. Actual production of night fighters was given priority over production of bombers, and the bomber force only maintained its large front line strength, 1300 aircraft in June of 1943, by a policy of conservation which inevitably prevented any sustained offensive in the air. Thus from 1944 onwards the bomber and ‘twin-engined night fighter strength remained roughly equal, on paper about 800 each, but the bomber strength would have been very rapidly reduced if the enemy had made any serious use of this force. It was also in 1942 that the enemy, with an eye to American daylight operations and Anglo-American aircraft production, decided on a great increase in the production of single-engined fighters. The German Chief of Air Staff in 1942, General Jeschonneck, said that he would not know what to do with a production of more than 360 fighters a month, but General Milch, in charge of aircraft procurement from November, 1941, asked for an eventual production of 1000 fighter
Node: 6826, Score: 0.0646506747136654, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0266.txt, Content: possible to give the two pilots an equal amount of training unless the whole crew went through double the number of flights, circuits, and landings they needed, and the result was that neither pilot was trained to the standard that was rapidly becoming necessary, the standard required for the heavy bombers. So the second pilot was left out of the crew, and the air-bomber put in his place. At this time all night bombers carried front guns, so the air-bomber was trained to man the front guns, and he was also given a small amount of training as pilot, so that he could at a pinch take over the controls. Another change was also made at the same time; only one man was from then on trained both as wireless-operator and air-gunner; the fifth member of the crew was trained as a full-time gunner. The O.T.U.s then settled down to a five-months’ course involving 80 flying hours, and maintained this standard until the end of the war; there were times when it looked as if we should have to reduce the length of the course, but in the end we got through without lowering the standard of training. It would, of course, have been easy at  B.O. G  96 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  tion of targets was impossible except in moonlight and clear weather, and this meant that we had for the time being to accept a high casualty rate from fighter and flak. And we had to accept the fact that the Ruhr was for the time being impregnable, because in this area industrial haze made visual identification almost impossible.  The advantages to be got from Gee, at any rate as soon as the whole force was equipped with it, was very great. Con- centration along the route, as a protection against night fighters, and over the target, as a protection against flak and fighters and as a method of increasing the damage, demanded accurate track and time-keeping, and Gee was indispensable for this. With such a concentration, large numbers of bombers had to be landed at the same time, and here again this could not have been done
Node: 6833, Score: 0.0641315474564271, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0273.txt, Content: to explain that the training at O.T.U.s only comes right at the end of a long period of flying training for each individual; the training we gave in Bomber Command was for the crew as a whole; it was a specialist course in bomber opera- tions. The education of a member of a bomber crew was the most expensive in the world; it cost some £10,000 for each man, enough to send ten men to Oxford or Cambridge for three years.  Training was of tremendous importance in 1942 because a formidable increase in the strength of the Command was expected to occur during the year. At the same time many medium bomber squadrons were to be re-equipped with heavy bombers, and this involved the re-training of all their air-crew. At first it was thought that the conversion of a crew to a different type of aircraft could be quickly and easily done, but it was soon seen that there was much more in it than this. It is not generally realised how astonishingly good was the work of the O.T.U ss. They produced an endless flow of crews whose ability to cope with every conceivable sort of weather was far in advance of what any pre-war crew, civil or service, could have achieved. All this was done by instructors during what were called their “rest periods” between operational tours, and it was not done without casualties. It was quickly realised that only air-crew with actual experience of operations could train the O.T.U. crews, and until the last year there was a continual shortage of men who could serve as instructors, and particularly of pilots with operational experience, so that they all had to work overtime. In the most  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 99  dangerous flying conditions the instructors and instructional crews ran almost as much risk as the fighting crews, and they ran these risks over a much longer period than that of an opera- tional tour. It was and is a matter of great distress to me that recognition of their work and of the risks they ran was refused. In preparation for the expansion o
Node: 6841, Score: 0.062212050052307, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0281.txt, Content: y bomber force, Stirlings, the first of the four-engined bombers to become operational, were falling behind in number, and there were ten Lancaster squadrons operational, together with one temporarily non-operational. We also had half a Mosquito “03 ies therefore a much better-equipped and better balanced force at the end of the year than at the beginning, but the re- equipment could not be carried out without taking many squadrons off operations for the time being. In February, 1942, one-third of the whole front line strength was actually 7s operational, either because new squadrons were in process 0: forming, or because old squadrons were in process in i batt with better aircraft. The introduction of the heavy bomber id, in fact, very considerably increase the period of training for eac crew, and this lasted until the end of the war. At first it was thought that it would be a comparatively simple matter to  100  squadrc oversea speciali though normal a good operati: who hz East, br No Bombe no arra were pr was at of men they we or anot several efforts t Inspectc eventua solutior O.T.U.s East. 1 the mai 1943. A that thi mediurr the year where, with fo taken Ic 1935, bu at a lat view as be light enemy’s come of  support: planned the best light bo  102 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  introduce crews to the new aircraft, no longer a process than converting a crew from Whitleys to Wellingtons. But it was soon learned that a complete and thorough course, often involvi forty hours flying together with considerable trainin on de ground, was absolutely indispensable for the efficient andl ‘ of these more complicated aircraft. Further delay was caused iy the fact that the new aircraft had to be modified to brin th , up to the standard required for operations, and this thok baa average 400 man-hours per aircraft. It became vital to carr an Te-equipment and conversion as rapidly as possible, It net not appear a considerable loss of effort if one squadron loses ee k while engaged in re-equi
Node: 6857, Score: 0.0601187836382535, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0297.txt, Content: crews, of course, but the O.T.U.s had already undertaken the task of dropping propaganda leaflets over France, often on a large scale; it was useful training for them, it relieved the front-line squadrons of this task, and they gained some knowledge of what it was like to be shot at by flak or even inter- cepted by night fighters. If there were great risks involved in a high concentration of aircraft, then these risks would be increased by sending out large numbers of new crews, but if, on the other hand, this high concentration was a definite protection against fighters and flak then I should not be calling on new crews to a so grave a risk as the front line squadrons had habitually taken.  The dangers were many and obvious. If anything went  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 109  seriously wrong—and this was to be in many ways a wholly new type of operation—then I should be committing not only the whole of my front line strength but absolutely all my reserves in a single battle. Our whole programme of training and ex- pansion might conceivably be wrecked, and in any case I had very seriously to consider the inevitable interference with normal training that would occur while the force was being organised for this special purpose.  As against the dangers, the advantages of a successful opera- tion on such ascale would be very great. If we succeeded we should have before us a definite and attainable goal, a measure of what could be achieved as soon as our expansion really began. The result of using an adequate bomber force against Germany would be there for all the world to see, and I should be able to press for the aircraft, crews, and equipment we needed with far more effect than by putting forward theoretical arguments, however convincing, in favour of hitting the enemy where it would hurt him most. Such a demonstration was, in fact, the only argument I could see which was at all likely to prevent our squadrons from being snatched away and our effort diverted to subsidiary t
Node: 6927, Score: 0.0594621843934843, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0367.txt, Content: fficiency was also reduce by the weather, it was more profitable to attack a huge area like Berlin than a much smaller city like Essen,  Berlin was far beyond ¢ finding would either have  was only in January that we had got permission to use HaS an as yet we knew very little about its operational use; you can tel  whether an instrument is but you can seldom know it has been used in actual the Pathfinder force shoul with incendiaries, but for  readily distinguishable target indicators, On two consecutive  nights about the middle of all the Lancasters we coul two attacks. Unfortunatel it more difficult to see the  range of Oboe or Gee and the target to be done visually or by H2S, But it  ikely to be a failure in tests at home that it is going to be a success until operations. We therefore decided that mark the aiming point visually, not the first time in any operation wit  f the month we attacked Berlin with Taise—there were 368 aircraft in the y haze and snow, which always make outlines of a built-up area, prevented  the Pathfinders from identifying the aiming point and the damage was scattered, though a few important factories were hit, On the  first night the enemy's fig  nters made scarcely any interceptions  and, though the flak was heavy nd the force too small to saturate  it, only one aircraft was mi  issing. On the next night the weather  and the light proved favourable to the enemy; night fighters operated in strength and twenty-two bombers were lost. With the force then available Berlin was really too big a job for us,  but any damage or disloca  tion caused in Berlin had much more  effect on the enemy's war effort than a similar amount of damage  elsewhere,  goth-ist, the target being  time before H2S was effectively us  Was a slow process, mark 1943.  Ha$ was frst used in an operation on the night of January  Hamburg. Unlike Oboe, it was some 5 its tactical development ed by many disappointments during  Oboe was tested in a few very small scale experimenta
Node: 7023, Score: 0.0588842812191628, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0463.txt, Content: storms. To comprehend these . . . one can only analyse them from a physical, meteorological angle. Through the union of a number of fires, the air gets so hot that on account of its decreasing specific weight, it receives a terrific momentum, which in its turn causes other surrounding air to be sucked towards the centre. By that suction, combined with the enormous differ- ence in temperature (600-1000 degrees centigrade) tempests are caused which go beyond their meteorological counterparts (20-30 centigrades). In a built-up area the suction could not follow its shortest course, but the overheated air stormed through the street with immense force taking along not only sparks but burning timber and roof beams, so spreading the fire farther and farther, developing in a short time into a fire typhoon such as was never before witnessed, against which every human resistance was quite useless.”  Another report says that the fire storms were so violent and the suction so strong that trees were pulled out of the ground. But this was not the end of the battle of Hamburg. On the night of July 29th-3oth my Command attacked again in force, and the German impression was that this was the heaviest of all attacks in terms of the weight of bombs dropped. On this night most of the destruction was in areas that had not been hit before. The official German report described the attack as follows:  “The failure of the water system and the fires which still remained from earlier attacks severely hampered all work. The whole of Hamburg was on fire. Rescue... evacuation, clearing of vital roads, fire fighting, etc., asked the impossible from all available forces. Economically, Hamburg was knocked out, as  LONG RANGE ATTACKS 175  even the undamaged parts had to stop work on account of the destruction of water, gas and electricity supplies.”  After the attack on the night of July 27th-28th hundreds of thousands of the inhabitants of Hamburg were evacuated and only the defence forces were lef
Node: 6836, Score: 0.0569292005295404, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0276.txt, Content: y instructors with operational experience overseas, We repeatedly asked for crews Who had had this experience to be sent home from the Middle East, but for a long time we could not get them.  No proper record of the whereabouts of air-crews trained in Bomber Command 0.T.U.s was kept by the Air Ministry and ho arrangement was made to ensure that these indispensable men were properly employed. In the Middle East and elsewhere there Was at times a great surplus of air-crew, amounting to hundreds of men, which we had trained in Bomber Command O.T.U.s; they were either kept in idleness or misemployed in one fashion or another, at a time when the 0.T.U.s themselves were short of  several hundred air-crew and instructor  jlots. We made great  efforts to get this put right, and in this we were supported by the Inspector-General, Air Chief Marshal Sir E igar Ludlow-Hewitt;  eventually we got some of them back.  In the end the obvious  solution of the whole problem was adopted and Wellington O.T.U.s were formed in Palestine and elsewhere in the Middle East. The demands from overseas and Coastal Command were the main reason why Bomber Command failed to expand during 1943. Another hindrance to beginning the offensive at once was that the Command itself was in process of converting from  medium two-engine  to heavy four-engined  ombers throughout  the year. This, of course, was indispensable, As I have said else- where, the original decision to equip the R.A.F’s bomber force with four-engined bombers of the ty  taken long ago, an 1935, but the wisdom of ¢  at a Tater date, We had in England  view as the leaders of be light and rely on their s enemy’s air defence, come of this controversy  the German air  et ween Su  e we eventually had was  the first specifications were drawn up in his decision was frequently discussed  those who took the same orce, that bombers should  eed and manoeuvrability to evade the The Mosquito, was, in fact, the direct out-  porters of the light and  su
Node: 7215, Score: 0.0559007813683657, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0655.txt, Content: Ruhr and North-East  246 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  ¥ Mae a  were unable to raise enough fighters to give what inn sii inmimlscelee  adequate cover for our aircraft during such a deep of Germany. The greater part of our striking force to fly in formation and in an operation involving t most of the force the bomber stream was inevitably stretching to sixty miles or more, so that a large fight always to be assembled when we attacked a Germ: daylight. There had been some misunderstanding a the earlier stages of planning the operation, since it the day before the operation was to take place that that an American long-range fighter force sufficient t our own and the American bombers all the way to Be  available. Although Jimmy Doolittle did his utmost |  to meet our requirements I had to refuse to subject arisk far greater than usual—I had particularly is  obsolete .303 calibre defensive armament—The who {  was therefore cancelled.  If I were asked what were the relations betwe Command and the American bomber force I should had no relations. The word is inapplicable to wl happened; we and they were one force. The Americ  the best they had, and they gave us everything we 1 |  when the need arose. I hope, indeed, I know, that w thing possible for them in turn. We could have he brothers in arms than Ira Eaker, Fred Anderson Doolittle, and the Americans could have had no manders than these three. I was, and am, privileged three of them as the closest of friends. As for th bomber crews, they were the bravest of the brave, that I am speaking for my own bomber crews whe tribute.  When once the Allied armies were near the frontier  and we had reorganised our tactics to take advantage |  the enemy was almost always unable to put up any se ance against our night attacks but this, of course because of our increased power of manceuvre, and no any reduction of the still formidable night fighter most serious blow to the enemy was the loss of his ea: stations on the Channel coast; the only sta
Node: 6699, Score: 0.0558560791726745, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0139.txt, Content: ely any air protection or air support and were very ill-provided with anti- aircraft guns, but this would not be the case if we encountered the German army in the future. Admittedly the specialised army co-operation types of aircraft might be rather more suitable on special occasions than the general-purpose bombers and fighters we were proposing to build, but they could not by themselves gain or maintain air superiority. The German dive-bombers were a casein point. They were no doubt accurate and alarming when used against undefended troops, but they were so easily shot down by efficient anti-aircraft fire, or, of course, by any normal fighter, that they were rapidly becoming obsolete at the very moment when a “why no dive bombers?” campaign was being run in the Press and in Parliament; even in Russia, it was not long before the Germans found they could only use them by night. It would, of course, be a good thing if we could afford to build all the specialised types as well as the main air force, but here again we altogether lacked the man-power and industrial resources to do anything of the kind. What we therefore proposed to do was to build a force which, acting independently against the enemy’s air force and other defences, would, it was hoped, gain air pre- dominance, and then, when that was achieved, could work in close co-operation with the army; for this co-operation there would eventually be special training and exercises.  There were some doubts at the beginning of the war, whether any such air force could, in fact, be sufficiently flexible to do all the work that might be required of it. In particular it was gravely doubted whether any one type of bomber, or crew trained in one way, could serve for strategic bombing, close support of the army,  56 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  attacks on capital ships, and sea mining. In the event, the heavy bombers proved so extremely useful in all these roles that I had the greatest difficulty in preventing them from being continua
Node: 6883, Score: 0.0557888157253275, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0323.txt, Content: nd especially in Oberhausen, the attack did a fair amount of damage. But, though the attack on the objective itself failed, losses were no heavier than in the raid on Cologne, which showed that con- centration of the bomber stream was an effective protection even over the most heavily defended area in Germany.  We tried one more attack on the same scale in the next moon period, a month later. I had originally intended to make Hamburg the target, since the Battle of the Atlantic was then at its height and Hamburg was the largest centre for the production of U-boats in Germany. But the weather compelled me to choose Bremen, another U-boat centre, and once again we were let down by the unexpected arrival of cloud. However, the damage to Bremen, though not concentrated, was by no means negligible; among other things, a very important Focke-Wulf aircraft factory was largely destroyed. Once again, during 1942, I used crews from the O.T.U.s to reinforce our front line strength; this was on the night of July 31st-August 1st, when a very successful attack was made on Dusseldorf, a town on the outskirts of the Ruhr and just as important as Essen, but not so difficult to identify as Essen because it lies on the Rhine. This and a subsequent attack on September roth-11th did so much damage that Dusseldorf was, in proportion to its size, as extensively devastated as Cologne.  We were always told, by the organisation which gave us information about targets, that Dusseldorf was not only a most important industrial town in itself, as it undoubtedly was, but also the site of the head offices of nearly all the industrial concerns of the Ruhr; it was believed that the destruction of these head offices and of the records in them would cause a lot of muddle and loss of production. After the war, Albert Speer, Reichminister for Armaments and War Production, was asked to what extent the loss of records affected efficiency in production. He replied: “On the contrary, the loss of records led
Node: 6891, Score: 0.0555909450991873, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0331.txt, Content: ch, which were undefended and of only historical importance. Nevertheless the increasing diversion of Germany’s material war potential and manpower to the air defence of the Reich made the offensive more than worthwhile even at that stage.  The success of the enemy defences in 1942 was not the result of any radically new tactics, and we knew, of course, that once we could operate on dark nights and in bad weather our casualties would decline, or at all events would not increase at the same rate that they otherwise would. The enemy’s ground control stations were increased in number throughout 1942, and the night fighter squadrons were also reinforced to the point where they became of much greater importance for the defence of Germany than anti-aircraft guns even though these were now radar assisted and were becoming increasingly efficient. The one significant change that was made during the year was the removal of all  GETTING THE WEAPONS 123  searchlights previously arranged in a belt along the frontier; they were now set up in the actual target areas, where the search- lights were so dazzling that it became difficult to identify the aiming point visually even on moonlight nights. The search- lights were no longer needed to assist fighter-interception because an increasing number of fighters were being equipped with airborne radar.  A new and deadly tactic of the enemy fighters was first observed in March, 1942. The fighter climbed steeply until it got under the tail of the bomber, opened fire at close range, and continued to fire and to climb yet more steeply until it stalled. It is extremely difficult to spot another aircraft against the dark background below the tail of a bomber, and gunners were repeatedly taken by surprise; it often happened that crews reported that their aircraft had been hit by anti-aircraft fire when, in fact, as expert examination of the damage proved, they had been shot at from below, by a fighter. Instead of searching the sky for enemy fi
Node: 6839, Score: 0.0555882007832724, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0279.txt, Content: ts of air-crews trained in Bomber Command O.T.U.s was kept by the Air Ministry and no arrangement was made to ensure that these indispensable men were properly employed. In the Middle East and elsewhere there was at times a great surplus of air-crew, amounting to hundreds of men, which we had trained in Bomber Command O.F,U.s3 they were either kept in idleness or misemployed in one fashion or another, at a time when the O.T.U.s themselves were short of several hundred air-crew and instructor pilots. We made great efforts to get this put right, and in this we were supported by the Inspector-General, Air Chief Marshal Sir Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt; eventually we got some of them back. In the end the obvious solution of the whole problem was adopted and Wellington O.T.U.s were formed in Palestine and elsewhere in the Middle East. The demands from overseas and Coastal Command were the main reason why Bomber Command failed to expand during 1943. Another hindrance to beginning the offensive at once was that the Command itself was in process of converting from medium two-engined to heavy four-engined bombers throughout the year. This, of course, was indispensable. As I have said else- where, the original decision to equip the R.A.F.’s bomber force with four-engined bombers of the type we eventually had was taken long ago, and the first specifications were drawn up in 1935, but the wisdom of this decision was frequently discussed at a later date. We had in England those who took the same view as the leaders of the German air force, that bombers should be light and rely on their speed and manceuvrability to evade the enemy’s air defence. The Mosquito, was, in fact, the direct out- come of this controversy between supporters of the light and supporters of the heavy bomber; when rearmament was being planned there seemed to be no reason why we should not have the best of both worlds and add something like a thousand or so light bombers to the four thousand heavies, Unlike the Germans
Node: 6896, Score: 0.0550789118371711, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0336.txt, Content: cient of the four-engined bombers, be fitted with this equipment. Its vever, hopeless even when its bomb It was also slow, and when it flew at danger from the defences. But ), an aircraft with a ceiling more g, and an extremely fast bomber; safety on a steady course through aided areas where any other bomber rould probably be destroyed. The a heavy bomb-load but in any case with Gee, of equipping the whole a few aircraft could use the’ Oboe he two Oboe ground stations could time and only a few in the course  uried out in 1941 and early in 1942 imply as a blind bombing device, ch the fact that only a handful of : in any one attack seemed a fatal mer of 1942 Bomber Command ‘y that Oboe should be used as a ked for six aircraft to be equipped ations to be set up, and for this we e Mosquito’s then small bomb-load osquito’s main work was to mark ce, though it might occasionally bombing.  d to proceed with the development,  124 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  and H2S; either of these, it was claimed by the designers, would make the bomber force largely independent of the weather and would greatly increase the accuracy of our attacks. The intro- duction of these radar aids became all the more important when the enemy started jamming Gee, as we knew he was bound to do before long. This jamming was first suspected on the night of August 6th-7th, 1942, and became obvious on the night of August 9th-1oth when we attacked Osnabruck. The effect of the jamming was not to stop the use of Gee altogether, but it reduced the effective range of this aid by about 100 miles, so that all targets in Germany were outside the range of ground stations in Great Britain though Gee was still an extremely useful aid to navigation along the greater part of the bombers’ route. New ground stations were built in England and the frequency range of the Gee transmission was enlarged and varied; these methods were successful from time to time, but there was always the risk of interference. ;  Oboe developed out of the
Node: 6667, Score: 0.0547603081684182, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0107.txt, Content: the Ger- man escort of fighters, and the escort was by no means always there. In point of fact, Fighter Command’s losses were very low as compared with the normal casualty rate for our bomber operations.  The Germans never make a small mistake, because they are cautioned against all small mistakes in their manuals, without reference to which they seldom do anything whatever. But they can always be relied upon to make all the imaginable large and catastrophic mistakes, together with a good many that only a German could think out. No one but a German would have thought of attacking Russia quite needlessly before the rest of the  world had been finished off. Nobody but the Germans would have thought themselves so clever at designing aeroplanes that they could afford to use almost unarmed bombers against us; they never grasped the simple fact that even a bad fighter is bound to catch the average bomber. At the beginning of the Battle of Britain the German bombing was certainly very good but they were then using their regular and highly trained crews}  THE FIRST BOMBING 43  as they were flying in almost defenceless aircraft the supply of really good crews soon began to run out.  The facts about the projected invasion of England came out at the Nuremberg trials and here may be briefly summarised. Hitler issued to Keitel and Jodl a directive for the invasion of England, a landing operation, on July 16th, 1940. The first essential condition for the landing was that the English Air Force should be so effectively overcome that it could no longer “show any considerable aggressive force against the German attack.” By the beginning of September Hitler was beginning to think about attacking Russia instead of invading England; Raeder said that this was because Hitler feared that control of the air over the Channel in the autumn of 1940 could no longer be attained. What Hitler wanted was protection from air attack for a seaborne invasion and at that time our fighters could not hav
Node: 7028, Score: 0.0544674940754441, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0468.txt, Content: d a fighter defence system on altogether new lines. The Observer Corps plotted the main bomber stream and orders were broadcast to large numbers of fighters with a running commentary giving the height, direction and whereabouts of the bomber stream, and of the probable target for which it was making or the actual target which it was attacking. The fighters were not otherwise in touch with the ground, but until the  B.O. M  176 18 BOMBER CORT EN Se LONG RANGE ATTACKS 179  bombers’ target had been guessed they were kept circling round  our casualt troller who directed the whole available fighter force at the time.  but this w a number of beacons, Then, when the defence organisation had Even so, it was easy for us to add to the controller’s problems. weather, ar made up its mind about the target, the fighters were at once sent We worked out erratic routes for the bomber stream so that the  At that there, with the object of intercepting the bombers over the target | controllers were being continually deceived about our probable catastrophe or of following and intercepting them on the return flight, target and we carried out small diversionary attacks, usually as that whi The fighters were now far more dependent than they had been ade by small forces of Mosquitoes which took the same Germany, \ before on visually intercepting the bombers by night, and to route as the main force for most of the way to the target. The  help them the enemy used great numbers of searchlights in the target area; the searchlights were used either to catch the bombers in their cones or to light up the cloud base so that the bombers could be seen from above silhouetted against the clouds. At the same time some of the enemy fighters were detailed to drop large numbers of illuminating flares over the targets or to lay these in lanes along the bomber’s probable route as they ran up to the target or left it. A considerable number of single-engined fighters theeneiny’s were also thrown into the battl
Node: 6938, Score: 0.0542888133407004, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0378.txt, Content: was not the only daylight attack of the year. Indeed, I laid on, very soon after I had taken over, a daylight attack on an objective far within Germany. On April 17th, twelve Lancasters were dispatched to bomb the M.A.N. works at Augs- burg, which produced a large proportion of the enemy’s U-boat engines; the Diesel-engine shed in the midst of the very large factory was the precise target. The attack was very carefully planned; Augsburg was far beyond the then range of fighter cover, but Fighter Command laid on diversionary sweeps, which, however, did not go altogether according to plan. The Lancasters also flew at a very low level, because it was at that time difficult to detect very low flying aircraft by radar and also because this gave some protection against fighters and flak. Seven out of the twelve Lancasters were missing, a loss which was not excessive in proportion to the importance of the objective and the serious damage that was done to it, but which did demonstrate beyond all question that daylight attacks on Germany could at that time only be carried out by Bomber Command ata prohibitive casualty rate. Dusk attacks on coastal targets were still possible, but proved inaccurate. The U-boat building yards at Flensburg, Liibeck and Danzig were attacked in this way, but only those at Flensburg were hit. . ;  In France and elsewhere in the occupied West the enemy’s defences were still so weak that we could afford to attack several  140 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  intercept our convoys. We laid many more than the usual number of mines in the approaches to the U-boat bases, and these held up U-boat sailings at a most critical time. It was also our practice to lay mines in the U-boat’s exercising grounds in the Baltic, which we knew then and have since confirmed caused great delays and complications in U-boat crew training and working up trials.  A good deal of the minelaying was-directed against German merchant shipping and supply ships, particularly the shipping used t
Node: 6838, Score: 0.0541540414722067, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0278.txt, Content: ht bombers of No. 2 Group. At the end of 1942 the Hampdens and Whitleys had gone, the Whitleys during the summer, and the Hampdens in September. The Manchesters had also proved a failure and were withdrawn from operations in June. Halifaxes formed the bulk of the heavy bomber force, Stirlings, the first of the four-engined bombers to become operational, were falling behind in number, and there were ten Lancaster squadrons operational, together with one temporarily non-operational. We also had half a Mosquito io pre therefore a much better-equipped and better balanced force at the end of the year than at the beginning, but the re- equipment could not be carried out without taking many squadrons off operations for the time being. In February, 1942, one-third of the whole front line strength was actually i operational, either because new squadrons were in process 0: forming, or because old squadrons were in process In re-equipping with better aircraft. The introduction of the heavy bomber did, in fact, very considerably increase the period of training for each crew, and this lasted until the end of the war. At first it was thought that it would be a comparatively simple matter to  100 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  squadrons, but in April, 1942, we put all the crews intended for overseas into two special O.T.U.s where they could have some specialised training in such matters as overseas intelligence, though otherwise there was little difference between this and the normal course at other O.T.U.s. It would obviously have been a good idea to have these crews trained by instructors with operational experience overseas. We repeatedly asked for crews who had had this experience to be sent home from the Middle East, but for a long time we could not get them. No proper record of the whereabouts of air-crews trained in Bomber Command O.T.U.s was kept by the Air Ministry and no arrangement was made to ensure that these indispensable men were properly employed. In the Middle East and elsewhe
Node: 7213, Score: 0.0540855928070492, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0653.txt, Content: in arms than Ira Eaker, Fred Anderson and Jimmy Doolittle, and the Americans could have had no better com- manders than these three. I was, and am, privileged to count all three of them as the closest of friends. As for the American bomber crews, they were the bravest of the brave, and I know that I am speaking for my own bomber crews when I pay this tribute.  When once the Allied armies were near the frontier of Germany and we had reorganised our tactics to take advantage of this fact, the enemy was almost always unable to put up any serious resist- ance against our night attacks but this, of course, was only because of our increased power of manceuvre, and not because of any reduction of the still formidable night fighter force. The most serious blow to the enemy was the loss of his early warning stations on the Channel coast; the only stations he now had were on the German frontier, or on the coast of Holland, and these latter could always be avoided by sending the bombers over France on a route which was out of range of radar stations in  THE FINAL PHASE 247  Holland. The bombers could therefore approach to within 4o miles of the German frontier before the enemy knew of their approach, and usually the enemy had less than an hour’s warning. The enemy’s night fighters were now based on new airfields and had lost all the elaborate communication and control centres in France and Belgium. It was estimated that they needed at least forty minutes warning of the approach of our bombers if their opposi- tion was to be effective. The fighters therefore had scarcely enough time as it was, and we decided to deny them even this by jamming the early warning stations with airborne apparatus carried in Stirlings which flew at a distance of about 60 miles from the German frontier. This jamming was very effective, and it only remained for us to take every possible advantage of it when planning our attacks so that the enemy not only had too little time in which to get his night f