Node: 6726, Score: -0.0091158698298871, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0166.txt, Content: ways astounded by the idiotic behaviour of the British islanders in crying down their own efforts and giving all the credit to others, I do not myself ascribe this habit, which is a widespread one, to any highfalutin ideas about decency or “old school tie” behaviour or anything of that sort. I regard the habitual reluctance of the British to claim their own rights and seek credit for their own good points as a manifestation not so much of diffidence but as of of stupidity. Our newspapers were always full of the wonderful fighting qualities of Australians, New Zealanders, Canadians, South Africans, Rhodesians, Gurkhas, and what have you—anybody except the British. It has, in fact, become a parrot cry to praise our admittedly magnificent fighting men trom the colonies and dominions at the expense of the British Isles. And this has been done, not only recently in the latest war but ever since the  o  65  could re all efore |, the ivea light  still nany m to ot to + less itish  that urse, t we  for “the ‘ture was > lift sure as of  our. t we ning was fits rone Ities had  aine that  my  tell ota ‘eld, ung vuld  64 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  dominions and colonies made any serious contribution towards the wars of the British Empire. I have been amused to read, as one does in almost every history or novel about Empire wars of the past, what magnificent horsemen and “ natural good shots” the colonial troops were, as compared, by implication, with the British cavalryman or the British infantryman. Now I have ridden with colonial troops and shot with colonial troops and been shot at by colonial troops, and I have no hesitation whatever in saying that the dominion and colonial troops are on the average, with remarkably few individual exceptions, damned bad horsemen and damned bad shots unless and until they have been put through the standard riding school procedure, in the days when horsemen meant something, and the standard musketry drill of the armed forces. After which they are no b
Node: 6967, Score: -0.0091129770169638, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0407.txt, Content: ally, so I wrote to him and reminded him of the fact that we were brothers in arms in German West Africa in 1914; actually he was then Chief of Staff to General Louis Botha, the C.-in-C., and I was the junior bugler in the 1st Rhodesian Regiment. I also told him that as a citizen of his country I had, after all, more right to demand his presence than a good many other people in England.  At last we managed to get him down to Springfield. After dinner, and very soon after, because I remembered his South African Veldt habit of going to bed and getting up with the sun, I steered him into what we called the “conversion room” next door and got his nose into one of the stereopticons which showed some of the damage we had already done in Germany; it was small enough at that time by comparison with what came later. At first he had not been remarkably keen on listening to my exposition of bombing theory, but by the time he had seen two or three of the photographs he was fumbling for a focus, pulling up his chair, and obviously sitting down to absorb things. Finally he examined with the greatest care everything we had in the place both in the stereopticons and in the blue books. Beyond a few ejaculations, he made no comment, but when he had finished he walked back into the drawing-room, turned to me, and said: “It is extraordinary, it’s fantastic, it is something entirely new something which I never even suspected; it’s tremendous.” f  There are many outstanding things about Smuts, the brilliance of his intellect, his immense physical hardiness and toughness so that you cannot believe you are looking, not at a man of forty, but of seventy, his great personal bravery, and his delightful sense of humour. Speaking in a clear, high-pitched voice, he will give you the answer to almost any proposition that you put before him. A practical answer, and a better one than most.  Smuts of course puts the welfare of his country first. But he undoubtedly believes that the best thing for th
Node: 6725, Score: -0.0089824918007281, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0165.txt, Content: We had rather a similar experience with a young lady whom we christened Olga Petrovska, the beautiful spy. She continually  IN THE AIR MINISTRY AND U.S.A. 8  tried to get in touch with me for some purpose best known to herself, and gave my wife and me some amusement. She never realised that my wife was with me. Her final effort was to ring up about one o’clock in the morning and urgently demand admission to my room for the purpose of telling me something of the greatest importance. I must say I was too tired to find out what this was. We never learned what her purpose was; it was not the usual one, and we had little doubt that it was either blackmail or something on behalf of some foreign power. While I was in America I found that our Government’s habit of issuing communiques in which the phrase “Imperial troops” was invariably used had the effect of convincing all Americans that in North Africa, where our troops were then putting up a good show, all the fighting was being done not by the British but by “colonial troops,” and probably black ones. I raised the matter at one of the periodical Embassy meetings over which Lord Halifax presided. I do not know what the word “Imperial” means in official circles in England, except that the words “Empire” and “Imperial” are never uttered at all by Dominion Office officials, if they can possibly avoid doing so, in case some one should feel insulted. But I do know that all the rest of the world, including America, believes “Imperial troops” to mean troops who come from outside the British Isles. We made repre- sentations which, I believe, put things right to some extent, but the damage had been done—and it sticks. I am to all intents and purposes a colonial myself, so I feel myself at liberty to say something about this. I am always astounded by the idiotic behaviour of the British islanders in crying down their own efforts and giving all the credit to others, I do not myself ascribe this habit, which is a widespread one, to
Node: 6722, Score: -0.0089802969229957, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0162.txt, Content: st informed that a young lady up for a convention was staying in my rooms, and secondly that the young lady had been given a key to my rooms while my wife was away. How did they expect me to explain this to my wife? My lawyer would call for the answer to that problem. I found no difficulty in moving out.  We had rather a similar experience with a young lady whom we christened Olga Petrovska, the beautiful spy. She continually  IN THE AIR MINISTRY AND U.S.A. 63  tried to get in touch with me for some purpose best known to herself, and gave my wife and me some amusement. She never realised that my wife was with me. Her final effort was to ring up about one o’clock in the morning and urgently demand admission to my room for the purpose of telling me something of the greatest importance. I must say I was too tired to find out what this was. We never learned what her purpose was; it was not the usual one, and we had little doubt that it was either blackmail or something on behalf of some foreign power.  While I was in America I found that our Government’s habit of issuing communiques in which the phrase “Imperial troops” was invariably used had the effect of convincing all Americans that in North Africa, where our troops were then putting up a good show, all the fighting was being done not by the British but by “colonial troops,” and probably black ones. I raised the matter at one of the periodical Embassy meetings over which Lord Halifax presided. I do not know what the word “Imperial” means in official circles in England, except that the words “Empire” and “Imperial” are never uttered at all by Dominion Office officials, if they can possibly avoid doing so, in case some one should feel insulted. But I do know that all the rest of the world, including America, believes “Imperial troops” to mean troops who come from outside the British Isles. We made repre- sentations which, I believe, put things right to some extent, but the damage had been done—and it sticks.  I am to
Node: 6578, Score: -0.0075725623533899, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0018.txt, Content: men I have ever met. He farms 1200 acres in Norfolk; it is better farming than I have seen anywhere in this country—and I am a bit of a farmer myself—but he does it as a spare-time job, a hobby, betweeen running half a dozen big firms and factories. It was nice to be back in the green countryside in the late summer.  On September 3rd, 1939, we were still with the Tresfons. We sat round the log-fire and listened to Chamberlain’s uninspired and uninspiring broadcast; when he announced that we were now at war with Germany he was about as stirring as a school- master confirming the fact that mumps had broken out in his prep. school. A lifeless call to the blood and tears, the toil and sweat of war. There was silence at the end of his speech, until Jean Tresfon turned to me and said: “How long will this one be?” I drew a bow at a venture and answered: “Five years.” I do not know why I said five years, except that I knew we could not hope to reach our full effort before five years and that it  WOT  vedbioin vy het  bile fla en; ec een fake: fe  ilexinhd  il vlvvnod ly  cheba taveyth ket  ti  a lines afi ican  , ¢ Royal Air Force was given permission to exis  FACING THE WAR 13  ‘at there would be “no major war for ten years.” That imple and, at the time when it was made, justifiable ruling. at rule remained in force year after year, and no one served the logical conclusion that the progressive plans thereafter have been based on an amended ruling that  vould be no major war within nine years, within eight  and so on each year, to zero. Until Hitler was already in the passage of the years was ignored, and as year succeeded tch was still assumed to be the first of the ten years of iity from any major war. Then, with all the services still, h force majeure on the part of the Treasury, basing their m this ruling, it was in force one day and completely ted the next. It was this absurd procedure, as much as ag else, which had brought the Royal Air Force and the  , ervices to th
Node: 6881, Score: -0.0060662798022936, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0321.txt, Content: eard the last word.  As a matter of fact I did my utmost during the war to avoid any sort of publicity for remarks by myself; in fact I considerably annoyed many representatives of the Press by refusing to see them or hold Press conferences. I do not claim to be diffident—far from it—but I had two very good reasons for my refusal. I consider that no Press interview with a Commander-in-Chief in the field can be published without incurring some extra military danger to the success of operations and to the safety of the men under his command. In this respect I am entirely at variance with one or two other commanders of this last war. Secondly—and this reason came up during the last part of the war—the Air Ministry issued an order that no Commander-in-Chief should give an interview for publication in the Press without first submitting to the Air Ministry an account of exactly what he was going to say. This order completely mystified me. If an interview means anything at all it means a series of questions and answers and I cannot imagine how you are to answer a number of unrehearsed questions and at the same time know, and have prior approval for precisely what you are going to say before you start! In the circumstances, I suggested that the Air Ministry should give the interviews themselves. As the Press well knows, they did.  118  Your submarines cannot even try to preven! bombers from getting here; for they fly acros:  “Soon we shall be coming every night and blow or snow—we and the Americans. I have months in America, so I know exactly what is: going to scourge the Third Reich from end to« it necessary for us to do so. You cannot stop it, ¢  “You have no chance. You could not de when we were almost unarmed and stood alon were crazy to attack Russia as well as America leaders are crazy; the whole world thinks so e:  “How can you hope to win now that we a stronger, having both Russia and America as z are getting more and more exhausted?  “Remember this: no matter how f
Node: 6965, Score: -0.0055555689705474, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0405.txt, Content: ss so that you cannot believe you are looking, not at a man of forty. but of seventy, his great personal bravery, and his delightful sense of humour. Speaking in a clear, high-pitched voice, he will give you the answer to almost any proposition that you put before him. A practical answer, and a better one than most.  Smuts of course puts the welfare of his country first. But he undoubtedly believes that the best thing for the world is the extension of the ideas that have produced the British Common- wealth. The most brilliant, if not the most bitter opponent of ours during the Boer War, he has never forgotten the aftermath when the Transvaal and the Orange Free State were handed back, and indeed the whole of “South” Africa including such pre- dominantly “British” places as Natal and the Cape, and the Union of South Africa at last brought into being. He regards that as  THE OFFENSIVE UNDER WAY 151  a most extraordinary example of far-sighted statesmanship, as indeed it was; not only because it brought into the Common- wealth such great Boer patriots as Smuts and Botha, but it healed also to a large extent the spiritual wounds of Boer and British in South Africa, and not the least those of the “dear irreconcil- able” Deneys Rietz.  Though Smuts had predicted how the air war would develop as long ago as 1917, I could see that he was astounded by what I showed him at Bomber Command; it was then that he realised in full for the first time what our boniber offensive meant to the war as a whole. I knew I was assured of his support in military affairs if I should require it. He told me that he would talk to Winston about what we had done, but I do not know whether he in fact got the opportunity to do so. I did not worry much about that, because I knew that Winston himself always wanted to know first hand about everything.  I was frequently bidden to Chequers, especially during the week-ends when Winston was normally there. I never failed to return from these visits invigora
Node: 6803, Score: -0.0051129818104095, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0243.txt, Content: g  88 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  of devastation in a town loss of output resulting  would cause more than from the destruction o  ten times the one hundred  acres, but also that when a large number of towns was similarly devastated the total loss of output could not be estimated merely by adding together the various acreages of devastation in all the  towns. It was obvious if  come when factories in an undamaged town woul want of materials that should  of a damaged town,  Asa matter of strict calculation it was t  the policy of destroying them, was not merely the at that time; it was also  capacity to produce war material. bombing could be taken as an imponderable factor.  a break in morale might more probably bad moral resulting directly from ai  to take these possibilities into account; bombing, t  Teason to Suppose, woul  air attack was continue  ave been supplied  a time would stand idle for  y the factories  ‘ therefore obvious that  industrial cities, and the factories in  only possible one for Bom  ber Command  the best way of destroying Germany's  lead to the collapse of th  r raid damage, but it was  and with suffi  he morale of the enemy under  Just possibly le enemy, and  le would add to the loss of production  not necessary ere Was every  tipple the enemy's war industries if it was carried out for long enoug!  cient weight,  There was no reason, of course, to confine our bombing exclusively to the large industrial cities; if this should at any time be possible it would be of great advantage to attack key-point factories out.  side the cities as well. Andin  int of fact within a month or two  BOMBER COMMAND 89  ance to kill women and children that was felt by everyone else. The facts are otherwise. Such decisions of policy are not in any case made by Commanders-in-Chief in the field but by the Ministries, by the Chiefs of Staff Committee, and by the War Cabinet. The decision to build a great force of bombers for strategic attack on industries and communications wa
Node: 6977, Score: -0.0045715019031781, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0417.txt, Content: y be able to visit Chequers, switch on the se see anew this Prime Minister of England on the prowl—sirer 1 embroidered slippers, dressing-gown, all complete—disp iit with sonorous phrase and valiant gesture of each of the _ pil desperate crises that arose during the time of his leadership.  I am certain that Winston is no more of a politician i accepted sense of the word than I am, which is probably w ‘hilt has spent so much of his political life out of office. By mean that he is not a trimmer, a man who sets his sails t and every breeze that may take him to some or any harbou the contrary, having chosen his course he would stick through thick and thin if he thought it was the right one ‘ex would let nothing, least of all personal or party considera 2¢uljlaiy divert him from his course; it did not matter how long "p:stihypuit would keep him from the comfortable political career that ¥ 2! have been his if he had trimmed his sails to suit each fitful thle  ny khan  THE OFFENSIVE UNDER WAY 157  inevitable fear of hurting someone’s feelings, especially the feelings of the other services, by putting forward its own case. The fact that the Air Force was sinking more submarines than the Navy never seemed to get published at all, just as the fact that Bomber Command sank more German naval ships has never got out, and it should most definitely have been the Air Ministry’s business to see that these facts got out; as it was, the Navy was able to hush everything up on the grounds of security. The activities of the departments responsible for censorship and security were often wholly inexplicable; for example, we were not allowed to have some facts about the Pathfinder Force published at a time when these same facts had already been given in a propaganda broadcast directed to listeners in the Luftwaffe.  However we did, by hook and by crook, get a good deal of support for the bomber offensive in the Press. Arthur Salzberger of the New York Times, a man of intelligence, was as f
Node: 6969, Score: -0.0040800528129407, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0409.txt, Content: ewed hope and  enthusiasm, in spite of the app  ally kept. If it was a mixed party—whic  at Winston habitu- was not very often—  alling hours  and I could take my wife, I knew that we might get home some- where between midnight and one in the morning, but when I was  asked alone, it would be anyw! Igot back, Not that  we would all go up to the gal  ie rest of the family, and even the military guard from outside—to see the picture, There the Prime Minister would sit, occasionally  making amusing comments a  course, that he was really resting himself in this atmosphere an that this thoughts were often far away. Sometimes one could hear  minded,  After dinner Winston would talk; aloud about how things were going, He would get repeate reminders that a film show was waiting for him, and eventually  ere between three and four before  e was really thinking  lery—the household staff, and ¢  out the drama. One realised, o:  him rehearse a phrase for a te after midnight we woul  to bed, as his doctors  go back down to the hall and he would get down to another batch of work, sending signals, dictating t his secretaries, and so on, while at intervals one of his family, and sometimes his naval A.D.C. would attempt to steer him o! iad advised, but invariably without th  legram he would send later. Wel  Ss  least success, He went to bed when he wanted to, The only man who stood up to Winston about his late hours was Smuts. I have  { WAY  153  e wording of some » some corner of the g. His extraordinary shrase was obviously ngth to him. When ad taken a long time his resolution more 1 to express it. here had been much hether to hold on to sion that the rest of farther East. I have ion of pure strategy; would often have to vosed when the right nacceptable for lack -which were perhaps ls of pure strategy —I never knew him n Winston asked for 1, not because it was ‘absolutely the only though there would Force in supplying ur side, even though ling to the fears and advance far beyond hre
Node: 6880, Score: -0.0036118698670213, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0320.txt, Content: hand; it only had to be privately explained that it was all a departmental mistake and that I had had nothing to do with the broadcast.  _ I went to dinner with the Prime Minister at Chequers soon afterwards and he said: “I hear you have been getting into trouble in the House about your broadcast, which I understand you never made.” I said that it was quite true that I never made the broad-  cast, but for myself I should hardly have described being attacked by Lord Addison in the Lords or anywhere else as “getting into trouble.” The Prime Minister laughed.  The Economist, which in this was duly, not to say dutifully, >  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 119  followed by the Daily Worker, has attacked me for having organised and initiated the whole bomber offensive, and has even gone so far as to say that I got my proposals adopted by making grossly exaggerated claims about what was being accomplished. Unless these newspapers had access to the secret files of the ministries, which I very much doubt, they must have been basing their statements on this broadcast; there can be no other pub- lished evidence of any claims made by me.  I never made any broadcasts, apart from an innocuous speech at a Wings for Victory Week. I once’ said a few words on a newsreel in 1941, but there the only definite suggestion I made was that we should wait and see what bombing could achieve. Some people, I remarked, thought that bombing could never win a war. “Well,” I said, “we shall see. It hasn’t been tried yet, and Germany, more and more desperately clinging to her widespread conquests and still foolishly striving for more, will make a most interesting subject for the initial experiment. Japan can be used to provide the confirmation. But don’t expect too much yet . . .” That was in 1942 and Hiroshima heard the last word.  As a matter of fact I did my utmost during the war to avoid any sort of publicity for remarks by myself; in fact I considerably annoyed many representatives of the Press by refusi
Node: 6720, Score: -0.0030112761357483, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0160.txt, Content: which the phrase “Imperial troops” y used had the effect of convincing all Americans . Africa, where our troops were then putting up a ll the fighting was being done not by the British iial troops,” and probably black ones. I raised the 2 of the periodical Embassy meetings over which presided. I do not know what the word “Imperial” icial circles in England, except that the words | “Imperial” are never uttered at all by Dominion i, if they can possibly avoid doing so, in case some el insulted. But I do know that all the rest of the ing America, believes “Imperial troops” to mean me from outside the British Isles. We made repre- ich, I believe, put things right to some extent, but ad been done—and it sticks.  1 intents and purposes a colonial myself, so I feel erty to say something about this. I am always the idiotic behaviour of the British islanders in heir own efforts and giving all the credit to others. If ascribe this habit, which is a widespread one, to n ideas about decency or “old school tie” behaviour f that sort. I regard the habitual reluctance of the m their own rights and seek credit for their own a manifestation not so much of diffidence but as of  apers were always full of the wonderful fighting Australians, New Zealanders, Canadians, South desians, Gurkhas, and what have you—anybody tish. It has, in fact, become a parrot cry to praise y magnificent fighting men trom the colonies and the expense of the British Isles. And this has been y recently in the latest war but ever since the  62 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  is shot at by everybody, and usually without the slightest justifica- tion. Certainly there can be no mistaking the Whitley; its design was so cock-eyed that it always flew in the most astonishing and unusual attitude with its tail right up behind its ears.  We had a couple of destroyers with us, one of them of the old American type. The journey took us seven days on a zigzag course, calling at Halifax and arriving at Boston in the dark. I recall the st
Node: 7292, Score: -0.0022141473634407, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0732.txt, Content: he moment we have to maintain such forces as we have, or a reasonable proportion of them, with such weapons as they possess. But there is no doubt that to-day the atom bomb momentarily holds the field, though there is a possibility that what has hitherto been a by-product of the atom bomb, the radio- active particles which send out lethal rays, might be produced independently of the explosion of such a bomb and used as a deadly weapon against the people of large cities or large con- centrations of troops. But as things stand now, we may regard with equanimity the threats, or even the warlike gestures and advances, of any powers anywhere in the world, provided we have a few atom bombs and the means of using them. This situation will quickly pass as the scientists provide all and sundry with the new weapons and the counter-measures against them. The whole key to our defence is encouragement of science and the scientists. Whoever gets far enough ahead in science will prevail —for the time being.  Quarrels do, of course, occur within a single service and often amount to quite serious feuds between the advocates of one weapon or another. These we must expect to continue, but I do not think we need fear that if we organise a single service the quarrels between the ex-soldiers, ex-sailors and ex-airmen who have been forced to wear the same uniform will be just as destructive as before. For one thing, new men will enter the single service who will have no reason to practise the old totem worship of the horse, the battleship, the tank, or the heavy bomber. And for another there is the example of the Air Force, which in the beginning was mainly composed of ex-soldiers and ex-sailors who settled down very well together to work for the  278  Air Fo betwee: native i in ever) them c weapon of usele co-oper: and hay called tl “Deferx Suck pendent only co contem] regret 1 shows \ and eas} This do control the gow. intellige has alwz the best overwh« favour commar With fundam: have n
Node: 6632, Score: -0.0016780189964065, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0072.txt, Content: certain mild amusement not long afterwards when Monty became as urgent in his requests for air support as the rest of them, indeed he was more insistent than most of them, since he appreciated realities more quickly.  I always pride myself that Monty, who is only too willing to learn anything new and learns at speed, got his first real understanding of air co-operation from me, during his very short term of office in Palestine in 1939. It was short, because he was taken desperately ill not long after his arrival in the country and left for home on a stretcher. Knowing that more serious war was close upon us, I thought with dismay that we were to lose a man whom I considered to be one of our best generals. But whatever bug it was that bit Monty on that occasion—and it bit him so hard that we never expected him to reach home—he got the better of it.  The rules for rebellion in Palestine appeared to me to get simpler every day. For the British forces they amounted to this; you must not get rough, no matter how rough the “enemy” is. If the “enemy” gets particularly rough and you get rougher and kill any noticeable number of his men, even if only with the aim of saving your own men, then it is just too bad for you. My advice to all young commanders in all services is, whenever you see any prospect of being called out “in aid of the civil power” in any part of the world, to get to hell out of there as quickly  FACING THE WAR 31  and as far as you can. If you fail by being too soft you will be sacked; if you succeed by being tough enough, you will certainly be told you were too tough, and you may be for it. Therefore I say that the best thing to do is to take long leave, or to get trans- ferred, or to retire and buy yourself a farm; do anything, in fact, sooner than get involved “in aid of the civil power.” There are two things you can get from aiding the civil power, and two things only—brickbats and blame. If you do not mind either of these things it can at times be quit
Node: 6806, Score: -0.0006649779798287, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0246.txt, Content: morale would add to the loss of production resulting directly from air raid damage, but it was not necessary to take these possibilities into account; bombing, there was every reason to suppose, would cripple the enemy’s war industries if it was carried out for long enough and with sufficient weight. There was no reason, of course, to confine our bombing exclusively to the large industrial cities; if this should at any time be possible it would be of great advantage to attack key-point factories out- side the cities as well. And in point of fact within a month or two of my taking over the Command the force was able to seize the opportunity to bomb two key factories, one in France and the other in Germany, with a large measure of success. Moreover, now that the Americans were in the war with us, their bombers, operating by day, would be able to attack just those factories in open country or on the outskirts of towns which we could not as yet hope to attack by night in normal circumstances. The American campaign and that of our bombers would be exactly complementary, but all the facts at our disposal showed that it would not be sufficient, even if by any chance it became possible, to attack only the key factories. When the Americans came to bomb Japan in force, although they had begun the war as one hundred per cent advocates of “ precision” bombing, they also discovered that it was necessary to carry out area attacks.  There is a widespread impression, which has often got into print, that I not only invented the policy of area bombing but also insisted on carrying it out in the face of the natural reluct-  BOMBER COMMAND 89  ance to kill women and children that was felt by everyone else. The facts are otherwise. Such decisions of policy are not in any case made by Commanders-in-Chief in the field but by the Ministries, by the Chiefs of Staff Committee, and by the War Cabinet. The decision to build a great force of bombers for strategic attack on industries and commu
Node: 6753, Score: 0.0003986169311175, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0193.txt, Content: ve us a very bad time indeed unless we could get the enemy down first and destroy his industries. There is no doubt whatever that but for the bombing we should have had such a dose of V-weapons as would have made London completely uninhabitable, would have inflicted frightful damage on the whole of the southern part of England, and would have greatly prolonged the war. I knew well that this was also Winston Churchill’s opinion. Above all I had in mind two things, uranium and heavy water. Some of us knew by then that the race for the atom.bomb was on, and we knew that the Germans had just as much chance of getting it, and just as good facilities for making it, as anyone else. In no circum- stances whatsoever did there seem to be any means of preventing Germany from making progress with the atom bomb except by bombing industry generally in the hope that this would hit where it was most likely to hurt the production of the atom bomb. Parachutist attacks on’the production of heavy water in Norway might certainly cause delays, but if the Germans chose to give priority to atom-bomb research, and to the manufacture of the materials needed for it, they could always get ahead of such attacks on individual plants or facilities; only in the event of industry in general being badly dislocated by bombing would attacks on such individual targets count for more than brief damage. Here we came up against the same problem and the same objections that I had to make when panacea targets, as I called them, were so frequently put before me, targets like synthetic oil plants, ball-bearing factories, molybdenum mines and the like; I shall go into this later.  I knew at the same time that the ever-increasing demands from the Middle East, as well as from elsewhere, and of course, the inordinate demands of the Admiralty for every conceivable thing to be turned to their use, would bring any bomber force offensive to a standstill. In 1941 the Air Force had already had a tough struggle with the
Node: 6968, Score: 0.0018211042214618, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0408.txt, Content: any proposition that you put before him. A practical answer, and a better one than most.  Smuts of course puts the welfare of his country first. But he undoubtedly believes that the best thing for the world is the extension of the ideas that have produced the British Common- wealth. The most brilliant, if not the most bitter opponent of ours during the Boer War, he has never forgotten the aftermath when the Transvaal and the Orange Free State were handed back, and indeed the whole of “South” Africa including such pre- dominantly “British” places as Natal and the Cape, and the Union of South Africa at last brought into being. He regards that as  THE OFFENSIVE UNDER WAY ISI  a most extraordinary example of far-sighte  statesmanship, as  indeed it was; not only because it brought into the Common-  wealth such great Boer patriots  as Smuts and Botha, but it healed  also to a large extent the spiritual wounds of Boer and British in South Africa, and not the least those of the “dear irreconcil-  able” Deneys Rietz,  Though Smuts had predicted how the air war would develop as long ago as 1917, I could see that he was astounded by what I showed him at Bomber Command; it was then that he realised in full for the first time what our boniber offensive meant to the  war as a whole, I knew I was  assured of his support in military  affairs if I should require it, He told me that he would talk to  Winston about what we ha he in fact got the opportunity about that, because I  I was frequently week-ends when Winston was  new that Winston to know first hand about everything. iden to Chequers, especially during the  done, but I do not know whether  to do so, I did not worry much imself always wanted  normally there. I never failed to  return from these visits invigorated and full of renewed hope and  enthusiasm, in spite of the app  ally kept. If it was a mixed party—whic  at Winston habitu- was not very often—  alling hours  and I could take my wife, I knew that we might get home s
Node: 7248, Score: 0.002350183879483, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0688.txt, Content: , production was reduced by bombing by about 30 per cent over the whole period from March, 1943 till the end of the war, but the-loss of production was most unevenly distributed over this period; in the last seven months of the war production was reduced by 60 per cent, and in March, 1945, was set down as nil. It was the same at Bochum, where the loss of production was even more severe; over the whole period from May, 1943 till the end of the war production was cut by 45 per cent, but in the last five months of the war it was cut by 86 per cent.  Some attempt was also made by the Americans to assess the loss of production in Germany as a whole which resulted from our attacks on cities, but this assessment admittedly left so many factors out of account that it can only give a'very vague indication of the situation. The figures arrived at do not, for example, show “to what extent Germany’s capacity to continue producing, working, and fighting may have been undermined in the process of meeting these attacks and making good, or trying to make good, the losses incurred.” Since between a million and fifteen hundred thousand people were engaged solely in work arising from air-raid damage, and since the attempt to restore the great industrial towns to some semblance of life must have cost Germany a vast expenditure of other labour and material, this is a considerable omission from the assessment. Nor does the American survey take into account the cumulative effect on Ger- man production as more and more cities were ruined. But in spite of all these omissions the American figures once again bear out the general conclusion that in the last months of the war the loss of production resulting from the destruction of cities became really disastrous,  The R.A.F. was not ina position, as it most emphatically ought to have been, to judge the result of its main offensive in the light of a sufficient body of indisputable evidence, gathered by people who knew what to look for and befor
Node: 6575, Score: 0.0028259799012322, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0015.txt, Content: olk, Jean and Adeline Tresfon. Jean had been an officer in the Dutch army, and became a naturalised Englishman shortly after the 1914-1918 war. He is quite one of the ablest men I have ever met. He farms 1200 acres in Norfolk; it is better farming than I have seen anywhere in this country—and I am a bit of a farmer myself—but he does it as a spare-time job, a hobby, betweeen running half a dozen big firms and factories. It was nice to be back in the green countryside in the late summer.  On September 3rd, 1939, we were still with the Tresfons. We sat round the log-fire and listened to Chamberlain’s uninspired and uninspiring broadcast; when he announced that we were now at war with Germany he was about as stirring as a school- master confirming the fact that mumps had broken out in his prep. school. A lifeless call to the blood and tears, the toil and sweat of war. There was silence at the end of his speech, until Jean Tresfon turned to me and said: “How long will this one be?” I drew a bow at a venture and answered: “Five years.” I do not know why I said five years, except that I knew we could not hope to reach our full effort before five years and that it  FACING THE WAR 11  would take at least our full effort to stop the Boche and consider- ably more to beat him.  I then went to the telephone and rang up Portal and told him that I wanted a job. I had finished with my holiday, no matter what might be said to the contrary. There was complete chaos on the telephone lines and I only got through to the Air Ministry by demanding “immediate priority’—a meaningless term and quite unauthorised, but one which had the desired effect. I had the mortification of kicking my heels for some days, which seemed like years, before I received a message telling me to report to the Air Ministry. There Portal, after ringing up Ludlow- Hewitt, Commander-in-Chief, Bomber Command, told me to go and take over command of No, 5 Group of Bomber Command at Grantham the next day, which I did. M
Node: 6724, Score: 0.0032913516576386, Chunk File: harris_offensive/chunks/harris_offensive_0164.txt, Content: sea.  At Washington I found the only accommodation that could be got for me not much to my liking. I discovered something better, but it seemed difficult to get rid of the rooms that had long been reserved for us. However the problem was solved in an amusing way. After a stay in the country my wife arrived at the hotel and asked for the keys of my room. The reception clerk denied that there was any such person as myself staying in the hotel. As my wife had been there with me before she went to the country, she, of course, insisted, and even gave the number of my room. The reception clerk replied that that room was occupied by “a young lady who just come up to Washington for one of the conventions.” Just at that moment I turned up myself; we had a bit of a laugh about the situation and thought no more of it.  The weather was then extremely hot; as few people who have not been to stay there realise, in the summer Washington has just about the worst possible of tropical climates. I normally sleep without much on, but in such climates I sleep naked under an electric fan. During the middle of the night there was a rattle at the lock of the door and in came the young lady from the convention. We were amused, but the young lady was somewhat startled. It was quite obvious that she had been given the key of my room by the management in spite of the fact that I had been staying there for nearly a month.  Next morning we moved into our new rooms; I pointed out that my wife was first informed that a young lady up for a convention was staying in my rooms, and secondly that the young lady had been given a key to my rooms while my wife was away. How did they expect me to explain this to my wife? My lawyer would call for the answer to that problem. I found no difficulty in moving out.  We had rather a similar experience with a young lady whom we christened Olga Petrovska, the beautiful spy. She continually  IN THE AIR MINISTRY AND U.S.A. 8  tried to get in touch with me for some p