Node: 24134, Score: -0.0125928930985098, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0184.txt, Content: CLIMAX AND CLIMAX but the suggestion that a radically new kind of bombing policy had been adopted and that it had been adopted by the decision of the 'Allied Air Chiefs', by which service officers were presumably meant, was entirely misleading, and even indicated that the military forces were no longer within the proper control of the political direction. In view of this and in view of the fact that even the Prime Minister seems to have been temporarily influenced by the same delusion, it seems necessary to examine the foundations upon which this myth grew. The conduct of the strategic air offensive had long been regarded with suspicion by sections of public opinion in Britain. It was gener- ally regarded as morally legitimate to bomb strategic objectives such as factories, oil plants, dockyards and railway centres, even if this did incidentally cause severe destruction of residential areas and of civi- lian life and limb. On the other hand, the view that it was morally legitimate to bomb residential areas, even if the object was to reduce military or industrial activity, was frequently challenged, and the more apparent it became that in the majority of its major area attacks, Bomber Command was, in fact, aiming at the centres of the residential areas, the more pronounced the protests became. In deal- ing with these challenges and with the many anxious enquiries which he received, the Secretary of State for Air was naturally placed in a somewhat delicate and difficult position. It was unfortunate that he had to contend with such a widespread and deep-rooted ignorance of the operational problems involved. All the same, many of those who expressed anxiety about the objects of strategic bombing were highly responsible people whose motives could not be in doubt. Notable among them were the Bishop of Chichester, Dr. Bell, and the Marquess of Salisbury.1 Now, of course, the responsibility for the fact that Bomber Command often, and at some stages of the war generally, aim
Node: 24038, Score: -0.0099854363606488, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0088.txt, Content: litical and military authorities in the desired direction to the point where the High Command must either accept the necessity of sur- render or be replaced by an alternative Command which does so'. These authorities, the memorandum suggested, would be in- fluenced mainly by considerations of foreign policy, by the fortunes of the German armed forces and by the condition of the economic and administrative system on which they depended. 'In the final crisis', the memorandum, however, stated, 'they may also be affected by certain moral factors', and among these it was found possible to dis- tinguish three principal types. The first was the morale of the German political and military leaders themselves which, it was suggested, might be directly attacked by bombing 'the traditional centres of Governmental and military control . .. ' The second was the morale of the armed forces and, though this would largely depend upon 'con- ditions in the field', it was thought that it might also depend upon the condition of civilian morale which, itself, formed the third principal factor. The condition of civilian morale might, the memorandum sug- gested, exert its influence in various ways. In an 'extreme case' there might be outbreaks of rioting, strikes or uncontrolled looting. In less severe circumstances there might, nevertheless, be an increase in volun- tary absenteeism from work and in an attitude of general 'unhelpful- ness' towards the Government. Even if morale was not impaired, an attack upon it might force the German authorities to divert increas- ing resources towards its maintenance at the expense of other vital commitments. In distinction to earlier appreciations, the Air Staff did not, however, take an optimistic view of any of these possibilities. They now believed that German civilian morale was 'negative rather than positively good or bad'. They did not believe that the average German saw much to be gained from resistance to the authorities and they recognised tha
Node: 24079, Score: -0.0085687747245122, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0129.txt, Content: ngle-minded and great leader, able and willing to chastise the enemy, to secure rewards for those who did their duty and condign punishments for those who did not. Nor, perhaps, was the legend far removed from the fact. The response was inevitable and it was enduring. To the Commander- in-Chief was given, in all but miraculously few cases, an absolute obedience, and in him was reposed an absolute confidence which lasted until the end. The judgement of him by his men as a great com- mander to be held in awe and also in affection was just and intuitive. Though there will be many who still wonder how Sir Arthur Harris achieved this transformation of his Command, there will be none who can deny that a transformation is what he did achieve. The stimulating impact of Sir Arthur Harris' personality was not, of course, restricted to his own Command. Because of the effect which it had there, and also on its own account, it was much more widely spread than that and it is hardly surprising that an intimate relation- ship sprang up between the Commander-in-Chief and the Prime Minister. This was nourished by many informal meetings at Chequers and by a personal correspondence in the course of which Sir Arthur Harris frequently expressed his views upon great issues, often without prior reference to the Air Staff. Thus was the position of the Com- mander-in-Chief vis-à-vis the Air Staff enhanced beyond the theor- etical limits of the constituted system of command. Though it did not last until the end of the war, this relationship with the Prime Minister was an important factor in the extraordinary position which Sir Arthur Harris occupied. Mr. Churchill always displayed an anxiety to get into direct touch with and to learn at first hand the views of the various Commanders-in-Chief, but in no other case was the oppor- tunity for a continuous contact so favourable as in this. It was not only that the characters of the two men were cast in such a way as to make mutual respect likely,
Node: 24442, Score: -0.0069196142981152, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0492.txt, Content: or making it selective was weakened and that in favour of making it general was strengthened for erroneous reasons. On the other hand, the more detailed intelligence about the struc- ture and contents of individual cities and the nature of the principal industries and their contribution to the German war production tended to be much more accurate. In estimating many of the target systems, the Ministry of Economic Warfare achieved an informed realism which increased as the war went on and culminated in the detailed estimates of the German oil position-a triumph which was due to the Ministry of Economic Warfare and to other agencies. From 1943 onwards the co-operation of the British and American economic intelligence experts grew continually closer until in the second half of 1944 they were fused together in the Combined Strategic Targets Committee. In addition, the operational and intel- ligence staffs of the two air forces were also associated with the same joint committee. This machinery was meant to produce a greater concentration of strategic purpose and of operational effort, but this result was to some extent frustrated by the existence of a rival intelli- gence organisation at Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force and by the fact that the Deputy Supreme Commander, Sir Arthur Tedder, the Commander-in-Chief, Bomber Command, Sir Arthur Harris, and the Commanding General of the United States Strategic Air Forces, General Spaatz, were not always prepared to accept the advice of the Committee as authoritative. So far as the oil intelligence was concerned, there was little dispute as to the facts but much as to the various interpretations which could be placed upon them. But in the case of communications there were substantial differences of opinion as to the nature of the target system itself which resulted in delay and confusion. It cannot be doubted, how- ever, in the light of information gathered after the war, that the allied estimates of the condition
Node: 24441, Score: -0.0037375762165432, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0491.txt, Content: strial and technical information about the potential targets by a number of agencies, amongst which the Ministry of Economic Warfare had the foremost place. Often the criticism which it received from Bomber Command was due less to the faults of the intelligence than to the failure of the bombers to inflict the expected degree of damage. Closer relations between the Ministry of Economic Warfare and Bomber Command, which would have enabled intelligence to be considered more in the context of operational capacities, might have obviated some of the grounds of mistrust which made that co-operation difficult. One of the defects of Sir Arthur Harris' great qualities was his profound mistrust of the advice of experts. Even so, though not always in the expected way, this mistrust was sometimes justified by events. The cardinal error of intelligence was the description of the Ger- man economy as tightly stretched and in decline when it was, in reality, resilient, cushioned and increasingly productive, and of the German people as exhausted, disaffected and liable to panic and revolt when, in reality, and on the whole, they were vigorous, calm, stoical and loyal. In the former case, the Ministry of Economic War- fare had a heavy responsibility, and in the latter it was widely shared but especially due to the Foreign Office, which had a basically un- sound but highly influential view of German morale. These errors enabled an entirely false argument to be used in favour of general 303 area bombing. Nor, until the war was over, was it realised that the cities and towns listed for general area attack contained a smaller proportion of important industry than had been estimated by the Ministry of Economic Warfare. Thus, even while area bombing was operationally inevitable, the argument for making it selective was weakened and that in favour of making it general was strengthened for erroneous reasons. On the other hand, the more detailed intelligence about the struc- ture and contents
Node: 24421, Score: 0.0012453946030704, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0471.txt, Content: orce. For this very reason the strat- egy of the bombing offensive was normally a controversial issue. A reasonably convincing argument could generally be advanced for attempting something other than what was being done. One of the major problems of the bombing offensive was, therefore, the achieve- ment of a strategic concentration or, in other words, the establishment of a main aim which was compatible with the scale of attack available. This problem persisted throughout the war and was never wholly resolved. At the outset it was emphasised by the difficulty of applying precise appreciations to what, on a major scale, was an entirely new method of warfare and, in the closing stages, it was emphasised again by the great variety of tasks which were demonstrably within the capacity of long-range bombers. Thus, throughout the war Bomber Command and, when they came into action, the United States Stra- tegic Air Forces also were beset by a multiplicity of tasks which often did violence to the principle of concentration of effort. Even in the middle period of the war from the beginning of 1942 to the beginning of 1944 when, for Bomber Command, because many of its operational limitations had been revealed and much of its later versatility had not yet been developed, the conditions for strategic concentration were at their best, there were still formidable difficulties in achieving it. The great issue of that time; the issue which the Casablanca Conference failed to settle, was between general and selective attack-between, on the one hand, the aim of attempting to cause some dislocation to as much as possible and on the other, that of seeking to cause a higher degree of dislocation in a smaller, but especially vital segment of the enemy war machine. This issue was not primarily concerned with methods of attack such as precise or area bombing, but with the aims to which it should be applied and to a great extent it turned upon the question of in- telligence and its interpre
Node: 24082, Score: 0.001516029024363, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0132.txt, Content: a communications campaign were advanced. The sense of this memorandum, in which the oil plan was only a secondary consideration, did not, of course, by any means entirely correspond with the prevailing wishes of the Air Staff, but it was, nevertheless, a somewhat severe criticism of the policy being carried out by Bomber Command and it was, perhaps, for this reason and also, no doubt, in the expectation that it would serve as a kind of sounding board, that Sir Charles Portal sent a copy of it to Sir Arthur Harris. Whether this was the intention or not, it was certainly the result, and it was Sir Arthur Tedder's memorandum which set in motion an exchange of opinions between Sir Arthur Harris and Sir Charles Portal which became increasingly acrimonious and which was the key to the closing stages of the final offensive. As might have been expected, Sir Arthur Harris was not favour- ably impressed by the criticisms and suggestions of the Deputy Supreme Allied Commander, but, in his reply on Ist November 1944, the Commander-in-Chief did not confine himself to rebutting them. He also clearly had it in mind to rebut other arguments which he must have known were on the point of being expressed by the Air Staff. Once again, Sir Arthur Harris inveighed in his familiar style against the possibility of imparting any sort of detailed pattern or set schedule to the bombing offensive other than those required for the general area destruction of the leading German cities. He insisted upon the ignorance of those 'outside the immediate Command' as to the 'decisive effect' of weather and tactical factors. He enlarged upon what he still regarded as the necessity of spreading and dividing the offensive in order to spread, divide and deceive the German defences and, without mentioning the spectacular decline upon which the Luftwaffe had now entered both by day and night, he claimed that the 'comparative freedom from casualties' which Bomber Command had recently enjoyed had been 'mainly d
Node: 24071, Score: 0.0015944648507577, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0121.txt, Content: nsive against oil targets'. He also said that the tank, motor transport and ordnance depots and plants had been dropped from the directive in order to reduce the diversion of effort from the oil and communications plans. With regard to the choice of area bombing targets, Sir Arthur Harris' attention was particularly drawn to the Ruhr, and he was reminded of the objects for which operation Hurricane I had been designed.1 . The clarity of the November directive, especially when it was associated with the reinforcing phrases of Sir Norman Bottomley's covering letter, was undoubted. There was no room, as there had been in most previous bombing directives, for conjecture as to what was meant. But clarity was not, of course, the only ingredient of a good directive. After all, the directive of 15th January 1941, which had also set oil in the position of first priority, had done so with even greater incisiveness than was now found appropriate. Among the many requirements of a good directive, realism was clearly an im- portant factor, and this could only be achieved if the intelligence upon which the plans were based was reasonably accurate and, equally, if the plans took adequate account of the operational limitations of the force which was to carry them out. About these matters there was much room for disagreement, but in pinning their faith to the oil plan in November 1944 there can be no doubt that the Air Staff were acting upon intelligence which was fundamentally, though not, of course, in all details precisely, correct. Nor can there be much doubt that they were requiring of Bomber Command no more than this great force now had the operational strength and ability to per- form. This, however, did not necessarily mean that the major part of the Bomber Command aim would now be devoted to the oil campaign. Between the selection of the aim and its actual pursuit there are usually many difficulties, and in this case, as will now be seen, they were of a particularly intracta
Node: 24456, Score: 0.0018378435305421, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0506.txt, Content: e-Marshal E. A. B. Rice Air Vice-Marshal R. S. Blucke From 5th February 1945 AIR OFFICER COMMANDING 3 GROUP Air Vice-Marshal R. Harrison AIR OFFICERS COMMANDING 4 GROUP Air Vice-Marshal C. R. Carr Air Vice-Marshal J. R. Whitley From 12th February 1945 AIR OFFICERS COMMANDING 5 GROUP Air Vice-Marshal The Hon. R. A. Cochrane From 16th January 1945 Air Vice-Marshal H. A. Constantine AIR OFFICER COMMANDING 6 GROUP (R.C.A.F.) Air Vice-Marshal C. M. McEwen AIR OFFICER COMMANDING 8 GROUP (PATHFINDER FORCE) Air Vice-Marshal D. C. T. Bennett HEAD OF THE ROYAL AIR FORCE DELEGATION WASHINGTON Air Marshal W. L. Welsh  Abbreviations A.C.A.S. (Ops.) Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Operations) M.A.A.F. A.C.I.U. Air Defence of Great Britain Command A.D.G.B. Assistant Directorate of Intelligence (Department K) A.D.I.(K) Allied Expeditionary Air Force A.F.V. Armoured Fighting Vehicle Automatic Gun Laying (Turret) . A.E.A.F. A.G.L.(T) Air Historical Branch A.H.B. apparatus for intercepting aircraft) A.I. Air Ministry War Room Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief A.M.W.R. A.O.C .- in-C. B.B.R.M. British Bombing Research Mission British Bombing Survey Unit B.B.S.U. C.A.S. Chief of the Air Staff Allied Central Interpretation Unit Air Intelligence or Air Interception (airborne radar Combined Bomber Offensive C.B.O. Combined Chiefs of Staff M.E.W. M.T. O.K.W. O.R.B. O.R.S. O.R.S.(B.C.) P.F.F. R.A.A.F. R.C.A.F. R.E.8 R.S.I. S. of S. S.H.A.E.F. U.S.S.A.F.E., United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe U.S.St.A.F.E. ABBREVIATIONS Mediterranean Allied Air Forces M.C. Medium Charge Messerschmitt Me. 315 Ministry of Economic Warfare Motor Transport Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (The Supreme Command of the Armed Forces) Operations Record Book Operational Research Section Operational Research Section (Bomber Command) Pathfinder Force Royal Australian Air Force Royal Canadian Air Force Research and Experiments, Department 8, Ministry of Home Security Research Studies Institute, U.S.A. Secretary of State
Node: 24136, Score: 0.0022983094956553, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0186.txt, Content: all proportion to the direct military and economic importance of that city . . . ' Mr. Eden then suggested that the psychological effects of attacking a medium-sized town were greater than those of attacking, with equal force, a larger town, and he added: 'I wish to recommend therefore that in the selection of targets in Germany the claims of smaller towns of under 150,000 inhabi- tants which are not too heavily defended, should be considered, even though those towns contain only targets of secondary importance . . . ' 1 Moreover, there is no reason to suppose that Sir Archibald Sinclair found these views morally repugnant. At any rate he received a letter towards the end of May 1942 in which an M.P. stated that he was 'all for the bombing of working-class areas in German cities. I am Cromwellian-I believe in "slaying in the name of the Lord", because I do not believe you will ever bring home to the civil population of Germany the horrors of war until they have become tasted in this way'. To this Sir Archibald Sinclair replied, on 26th May 1942, that he was 'delighted to find that you and I are in complete agreement about . . . bombing policy generally. . . . ' 2 Naturally, climates of opinion varied with the changing circum- stances of the war, and the aim of disrupting civil morale as an end in itself came, in fact, to occupy a less and less prominent position in the directives. Nevertheless, as will be recalled, the object of 'under- mining the morale of the German people' was avowed in the Casa- blanca directive of January 1943, immediately after the object of achieving 'the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system'. Sir Arthur Harris was never dissuaded from general area attacks upon residential areas for moral reasons, though, as has also been seen, he was from time to time 1 Min. Portal to Sinclair, 5th Aug. 1941, and letter Eden to Sinclair, 15th April 1942. 2 Correspondence with Sinclair, 21st May and 26
Node: 24063, Score: 0.0024165704561526, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0113.txt, Content: had for some months 'been allowed to feel that they can, at any time, call on heavy Bomber effort and that it will be laid on practically without question', it was, Sir Arthur Tedder said, 'going to be a difficult process to cure the drug addicts-particularly since the troops are undoubtedly getting pretty tired.' Sir Arthur Tedder, with considerable reason, did not, however, regard these army expectations as the only malaise from which the strategic air offensive was suffering. He was evidently concerned about the actual conduct of the main offensive as well. He had, as he now told Sir Charles Portal, 'for some time been very uneasy about the way things were going', and though he knew that his views would 'not be acceptable in some quarters' he thought that 'the time for debates and compromises is past. In my opinion,' he said, 'we can only make the full weight of our Air power felt if we set all our various Air Forces to work at once towards one common objective; if we do that,' he concluded, 'I believe Air power will be decisive-and quickly'. To show his view of this 'common objective' Sir Arthur Tedder enclosed a memorandum.2 There were, Sir Arthur Tedder said in the opening paragraph of this memorandum, two methods of ending the war; one was by mili- tary invasion and the other was by strategic bombing, but he did not regard them as alternatives, nor did he think that they need conflict with each other. On the contrary, he regarded them as complement- ary. He did not believe 'that by concentrating our whole Air effort on the ground battle area we shall shorten the war. Nor do I believe that we would shorten the war by putting our whole Bomber effort against industrial and political targets inside Germany'. As far as the land campaign was concerned, the immediate objective was the Ruhr. The Army commanders wished to use air power to disrupt the flow of German reinforcements and supplies across the Rhine and 1 Letter Portal to Tedder, 22nd Oct. 1944. 2 Letter Ted
Node: 24072, Score: 0.0028394626652087, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0122.txt, Content: be devoted to the oil campaign. Between the selection of the aim and its actual pursuit there are usually many difficulties, and in this case, as will now be seen, they were of a particularly intractable nature. 1 Letter Bottomley to Harris, Ist Nov. 1944. For the rather caustic marginal com- ments on this letter made by Sir Arthur Harris, see App. 8 (xliii(a)) where the letter and the comments are printed. vol 4 4. The reward of dissension November 1944-January 1945 At the Quebec Conference in September 1944 the allied cause in Europe had seemed to be on the verge of fulfilment. The greatest am- phibious operation in the history of war had been successfully accomplished by a union of the air, sea and land power of the Anglo- American coalition. A victorious and relatively inexpensive campaign in France had subsequently been brought almost to a conclusion and little more than Germany herself was left between the allied and the Russian armies. Even in the neglected Italian campaign the German position was becoming desperate. Moreover, as a result of the loss of so much of her occupied territory in the west and the decline of her air defences, the heart of Germany was exposed to the power of the strategic bomber forces which, after years of painful endeavour, had grown to maturity in the Royal Air Force and the United States Army Air Forces. Final victory in Europe, which had long been inevitable, now seemed also to be imminent. But at this critical moment allied strategy faltered. Where there should have been agreement, there was dissension, where there should have been decision, there was com- promise and where there should have been concentration, there was dispersal. Thus, at the end of the year, when peace in Europe might have been imminent, there was still the prospect of months of war. This work is not concerned with the tragic consequences of this failure nor with all the strategic and political factors which con- tributed to it. It is concerned only with one
Node: 24422, Score: 0.0031382551846973, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0472.txt, Content: y concerned with methods of attack such as precise or area bombing, but with the aims to which it should be applied and to a great extent it turned upon the question of in- telligence and its interpretation. The whole conception of selective bombing, whether by precision or area attack, depended upon the assumption that vital segments in the enemy war economy could 291 be detected. Much of the argument in favour of general bombing depended upon the belief that this was impossible, that there really were no absolutely vital segments in the enemy war machine, or, as Sir Arthur Harris called them, 'panaceas'. Thus, even after the abandonment of the highly selective plans for the destruction of electricity, gas and oil production, for the disloca- tion of communications and for the direct attack on armament factories with which Bomber Command had entered the war, there was still the difficulty of determining whether the area offensive should be devoted to as many as possible of the largest cities in Ger- many or to that of only those associated with some vital activity such as ball-bearings, oil or aircraft production. But this was not only a question of intelligence and its interpreta- tion. It also involved a basic principle of war which, as far as armies and navies were concerned, had been long established, but which, as far as air forces were concerned, was still highly uncertain in applica- tion. This principle concerned the question of the extent to which it was necessary to grapple with the opposing armed forces as a con- comitant of or a preliminary to the achievement of ulterior strategic aims. The idea of selective attack upon German aircraft production and of anciliary production such as that of ball-bearings or of oil, was central to this question and raised what was undoubtedly the most important strategic problem of the bombing offensive. Naval doctrine, based upon long naval history and notably upon the brilliant analysis of the foremost naval historian,
Node: 24081, Score: 0.0034977965523294, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0131.txt, Content: rious and inconvenient defects. Sir Arthur Harris made a habit of seeing only one side of a question and then of exaggerating it. He had a tendency to confuse advice with interference, criticism with sabotage and evidence with propa- ganda. He resisted innovations and he was seldom open to persuasion. He was sceptical of the Air Staff in general, and of many officers who served upon it he was openly contemptuous. Seeing all issues in terms of black or white, he was impatient of any other possibility, and having taken upon himself tremendous responsibilities, he expected similar powers to be conferred. Only while serving under the 'direc- tion' of General Eisenhower did he really subordinate himself. From the British Air Staff he required to receive absolute and unquestion- ing confidence or dismissal. In the event he received neither, but because of the policy which he advocated and the prestige which he had acquired this was, perhaps, not surprising. With these fundamental considerations in mind, it is now possible to proceed and to consider the measures taken by the Air Staff in an attempt to enforce the terms of the directive issued by them, and by General Spaatz, on Ist November 1944. It will be remembered that a short time before this Sir Charles Portal had sought the advice of 1 Air Vice-Marshal Kingston McCloughry suggests that one of the consequences of these informal meetings at Chequers was '. . . a good deal of sniping and lobbying against the Transportation Plan in high circles'. This refers to the period before the launching of Overlord. See The Direction of War, (1955), p. 125. 81 Sir Arthur Tedder and that the latter had sent him a memorandum in which the principles of a common denominator bombing offensive were outlined and strong arguments in favour of a communications campaign were advanced. The sense of this memorandum, in which the oil plan was only a secondary consideration, did not, of course, by any means entirely correspond with the prevailin
Node: 23958, Score: 0.0040377745135631, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0008.txt, Content: erations and on account of the fact that there were always some air defences to be reckoned with. Moreover, oil and communications were eventually seen to be not competing but complementary target systems. The issue between them and the general area offensive, however, was more important and it proved to be irreconcilable. It led to a substantial division of bombing effort which was greatly in excess of that made inevitable by tactical con- siderations and the necessity of meeting so many military require- ments and other diversionary claims. It is necessary to survey in some detail the disputes engendered by this situation, in which the aims of the principal protagonists, Sir Charles Portal, Sir Arthur Harris and Sir Arthur Tedder, were to a considerable extent frustrated. Nor was this tragic deadlock the only respect in which the final offensive was controversial. The conduct of the area offensive rein- forced the doubts which some people had long since felt about the strategic air offensive on moral grounds. In particular, the attacks made in February 1945 by Bomber Command and the United States Eighth Air Force on Dresden resulted in condemnations which have persisted and even increased over the years which have elapsed since the event. This particular operation, which was undertaken for com- plicated reasons not wholly connected with the general area cam- paign, even led to some severe words, though not on moral grounds, from the Prime Minister, though it was he himself who contributed much of the incentive to carry it out. Despite these fundamental cleavages of strategic opinion, and in spite of all the moral and also, on many occasions, mistaken, criti- cisms of the offensive, the actual operations, which are examined in the second of the following chapters, were an undoubted triumph. It was not simply that an unprecedentedly large number of bombers were available. It was due also to a complete change in the opera- tional conditions of the offensive. The fact
Node: 24113, Score: 0.0040742420005885, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0163.txt, Content: conference at Yalta. The former question was in Sir Norman Bot- 1 J.I.C. Report, 25th Jan. 1945. 2 This is based on Sir Norman Bottomley's report of the conversation. See the following footnote. IOI tomley's mind when he reported his conversation with Sir Arthur Harris to Sir Charles Portal on 26th January, but he made no men- tion of the latter. The Deputy Chief of the Air Staff wanted to know whether the reports of the Joint Intelligence Committee should be sent immediately to General Spaatz or whether, in view of the im- portant issues involved, the Chiefs of Staff should first be consulted.1 At this moment Sir Charles Portal, who was about to leave for Malta on the way to Yalta, was under a particularly heavy pressure of work, but there was, nevertheless, an important reason for coming to an immediate decision.2 The Prime Minister had intervened. On the night of 25th January 1945 Mr. Churchill had a conversa- tion with Sir Archibald Sinclair as a result of which the Secretary of State concluded that he had been asked what plans the Royal Air Force had for 'basting the Germans in their retreat from Breslau'. He wanted the Air Staff to advise him on how he should reply to the question.3 Thus, on 26th January, a critical issue of bombing policy required an urgent solution. Sir Charles Portal did not, however, feel that it would be right 'to attempt attacks on Berlin on the "Thunderclap" scale in the near future'. He believed that the casualties to the bombers would be high and he did not think that the operation, even if 'done on the heaviest scale', would be decisive. Nor did he think it was worth while to undertake large-scale bombing of communications in the hope of delaying German reinforcement of the Eastern front. Tank factories could not be included in the directive without prior reference to the Combined Chiefs of Staff. 'Oil', the Chief of the Air Staff said, 'should continue to have absolute priority', but subject to that and to the need to deal with jet
Node: 24138, Score: 0.005250543631901, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0188.txt, Content: ary of State thought, more important than another which Sir Arthur Harris had raised, namely, that the Bomber Command crews might form the impression that they were being asked to per- form deeds which the Air Ministry was ashamed to admit.1 Sir Arthur Harris himself, however, frequently made the objects of the bombing offensive clear, and there accordingly sometimes appeared to be a difference between his conception of legitimate war- fare and that of the Government and Air Staff. As Lord Salisbury put it to Sir Archibald Sinclair in November 1943, the resolve of Sir Arthur Harris that the Battle of Berlin should continue until the 'heart of Nazi Germany ceases to beat' seemed to 'bring us short up against the repeated Government declarations that we are bombing only military or industrial targets'. 2 These moral issues are likely to continue long to be debated, and the verdicts will doubtless to some extent be conditioned by the cir- cumstances of the ages in which they are reached. It should now, nevertheless, be clear that neither the Air Staff nor Sir Arthur Harris 1 Min. Sinclair to Portal, 28th Oct. 1943. For examples of Sir Archibald Sinclair's public pronouncements on bombing policy see his speeches and answers to questions in the House of Commons and especially those on 6th May 1942, 31st March 1943 and Ist December 1943. Parliamentary Debates. Commons. Vol. 379, Col. 1364; Vol. 388, Col. 155; Vol. 395, Cols. 337-338. 2 Letter Salisbury to Sinclair, 26th Nov. 1943. II7 can justly be accused of waging war in a different moral sense from that approved by the Government. Moreover, it should equally be clear that at no stage of the war was the area bombing offensive wan- ton. On the contrary, it was a carefully designed strategic plan in- tended to contribute to the most rapid and the most economical defeat of Germany. Though the area offensive, even in the light of the various operational circumstances, is open to many strategic criticisms, it is difficult to
Node: 24067, Score: 0.0060376540993632, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0117.txt, Content: . 1 In view of the ultimate outcome of the oil offensive, it may be thought that, in his preoccupation with communications bombing, Sir Arthur Tedder had failed fully to appreciate the significance of the oil plan. On the other hand, in view of the eventual strategic and tactical achievements of the communications campaign, there can be no doubt that the Air Staff was slow to realise the real force of Sir Arthur Tedder's argument. Oil and communications thus still appeared to be competing target systems and the extent to which this was so was clearly shown in the development of a plan known as 1 A J.I.C. Report of 30th October 1944, for example, made this point again, see App. 26. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-F  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 72 THE PROBLEM OF CONCENTRATION Hurricane I. This was designed to deal a crushing blow at the immediate object of the land offensive, namely the Ruhr, and in some respects it corresponded with the viewpoint of Sir Arthur Tedder. It provided, at least geographically, for a concentration of the efforts of Bomber Command, the Eighth Air Force, the Tactical Air Forces and, if pos- sible, also the Fifteenth Air Force. The object was to cause mass havoc, panic and disorganisation in the Ruhr valley, to disrupt the im- mediate German front-line communications by driving the rail heads back east of the Rhine and to demonstrate to the Germans the futility of further resistance. Thus, the plan had a moral as well as a material aim. It was to be executed in daylight with massive fighter cover and the idea was that the Eighth Air Force should aim at oil plants, Bomber Command at built-up areas and the Tactical Air Forces at communications targets. The plan showed that there was no real intention to achieve a functional concentration and it was, perhaps, by more than a coincidence that each of the elements in- volved was to attack targets which corresponded with the wishes of the various Command Headquarters concerned. There was, however, no doubt as
Node: 24139, Score: 0.0062914348855196, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0189.txt, Content: he most rapid and the most economical defeat of Germany. Though the area offensive, even in the light of the various operational circumstances, is open to many strategic criticisms, it is difficult to see why it should bear unfavourable moral comparison with naval blockade or some other kinds of warfare. Despite all these important considerations, Mr. Churchill had, nevertheless, raised a relevant and, indeed, an urgent question in his minute of 28th March 1945. This was the problem of determining the time at which it would be safe to discontinue or, perhaps, to restrict the massive destruction of the strategic air offensive. A premature decision was likely to prolong the war. A delayed decision could only produce needless damage. The atmosphere in which this situation was appraised became calmer than would otherwise have been the case because, on the evening after he had written it, the Prime Minister agreed, at the sug- gestion of Sir Charles Portal, to withdraw his minute and to substi- tute for it a somewhat more discreetly and fairly worded document.1 The new minute, which Mr. Churchill issued on Ist April 1945, was as follows: Prime Minister to General Ismay (for Chiefs of Staff Committee) and the Chief of the Air Staff 'It seems to me that the moment has come when the question of the so called "area bombing" of German cities should be reviewed from the point of view of our own interests. If we come into control of an entirely ruined land, there will be a great shortage of accommodation for ourselves and our Allies: and we shall be unable to get housing materials out of Germany for our own needs because some temporary provision would have to be made for the Germans themselves. We must see to it that our attacks do not do more harm to ourselves in the long run than they do to the enemy's immediate war effort. Pray let me have your views'. 2 The suggestion, in this form, was substantially acceptable to the Air Staff. In the reply, which was given the authority o
Node: 24291, Score: 0.0063577379958097, Chunk File: butler_v3/chunks/butler_v3_0341.txt, Content: the Ministry of Economic Warfare. In this Committee representatives of the different agencies discussed the evidence and put it into practical shape in a weekly bulletin. This information was neither so rapid nor as accurate as that derived from aerial reconnaissance, but it supplied on occasions new facts concerning the purpose of the different oil plants, the erection of new ones and the character and volume of their production.1 The photographic appreciations needed special technical know- ledge besides the skill to interpret the photographs. The organisation had been divided, therefore, into different sections and technical experts were attached to each. In July, after some criticism of the oil intelligence by experts, the oil division was reinforced for this purpose.2 The success of its appreciations was, perhaps, more 1 Oil as a Factor in the German War Effort, 1933-1945. Lack of technical knowledge prevented underground channels from providing much useful information. Other sources were escaped prisoners of war, transport information, commercial messages, information in the liberated territories from men who had worked in the plants. Memo. by Lawrence, 3rd Jan. 1945. 2 This reinforcement was due to a report of Lt .- Col. Foster, an oil expert. R.E.8 were also called upon to assist the Oil Division of the Central Interpretation Unit.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 212 CHANGES IN ALLIED METHODS remarkable than those of any other target system. Much of this success was due to the manner in which the Hartley Committee and the oil section of M.E.W. had studied the problem in previous years. But the duty now became very exacting and important and it should be noted that the main responsibility for the final photographic appreciations was borne by an officer of the Royal Air Force of junior rank, Flight Lieutenant P. E. Kent, to whose exceptional talents high tributes were paid in the Oil Committees. 1 It was on these committees that the strategic air forces depended fo