Node: 29101, Score: -0.0240541390107215, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0081.txt, Content: litical man, Norden's three great hatreds were Hitler, Hirohito, and Franklin Roosevelt, the latter because he had de- faulted on the gold clause in U.S. bonds and gold certificates. For Norden this was not a political but moral issue, for he believed in absolute integrity. Any man who did not keep his promises deserved no emotion but hatred. On the outside and to those with whom he worked, Norden was a man of "immense nervous energy, excitable and volatile, with an unholy tem- per." The Navy referred to him as "Old Man Dynamite." He had a "pro- nounced disdain for lesser minds," to the extent that he was generally un- sociable and reclusive. His "self-imposed obscurity" was so successful that Americans knew more of his secret bombsight than of him. One major reason for Norden's penchant for privacy was his exacting standards that few could meet. An incident that revealed this side of his character in- volved an autobiographical sketch he was to write for the man who was to award Norden the Holley Award for mechanical engineering in 1944. The 89  52 Chapter 3 To Sink Ships presenter's instructions were for Norden to write "about 400 words." On a whim, the man counted the words in the autobiography when it arrived- exactly 400 words. He was brutally direct in all his actions. According to his son, Carl Nor- den "laid down the law as though he were Moses descending the moun- tain." He established nonsmoking areas throughout his plant to maintain the dust-free conditions required for precision manufacturing, but con- stantly violated this restriction with his own cigars. Once an employee asked him why he had designed a part a certain way. Norden answered, "I had 10,000 reasons, none of which are any of your damn business." He rarely became directly involved with company projects during World War II, limiting himself to brief observations and to setting ground rules. His ground rules, however, became laws once uttered. One such law that caused difficulties for most of t
Node: 29026, Score: -0.0201572953707938, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0006.txt, Content: P. HALLION The general rule in historical writing is that publications are the product of many historians, as new works are based on what previous historians have written. In the current case, no body of secondary literature exists. This work is based on primary materials, necessitating a special acknowl- edgment of the custodians to those primary materials. Special gratitude is therefore directed to Col. Elliott V. Converse III, director of the U.S. Air Force Historical Research Agency at Maxwell Air Force Base, Montgomery, Alabama, and his staff, including Capt. George W. Cully, Dr. James H. Kitchens III, and Archangelo Difante. At the Na- tional Archives, both in Washington, D.C., and Suitland, Maryland, Barry L. Zerby, Edward J. Reese, and Dave Giordano were especially dutiful in satisfying my requests for guidance and documentation. At the Hagley Museum and Library in Wilmington, Delaware, thanks to Dr. Glenn Por- ter, Carol Ressler Lockman, Michael H. Nash, and Barbara Hall. The staffs of the Library of Congress Manuscript Division in Washington and the Air University Library in Montgomery also deserve special mention. A number of individuals provided assistance and guidance. Susan Moody at Norden Systems not only expedited access to the few resources her company retained from the early years but, more important, also pro- xiii  XV Acknowledgments xiv Acknowledgments vided a list of names of individuals who participated in many of the events included herein. Special among these was Ned Lawrence, who tirelessly provided his insight and memory of the war years. The Auburn University Humanities Foundation, Dr. Paul Parks, Vice- President for Research at Auburn University, the U.S. Air Force Historical Research Agency, and the Hagley Museum and Library provided funding to make possible research trips to the primary materials on which this study is based. of Honor: The World War One Letters of Naval Aviator Kenneth Macleish, ed- ited by Geoffrey L. Rossano. Copyri
Node: 29027, Score: -0.0188312939197293, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0007.txt, Content: ng to make possible research trips to the primary materials on which this study is based. of Honor: The World War One Letters of Naval Aviator Kenneth Macleish, ed- ited by Geoffrey L. Rossano. Copyright @ 1991 by the U.S. Naval Insti- tute, Annapolis, Maryland. Selections from Words on War by Jay M. Sha- fritz. Copyright @ 1990. Reprinted by permission of the publisher, Prentice Hall/A Division of Simon & Schuster, New York. Selections from Voices from the Great War by Peter Vansittart. Copyright @ 1984. Used with permission of the publisher, Franklin Watts, Inc., New York. Finally, my love, admiration, and apologies to my family for the seven years this effort required. This book belongs to them. At Auburn University Drs. Gordon C. Bond, Curtis T. Henson, Wesley P. Newton, and William F. Trimble provided assistance, consultations, support, and criticism. Thanks also to Dr. Richard K. Smith, whose technical knowledge and keen critical eye made a special contribution, and to Therese D. Boyd of Initial Cap Editorial Services for the most essential of book publishing functions, copyediting. I wish I could thank the staff of the Freedom of Information-Privacy Acts Section of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but two and one-half years of waiting to access 1,000 pages of blacked-out 50-year-old files is hardly in keeping with the ideals of a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. Thanks to Congressman Glen Browder of Ala- bama for his attempts to break through the bureaucratic logjam of the Freedom of Information Act, that hoax perpetrated by official Washington on the American people in the name of democracy and open government. Photographs are courtesy of Hagley Museum and Library, Library of Congress, U.S. Air Force Historical Research Agency, U.S. Air Force Air University Office of History, National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, Norden Systems Division of United Technolo- gies, and the National Archives. Text selection
Node: 29394, Score: -0.0140146152035838, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0374.txt, Content: spite the agent's attempts to entrap his fellow workers. 13. Hoover to Berle, July 10, 1940, File 65-10347-19, memo, July 14, 1940, File 65- 10347-22, and Connelley to Hoover, August 5, 1940, File 65-10347- (blank), FBI Records;  1 ar bc V T 266 Notes to Pages 117-119 267 Notes to Pages 119-124 in pc lat Ai II. ma ott rec tac Sin "ar in s sea this stra 1-1 to t 194 its c "ott cow attar bom B-1' ing the miss sales capa rega an a geth bom drop and New York Times, July 1, 1941, 1:1 and 22:2; July 24, 1941, 19:3; and September 4, 1941, 12:3. 14. New York Times, September 9, 1941, 1:3; September 10, 1941, 1:2; September 24, 1941, 6:6; September 25, 1941, 27:8; and October 3, 1941, 12:3. 15. "Pickle Barrelers," 50-51; and New York Times, January 3, 1942, 1:2. David Kahn, Hitler's Spies: German Military Intelligence in World War II (New York: Macmillan, 1978), 328- 33, and Ladislas Farago, The Game of the Foxes: The Untold Story of German Espionage in the United States and Great Britain during World War II (New York: David McKay, 1971), 45-56, have published accounts of the Lang affair. 16. Arnold to Marshall, September 13, 1940, File 471.6-D, Box 299, Central Decimal Files, 1939-42, Series II, RG18; and New York Times, December 16, 1948, 1:6. 17. The Statutes at Large of the United States of America from December, 1925, to March, 1927, vol. 44, pt. 2 (Washington, D.C .: Government Printing Office, 1927), 787; Schoeffel to Bu- Ord, July 31, 1937, File F31-1 (10), Vol. 1, Box 636, BuAer Confidential Correspondence, 1922-44, RG72; and Dargue to Chief of Army Air Forces, July 3, 1941, Lovett to Forrestal. July 24, 1941, and Forrestal to Lovett, August 11, 1941, File 471.6-F, Box 299, Central Deci- mal Files, 1939-42, Series II, RG18. In late June 1941 Chief of the Inspector Division of the Army Air Forces Herbert A. Dargue visited his old friend Ted Barth at Carl L. Norden. Inc., to discover the reason for the slow delivery of bombsights. Barth blamed BuOrd for all problems,
Node: 29100, Score: -0.0130011767435987, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0080.txt, Content: exington. Although he lived in the United States for 43 years, Norden never be- came an American citizen. On three occasions he went to court to become a naturalized American citizen, but each time one or more of his witnesses failed to appear. On the third occasion an immigration judge gave him a severe dressing-down. For Norden, that ended the issue forever. In his mind, any country that would allow the dregs of the world to become citi- zens, but would deny him the same right, was not deserving of his alle- giance. Later Norden would tell his few close acquaintances that his Dutch citizenship provided him with leverage in his dealings with the U.S. gov- ernment, leverage he felt a citizen would not have. Before World War II, according to his family, the British government offered him a knighthood in return for emigrating to Great Britain to build bombsights and other instruments, which caused his American employers some anxious mo- ments. There was no need for concern; Norden believed no respectable Dutchman could ever work for the British. Norden held representative republican democracy as the most perfect form of government, but was, according to his son, "essentially an elitist who believed that human progress was the achievement of the lonely few guided by Divine Providence." The common people were not to be trusted, as they would follow anyone, but representative republican gov- ernment best prevented tyrants who could suppress a people's creative abil- ities. Norden's thinking also reflected a touch of European ethnocentrism, or perhaps racism. The sun, he believed, was destructive of mental capabil- ities. Northern people, where the sun shown most obliquely, "were the most creative in science." A suntan was a symbol of mental weakness. Although he was not a political man, Norden's three great hatreds were Hitler, Hirohito, and Franklin Roosevelt, the latter because he had de- faulted on the gold clause in U.S. bonds and gold certificates. For Norden this w
Node: 29137, Score: -0.0127539887893273, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0117.txt, Content: xpected international con- ferences to outlaw the bombing of cities, but argued that "the destruction of manufacturing centers and material brings the conflict to a quicker ter- mination. Thus, manufacturing centers become military objects, even though they house non-combatant personnel." The purpose of strategic bombing was to interfere "with the manufacture of military equipment [by] hitting and destroying the factories, and . . . causing . . . such a nervous condition to obtain among the workers that their efficiency of production would be curtailed."23 Mitchell had little confidence in contemporary bomb-aiming technol- ogy. His solution was to organize bombers into formations, dropping on the command of the leader to achieve a "heavy collective effort." Mitchell was the best-known advocate of air power in the United States between the wars, but he was the champion of bombing in general, not precision bombing. He wrote of using poison gas, the penultimate area weapon, against cities and of poisoning water supplies from the air. For Mitchell, cities, not individual industries, were the vital centers.24 Also contributing to the debate over air power were various European strategists. The Italian Giulio Douhet saw trench warfare and the slaugh- ter of World War I as a "colossal tragedy, with the whole world for its theater and humanity for its protagonist," resulting from the ineptness of military leadership. In two books, Command of the Air, first published in 1921 and revised in 1927, and The War of 19-, published in 1930, Douhet offered strategic bombardment from airplanes as the solution to the ex- tended slaughter of modern war. Attacks on military forces, the focus of pre-airplane warfare, achieved nothing but an intensification of the car- nage in the trenches. The key, he argued, was to target civilians, who lacked the iron will of military men and were much more vulnerable to the  78 Chapter 4 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine will-destroying
Node: 29059, Score: -0.0100099100003074, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0039.txt, Content: gned bombardment aviation a unique role. Its authors initi- ated two decades of sometimes acrid debate on the role of air power: should bombing attack the morale of troops at the front or the morale of the civilian arms-builders behind them? If the latter, should the target be the civilian arms-builders themselves or the machines and factories used by the civilian arms-builders? The Army's wartime manual answered af- firmatively to both of the first questions, but without specifying how to attack the morale of civilians: "The result of the battle depends a lot upon the moral of troops. The result of the war depends as much upon the moral of civilians. The aviation of bombardment allows to diminish the moral of the troops and the moral of civilians." The ratio of the effectiveness of bombing on morale to the effectiveness of mere physical destruction was 20: 1.39 The Air Service found that "while the material damage done by such bombing raids has been questioned, and while it has been proved that in many cases such damage was not great, there is absolutely no doubt that the moral effect of these operations is most considerable."40 The first written advocation of the bombing of the enemy's means of production came from then-Lieutenant Colonel Gorrell, head of the tech- nical section of the Air Service, American Expeditionary Force, beginning three decades of a peculiarly American commitment to killing machines,  24 Chapter 1 Dropping Projectiles from Aerial Crafts not people, through aerial bombardment. Gorrell argued that ground war- fare had reached a stalemate and the only solution was to bomb "manufac- turing centers, commercial centers, and lines of communication" from the air. The only way "to affect the armies in the fields . .. was to affect the manufacturing output of the countries" by bombing choke-points. De- stroying chemical factories would stop shell production and bombing en- gine and magneto factories would stop aircraft production. Concentrating all a
Node: 29340, Score: -0.007007420706787, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0320.txt, Content: or dropping two or more bombs in succession to achieve a predetermined pattern of explosions on the ground. See Train bombing. M-series bombsights Army designation for Norden synchronous bombsights, series M-1 through M-9. Mark XI bombsights Navy designation for Norden timing bombsights. Mark XV bombsights Navy designation for Norden synchronous bombsights, Mod. 1 through Mod. 5, redesignated Mark 15 during World War II. Mil Navy method of measuring bombsight accuracy, in terms of angular mea- surement of errors, equal to a distance of one foot for each 1,000 feet of altitude. At 25,000 feet of altitude, an error of one mil would result in a ground error of 25 feet (Ground Error = mil × (alt/1,000). Mining effect Increase in destructive power of a bomb by burying in the earth prior to detonation, estimated at approximately 41/2 times the power of a bomb's high explosive charge. Effect is achieved through tamping. Morale bombing (also spelled "moral" bombing) Attempting to destroy the will of an enemy people by the terror of direct bombing on that people. MPI (Mean Point of Impact) Center of impact of a pattern of bombs. NOSMO (Norden Sight Modification) Norden optical bombsights combined with H2X airborne radar. Overcast Covering of clouds. Expressed in tenths (1/10th, 2/10ths, etc.) to rep- resent the degree of vision blockage. Also undercast, referring more directly to a cloud layer below aircraft. Pattern bombing Dropping a number of bombs from a formation of bombers to achieve a relatively uniform distribution for the purpose of saturating a target  236 Glossary Glossary 237 to improve the probabilities of hitting the target. Also known as carpet bombing. See Saturation bombing. Pitch Movement of an airplane around its lateral axis (from wing tip to wing tip). Precision target Targets that, to be destroyed, require either a direct hit by a bomb of the proper size or a hit within a limited distance therefrom. Radial error Direct linear distance from the target to
Node: 29102, Score: -0.0062475937432753, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0082.txt, Content: ojects during World War II, limiting himself to brief observations and to setting ground rules. His ground rules, however, became laws once uttered. One such law that caused difficulties for most of the company's wartime projects was "There shall be no AC motors used!" Norden always insisted that his products run on direct current, not alternating current. Unfortunately the Army Air Forces made a transformation during the war from direct current to alternating current. Norden's dictum forced his engineers to use relays and potentiometers rather than synchros and arbitrarily delayed the transition of Norden bombsights and equipments from mechanical to electronic en- gineering.17 This rough and exacting exterior, however, clashed dramatically with his inner self: "always religious, but never a churchgoer" and puritanical. He opposed established churches, especially the Catholic Church. Popes, he believed, belonged in the bottom level of Hell. Norden hated for any- one to speak of his "inventions," believing that only God could be respon- sible for inventions. Norden's achievements were "designs." He ate mostly steaks, drank great quantities of coffee, and lived comfortably. A devotee of the Christian theologian Emanuel Swedenborg, Norden committed himself to "being of use." His Swedenborgian Christianity allowed him to have all these characteristics, while being dedicated to charity and compas- sion for the disadvantaged. He despised taxes, preferring instead to give taxable profits to his employees as annual bonuses. This philosophy left no room for self-aggrandizement. Norden read Dickens avidly for revelations on the lives of the disadvantaged and Thoreau for the discussion of the simple life. In his will Norden left one-third of his wealth to the Swe- denborgian Society to finance the publication of books. Norden's genius expressed itself in the simple and systematic way in which he worked. He "liked always to start with a blank sheet of paper rather than first as
Node: 29140, Score: -0.0024261864719523, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0120.txt, Content: precision unnecessary. Although he thought the enemy's will to resist was the proper target of strategic bomb- ing, he never determined whether this should be done through attacks on civilians or on industry.31 Another Briton argued against this mainstream, fearing that area attacks on cities might be adopted as the proper use of air power: "Widespread is the idea that a feature of the next war will be the raining of high explosives and poison gas upon the great cities." Civilian workers were proper targets of war, James M. Spaight admitted, but "their dwellings cannot be re- garded as a legitimate objective." War industries were where "victory and defeat will be achieved and suffered." He appealed to British air planners: Make machinery and not mankind the mark of your attack. Concentrate on the killing of machines rather than of men, and above all on killing them at source. Smash the machines and the machines which make the machines. Smash them-or silence them. Smash the turbines, the dyna- mos, the mighty steam presses, the mammoth steel hammers, which forge and fashion the instruments of destruction. Smash the whole me- tallic substructure of armed strength. Make the war of machinery im- possible. Air power can do that and air power can do it alone. Despite his pleas, Spaight believed that the precision necessary to attack these targets was not possible.32 The official doctrine of the RAF in 1928 was "to break down the ene- my's means of resistance by attacks on objectives selected as most likely to achieve this end." The targets included centers of production, transporta- tion, and communication. Destroying industries would not bring success, this doctrine surmised, but such bombing would crush the will of the workers. Any incidental loss of civilian life and property was acceptable,  Chapter 4 80 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine but the "indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terroriz- ing the civilian population" was "illegiti
Node: 29148, Score: -0.0021547132034108, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0128.txt, Content: tionship with Theodore H. Barth, president of Carl L. Norden, Inc.6 Together these men strove to perfect the doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing. Where Mitchell had emphasized the morale effects of bombing, ACTS concentrated on the material effects. Both agreed that the specific objective of bombing was to destroy an enemy's will to resist. Mitchell believed this could be accomplished by intimidation through the threat of bombing or of direct attacks on civilians. The young ACTS offi- cers believed they could destroy the enemy's ability to resist by attacking the "vital objects of a nation's economic structure that will tend to paralyze the nation's ability to wage war and . .. the hostile will to resist."7 According to Donald Wilson, critical in this "fundamental change in military strategy; perhaps unique for modern times," was "fear and igno- rance." Wilson's lack of higher education and ignorance of proper research allowed him to "avoid a great waste of time in looking for material ex- pounding the new idea." Out of this difficulty came the "excitement and the zeal" that made his efforts a "crusade." For Wilson the lesson was clear-because of the nature of modern warfare, so dependent on indus- trial production, the target for strategic bombing must be the industrial ability of an enemy to wage war. Because of the traditional American oppo- sition to attacking civilians or nonmilitary targets, this bombing would be aimed not directly at the enemy's will, but at the machines and industries that supported both that will and its military defenses. The destruction of an enemy's industries would destroy an enemy's will to resist because the enemy would no longer be capable of resisting.8 Like Sherman, Wilson believed air forces would not have to attack all of an enemy's industries because every industrial economy had certain choke- points, the destruction of which would cause the economic system, and therefore the nation, to break down. These critical in
Node: 29317, Score: -0.0019044428143696, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0297.txt, Content: s. Although nuclear war was the antithesis of daylight precision strategic bombing, the memory of World War II was sufficient to delude millions of Americans into believing that the American way of war was the most humane on earth, attacking the machines of war rather than the human beings behind the machines of war. Strategic bombing combined the American love of technology with the American desire to keep losses on both sides, but espe- cially on the American side, to a minimum. Although this was not his in- tention, Carl Norden had dehumanized war, making it impersonal and without guilt-waging war against nonliving, unfeeling, cold assemblages of metal and concrete. He had helped to make war more tolerable. Several decades of living under the threat of thermonuclear war and two large "brush-fire" wars in Asia made war less sufferable, at least until highly ac- curate television and laser-guided bombing again seemed to make war more tolerable. The Gulf War proved, however, as World War II had with the Norden bombsight, that clouds, smoke, dust, enemy defenses, the need for timely and accurate intelligence, expense, and chance remain constants in war. Coalition forces dropped 17,000 precision guided munitions into the "pickle barrel" in that war, but also 210,000 conventional "dumb" bombs missing by an average of over 300 feet. War remains war. Precision bombing of buildings and machines means fewer people will die, but people will still die.  Appendix A United States Bombsight Acquisition, 1911-1945 Bombsight Scott (1911) Manufacturer Riley E. Scott Mark I Wimperis (WWI) Edison Photograph/ Army Pierce/Cotten/Gorham Michelin (French) International Register Michelin (WWI) Mark III (1918) Type A-1 (1918) Gorham Frederick Pierce 1,000 for Army Proposal Type A-2 (1918) Type A-3 (1918) Sperry (1918) Barr (c. 1919) Loring (c. 1919) Ford (c. 1919) Duff Double Drift (c. 1919) Hathaway-Loring (c. 1919) Milne-Loring (c. 1919) Goerz-Boykow (c. 1919) Sperry Gyroscope 2 experim
Node: 29138, Score: -0.0005302468023362, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0118.txt, Content: he key, he argued, was to target civilians, who lacked the iron will of military men and were much more vulnerable to the  78 Chapter 4 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine will-destroying power of aerial bombardment. No longer was the destruc- tion of armed forces the objective of war. Now the target was "the enemy's will to resist."25 Although he did not specify area bombing, Douhet intimated that pop- ulation centers were the targets of choice, with communications, factories, airfields, arsenals, and ships as secondary targets. Bombing would wreck civilian morale and prevent industry from supporting armies in the field and navies at sea. After a few days, without the need for long, drawn-out conflict, the enemy would feel "definitely that they had been defeated in the air and that they were hopelessly at the enemy's mercy." Like Mitchell, Douhet justified attacking civilians because it would end war quickly.26 Douhet's faith in the war-winning power of the bomber mirrored an earlier generation's faith in the "unsinkable" dreadnought battleship. He had unlimited confidence in bombing. Bombers would always hit their tar- gets and achieve a uniform distribution of bombs-250 tons per square mile of urban area-to achieve absolute destruction.27 Aerial bombs have only to fall on their target to accomplish their pur- pose. Aerial bombardment can certainly never hope to attain the accu- racy of artillery fire; but this is an unimportant point because such accu- racy is unnecessary. Except in unusual cases, the targets of artillery fire are designed to withstand just such fire; but the targets of aerial bom- bardment are ill-prepared to endure such onslaught. Bombing objec- tives should always be large; small targets are unimportant and do not merit our attention here.28 Douhet misunderstood even the most basic elements of air power. He as- sumed that once command of the air had been established, the destruction of an enemy's industries and civil centers would
Node: 29144, Score: 0.0005544016187881, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0124.txt, Content: s. Iron-  82 Chapter 4 5 ically, prohibiting the Army Air Service from bombing civilians uninten- tionally opened the way for the development of precision strategic bomb- ing because American airmen proposed to bomb machines, not people. These declarations aside, Americans had a "traditional reverence for marksmanship" and a deep-rooted opposition to making civilians targets in war. Opponents of strategic bombing argued the waste and inefficiency of bombing cities. A Harper's magazine article concluded that war could not "be won by attacking civil populations in cities," citing as evidence the German experience in World War I. Losing 350 airmen, Germany launched a bombing campaign against England, costing Germany $20,000 for each of the 1,200 English killed in the bombing. Despite Sherman's "March to the Sea" and America's war against Philippine insurgents, the men responsible for creating bombing doctrine never wavered from their conviction that civilians should not be the targets of strategic bombing.40 Perhaps the most significant obstacle to the development of a strategic bombing doctrine, however, was American isolationism. Strategic bomb- ing, whether of civilians or factories, was inherently offensive, which had no place in this climate. The purpose of the Army and the Navy, and any fledgling air force, was national defense. The Pratt-MacArthur Agreement of January 1931 assigned the Air Corps the responsibility for all coastal defense aircraft.41 When Congress established General Headquarters Air Force in 1935, it directed that the new organization concentrate on the defense of the United States, not offensive warfare. Airmen set their sights on offensive strategic bombing, but operated under the umbrella of de- fense for the remainder of the interwar period. While thinking about strategic bombing, airmen still had to heed the Army's official doctrine of close air support in the 1920s. Training Regula- tion 440-15 of 1926 identified close air support and the
Node: 29113, Score: 0.0014198384958548, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0093.txt, Content: t with Norden was legal, but the production contracts were not. The Navy went around these restrictions by relying in part on Section 10(k), which allowed negotiated bids with developers if the experimental item was "considered to be the best kind." Section 10(q), however, limited such considerations to equipment designed before the passage of the act, which limited the use of 10(k) to justify the closed contracts with Carl L. Norden, Inc. Additionally, Section 10(t) required the services to award contracts to the "lowest responsible bidder" in all cases.39 Section 10(p) of the Air Corps Act stated that "any collusion, under-  60 Chapter 3 To Sink Ships standing, or arrangement to deprive the United States Government of the benefit of full and free competition ... shall be unlawful [and punishable with] a fine of not exceeding $20,000, or to be imprisoned not exceeding five years, or both, at the discretion of the court." The secretary of the Navy went where the secretary of the Army feared to tread. Another justification for the Navy's procurement policies was "national security." Besides Norden's patent liability problems, the Navy held the patent on the Mark XI because private individuals were unable to hold security-classified patents. The Navy refused to allow the U.S. Patent Of- fice to release the Mark XI patent until 1947. This procedure gave Norden protection for his proprietary rights and, violating the will of Congress, protected Norden from liability, maintained the security of the device, and kept Norden and the Navy's procurement policies away from congres- sional eyes. The Navy classified the project "secret" and justified its pro- curement policies, its acceptance of liability, and its handling of the Nor- den patent by claiming "national security" concerns. Because no one could see the patent application or the contracts signed with Norden, no one could charge patent infringement or charge violation of procurement pro- cedures, and Norden would be g
Node: 29444, Score: 0.0018198771866028, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0424.txt, Content: itler. Atlanta: Higgins- McArthur/Logino and Porter, 1972. -. The Strategic Air War against Germany and Japan. Washington, D.C .: Office of Air Force History, 1986. Hattendorf, John B., B. Mitchell Simpson, and John R. Wadleigh. Sailors and Schol- ars: The Centennial History of the U.S. Naval War College. Newport, R.I .: Naval War College, 1984. Hayes, Thomas J. Elements of Ordnance: A Textbook for Use of Cadets of the United States Military Academy. New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1938. Hughes, Thomas P. Elmer Sperry: Inventor and Engineer. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1971. Hurley, Alfred F. Billy Mitchell: Crusader for Air Power. New York: Franklin Watts, 1964. Jablonski, Edward. Flying Fortress: The Illustrated Biography of the B-17s and the Men Who Flew Them. Garden City, N.Y .: Doubleday, 1965. Jacobs, Donald H. A Scientist and His Experiences with Corruption and Treason in the U.S. Military-Industrial Establishment. Victoria, B.C .: Jacobs Instrument Co., 1969. Johnson, Brian. Fly Navy: The History of Naval Aviation. New York: William Mor- row, 1981. Jones, H. A. The War in the Air. Oxford: Clarendon, 1937. 293 Kennett, Lee. A History of Strategic Bombing. New York: Scribner's, 1982. Kerr, E. Bartlett. Flames over Tokyo: The U.S. Army Air Forces' Incendiary Campaign against Japan, 1944-1945. New York: Donald I. Fine, 1991. Kohn, Richard H., and Joseph P. Harahan, eds. Strategic Air Warfare: An Interview with Generals Curtis E. LeMay, Leon W. Johnson, David A. Burchinal, and Jack f. Catton. Washington, D.C .: Office of Air Force History, 1988. LeMay, Curtis E., and MacKinlay Kantor. Mission with LeMay: My Story. Garden City, N.Y .: Doubleday, 1965. LeMay, Curtis E., and Bill Yenne. Superfortress: The Story of the B-29 and American Air Power. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1988. Lent, Henry B. Bombardier: Tom Dixon Wins His Wings with the Bomber Command. New York: Macmillan, 1944. Ley, Willy. Bombs and Bombing. New York: Modern Age, 1941. McArthur, Charles
Node: 29098, Score: 0.0025216638937221, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0078.txt, Content: profession for the good of the family. He enrolled at the Federal Polytechnic Institute in Zurich, Switzerland, graduating in 1904 as a mechanical engineer. While at the institute he met a young Russian revolutionary, Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov, known to history as Nikolai Lenin. According to Norden's son, both were "ruthlessly self-disciplined with outstanding powers of concen- tration" and a sense of destiny that drove them to great accomplishments. Both went on to find fame and fortune, one designing new technologies, the other leading revolutions. Although Norden was a Dutch citizen by birth, his family ties were to Germany. His father was a Dutch-naturalized German, his wife Austrian- German. He saw the world in mechanical terms, everything fitting to- gether in perfect harmony, like the gears of a watch. The greatest designs, he believed, were the products of mathematical formulas reflecting the natural workings of the universe. Norden typified the European tradition of skillful craftsmanship. During the 1930s and 1940s Norden always gave 39  50 Chapter 3 To Sink Ships preference in his hiring practices to European emigré craftsmen and watchmakers, especially those from Germany. Despite this near reverence for German skills, Norden held Germans as a people untrustworthy. A great irony of the Norden story is the continuous theme of German involvement in developing and producing the bombsight that would con- tribute so mightily to Allied victory over Germany in World War II. Norden emigrated to the United States in 1904, "because that's where the jobs were." An American uncle, Adolph Norden, a rich cotton mer- chant, got him his first job with the Worthington Hydraulic Company. Clearly Norden hated working for others-a prima donna, he in rapid succession worked for Vehicle Equipment Company, Lidgerwood Manu- facturing Company, and finally Sperry Gyroscope Company in 1910. El- mer Sperry hired the Dutchman to solve problems associated with the gy- roscopic stabiliz
Node: 29139, Score: 0.0025622736308041, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0119.txt, Content: ere.28 Douhet misunderstood even the most basic elements of air power. He as- sumed that once command of the air had been established, the destruction of an enemy's industries and civil centers would automatically follow. He grossly overestimated the power of bombs and the accuracy of bombsights. In his defense, when Douhet wrote of the capabilities of bombing, he was thinking of chemical and bacteriological warfare, making bombing accu- racy less critical. He never considered, however, that a bomber might miss its target. For Douhet, air war was simply substituting technological fanat- icism for the ideological or nationalistic fanaticism behind war. American airmen read and appreciated his views as early as 1923.29 British strategists reinforced the views of Mitchell and Douhet. Jan Smuts, whose report paved the way for the creation of the independent Royal Air Force (RAF) in World War I, believed that bombing cities would win wars. Basil H. Lidell-Hart compared the bombing of civilians to Paris killing Achilles with a blow to his vulnerable heel. Another observer called civilians the "nerve ganglia of national morale." Stanley Baldwin said in Parliament that "the only defence is in offence, which means that you have to kill more women and children more quickly than the enemy if you want to save yourself."30 Hugh Trenchard, the "father" of the RAF, also thought terrorizing workers could achieve victory without the need to defeat an enemy's armed forces. Britain's World War I experience convinced him that "the home front was, in modern warfare, both a great deal more important and a great deal more vulnerable than the front line." Trenchard argued that the mo- rale effect of strategic bombing was greater than the material effect by the proportion of 20 to 1. This made precision unnecessary. Although he thought the enemy's will to resist was the proper target of strategic bomb- ing, he never determined whether this should be done through attacks on civilians or on i
Node: 29036, Score: 0.002869717275194, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0016.txt, Content: machines and the people of war. The ugliness, confusion, doubt, and discomfort of the Cold War and its nuclear bombs replaced the confidence, principles, and convictions of World War II and its precision bombing of the machines of war based on Norden bombsights. The dead would not appreciate the tragic irony of what had happened at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. One nation, committed to the precision strategic bombing of the machines that produced the weapons of war when the war began and carried out at such great cost in Europe, had by the end of the war against Japan adopted the greatest weapons of mass destruction in the history of the world. Equally ironic, Ferebee and Beahan used the most accurate optical bombsight ever developed to drop weapons that needed the least precise aiming of any in the world until that time. Folk wisdom was that "close only counted with horseshoes and hand grenades." After Hiroshima and Nagasaki, pundits would add atomic bombs to that list. Some public relations whiz once said that a Norden bombsight could drop a "bomb into a pickle barrel"-a phrase that stuck and still haunts the device.11 It never could. One observer watched Norden bombsights in use at Monte Cassino. "I could see bombs bursting 10 miles behind Ameri- can lines. They were dropping them all over the fucking landscape. Maybe it was true that they could hit a pickle barrel with that Norden bombsight, but there were no pickle barrels in the Liri Valley that day."12 No matter. The phrase raised visions of frontier marksmen always hitting their mark-the guilty and never the innocent. It raised images of a special American way of war. It satisfied a deep-seated American need for the moral high ground in war while satisfying an American hunger for techno-  6 Introducbow 7 Introduction logical achievement. Until the arrival of laser- and television-guided con- ventional munitions during the conflict in Vietnam, there would be no more talk of hitting pickle barrels. In the Persian G
Node: 29106, Score: 0.0028948319500756, Chunk File: mcfarland_pursuit/chunks/mcfarland_pursuit_0086.txt, Content: ave given Power of Attorney signifying entire confidence on my part." Barth de- scribed himself as "just a lathe hand gone Hollywood," although a close friend and Air Corps officer, Herbert A. Dargue, called him a "composite of Albert Einstein, Henry Ford, and Mahatma Gandhi."22 He was "as great a leader," in the opinion of those privileged to be employees, "as Mr. Nor- den was an inventor. Fun-loving, magnanimous and stable, he was a 'Prince of Light' during the difficult days of prodigious production." He gave away World Series tickets to his employees and rented Madison Square Garden for a private showing of the Ringling Brothers Circus for employees on the occasion of winning an "E" award for wartime pro- duction.23 Barth loved his role, his position, and his contacts. During World War II, at a time of rationing, he maintained a lunch room at the 80 Lafayette Street Norden building for the top thirty people at Norden, serving them lobster, suckling pig, and other gourmet delights. Calling it the "Pickle Barrel Conference Club," Barth also insured the club had well-hidden slot machines for the entertainment of his guests, programmed to always break even. Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia of New York was a common visitor, who, in keeping with his antigambling image, never played the slot ma- chines.24 Carl Norden's son recalled that Barth was more of a father to him than Norden himself, with a heart "as big as his body." After World War II Barth just "wanted to get out of business so he could concentrate on his philanthropic activities and so he could fish."25 Working out of his home and Barth's apartment, using the equipment and skilled labor of the Witteman-Lewis Aircraft Company, Norden deliv- ered the three contracted PDIs and three experimental Mark XI bomb- sights to the Navy in the late winter of 1923 and spring of 1924, respec- tively. All were handmade. He described the bombsight as "a small, compact, optical, stabilized instrument for use on moving targets, wi