Node: 25417, Score: -0.0601870326773211, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0233.txt, Content: the case of one's own soldiers and civilians or those of Allied nations. Yet they hardly disappear even in the carnage of war. Indeed a standard philo- sophical proposition governing proper moral reasoning is the requirement of "universalization," which in essence means that before making a decision one must take into appropriate consideration the interests and rights of all effected parties. This does not mean that certain of these may not be given greater weight than others, but it does demand a reasonable attempt at balancing conflicting claims of groups or individuals.36 The idea that even the enemy retains certain rights in wartime inevitably rests on the notion that there is no essential difference in the sanctity of life. In the strictest sense, this applies even in the realm of the soldier. Thus few would countenance the systematic slaughter of enemy soldiers attempting to surrender on the basis that some might be concealing weapons and intending to do harm to one's own men. The principle applies even more, however, in balancing the welfare of one's own combatants with those of the enemy civilian population who are not combatants. By what moral calculus can we say that the death and injury of enemy civilians is essentially irrelevant as long as there is at least some prospect that such suffering will save a single life among one's soldiers? The mere fact that a state of war exists does not remove the legitimate claims of enemy civilians for a reasonable chance to go on living. In order to protect such rights, it may be necessary for the soldier to accept a somewhat higher degree of risk (no one is demanding that they simply sacrifice themselves for the sake of enemy non-combatants). There are some professional soldiers who have at times recognized this principle. In the early days of the Vietnam War, for example, it was common for the South Vietnamese army to call in artillery or an air strike on a village in response to a single sniper shot from the hamlet
Node: 25340, Score: -0.0416194042759365, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0156.txt, Content: r dissent in Britain during World War II was in some ways  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 102 103 The Subjects of the Realm noticeably more tolerant than during the first great war. One significant reflection of this fact was the attitude toward conscientious objectors. In World War I, three out of ten were sent to prison for their beliefs. In the period 1939-1945 only 3 out of a 100 were treated so. Almost 60,000 people registered as conscientious objectors (four times the number in World War I), and of this number only one-fifth were rejected as insincere and thus liable to the draft. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain had set the tone even before war had broken out. In introducing the Act of 1939, which brought back conscription, he said that "where scruples are conscientiously held we desire that they should be respected and that there should be no persecution of those who hold them."29 Several years later, the Home Secretary, Herbert Morri- son, was queried in the House of Commons as to whether it might not be time to suppress the Bombing Restriction Committee, among whose mem- bers were a number of conscientious objectors and pacifists. Morrison responded that "if people sincerely hold the view that bombing should be abolished or restricted, I cannot see that it is terrible to say so." Morrison did go on to assure the House that they should not be unduly concerned since there was "no danger that the bombing will leave off, anyway."30 Contributing to this generally permissive atmosphere for public protest against the doings of Bomber Command was the fact that the British society as a whole appeared unreceptive to the grosser types of anti-German propa- ganda fostered during the first war. We have already discussed how Vansittartism, for example, never caught on with the majority of people, with its implication that the German civilian "deserved" everything that was delivered to him. As Mass Observation (a leading opinion survey) observed. "Few people think
Node: 25380, Score: -0.0377592216424821, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0196.txt, Content: heir government's policy of laying waste to German cities.  PART III JUDGMENTS  5 1 Standards and Principles "Do not do an immoral thing for moral reasons." -Thomas Hardy In discussing the views of various individuals concerning the morality of the area offensive, my own sympathies have clearly been with the dissenters rather than with the supporters. Given the fact that British bombing policy in World War II remains a highly controversial matter, however, and that the debate over it has generally produced a good deal more heat than light, it doesn't advance things very much simply to suggest a personal preference in the matter. Any serious critique of the area offensive has to set out the moral argument in a good deal more systematic fashion than has heretofore been attempted. The following two chapters are an effort to do so. One very important caveat does have to be offered at the outset. There is a surprisingly sparse literature wherein specific historical problems of security or foreign policy are examined using an ethical framework. Such case studies as do exist, moreover, have often been rendered somewhat unsatisfactory by the tendency of the writer not to recognize the full complexity of the situations in which decision-makers found themselves. The primary emphasis seems to be on establishing at the outset certain moral precepts as virtually self-evident, after which a (generally negative) verdict is passed on the degree to which the decision-makers lived up to these moral absolutes. Much of the effort is spent on hunting and pecking through the details of the situation in order to find substantiation for certain moral conclusions already firmly held.1 Such a procedure generally gives only a very partial and skewed version of the historical events being examined. Even more important, it fails to consider this reality in its own terms, that is to say, as an evolving collection  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 132 Standards and Principles of circumstances
Node: 25339, Score: -0.0371298119696325, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0155.txt, Content: ith the British in World War II. The issues behind the fighting seemed about as practically and morally compelling as any that are likely to appear in war. That Hitler was embarked on a program of essentially unlimited aggression was plain to all but the most obscurantist opinion. That the regime that he directed was an affront to all decent human values seemed beyond question. Under these circumstances one did not have to be morally oblivious to feel that any and all methods that were available to bring him down should-and ethically could-be employed. The pressure to take such a position was all the greater when one considers that the prospects of a German victory in the war were seen by many not just as an abstract possibility but as a real and immediate one, at least in the beginning and middle years of the struggle. Despite all this, however, there was public dissent against the British government's handling of the war effort, and in particular moral protest at the policy of area bombing of Germany. The dissenters included several members of Parliament, at least one very prominent religious figure, two famous military historians, the playwright George Bernard Shaw, and the classicist Gilbert Murray as well as a number of others in the literary and artistic community. The existence of such opinion even in the midst of what could reasonably be regarded as a true just war seems remarkable in retro- spect. It is also a testament to the capacity of some in a democratic society to draw distinctions and make discriminations even as they supported the overall effort to rid Europe and the world of a genuine evil. Aside from the inherent courage of individuals willing to speak out against what they saw as a repugnant strategy, it does have to be recognized that the climate for dissent in Britain during World War II was in some ways  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 102 103 The Subjects of the Realm noticeably more tolerant than during the first great war. One significa
Node: 25252, Score: -0.0340586098254528, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0068.txt, Content: have such a mindset. It is hard to envision someone being able, on a daily basis, to make the sort of brutal decisions involving life and death that Harris was charged with if at the same time he constantly was agonizing over the moral parameters of his actions. Perhaps one way in which to assess Harris properly is to draw an analogy between him and another famous air force commander, the American Curtis LeMay. The latter achieved fame as head of the Twenty-First Bomber Command in the Pacific during World War II; it was he who ordered the devastating firebombings of Tokyo in March 1945, in which more than 100,000 people died When asked later by an Air Force cadet about his moral feelings on this occasion he replied calmly: "Killing Japanese didn't bother me at that time. It was getting the war over with that bothered me. So I wasn't particularly worried about how many people we killed in getting the job done."42 After the war LeMay rose to become chief of staff of the Air Force, and a man noted for his unvarnished views on airpower stated in unsentimental terms (in the late 1960s he advocated a strategy of "victory" in Vietnam by "bombing North Vietnam back into the Stone Age.") LeMay was head of the Air Force during the Kennedy administration, and the President was asked by one of his aides why he kept on a man whose views seemed so primitive and out of touch with the spirit of the New Frontier. Kennedy's response was that he didn't intend to ask LeMay for his advice on American foreign policy, but that if it ever became necessary to use American airpower in a war 43 situation he wanted LeMay in operational command because of his profes- sional expertise. This seems like a reasonable attitude to take toward Harris, yet even in its own terms it leaves us with a highly troubling issue, which has to do with Harris's "professional expertise." Accept for the moment that we can't have expected Harris-or, perhaps more strongly, wanted Harris-to worry about the ethics of
Node: 25184, Score: -0.0335837378265119, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0000.txt, Content: ETHICS AND AIRPOWER IN WORLD WAR II  Also by Stephen A. Garrett Bangkok Journal From Potsdam to Poland: American Policy toward Eastern Europe Ideals and Reality: An Analysis of the Debate over Vietnam ETHICS AND AIRPOWER IN WORLD WAR II The British Bombing of German Cities Stephen A. Garrett St. Martin's Press New York  RF 6-3-93 C Stephen A. Garrett 1993 All rights reserved. For information, write: Scholarly & Reference Division, St. Martin's Press, Inc., 175 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010 First published in the United States of America 1993 Butl Stay Printed in the United States of America ISBN 0-312-08683-0 D 786 .G36 1993 Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Garrett, Stephen A., 1939- Ethics and airpower in World War II : the British bombing of German cities / Stephen A. Garrett. p. cm. Includes bibliographical references and index. ISBN 0-312-08683-0 1. World War, 1939-1945-Aerial operations, British-Moral and ethical aspects. 2. Germany-History-Bombardment, 1942-1945-Moral and ethical aspects. 3. World War, 1939-1945-Germany-Moral and ethical aspects. 4. Great Britain-Military policy-Moral and ethical aspects. I. Title. CIP D786.G36 1993 940.54'4941-dc20 For Marta, as before and as always, and for Crister, Karolina, and Eric as well, for whose generation this cautionary tale may hopefully lead to its not being repeated. 92-37119  CONTENTS Preface . . 1x Part I: Background 1. The Crescendo of Bombing ... 3 Part II: Reactions 2. The Masters of the Realm 25 3. The Servants of the Realm 63 4. The Subjects of the Realm 87 Part III: Judgments 5. Standards and Principles 131 6. The Test of Experience 157 7. Final Reflections 183 Notes . 211 Bibliography 231 Index . . 243  Preface The origins of this book may be at least partly traced to two experiences I had during a trip to Europe several years ago. The first occurred during a visit to the Franconian city of Würzberg in Germany. Located along the river Main and founded in the eighth century, Würzbe
Node: 25377, Score: -0.0329798099259684, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0193.txt, Content: or the duration of the war. She had an invitation to give a series of lectures in India, but permission was denied for that trip as well. There were even inquiries in Parliament as to whether she should not be detained under the Emergency Powers (Defence) Act, which allowed those under suspicion to be incarcerated indefinitely without benefit of appeal or even detailing of specific charges. More painful was the general social ostracism that she had to endure, even from those who were old friends and companions. "Distrust did not only come from official quarters; friends who had known G. [George Catlin] and me for years coldly avoided me at public gatherings, and a growing spate of abusive letters increased the pain of such rejections." A famous writer of thrillers once wrote her to ask why "she did not keep her mouth shut." Brittain responded by asking whether the fight against Hitler was being conducted in order to shut peoples' mouths.67 All this might have been endured more easily if she had seen some evidence that her protests were having an effect on governmental policy. The obvious reality that she (and others) were essentially irrelevant to the direction of events made such indignities even harder to bear. At one point, Brittain feared that she might undergo a total physical and nervous break- down if she were subjected to yet another barrage of criticism. In order to deal with the effects of what she called her long struggle against hostility and suspicion, she went for extended treatment to a facility in Coleford that featured a combination of physical and mental therapy. Some years later she wrote in moving terms to the director of this institution: "I shall never  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 126 The Subjects of the Realm forget what it meant to come into a community where I was regarded neither as a fool nor a traitor, and how well you understood that what I needed then was just rest and that complete unquestioning acceptance of all I was and trie
Node: 25388, Score: -0.0324794655506615, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0204.txt, Content: was not an explanation satisfactory to the moral critics the area offensive and, one suspects, not a totally comfortable notion with manu of its proponents as well. The notion of national character as something that does (and should) limit the measures of war remains as perhaps the most interesting of the three sources s of restraint described above. Its essence was conveyed by a certain Lord Moult of Bank, a 19th-century British parliamentarian, writing in the twilight of b career. In an essay for The Atlantic published in July 1924, Moulton distinguished between "three great domains of human action." The first was governed bu "positive law," standards established by the lawmakers and enforced by f y the coercive power of the state. A second arena of conduct involved the "domain of free choice," such as the choice of a marriage partner, in which the law had no voice and the individual enjoyed complete freedom. Finally, there was a domai in which adherence to standards could not be compelled but in which obligation were nevertheless recognized and accepted, "the obedience of a man to the which he cannot be forced to obey [but where he is] the enforcer of the law upon himself." In a compelling conclusion, Lord Moulton asserted that "the real greatness of a nation, its true civilization, is measured by the extent of obedience to the unenforceable."10 A FRAMEWORK FOR ANALYSIS As far as the subject of ethics in wartime is concerned, the difficulty, of course, is in translating Lord Moulton's dicta bearing on individual conduct into something that is relevant to nations. Even if we are able to do so. in saying that a civilized nation should accept obedience to the unenforceable 137 as morally commanding, the question becomes obedience to what? What are the standards of conduct in wartime that should be accepted and recognized by well-meaning statesmen even in the absence of coercion to make them follow such standards, and what initial assessment can be made about the are
Node: 25283, Score: -0.0324149306957748, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0099.txt, Content: d has worked as a member of Jason, which, as Dyson describes it, is a "group of scientists who work on technical problems for the Depart- ment of Defense and other agencies of the American government." For our purposes, there is one other item in Dyson's resumé that is of particular  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 64 65 The Servants of the Realm interest: during World War II he worked for the British Royal Air Force in the area of operations research. He was a scientific analyst for Bomber Command and thus had extensive knowledge of the strategy behind British air strikes against Germany. Given his professional background, Dyson's description of his contri- bution to the British war effort is rather striking: "I felt sickened by what I knew. Many times I decided I had a moral obligation to run out into the streets and tell the British people what stupidities were being done in their name. But I never had the courage to do it. I sat in my office until the end. carefully calculating how to murder most economically another hundred thousand people."1 His mea culpa extends even further than this. He recalls reading reports after the war about the men who had worked in the Adolf Eichmann organization, and admits that he had a certain sympathy for these individuals "Probably many of them loathed the SS as much as I loathed Bomber Command," Dyson reflected, "but they, too, had not had the courage to speak out." When it came down to it, the main difference between his work and that of Eichmann's operatives "was that they were sent to jail or hanged as war criminals, while I went free."2 There are two objections that may be raised to this sort of language. The first concerns retrospective admissions of moral culpability. One might well challenge the relevance, even the moral consistency, of Dyson's offering an apology for his actions some 40 years after the event. An even harsher verdict might be that the author is citing a moral anguish now that he did not really feel,
Node: 25381, Score: -0.0321759375604868, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0197.txt, Content: . Even more important, it fails to consider this reality in its own terms, that is to say, as an evolving collection  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 132 Standards and Principles of circumstances and decisions that had to be dealt with at a particular time and at a particular place by a particular group of individuals. In what follows, we will basically be working outward from the history of the area bombing offensive against Germany. This requires that we first establish a set of admittedly broad moral guidelines that can form at least a tentative basis for judgment. In arriving at such a judgment, however, it is crucial to acknowledge the full complexity of what faced the relevant individuals in Britain at the time and to describe these complications as straightfor- wardly as possible. In one of the more notable studies of the ethical dilemmas facing public officials, Donald Warwick expresses the challenge here rather nicely: "An ethical framework built on an idealized conception of what public officials will do will tilt toward sanctimony or collapse into irrelevance; one erected on inadequate moral principles will incline toward cynicism or topple into description."2 In considering the British area offensive against Germany, I want to assess what actual (or realistic) moral choices were open to British officials and what can be said about the quality of the decisions eventually taken. THE SHERMANESQUE FALLACY There is probably no writer on military strategy who has been more quoted (and misquoted) than Karl von Clausewitz, the famous author of On War and universally regarded as a basic source for insights into the relationship between war and politics. There is no doubt that Clausewitz, who wasa scholar but also a man of considerable practical military experience, ha much to tell us about the peculiar institution of war. Yet he also offered moral definition of the practice of war that has been the bane of thoughtful analysts of ethics in wartime ever since.
Node: 25238, Score: -0.0287834499574007, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0054.txt, Content: nuing concern about how to present the "facts" about the bomber offensive, rather astonishingly assumed that Harris himself could be persuaded to accept the fiction that was being presented to the general public.22 Air Marshall Harris may have thought there was nothing to be ashamed of with respect to the area bombing offensive, but the only reasonable conclusion is that for many in authority there was a considerably greater reluctance to submit the details of the offensive for general public inspection. This may suggest that at least some within the government themselves had doubts about the legitimacy of what Bomber Command was doing, and thus they chose to obscure what was indeed being done. For the great majority of those involved in directing the area offensive, however, the issue was not any personal moral qualms they may have felt about the bombing of German cities but their perception that the British people would have such qualms if they knew the full details of the area offensive. In order to avoid unpleasant and possibly disruptive questioning of the government's air strategy, there- fore, it was best from their point of view simply to conceal the essentials of the bombing of Germany. What is particularly interesting in this regard is the assumption on the part of leading figures that the public was morally sensitive to indiscriminate air attacks on Germany and would protest if their existence were revealed. Whether this would generally have been the case is a matter perhaps open to debate, but one is reminded of the famous French sage La Rochefoucauld's aphorism that "hypocrisy is the tribute that vice  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 34 The Masters of the Realm pays to virtue." The British people seemed to have been credited with considerable virtue, and the government's hypocrisy paid tribute to it. If deception was indeed prevalent throughout the war in the British government's discussion of its bombing policy, this does lead in a curious sense to
Node: 25333, Score: -0.0278924767614128, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0149.txt, Content: the . .. places in which I had to serve. For there, in contrast with the natural beauty of the surroundings, the evil . . . policy of the carpet bombing of German' cities was planned.22 When Arthur Harris laid on a lecture for his aircrew entitled "The Ethics of Bombing"-in response to an earlier talk by the devout Christian and socialist Sir Stafford Cripps, who had seemed to question the morality of what was being done-Collins stood up to say that perhaps he had misun- derstood the title of the talk, which should have been "The Bombing of Ethics." Needless to say, Harris was unamused by this and other interven- tions from his Chaplain, and Collins was threatened with court martial on four different occasions during the war for his unorthodox behavior (he was perhaps saved from such a fate by the curious circumstance that he was related to Arthur Harris by marriage). The Reverend Collins later argued that the Anglican hierarchy had a fatal tendency to side with military authority in whatever disputes arose over the independent conduct of clergymen assigned to them. In making such a  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 98 The Subjects of the Realm comment, he perhaps had in mind the august personage of William Temple, who had succeeded Lang as Archbishop of Canterbury early in 1942. Temple's attitude toward British wartime policy stands as a particularly interesting example of the position that leading churchmen adopted concern- ing military matters during World War II. His elevation to the highest office in the Church was greeted with almost universal enthusiasm. He presented a notably benign appearance, possessed a sparkling humor, was well- rounded (in both the physical and intellectual sense), and exuded goodwill and tolerance toward one and all. As one description has it, he was the "quintessence of compromise . . . firmly in the centre of British politics." Churchill himself was initially rather doubtful about his appointment, since Temple had formerly been a
Node: 25352, Score: -0.0278847260943496, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0168.txt, Content: by those in authority. Liddell Hart thought that perhaps his banishment from an official role might be changing in March 1944, when he was summoned for a session before the War Cabinet. Instead, he was subjected to a withering cross-examination as to how he had obtained advance notice that the coming invasion of Europe would take place in Normandy. He had considerable difficulty in convincing his interlocutors that a memorandum of his two months earlier had merely reflected his reasoned assessment given Allied troop deployments in southern England.42 Perhaps the stringent critique that both Liddell Hart and Fuller offered of one of the prim rime strategic commitments of the government makes this exclusion from its affairs unsurprising. In Liddell Hart's case his violent personal antipathy toward Churchill was obviously a factor as well, not to mention the thinly veiled contempt he had shown for many of Britain's major military figures. Moreover, some of his earlier thinking on British security had been badly contradicted by events. He had argued in the 1930s for an essentially defensive strategy, in which relatively few resources would be given to the army on the expectation that France could alone resist a German land campaign in the West. The rapid Germany victory in the spring of 1940 at least temporarily undermined his reputation for military sagacity. Finally, Liddell Hart's seemingly rather benign view of Hitler, reflected in his comment that the German dictator "had been remarkably reluctant to get into war" as well as his doubts about the actual existence of concentration camps,  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 110 The Subjects of the Realm made him appear (in the minds of many) quite unsound, to use the classic British phrase dismissive of the eccentric. 43 As for Fuller, his reputation was clouded by his strong anti-Semitism as well as his supposed sympathy for fascism (a charge levied in particular connection with his admiration for Mussolini in the 1
Node: 25300, Score: -0.0277217362494489, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0116.txt, Content: afe, even if the underlying prejudice against the supposed ivory-tower abstractions of the scientists continued to linger. In an unusual tribute to those outside his immediate circle of staff, Arthur Harris conceded that Bomber Command's operational research section became a "body of brilliant young civilian scientists and technicians ... who did work of inestimable value in subjecting all aspects of our operations to an impartial scrutiny."28 This assessment doesn't help much, of course, in answering the question of what the boffins' moral role should have been in the development of Bomber Command's area offensive against Germany. The British historian A. J. P. Taylor was unsparing in his criticism of area bombing and, perhaps not incidentally, also had acerbic views on the role of modern science in questions of war and peace. He dismissed the scientists' mentality that accepts that "any argument will do" so long as they "can go on with their terribly sweet problems" (a phrase attributed to J. Robert Oppenheimer). Taylor argued that "the scientists think they are God. They want to remake the universe; and we pay the price for their mad ambition. ... Shall we knock the power out of their hands before it is too late?"29 It is unclear how in the contemporary age one would go about depriving the scientific community of their powers. There is also a quibble that can be made about scientists' being consumed with a "mad ambition." Perhaps a fairer judgment on the boffins, curiously enough, might take at least something from that which we rendered on Sir Arthur Harris himself. British scientists, after all, were in the final analysis only servants of the state. One might have hoped that they would have spoken out more forcefully against the moral implications of the area offensive, particularly since they were in some position to judge the problematical military effects of such a massive departure from the war convention. In this sense, they could have harnessed their tech
Node: 25250, Score: -0.0263910111050963, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0066.txt, Content: of immorality levelled against him both during and after the war. Even though they comprise only a tiny part of his memoir of Bomber Command, ethical issues are addressed by Harris in a few places in an obvious attempt to deflect the notion that he was a totally unfeeling mechanic of destruction. As a general matter he denounced the idea that he or any military man was drawn to war. It was "nonsense" to assert that the career military person was a militarist "in the sense that he desires and encourages war in order to serve his own interests." Indeed the successful general frequently was ignored after the conflict while the losing one often faced an even more drastic fate. 39 Harris also offered a few reflections on the relationship between morality and war when he discussed the firebombing of Hamburg. "In spite of all that happened at Hamburg," he argued, "bombing proved a comparatively hu- mane method." For one thing it avoided the mass slaughter of British youth that had occurred in World War I. Moreover, the number of German civilians killed by Bomber Command hardly exceeded-and in fact was greatly less than-the number effected by the British naval blockade in the previous war, which led to a "death-rate much in excess of the ambition of even the most ruthless exponents of air frightfulness."40 The one other passage in Bomber Offensive that touches at least obliquely on the moral issue concerns the devastation of Dresden. Harris doesn't offer any formal defense of the ethics of the Dresden raid, but once again he does indicate an awareness at least that the issue exists. I know that the destruction of so large and splendid a city at this late stage of the war was considered unnecessary even by a good many people who admit that our earlier attacks were as fully justified as any other operation of war. Here I will only say that the attack on Dresden was at the time considered a military necessity by much more important people than myself, and that if their judgmen
Node: 25338, Score: -0.0263391770210776, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0154.txt, Content: ts; a desire to avoid subjecting the Church and its individual members to the persecution that would almost certainly follow such a denunciation; and, finally, a desire to avoid placing the individual in an impossible conflict of conscience which would probably be resolved in favor of the nation's demands anyway.28 All these are strong and understandable factors bearing on the role of the church in a war situation. To be sure, their full acceptance carries the risk of making the church essentially irrelevant during a time when its moral guidance is most needed, and may even render nugatory the church's traditional devotion to just war doctrine. Putting it this way, however, may somewhat misstate the issue. The fact is that Temple and others felt that the air offensive was indeed a morally legitimate method of defeating a univer- sally-recognized peril. One can criticize their insensitivity to questions of proportionality but hardly their bona fides in attempting to decide on the lesser evil. That they managed to avoid the sort of unalloyed Vansittartism that affected some in British society was also no mean accomplishment, given the general antipathy toward the Nazi regime felt by all. Yet there were some at the time who argued that simply avoiding the extremes of anti-Ger- man racial prejudice was not enough. They were convinced that area bomb- ing was inherently an illegitimate act of war and an affront to the conscience. They openly attempted to convince their fellow citizens that a crime was being conducted in their name. THE DISSENTERS It might fairly be said that there has rarely, if ever, been a more convincing set of reasons for the citizens of a democratic society to give the benefit of the doubt to their government's conduct of a war effort than was the case with the British in World War II. The issues behind the fighting seemed about as practically and morally compelling as any that are likely to appear in war. That Hitler was embarked on a program of ess
Node: 25286, Score: -0.0262759369425582, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0102.txt, Content: time, he delivered himself of the following comments: "I believe it can be done, and if so it will be of great importance. But please take me off this job. It is going to be too terribly destructive. I don't want to have anything to do with it."4 Following the successful testing of the bomb at Alamagordo, New Mex- ico, on July 16, 1945, various American scientists who had worked on the Manhattan Project banded together to urge their government to wait before using the bomb on a Japanese city. Their idea was to explode one of the devices off the coast of Japan in a demonstration that would (hopefully)  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 66 The Servants of the Realm persuade the Japanese authorities to surrender once they had seen the bomb's enormous destructive power. The evidence is ambiguous as to whether President Truman ever actually had contact with, or was even aware of, this group. As it turned out, their efforts were in vain, and Hiroshima was to receive the first atomic bomb dropped in anger. A major factor in the abortive attempt by the scientific community to forestall immediate military use of atomic energy was, in any case, moral in nature: those involved felt that the weapon was so terrible in its effects, and carried such an ominous portent for future generations and future wars, that it behooved all involved to hesitate before the abyss. Robert Oppenheimer, the "father" of the atomic bomb and scientific director of the Manhattan Project, perhaps caught the essence of these feelings when he commented shortly after the explosion at Hiroshima that "the physicists have known sin." Such sentiments carried over after the war, and with equally unavailing result, with respect to plans for developing the hydrogen bomb. Enrico Fermi and I. I. Rabi, as members of the General Advisory Committee charged with developing recommendations on further American nuclear weapons policy. argued that the creation of the hydrogen bomb "cannot be justified on any ethical grou
Node: 25317, Score: -0.0259764376978076, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0133.txt, Content: n the Home Guard, wrote a remonstrative letter to his good friend Captain Basil Liddell Hart, the distinguished British military historian. Brophy was particularly aroused by Liddell Hart's argument that British wartime conduct was hardly morally superior to that of the Germans. While admitting that certain wicked things had been (and were being) done in the interests of victory, Brophy heatedly denied any comparison between German and British standards of behavior: "Taken as a whole the British [record] is morally clean, and the German filthy. The concentration camps alone are enough to indict the Nazis. I stick to the general proportion, and I see the British with all their faults as the most civilized and innocent nation in the world."1 A rather similar sentiment was expressed by a regional information officer (RIO) of the British Ministry of Information in April 1941. The RIOs were local officials charged with distributing and supporting the government's approved line on British military policy. In this instance, the RIO strongly objected to instructions from the ministry on how to represent the actions of Bomber Command to his constituents. He was told to stress that the government, in developing its bombing strategy, didn't want to make the "mistake" of diverting its efforts from key military targets to attacks on "secondary targets" (i.e., cities). The point to be emphasized was that simply killing civilians was not militarily efficient. The RIO demanded to know if this was really the only reason that could (or should)  89 The Subjects of the Realm Ethics and Airpower in World War II strategic bombing."3 To be sure, the evidence available earlier about the extent of Nazi atrocities was not as clear-cut, but enough was known to make it understandable that a general unfeeling toughness might develop toward the suffering of Germans who had tolerated or even abetted such abuses in the first place. 88 be given for not smashing German cities. "Why must Government a
Node: 25239, Score: -0.0255700551206019, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0055.txt, Content: d the government's hypocrisy paid tribute to it. If deception was indeed prevalent throughout the war in the British government's discussion of its bombing policy, this does lead in a curious sense to a somewhat positive conclusion. The existence of hypocrisy is prima facie an acceptance of the fact that "virtue" does exist and that as a general matter it "should" be adhered to. Otherwise, why engage in hypocrisy? This consideration is critical in reacting to the spurious com- monplace that there are no really legitimately binding limits to violence in wartime. If this were indeed the way in which most people (including the typical statesman or even the military professional) actually regarded his society's conduct of hostilities, there would be no need for disguising the character of various military activities if they seemed to be efficient in gaining victory. Since British policy-makers in World War II did feel the need for disguise, this substantiates the argument that the war convention specifically as it applies to aerial combat, did (and does) exist and can be identified, at least in broad stroke. The Campaign of Forgetting There is another body of evidence that can be introduced in support of this proposition, and it concerns the behavior of British authorities after the end of hostilities in 1945. If the standard operating mode of the government during the war was to dissemble on the facts of area bombing, following the surrender of Germany there was a seeming effort to discourage any further detailed exami- nation of Bomber Command's activities by interested parties. This effort was likely spurred on in part by the fact that a good deal of new information on these activities was now emerging unfettered by the strictures of wartime security.23 Churchill's famous memorandum on Dresden, even though it was meant only for official eyes, has to be interpreted as one of the earliest steps in this direction. It seems unmistakable that, with victory in sight, the P
Node: 25412, Score: -0.0244654621990735, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0228.txt, Content: irpower in World War ii civilian casualties, it is instructive indeed to observe how-in a different context-the British government displayed considerable concern about the vulnerability of civilians to air attack. A prime example can be seen in the period prior to the invasion of Europe and involved a debate over strategy to which we have already referred. against Allied policy, he observed that "I do not personally regard the whole of the remaining cities of Germany as worth the bones of one British Cignadior od Among many extraordinary statements offered during the war by the head off Bomber Command, this must surely rank among the most extraordinary. Was Harris really arguing that the killing of indeterminate thousands of additional German civilians was morally counterbalanced by the saving of one British soldier's life? What is really at stake here is the whole notion of obligations or what Kaat called "perfect" and "imperfect" duties.29 Simply stated, the former involve obligations that are absolute and commanding on the individual or the group; the latter are obligations that, while compelling, are nevertheless subject to modification or even temporary non-performance in certain cir. cumstances. In terms of our own focus, the relationship between ethics and war, I would suggest that there are three categories of duties that present themselves to governments. The first and truly perfect obligation is to one's own soldiers and to the civilian population as a whole. Governments have no real purpose other than securing the life and welfare of their subjects, and such a duty can never be foresworn, at least by governments who genuinely aspire to serve their people's interests. The other two types of duties impinging on governments in wartime may be described as imperfect but they exist nonetheless, the assumption beine that all individual human beings have certain rights that continue to obtain even in the midst of war. Above all this means the right to life unless