Node: 25449, Score: 0.0543899697752114, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0265.txt, Content: y British accent. It originated in a request from the Royal Air Force to North American Aviation, who built the first prototype in 1940. Some 600 had been provided to the RAF by 1941, but at this point they lacked a sufficiently powerful engine. Five of the aircraft were subsequently fitted with Merlin 61 engines, and the production line in America was modified to accommodate Ameri- can-built Packard Merlins. By adding additional fuel tanks, the Mustang was converted into a plane that could outperform all the standard German fighters.38 Yet, by some strange circumstance, the RAF failed to benefit from this technological breakthrough while the Americans employed large num- bers of the redesigned Mustangs in their own operations. One conclusion is that Arthur Harris resisted the introduction of great numbers of the Mustangs to Bomber Command since this would have had the effect of negating his insistence on nighttime area bombing as the only feasible strategy for his aircrew. A. J. P. Taylor summarizes the point by saying that "no senior RAF leader sought the answer of long-range fighters, just as no senior British general of the First World War sought the answer of tanks to the problem of trench warfare."39 The implication was that in both instances the adoption of the new technology would have contradicted (or rendered irrelevant) long-cherished beliefs in a particular military doctrine. This point receives even greater support from the saga of the Mosquito fighter-bomber. The development of the Mosquito presented another range of possibilities for Arthur Harris that could well have changed the entire direction of the air offensive. The De Havilland Mosquito was able accu- rately to mark bombing targets from extremely high altitudes (around 28,000 feet). The height at which it flew made it possible to use navigational systems Why, then, was the Mosquito not chosen as the primary vehicle for Bomber Command's offensive against Germany? The reasons for this surprising
Node: 25217, Score: 0.0526462270423734, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0033.txt, Content: r the period March-July 1943, there were a total of 43 main raids. Virtually all the major urban centers of the Ruhr suffered badly as result, with the city of Barmen-Wuppertal, for example experiencing the destruction of almost 90 percent of its built-up area during a raid on Ma 29. Bomber Command's efforts during the so-called Battle of the Rok amply demonstrated that it had developed a raw striking power greater the that heretofore displayed by any of the world's major air forces. The pilot themselves seemed to view with some awe the nature of the enterprise which they were embarked. On looking down upon the burning spectacle of the Ruhr one night, one man commented that "the clouds were life cottonwool soaked in blood."33 Such emotions were presumably also in evidence during the second major event of the area offensive during this period, the Battle of Hamburg. Hamburg was the recipient of 33 major air attacks (code-named Opera- tional Gomorrah) from July to November 1943. The night raids on July 24, July 27, and July 29 represented the apex of the assault on Hamburg. In each instance well over 700 bombers from the RAF rained a combination of incendiary and explosive bombs on the central city area of Hamburg. Approximately 74 percent of the most densely populated area of the city was destroyed. About 50,000 people were killed in these attacks, and around one million refugees fled to safer outlying areas.34 Perhaps the most noted aspect of the Hamburg raids was the phenomenon of the firestorm, which produced hurricane-type winds of 150 MPH and sucked people, trees, even whole buildings into the center of the flames. The Police President of Hamburg summarized the fate of his city this way: Its horror is revealed in the howling and raging of the firestorms, the hellish noise of exploding bombs and the death cries of martyred human beings as well as in the big silence after the raids. Speech is impotent to portray the measure of the horror, which shook the people fo
Node: 25427, Score: 0.0476273942772849, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0243.txt, Content: victory really had in terms of damaging the German war effort. Within three weeks, gas and electricity had been restored to most homes and factories, and by September the port of Hamburg was able to handle 160,000 tons of cargo, only 40,000 less than in July. U-boat construction in the city was not significantly affected, nor was the output of aircraft.º Subsequent analyses revealed that overall war production actually returned to near-nor- mal in the Hamburg area within a few weeks after the attack, and an earlier labor shortage was largely relieved since a large number of service workers shopkeepers, and office personnel now were perforce seeking other employ- ment. Professor John Kenneth Galbraith recalled his findings as a member of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey: "In reducing, as nothing else could, the consumption of non-essentials and the employment of men in their supply, there is a distinct possibility that the attacks on Hamburg increased Germany's output of war material and thus her military effectiveness."9 The second factor mitigating against the area offensive's having any pronounced effect on German military production was essentially technical. In order for Bomber Command to interrupt seriously the output of a particular item of significance, it was necessary for it to undertake repeated raids against a single target. This went against Arthur Harris's tendency to want to deal in turn with all the German cities on his "hit list," that is to say, the 60 major urban centers that he had originally designated for destruction by Bomber Command. In practice, Harris would order a major strike against one target and then move on to the next, which gave the Germans ample opportunity to restore manufacturing capacity in the areas already attacked.14 There was also the fact that simply destroying a large number of buildings in the target area did not necessarily result in an equivalent falloff in arms production. As the USSBS put it, "The destruction
Node: 25219, Score: 0.0472060826720609, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0035.txt, Content: other major cities. The potency of the German night-fighter force, as well as of their anti-aircraft defenses, was reflected in an average loss rate for British bombers on the order of about 5.0 percent Sometimes it was even more severe: in an attack on Nuremberg in March 1944, some 94 bombers were lost and another 71 damaged out of a total force of 795 employed. 38 This level of attrition could not be long sustained, and in view of the rather problematical effect that area bombing seemed to be having on the German ability to maintain her war effort, something of a crisis of confidence developed at Bomber Command and amongst others in authority about the future of the air offensive. As it happened, however, the doubts that had now arisen became submerged in the planning for D-Day, the Allied invasion of Europe. In what, under the circumstances, may be regarded as a blessing in disguise for Bomber Command, Harris was now ordered to divert virtually all his aircraft from the bombing of Germany to more direct support for the coming landings in Normandy. Over the next several months, Bomber Command devoted the brunt of its operations to attacks on the German ra system in France and the Low Countries in order to disrupt German transpor of reinforcements and materiel to the front after D-Day. They did so with admirable success, and the evidence in fact suggests that the combined British and American assault on these targets played a critical role in the successful Allied invasion. By late May, traffic on the railway network in France had declined to 55 percent of the January figure, and by D-Day itself had fallen to only 30 percent of the earlier figure.39 THE AREA BOMBING OF GERMANY: THE SECOND PHASE By September 1944, Allied forces had not only firmly established themselvesin France but were making rapid progress against the increasingly shattered Ger man defenses. At this point, the debate resumed over strategy for Bombe Command in its attacks on Germany itself. There
Node: 25459, Score: 0.042414335011489, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0275.txt, Content: their stuff but with decreasing opportunities to do so. In the face of this enormous surge in the number of aircraft as well as aircrew available to Bomber Command, it became a question of how to employ the vast array of planes and personnel at the disposal of Arthur Harris. It seemed hardly thinkable to allow this armada to even partially stand down since so much political and military authority had previously been committed to the buildup of Bomber Command as a decisive weapon against Germany. Moreover, in line with the past belief in the merits of the area offensive, most aircrew had basically been trained in the techniques of the nighttime destruction of cities. Very few pilots wanted to become "beginners" again by being instructed in quite a different set of bombing tactics.4 The latter comments may seem contradictory to what we have written before about the capacity of Bomber Command for daylight precision bombing after the summer of 1944. It has been argued that Bomber Com- mand should have been forced to abandon the area offensive in favor of selective attacks on German oil and transportation targets. The contradiction is, however, more apparent than real. There was a significant segment of Bomber Command (e.g., 5 Group, famous for its accurate marking tech- niques under the leadership of Leonard Cheshire) who were available for a precision bombing campaign. A concerted effort to train (or retrain) at least a good number of other aircrew in precision bombing, using the new navigational and aiming devices now available, was also a possibility open to Harris and his colleagues. What this would have required, however, was a (most unlikely) conversion of Harris to the merits of precision bombing along with a corresponding willingness to overcome the resistance of many of his present pilots to the new emphasis in targeting. Realistically, such a change in strategy would have implied that a number of Harris's bombers would have simply refrained from city attacks
Node: 25213, Score: 0.0385628652450359, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0029.txt, Content: ty of Lübeck provided a convenient early test case. An old medieval tow constructed largely of wood ("built more like a fire-lighter than a humo habitation," as Harris observed), Lübeck was attacked on the night of Mare 28 by 234 RAF bombers. Some 200 acres, or about half the city, was leveled the German estimate being that over 15,000 people had their homes de stroyed as a consequence of the raid. Another old Hanseatic city, Rostock was given similar treatment later in April. Over 100,000 civilians were force- to evacuate the city as a result of this attack. At this point Bo omber Command had in its raids on Lübeck, Rostock and other places destroyed a total of about 780 acres, which was roughly equal to the damage visited on Gren Britain during the Blitz. As Harris laconically recorded, we had now "ah squared our account with Germany."27 The war-and the area bombing Germany-was to continue for three more years. Despite these early successes, Harris was acutely aware that the credibilityot Bomber Command as a major, perhaps the major, focus of the British war effe was hardly accepted by everyone in authority. The February 14th decision ho authorized a policy of area bombing of Germany, but a number of importan individuals continued to question the wisdom of committing really substantial resources to the bombing campaign when other needs (for example, in the Middle East) were also pressing. Doubts also continued to exist as to whether Bomhe Command, even if given all that it asked for, could really produce resne commensurate with such an outlay of men and materiel. Even the Prime Minis seemed to have his doubts. Earlier he had been an enthusiastic supporter of the bombing campaign, but by the fall of 1941 he reacted to a plan from the RA for the building of a total force of 4,000 bombers by saying that "it is ven disputable whether bombing by itself will be a decisive factor in the present we On the contrary, all that we have learnt since the war began shows that it
Node: 25262, Score: 0.0382320367797537, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0078.txt, Content: wards ever-growing, ever more accurate and ever more far-ranging bomber attacks on Germany."53 As of January 1943, there were 31 heavy bomber squadrons with some 338 aircraft available to Arthur Harris. Quarterly heavy bomber production was about 232 machines. Two years later, Bomber Command had 80 heavy squadrons with over 1,300 aircraft, and quarterly heavy bomber production was approx- imately 450 machines.54 49 There is some dispute over how best to calculate the share of the national output that Bomber Command received in comparison to the other services, but one estimate is that about one-third of Britain's total war effort was devoted to the bombing offensive. Bomber Command absorbed resources roughly equal to those given to all British land forces, and received as well the cream of British wartime high technology. The degree to which the needs-or demands-of Sir Arthur Harris received priority over other claim- ants is reflected in the fact that during the war Britain was forced to buy all of its transport aircraft, most of its landing craft, a high percentage of its tanks, and huge quantities of ammunition from the United States. The reality, then, is that right up to the closing days of the war Bomber Command-de- spite Harris's constant complaints about lack of men and materiel-received what can be considered a quite disproportionate share of Britain's wartime output. How to account for Churchill's acceptance of this policy? Three possi- bilities suggest themselves. We have seen how, in the dark days after the fall of France, Churchill viewed the bombing offensive as the only visible alternative for carrying the war to Germany and potentially achieving victory. Decisions on research and development as well as procurement were taken at the time that reflected this belief, and given the relatively long lead-time necessary to bring new bombers and equipment on line, the effect of the earlier judgments on resource allocation began to be heavily felt only toward
Node: 25484, Score: 0.0379301477380401, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0300.txt, Content: which often are directed at the very society that originally introduced them.31 The Drive Toward Total War To say that Bomber Command was basically an instrument of terror is a harsh indictment and, to some, an unfair one as well. What is beyond dispute is 201 that the area offensive was a watershed event in the development of the concept of total war, or, perhaps more precisely, in the re-introduction of this concept in the contemporary period. Total war-as earlier defined-involves not just the complete mobilization of the resources of the state for military purposes but also the blurring, if not evaporation, of any distinction between the home front and the battle front. In total war, both sectors are fused to create an essentially unbroken and universal field of conflict, and military operations in all parts of this landscape are regarded as not only necessary but legitimate. A paper presented by the British Naval Staff in 1921 to the Committee of Imperial Defence addressed this melancholy development: Nothing can be clearer than the fact that modern war resolves itself into an attempt to throttle the national life. Waged by the whole power of the nation, its ultimate object is to bring pressure on the mass of the enemy people, distressing them by every possible means, so as to compel the enemy's government to submit to terms.32 It need hardly be said that the phenomenon of total war has been one of the more grievous assaults on the human condition in this century. It is also self-evident that it was the development of airpower that provided a powerful impetus to its emergence, since the new technology made it possible to wage war not just on the enemy's soldiers but on the society supporting them. As one leading authority on the development of war has put it, the introduction of the strategic bomber led to "a crisis in the law of war, and a process of barbarization such as had not been seen in Europe since the second half of the seventeenth century."33 This refe
Node: 25215, Score: 0.0378177555358758, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0031.txt, Content: a sustained campaign of destroying German cities. One problem was the lack of sufficient numbers of aircraft to sustain such a campaign. Despite the thousand-bomber raid against Cologne (achieved by using every available aircraft at Harris's disposal, including even training units), Bomber Command on an average daily basis had at its disposal only 261 bombers as of the end of 1942. Equally important was the slow introduction of the Lancaster, perhaps the best heavy bomber on all sides in the war, but not available in any quantity until early in 1943. There was also the challenge of developing adequate guidance systems for Bomber Command's attacks against the German heartland. Even given the less stringent standards of accuracy required for area bombing, it was not until the end of the year, with the arrival of Oboe and H2S as navigational aids, that the British could feel a renewed confidence about hitting their aiming points in the areas being attacked.30 Also important in supplementing the new navigational technology was the development of the Pathfinder Force, which consisted of elite Bomber Command crews whose task it was to identify and mark the target for the bombers that followed. One of the most successful innovations of the air war, the Pathfinders, together with the other developments in equipment and navigation, now made a full area offensive conceivable.31 In January 1943, the British Prime Minister and the American President, together with their principal advisers, met in Casablanca to consider the  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 16 The Crescendo of Bombing future of the strategic bombing of Germany. The Casablanca Conference. and the subsequent Washington Conference in May of the same year. provided an overall framework for a Combined Bombing Offensive (codenamed Pointblank) against Germany. The directives that issued from these meetings were regarded by Bomber Command as final authorization for a general assault against German cities. In actuali
Node: 25448, Score: 0.0376686711037149, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0264.txt, Content: erly in a letter to Portal in January  177 The Test of Experience Ethics and Airpower in World War II 176 such as Oboe to maximum effect. Moreover, the Mosquito could fly at around 350 MPH, which enabled it to deliver a 4,000-pound bomb to the farthest corners of Germany with enemy fighters having only the flimsiest chance of catching it. Mosquito casualties over Germany were indeed a fraction of those suffered by the Lancasters.40 Strictly from the point of view of resources, the Mosquito featured a crew of two compared to the five or six in a four-engined bomber. The fact seems to be then that adoption of the Mosquito as Britain's standard bomber would have saved a great deal of money, not to mention manpower. center of German cities. To put it slightly differently, by using these centers as the primary aiming points, the British could be reasonably confident that their bombs would strike at least some theoretically relevant targets rather than simply being wasted in a vain attempt to hit the industries located on the perimeter of the city. This is not a small objection, but it is also not one that is completely self-evident if Harris and his supporters had put their focus earlier in the war on developing greater precision in night (and even day) attacks. Indeed there is considerable evidence that such an effort would have been amply rewarded. Aside from improved navigational techniques and new guides to bombing accuracy, an obvious requirement for precision bombing over Germany, and most especially in daylight, was the use of long-range fighter escorts. It was the introduction of such aircraft, in the form of the P-51 Mustang, that gave the Americans the capability for sustained daylight bombing in the far reaches of the Reich. Ironically, the Mustang had a distinctly British accent. It originated in a request from the Royal Air Force to North American Aviation, who built the first prototype in 1940. Some 600 had been provided to the RAF by 1941, but at this poin
Node: 25207, Score: 0.0374224855776658, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0023.txt, Content: t of the Rhine. The spur to this decision was evidently a reduced concern about the possibilities of German retaliation on British cities as wel as the fact that at least some strategic bombing of the enemy seemed at this point to be one of the few ways in which the British could carry the war to the enemy, a consideration that acquired particular currency after the evac uation at Dunkirk. For approximately the next two years Bomber Command undertook a steadily widening series of strikes against the German homeland. At th official level the stated emphasis was on what were called precision or selective attacks against carefully defined military and industrial objectives (the German oil industry, communications, and aircraft plants, for exam- ple). There were further references to the necessity of sparing civilians as much as possible. An instruction from the War Cabinet to the Air Ministry in early June 1940, for example, stressed that air attacks "must be made with reasonable care to avoid undue loss of civil life in the vicinity of the target."18 At the same time, what would come to be called "area bombing." or generalized assaults on urban targets, was, like Banquo's ghost, never very far from the proceedings. As early as October 1940, the Air Staff issued a new directive that oil targets should be attacked on clear night but that whole cities could at least be considered as alternative targets in less favorable weather. In December 1940, what is generally considered the first open British effort at area bombing came with an attack on the city of Mannheim, a raid specifically described as a retaliation for the earlier German assault on Coventry. Perhaps the principal voice calling for a less restrained approach to Bomber Command's activities was that of the Prime Minister himself. As far back as July 1940, he had written to Lord Beaverbrook, Minister for Aircraft Production, that there was only one thing that would bring Hitler down, and that was "an absolutely d
Node: 25475, Score: 0.0371588040358361, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0291.txt, Content: he Germans for their part undertook overtly terrorist raids on Britain, the purpose of which was clearly not military but rather retributional. In addition to the indiscriminate German rocket attacks in 1944, there were the so-called "Baedekker raids" in the spring of 1941. Hitler and Goering announced that in order to punish the British for their supposed outrages in bombing Germany, the Luftwaffe would undertake a series of raids on British cities of particular historical and cultural significance. Such targets were identified by them as those rating three stars in the famous Baedekker tourist guide. Subsequently Canterbury, Exeter, Bath, York, and other equally famous sites were subjected to massive air raids. Hitler summarized the rationale for these raids by stating that "if they [the British] announce that they will attack our cities on a large scale, then we shall wipe their cities out."20 As far as Britain itself is concerned, the subsequent denials of their being a revenge motive in the area offensive are hard to square with the evidence that such an impulse did exist, both for those who had a direct role in the area offensive and for some segments of the general public as well. Not surprisingly, the real truth in this matter is often best found in private reflections offered at the time rather than in the more public postwar justifications of the area offensive. One of Churchill's personal aides seemed to touch on some of the actual motivations for the bombing of Germany when he recorded in his diary on March 20, 1940, that "news of our gigantic air-raid on Sylt, as a reprisal for a raid on Scapa Flow the other day, very well received by the public. . . . It looks as if this may be the beginning of a more active phase of the war, since the Germans will now probably undertake another raid by way of reprisal, and so things will go on until somebody goes so far as to bomb civilians."21 In the event, both sides did go so far as to attack civilians. Do Unto Oth
Node: 25186, Score: 0.0360766121952067, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0002.txt, Content: ce On that particular night (I later discovered) a force of some 225 Lancas- ters, the main British heavy bomber during World War II, appeared over Würzberg and dropped 1,127 tons of bombs with great accuracy in a period of 17 minutes. About 90 percent of the built-up area of the city was destroyed and estimates of the number of dead varied between four and five thousand. 1 It was possible to restore the Residenz primarily because much of the outer shell of the building survived the fire caused by the bombing. Other major structures in Würzberg were also reconstructed, a painstaking process that often involved using the original stones to create an approximation of the original walls. A German fighter pilot, Wilhelm Johnen, offered his recollections of the raid on Würzberg. He remembered his co-pilot growling that "they're not even going to respect the hospital city of Würzburg. There really aren't any armaments factories there." Johnen went on to describe how bomber crews opened their bays and rained incendiaries on to the city below. The phosphorus ignited as soon as it hit the air and joined into a huge burning cloud which slowly settled on the city. It was a Dantesque and terrible sight. ... This fiery cloud knew no pity. It sank on churches and houses, palaces and citadels, broad avenues and narrow streets. At the outset burning drops spurted from the cloud causing isolated fires, then the burning veil enveloped Würzburg. In a few moments a gigantic path of flame lit up the dark night and turned the clouds to scarlet. Würzberg was burning.2 Würzberg, at the time of its ordeal, evidently did contain very little industry. particularly of military significance, and given the fact that Germany was virtually prostrate before Allied military forces at this point (the final surrender came only seven weeks later), it was hard to imagine by what calculation it could have been considered fit for destruction. Some weeks later I was in London and paid a visit to the Imperi
Node: 25216, Score: 0.034403913357956, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0032.txt, Content: ve (codenamed Pointblank) against Germany. The directives that issued from these meetings were regarded by Bomber Command as final authorization for a general assault against German cities. In actuality, the wording of the decisions on Pointblank seemed to place primary emphasis on attacking relatively precise targets in Germany such as submarine construction yards the German aircraft industry, and oil and transportation facilities. At the same time, there was a built-in ambiguity in the instructions, caused basically bu differing American and British theories on the strategic air offensive, that allowed or encouraged Arthur Harris to pursue a strategy that he was resolved on in any case. The British area bombing offensive against Germany over the next 12 months involved a host of different operations but can be summarized h reference to three important episodes in that campaign. After the war, the United States Strategic Bombing Survey offered a rather clinical descriptio of how Bomber Command generally went about its business. In determining the aiming point for city attacks, Bomber Command prepared a zone map of the city based on aerial photographs. Administrative and residential areas between 70 and 100 per cent built-up were outlined in red. Similar area between 40 and 70 per cent built-up were outlined in green. Major railroad facilities were outlined in buff and industrial areas in black. In most German cities the black areas lay largely on the perimeter. Area attacks on a previousl unbombed city were aimed at the center of the red area, while subsequent attacke on the same city were usually directed against the center of the most heavily built-up areas which remained undestroyed.32 17 The first major application of this technique was in the Ruhr vallen where over the period March-July 1943, there were a total of 43 main raids. Virtually all the major urban centers of the Ruhr suffered badly as result, with the city of Barmen-Wuppertal, for example experienci
Node: 25453, Score: 0.0341379083095935, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0269.txt, Content: ffect of Allied bombing raids on the German transportation system. He commented in November 1944 that a "successful continuation of these attacks would be capable of resulting in a production catastrophe of decisive significance for the further conduct of the war." A month later, he observed that "we were fortunate that the enemy did not put this far-reaching plan into effect until about six Three major factors were associated in Germany's defeat. The first and most obvious was the over-running of her territory by the armies of the Allies. The second was the breakdown of her war industry, which was mainly a consequence of the bombing of her communications system. The third was the drying-up of her resources of liquid fuel, and the disruption of her chemical industry, which resulted from the bombing of synthetic-oil plants and refineries.47 The specialists may quibble over whether the attacks on oil or transporta- tion were most decisive, but what is striking about this analysis is the absence of any reference to the effect of general city bombing, which Bomber Command continued to emphasize right up to the last days of the war. In an interrogation of Albert Speer in July 1948, the German armaments minister rated six different targeting systems in terms of their effect on the German military position. The area bombing of cities he ranked fifth in importance (barely ahead of attacks on naval installations, shipping activ- ity, and airfields). In his own view, it was the "American attacks, which followed a definite system of assault on industrial targets, [which] were by far the most dangerous. It was in fact these attacks which caused the breakdown of the German armaments industry."48 This is not to say that Bomber Command played no part in the assault on the German oil and transportation systems, nor that the Americans did not occasionally engage in general area attacks themselves (notably at Dresden). It is to say that Harris's insistence on continuing his area offe
Node: 25212, Score: 0.0330745978828488, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0028.txt, Content: cept of the shattering of the German people's morale, and thus of Germany's will or ability to continue the war, was enshrined henceforth as one of the guiding premises of British bombing policy. As the official history of Bomber Command puts it, "Because of the position which he occupied and the time at which he submitted his minute, Lord Cherwell's intervention was of great importance. It did much to insure the concept of strategic bombing in its hour of crisis."25 There were, to be sure, other rationales brought forward to justify the bombing of German cities aside from its putative effect on morale. One of these was that it would help to divert German resources from the Russian campaign and the Middle East in order to provide for the air defense of the Reich. Moreover, since German industry was naturally concentrated in and around the major German cities, even so-called indiscriminate attacks on these places was bound to damage or destroy some of the relevant factories. Such attacks would also lead to a shattering of the whole fabric of German civil life, which in turn would create a basic dislocation in war production 1  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 14 15 The Crescendo of Bombing and the German home front's ability to support the Reich military machine Sir Arthur Harris was particular ardent in advancing these propositions. He even went so far as to suggest that if the British government gave its full support to the bomber offensive, Germany could essentially be defeated by airpower alone. 26 THE AREA BOMBING OF GERMANY: THE FIRST PHASE Sir Arthur Harris did not wait long after assuming leadership of Bombe- Command before he began his long campaign to demonstrate that the theon of area bombing could be translated into a productive reality. The Baltic port city of Lübeck provided a convenient early test case. An old medieval tow constructed largely of wood ("built more like a fire-lighter than a humo habitation," as Harris observed), Lübeck was attacked o
Node: 25464, Score: 0.0328980925769664, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0280.txt, Content: Countries prior to the Normandy invasion. His aircrew proved far more successful in their attacks on rail targets than Harris had anticipated, and the head of Bomber Command resented the fact that they did not seem to be receiving appropriate credit for their achievement. Harris wrote to Portal on July 1, 1944, along the following lines: "I think you should be aware of the full depth of feeling that is being aroused by the lack of adequate, or even reasonable credit to the Royal Air Force . .. for their efforts in the invasion. . . . I for one cannot forbear a most emphatic protest against the grave injustice which is being done to my crews."6 Portal was receptive to Harris's concern, and convened a meeting at the Air Ministry to consider how Bomber Command's reputation might be reinforced in the press and public opinion. In this final stage of the war, Portal worried, RAF operations ran the risk of being overshadowed by the Americans. "There was accordingly a genuine danger that the part which it had played in the earlier part of the war would be forgotten."7 This obsession with image and reputation to be sure was hardly confined to the British side. General Carl Spaatz, for example, was (against all the evidence) convinced that Bomber Command's area offensive might just succeed and bear out Harris's wildly optimistic claims about winning the war singlehandedly. Even after the failures in the Battle of Berlin, Spaatz fretted that Bomber Command would be allowed to "go on bombing Ger- many and will be given a chance of defeating her before the invasion.">8 It was the question of area or precision bombing that was obviously critical in the whole relationship between Bomber Command and the USSAF. The Americans were on record as favoring the latter whereas the British were committed to the former. Had Bomber Command somehow accepted precision bombing as basic doctrine, they would in effect have been accepting the American way of war. Given the USSAF's background and t
Node: 25450, Score: 0.032574778494934, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0266.txt, Content: hich it flew made it possible to use navigational systems Why, then, was the Mosquito not chosen as the primary vehicle for Bomber Command's offensive against Germany? The reasons for this surprising omission may have had more to do with Bomber Command's own professional interests than with a concern about hitting more precise military targets in Germany. As one of the principal historians of Bomber Command has put it, the promise of increased accuracy from a fleet of Mosquitos was viewed more as a threat than a promise: "It was the very inflexibility of [Harris's] Main Force and its alleged unsuitability for operations demanding great accuracy and co-operation with other elements which partly enabled its Commander to pursue so independent a strategy. A bombing weapon as delicate and subtle as 300-400 Mosquitoes would, in all probability, have been coveted by Tedder, if not by Spaatz [head of the US Strategic Air Force]."41 The point, then, is that the very crudity of Harris's forces was a major protection against their being taken over by other command authorities. Attacking German Chokepoints Leaving aside the missed opportunities in developing fighter escorts or in selecting the Mosquito as a primary instrument for Bomber Command, there is a legitimate debate about when Harris's aircrew did finally reach a point where they had a real choice between precision and area bombing. One of the principal British scientists working on problems of bombing accuracy states that as of late 1943 "had we realized the improvement in our bombing technique we might have abandoned area bombing earlier, or at least have put more effort into precision attacks at night. . . . But we had become so indoctrinated with the area policy that few of us realized that Portal's original oil bombing policy could now have been revived with a hope of success."42 This is a rather significant admission to make, but in any case by the summer of 1944 it was recognized by virtually one and all  uo 179
Node: 25291, Score: 0.032433761903944, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0107.txt, Content: ssance photographs after each raid so that we would find out whether each bomb had or had not gone down exactly where we planned that it should go." The defenders of Pantelleria surrendered without a fight following this air assault, and Zuckerman's reputation rose accordingly. It was further enhanced when he participated in plans for air strikes that would cut enemy communications down the length of Italy in support of the 69 invasion of Sicily. The results again proved gratifying, with the enemy being unable to establish a functioning railhead to receive reinforcements of troops and supplies during the Sicily operation. Later, as Allied forces began to move up the Italian peninsula itself, the same concentration on rail targets continued to produce the same results. Zuckerman carefully checked the bombing plans against the projected outcomes, using both personal obser- vations and the Italian railway records. As one assessment has it, "it was soon clear that by a scientific choice of targets, and a careful estimate of how confusion might be spread through a railway network like a chain reaction, it was possible to sterilize any railway system in Europe."13 Zuckerman's ultimate triumph as a scientific adviser to the RAF, how- ever, took place during the planning for the D-Day operation. The man for whom he worked, Air Marshal Tedder, was appointed deputy to General Eisenhower, the supreme commander of the Allied invasion force. Tedder was effectively given overall command of Allied air forces in support of the invasion, and thus Zuckerman's position was considerably enhanced. Basi- cally, he urged a continuation of the strategy that seemed to have been so effective on Pantelleria and especially in Italy-in this case, a generalized assault on the German transportation system in France and the Low Countries prior to D-Day.14 Not surprisingly, Arthur Harris was dismissive of this scheme. He wrote to Portal in January 1944 that "it is clear that the best and indeed the
Node: 25447, Score: 0.0322727501518311, Chunk File: garrett_ethics/chunks/garrett_ethics_0263.txt, Content: area offensive and to do so in at least some detail. We begin with a fairly elementary but rather important point: the majority of German military industry (as in all industrial countries) was located on the outskirts of the cities. Bomber Command's essential strategy during the area offensive was to hit the center of cities. The continuing result was that the most vital part of the German war-making machine was left relatively untouched by city bombing. This was particularly evident, for example, in the two most notorious Bomber Command attacks of World War II, those on Hamburg and Dresden. In each case, the supposed military objectives of these raids, i.e., the submarine facilities in Hamburg and the rail marshalling yards in Dresden, emerged almost unscathed. The fact seems to be that as the war progressed, and certainly by the middle of 1943, support within the ranks of the Air Ministry for Harris's area offensive had generally eroded, and his adherents were steadily reduced to a relatively small group of acolytes at High Wycombe. Again, this was not necessarily because of moral qualms about the devastation of German cities Nevertheless the revolt against Harris's strategy is quite notable, including as it did a number of professional airmen with previous operational experi- ence with Bomber Command. The skepticism of these men was matched by a general disillusionment among the civilian staff of the Air Ministry. especially those offering expert scientific advice in the operational research division of the Ministry. Now it may be objected that for a good period of the war the only thing that Bomber Command could be reasonably confident of hitting was the Sir Arthur Harris's attitude toward these dissenters was a mix of contempt and airy dismissal. He commented bitterly in a letter to Portal in January  177 The Test of Experience Ethics and Airpower in World War II 176 such as Oboe to maximum effect. Moreover, the Mosquito could fly at around 350 MPH, which enab