Node: 21253, Score: 0.0531789322197897, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0323.txt, Content: to the larger 282 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 294 --- Soviet air force, which he claims could maintain a continuous bombardment of the United States, Drake states that SAC funding allows only one crew per bomber and that the crews are so exhausted after every flight that they must be grounded for four days. The solution, for Drake, is more money for SAC so that it can increase its manning to two crews per aircraft. But he does not advocate a larger defense budget. Claiming that SAC gets only $5.50 out of every one hundred defense dollars, he calls for increasing SAC’s share by taking existing money from other forces, “that, no matter how courageous, could not head off atomic aggression.”1 1 The next year Life, in a lengthy piece detailing the many wonders of the “Jet Age,” focused much of the article on the men and planes of SAC. The tone of the article mixes images of nuclear destructive capabilities with cutting-edge high technology advances being made in the Air Force. Modem aircraft, epitomized by the nuclear bomber B-47, are characterized as so advanced that it takes a new breed of man to fly them. Describing the B-47 as the backbone of SAC, and its crews as “[t]he foremost representatives of the jet age,” the article details the B-47 mission profile and flight regimen as so stressful that crews must be “psychologically decompressed to bring them gently down to a slower tempo,” and so physically demanding that they need a massage and steam room to “relax by sweating out their physical fatigue.” Crewmembers who can withstand such pressures are so critical to the nation’s defenses that, as the article quotes one senior Air Force officer: “When we lose one of them it’s like losing the battleship M issouri”1 2 A unique chapter in the SAC literature came in 1955 from Arthur Godfrey. In the concluding installment of an eight-part autobiography published in
Node: 21203, Score: 0.0488517891180999, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0273.txt, Content: would devastate Soviet industry thus making it possible for the stronger, but still outnumbered, Western European forces to drive the Red Army out of their territory.1 8 Spaatz’s most direct reply came in July with an article detailing why the U.S. needed the B-36. As to its vulnerability Spaatz stated: Much nonsense has been written about whether a fighter plane can climb as high and fly as fast as a B-36. During the second world war [sic] the Lancasters and Wellingtons of the RAF were excelled by the German fighters in speed, climb, and 238 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 250 --- altitude. Yet they operated successfully at night over Germany throughout the war. The B-17s in daylight, although exposed repeatedly to attacks by enemy fighters, operated successfully throughout the war. He then added, without mentioning the heavy losses suffered in these attacks, that not one AAF bombing attack was ever turned back by either German or Japanese defenses. Returning to the notion of the Red Army overrunning Europe Spaatz stated that in such an event Soviet submarines might block the Navy from approaching Europe thus leaving air strikes launched from the continental U.S. as the only means of striking back at Russia. Spaatz followed up this counter-attack with another one month later that addressed the Navy charge that the Air Force’s emphasis on strategic bombing was undermining tactical air forces. Despite a long trend in Air Force neglect of the tactical air mission, Spaatz insisted that the true culprit was the effort to support two redundant air forces in the Navy and the Air Force: “The total amount now being spent for air power by the United States is more than adequate. But it is not enough to support two air forces with duplicate establishments.” This, according to Spaatz, prevented the Air Force from acquiring the forces it had long requested which left it we
Node: 21211, Score: 0.0466174958379074, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0281.txt, Content: els to the question of America’s air defenses. Because of budget constraints and Air Force emphasis on the strategic bombing, air defense had languished prior to this point, as can be seen in the 1948 merger of Air Defense Command 245 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 257 --- and Tactical Air Command into one major command structure.3 0  With the new crisis, however, members of Congress, responding to local concerns, began demanding greater efforts and the Air Force initiated a series of studies to consider options. From the beginning Air Force leaders resisted the idea of making the air defense role their highest priority, or even a priority equal to strategic bombing. They obviously could not ignore the problem and worked to increase their air defense capabilities, but with no increase in budget those new capabilities had to come at the expense of some other capabilities, largely tactical air forces.3 1  Estimating the earliest date that the Soviets would have sufficient nuclear weapons to launch an attack as 1  July 1952, Air Force planners set that same date as their goal for having an operational air defense system in place. Their main efforts focused on joint ventures with Canada in building an early warning radar network and aircraft interceptor facilities across the northern fringes of North America, marshaling the scientific community to find more effective air defense methods, enlisting public support in the Ground Observer Corps to supplement radar coverage, and increasing the effectiveness of the Air National Guard in the air defense role.3 2 Another key strategy, though, involved turning public opinion to the Air Force’s and the air power advocates’  way of thinking, and here the popular culture campaign was a primary tool. Air power advocates clearly preferred strategic nuclear deterrence as the primary response to Soviet nuclear capability, but her
Node: 21259, Score: 0.0439721942780899, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0329.txt, Content: t in the bombing phase of the inspection the target “was hit on the nose every time.” Life's overall assessment: “SAC is more than ever on alert.”2 0 The series of magazine articles throughout the fifties also extolled other aspects of SAC besides its bombers. More than just rounding out the picture to include all activities in SAC, these other articles, sharing the same laudatory tone, created a comprehensive picture that whatever SAC did it could do no wrong. In 1955, for example, John G. Hubbell wrote an article for Reader's Digest  describing the survival school SAC ran for its flight crews. The school taught fliers how to survive in any climate on earth should they be forced to crash-land or bail out of a stricken aircraft. Predictably, Hubbell’s tenor celebrates both how comprehensively SAC is prepared for any contingency and how much SAC flight crews suffer to defend America.2 1  Another article by Hubbell in 1957 introduced the public to the new SAC air refueling tanker, the KC-135. This new all-jet swept wing aircraft was a vital addition to the SAC inventory, according to Hubbell, because it allowed bombers to refuel at their normal cruise altitude and airspeed. The new capability made the range-extending operation more reliable and efficient and, Hubbell told his audience, ensured the bombers would reach their targets deep inside the Soviet Union. Despite the fact that by this time air refueling had become routine, Hubbell managed to 288 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 300 --- convey a sense of urgency as yet again the brave, dedicated, professionals of SAC demonstrate that “new power has been added to the free world’s biggest Sunday punch - the Strategic Air Command.”2 2 The biggest addition to SAC during the fifties, though, was missiles, and despite Blair’s dissmissive attitude toward them, air power advocates incorporated this new capability into
Node: 21275, Score: 0.041252918976794, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0345.txt, Content: ps and our crews combat ready. And when they’re ready no one will dare lay a hand or a bomb on us and maybe someday that will keep you and your children alive.” The film even places the air power revolution into a historical perspective when the Wing Commander tells one of his B-52 crews: For centuries its been the job of a successful general to win wars. But in this nuclear air age its the job of a successful general to prevent wars. Now we think that the way to prevent wars, to deter major aggression, is through superior long range nuclear air power, poised and ready to takeoff at a moment’s notice. As with previous films, Bombers B-52  also employed traditional images of strategic bombing’s effectiveness, but unlike previous works it stresses only the tradition of Douhet. In a scene where crew chiefs are undergoing training for the new aircraft, an 302 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 314 --- instructor tells the class, “on a single mission one [B-52], just one, can carry greater destructive force than that of all the bombs dropped by the entire Allied air forces during the whole of World War E L ”4 8 But revolutionary themes could be easily over-powered by the human drama. The tension between Brennan and his daughter over her embarrassment with her father’s job, and that between Brennan and his squadron commander, first over the latter’s reputation as a carouser, and later when he starts dating Brennan’s daughter, creates dramatic scenes that compete with the main plot. The main plot, that Brennan is important to the Air Force and should stay in, does remain the focus throughout, and with an improbable plot twist in the film’s climax all parties show their dedication, but this is hardly revolutionary. Much the same could be said for people remaining in the Army, Navy, or Marines. In the final analysis, Bombers B-52  extolls the Air Force as preeminent in nat
Node: 21214, Score: 0.040792358740415, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0284.txt, Content: is own skies are wide open to our aircraft for overwhelming punishment.... As in any other type of bombing, the final outcome will be decided by the relative ability of belligerents to absorb punishment while carrying more of it to the enemy.3 5 This “stiff upper lip” view of air power strategy was a recurring theme throughout de Seversky’s book for he saw no way around massive casualties and derided those who offered anything but the hard facts to the America public.3 6 Perhaps the most influential statement of the faith in deterrence over air defense came from Air Force Chief of Staff Hoyt Vandenberg. In a 1951 Saturday Evening Post article Vandenberg made a pointed effort to disabuse the public of the notion that an air defense system could ever provide a reasonable amount of security in the event of a concerted Soviet attack. Drawing on World War II analogies he claimed that Britain throughout the war shot down only 10% of the German bombers sent against their homeland despite having to guard an area only one thirtieth the area America must face. He also elaborated on the difficulties inherent in aircraft interception and destruction, and 248 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 260 --- estimated that the best the Air Force could hope for was to shoot down 30% of an attacking bomber force. Summing up the dilemma Vandenberg stated: There is a dangerous delusion that radar screens and complicated electronic devices will give us an airtight defense against bombing. We could tackle an engineering project that would make the Great Wall of China look like the sand trenches children dig at the seashore. We could build a steel fence five miles high around the 17,936-mile perimeter of the United States. We could place an unbroken line of radar screens on top of the fence, ring our cities with automatic antiaircraft guns.... We could put an umbrella of interceptor planes
Node: 21273, Score: 0.0380117299096148, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0343.txt, Content: other film on nuclear war subjects.4 6 The third major air power film of this period, Bombers B-52,  released in 1957, also focused on one of SAC’s personnel problems, that of retaining experienced crew chiefs. Like Strategic Air Command,  this movie also uses the issue of SAC’s readiness to defend 300 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 312 --- America as the compelling reason why people should forego greater money-making opportunities and an easier life as civilians. The plot revolves around a senior crew chief, Master Sergeant Chuck Brennan played by Karl Malden, who has spent twenty years in the Air Force but who’s daughter urges him to retire and take a lucrative executive position in an aircraft manufacturing plant near San Francisco. Adding to the tension is the fact that Brennan’s daughter, Lois played by Natalie Wood, thinks her father’s position lacks respect, and that Lois begins dating an officer Brennan regards as an irresponsible playboy but who happens to be Brennan’s squadron commander. A major sub-plot is that Brennan’s proposed retirement comes just as his wing is slated to be the first to convert from B-47s to the brand-new B-52. Without experienced crew chiefs like Brennan, the audience is told, the mighty B-52 is worthless because it will never get off the ground. The movie went through several name changes during its gestation period, but through it all Beime Lay, though not mentioned in the credits, played a major role. In March 1955 Jack Warner, a long-time friend of Hap Arnold and a member of the Board of Directors of the Air Force Association, wrote to LeMay explaining that he had hired Lay to work on the film, then known as Toward the Unknown.  Warner asked LeMay to help Lay and Warner Brothers “help national defense in general, and the air force [sic] in particular” by giving all the assistance he could to the film. A letter in July from
Node: 21218, Score: 0.0375233027780205, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0288.txt, Content: r many years, made the system obsolete. When the Air Force and the press ignored them, the Alsops charged that partisan interests in the Air Force and apathetic newsmen were standing in the way of the safety of the nation.4 2 251 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 263 --- A more balanced argument came from James R. Killian, Jr., President of MIT, and A.G. Hill, Director of MIT’s Lincoln Laboratory, which grew out of the Lincoln Project. Urging a balance between offensive strategic forces and defensive air power, the authors argued that there was little use in Vandenberg’s vision of victory in a nuclear war if America was devastated beyond the point of maintaining its way of life. The authors supported the notion of SAC as the nation’s first line of defense to deter a Soviet attack but charged that SAC needlessly worried that air defense might detract from their offensive capability because in the authors’  opinion America could support both systems adequately. Stressing their opinion that the Air Force was as committed to air defense as they were, the authors consciously limited their rhetoric by stating that a perfect defensive system was impossible to achieve, but that affordable improvements would greatly increase the percentage of enemy bombers destroyed short of their targets. The authors also dismissed the notion that such a system, as the Alsop’s had claimed, would stop 95% of incoming bombers, and while they did not quote a dollar figure, they assured the public that the $20 billion figure quoted by the Alsops was greatly exaggerated.4 3 Despite charges of neglect, the Air Force was committed to providing the best air defense possible with the money Congress provided, as long as it did not detract from strategic bombing capability. The Air Force still tried to discourage hope for a miracle air defense panacea. Its radio advertisements calling for volunteer
Node: 21383, Score: 0.0372818744735711, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0453.txt, Content: nald. “How Safe Is Fail-Safe?” Reader's Digest (May  1963): 91-94. Royse, M. W. “The Next War in the Air.” The Nation  116 (9 May 1923): 537-539; (16 May 1923): 566-68. Schwartz, Robert. “Atomic Bomb Away.” Reader’ s Digest  (January 1950): 107-110. Shalett, Sidney. “The Deadliest War.” R eader’ s Digest  (August 1946): 29-32. Schubert, Paul. “Circles of Our Defense.” C ollier’ s (5  June 1948): 18-19, 86-90. _________ . “How America Will Defend Herself.” Collier's {22 May 1948): 16-17,64- 65. Sikorsky, Igor. “What Can Aircraft Do in the Next War?” The Independent  (7 November 1925): 521-23. Simons, David G. with Don Schanche. “The Incredible Survival of Demi McClure.” Reader’ s Digest  (August 1960): 29-3 5. . “My 32 Hours at the Edge of Space.” Reader’ s Digest  (November 1957): 37- 43. Small, Collie. “The Biggest Blast of Them All and the Untold Secrets Behind It.” C ollier's (6 August 1949): 18-19,40-41; (13 August 1949): 26-27,34-35. Spaatz, Carl A. “Air Power in the Atomic Age.” Collier's  (8 December 1945): 11-12, 83-85. Spaatz, Carl A. “The Air-Power Odds Against Us.” Reader's Digest  (June 1951): 11-14. . “If We Should Have to Fight Again.” Life (5 July 1948): 35-44. ________ . “Strategic Air Power: Fulfillment of a Concept.” Foreign Affairs  (April 1946): 383-396. . “The Truth About Your Air Force.” Coronet  (September 1947): 10-16. Stapleton, Bill. “We Bombed America.” C ollier’ s  (25 April 1953): 15-18. 404 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 416 --- Stout, Wesley W. “This Aviation Business.” The Saturday Evening Post  198 (21 March 1925): 6-7, 104, 107, 111, 114. Tangye, Nigel. “Flying Bombs and Rockets.” Foreign A ffairs  (October 1945): 40-49. Thom, Bliss K. “A Ride Through the Sound Barrier.” Reader's Digest  (January 1954): 115-117. Tregaskis, Richard. “We Need Carriers and the B-36- Without Fighters Our Bombers Are Sitting Ducks.” Collier's  (8 O
Node: 21219, Score: 0.0369428137273597, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0289.txt, Content: rovided, as long as it did not detract from strategic bombing capability. The Air Force still tried to discourage hope for a miracle air defense panacea. Its radio advertisements calling for volunteers for the Ground Observer Corps, for example, created images of an air defense system so weak that it desperately needed thousands of civilians to help plug the gaps. One such radio spot declared, “the Reds right now have about a thousand bombers that are quite capable of destroying at 252 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 264 --- least 89 American cities in one raid.... Won’t you help protect your country, your town, your children?”4 4  At times the efforts of its supporters to paint a rosy picture of air defense capabilities even left the Air Force concerned that such optimistic presentations were counter-productive. The Air Defense Command, for example, felt that a 1952 Saturday Evening Post  article exaggerated their capabilities and might discourage Ground Observer Corps enlistment by giving the impression that there was little need for further sacrifice.4 5 The inherent problem with the question of air defense, though, was that despite their genuine support for it, air power advocates would always see any role other than strategic bombing as detracting from the primary mission because they never felt that they had enough air power, especially strategic air power. It was an open-ended dilemma that became a regular feature of the popular culture debate. For years air power advocates clung to the 70-group plan when they could not get support for such a high level. With the outbreak of the Korean War the Air Force began growing rapidly but so did its commitments, thus prompting air power advocates and their supporters to call for ever more groups. Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, writing in the midst of the Korean War and the build up of forces in NATO, stated in a 1951
Node: 21195, Score: 0.0366795532253229, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0265.txt, Content: ssly brought on by the Navy itself by its interwar opposition to the development of long-range bombers. Relegating the Navy to mere transportation support, de Seversky stated that “there simply is no fighting that navies can do which aviation cannot do more effectively and more quickly without their help.”4  Four months later, Huie supplemented The Case Against the Admirals,  his indictment of the Navy’s resistance of unification, with another attack launched in The American Mercury.  Detailing Navy resistance to new weapons during the war, Huie claimed that the Navy was unfit to act as the nation’s primary 231 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 243 --- defense in an era of rapidly changing technology and defense options.5  Obviously these were assaults on more than the Navy’s roles and missions or its stand on unification. The attacks continued after the unification issue died down in 1947. In 1948 Huie resumed his assault on the Navy, first with an article in July charging that the Navy was undermining the new unification system, wasting taxpayer money on useless projects, and trying to build a bigger air force than the Air Force. Next in September he claimed that the Marine Corps was an outdated relic that needlessly duplicated the Army, and in December he made a similar charge about the Navy’s air arm duplicating the Air Force and challenging it for the strategic bombing mission.6  Up to the end of 1948 the anti-Navy campaign was dominated by the twin firebrands of de Seversky and Huie. Other air power advocates either voiced only veiled criticisms or couched their charges in more temperate language. Spaatz, for example, stated in July that the “older services” did not understand the airmen’s revolutionary zeal, and thus they put their faith in “‘balanced force’  based upon quantitative equality...rather than scientific balance in terms of a given military tas
Node: 21222, Score: 0.0366407386567779, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0292.txt, Content: gic Air Command. They know the forces of that command operating against the Soviet atomic force would provide our best defense against a mortal wound in the first few days of future war.”4 9 The next month Martin turned his attention to SAC. Comparing bomber crew teamwork to a baseball team executing a double-play and crewmember dedication to “novitiates studying for the priesthood,” Martin presents a glowing depiction of SAC’s capabilities to devastate the Soviet Union. He even made another contribution to the continuing legend of American precision bombing by extolling SAC’s emphasis on “bull’s- eye accuracy,” which would take out Soviet industry but spare civilians. In all, Martin was convinced that SAC stood ready to defeat the Soviet Union in one massive atomic blitz, and in that he places America’s greatest hope for survival. Of the prospects of a Soviet surprise nuclear attack Martin states that the greatest tragedy for America would be if such an attack caught SAC’s bombers on the ground.5 0 Other figures lauded the capabilities of America’s air defense forces throughout the fifties. In 1951 Life magazine highlighted the gains made in air defense from its “pitiful 255 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 267 --- condition” of 1950, which the article blamed on “the Administration’s economies.” While the article wove an image of great proficiency, it also warned that “the Air Force cannot locally and specifically defend every U.S. city. This would swallow up more dollars than exist. Nor can the Air Force allow air defense to cut into its funds and facilities for air offense.”5 1  Another example is Milton Canifij who placed the hero of his comic strip Steve Canyon  in various plots involving air defense efforts and used these opportunities to showcase the Air Force and air defense efforts. In the fall of 1954, for example, Canyon foils communist saboteurs who
Node: 21210, Score: 0.0363569819632805, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0280.txt, Content: of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 256 --- was made even more threatening when in December of that same year Frank Kluckhohn reported in Collier’ s  that the Soviets were massing air bases in Eastern Siberia within sight of the Bering Sea. Making the image seem even more immediate, he observed that these bases are “not more than a 3,000-mile flight to New York and most of industrial America, a distance well within the range of moderately new bombers.” After an observation flight in an Air Force aircraft he claimed that the runways he saw seemed long enough to handle large bombers and that the Soviets were estimated to have 300 such bombers, capable of reaching New York. The Air Force had only 100 fighters in position to oppose them.2 9 After the news of the Soviet bomb broke forth onto the American scene, the public felt that all the fearful images that had been created over the last four years were suddenly real and tangible. Having been told that air power was their only hope against an air power threat, the public naturally turned to air power and expected a solution. There was more at work here, though, than just the long series of promises and exhortations coming from air power advocates. The long tradition of technological messianism that had become intertwined with the cultural fascination with aviation also played a part. Stretching back to at least the late nineteenth century, people had been conditioned to expect that salvation from any threat, even a threat from the air, would come from the airplane. With this new threat the most obvious solution seemed to many to be the most direct, that is, to stop any Soviet bomber attack by shooting down the bombers. Attention turned at many levels to the question of America’s air defenses. Because of budget constraints and Air Force emphasis on the strategic bombing, air defense had languished prior to this point, as can be seen in the 1948
Node: 21241, Score: 0.0353508609682424, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0311.txt, Content: mber 1949): 20. 34. Carl Spaatz, “Air Defense and Air Safety,” Newsweek  (9 January 1950): 22; Carl Spaatz, “Tomorrow’s Weapons Won’t Help Today,” Newsweek  (26 June 1950): 19. 35. De Seversky, Air Power: Key to Survival,  161-62. 36. Ibid, see for example, 66, 111-13, 198-99. 37. Hoyt S. Vandenberg, as told to Stanley Frank, “The Truth About Our Air Power,” Saturday Evening Post  (17 February 1951): 101-02. 38. Ibid. 39. Vannevar Bush, “In the Air, Bombers Will Find it Tough,” Life (14 November 1949): 122-27; Vannevar Bush, “The Weapons We Need for Freedom,” Reader's Digest (January 1951): 48-49. 40. Joseph and Stewart Alsop, The Reporter's Trade  (New York: Reynal & Company, 1958), 59-60; Robert W. Merry, Taking on the World: Joseph and Stewart Alsop  - Guardians o f the American Century  (New York: Viking Press, 1996), 244-46. 271 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 283 --- 41. Ralph E. Lapp and Stewart Alsop, “We Can Smash the Red A-Bombers,” The Saturday Evening Post (21  March 1953): 19-21, 82-83, 86. 42. Ibid, 82, 86; Alsop, The Reporter’ s Trade,  59-63; Merry, Taking on the World,  244- 45. 43. James R. Killian, Jr., and AG. Hill, “More Facts for a Continental Defense,” The Atlantic M onthly  (November 1953): 37-41. 44. Quoted in Schaffel, The Emerging Shield,  159. 45. Phil Gustafson, “Night Fighters Over New York,” Saturday Evening Post  (2 February 1952): 32-33,64-66; Schaffel, The Emerging Shield,  173. 46. Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., “Let’s Face It - We’re in a Jam,” Saturday Evening Post  (28 July 1951): 22 (quote), 23-66. 47. Carl Spaatz, “The Air Power Odds Against Us,” Reader's Digest  (June 1951): 13; Carl Spaatz, “The Only Hope for Peace,” Newsweek  (5 March 1951):27; Carl Spaatz, “How Much Air Power?” Newsweek  (19 March 1951): 29; Carl Spaatz, “The New Budget,” Newsweek  (28 January 1952): 23; in 1952 the Air Force began referring to groups as win
Node: 21232, Score: 0.0353442604728947, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0302.txt, Content: s of the world?” Knebel laid the blame on budgetary constraints that forced the Air Force to design the F- 86 as an all-purpose aircraft intended to perform air superiority, air interdiction, and close air support missions. This meant that the much lighter MiG-IS could fly higher and faster, out climb, and out maneuver the F-86 in combat.6 5 Most calls for greater tactical air power, though, focused on Europe and the larger war with the Soviets that might come. In fact, if anyone doubted that the air power advocates learned how to exploit the new public image of tactical air power, Francis Vivian Drake’s 1951 Reader’ s Digest  article would remove all doubt. Writing of the projected build-up of American ground forces in Europe, Drake claimed that they were going there with inadequate tactical air forces and asked, “What does it take to convince the Administration that sending troops to Europe without air cover is an act o f suicide? Pointing to Soviet air strength he claimed they had 10,000 aircraft for supporting ground forces alone but that American air strength was planned to peak out at only 3,000. Drake called on the administration to institute an aircraft building campaign to rival that of World War II so that American ground troops would be protected by a tactical air force that could seize air superiority over Europe. Spaatz had stressed many of the same points in an article, also in Reader's Digest,  three months earlier and claimed that American tactical air power would face 10-1 odds in Europe. Decrying what he called the “Wall-of-flesh” mentality driving America’s planning for European defenses, Spaatz stated that tactical air 264 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 276 --- operations had inflicted 47% of the casualties suffered by the Communist forces in Korea and predicted that American troops would face the same fate if they could not prevent the Sov
Node: 21257, Score: 0.034665815173366, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0327.txt, Content: of the bombers will get through to target and back again.” And in detailing future bomber advances planned by SAC, Blair falls into the pattern of excessive hyperbole. The B-70 is described as “breath-taking,” “an awesome weapon system,” and “comparable to developing an automobile that could cross the United States on one tank of gas.” Its inertial navigation system will “automatically steer the B-70 unerringly to any point on the globe,” and tests with it “have been chalking up amazing results.”1 7 Later that same year Philip Gustafson, also writing for The Saturday Evening Post , detailed “SAC’s new pattern of readiness to strike back from world-wide bases so widely dispersed that no attack known today could knock them all out at once.” Visiting a B-47 base in Zaragoza Spain, Gustafson provides a look at SAC forces maintaining nuclear alert at dozens of overseas bases around the world. This side of SAC, as it appears in this 286 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 298 --- article, differs little from that seen in other treatments. Their mission is just as vital to American security, according to Gustafson. He quotes one flier, who states, “My wife is always asking me why I have to sacrifice myself to save the world when all our friends lead nice normal family lives.” Gustafson then provides his own answer, “I believe that most of these fellows feel there’s an important job to be done for the free world. And we’re all pretty lucky that they do.”1 8  The crewmembers all appear larger than life. Gustafson describes one as “a deeply tanned, dark-haired gunboat of a guy.... one of the most competent pros in SAC, where you have to be good just to stick,” “a dedicated Air Force man,” “hard as nails,” but still “a devoted family man.” Readiness in the face of the new missile threat is also given effusive, and at times theatrical praise: “I sleep in my underwear, with th
Node: 21223, Score: 0.0342841447935028, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0293.txt, Content: in various plots involving air defense efforts and used these opportunities to showcase the Air Force and air defense efforts. In the fall of 1954, for example, Canyon foils communist saboteurs who are delaying an early-warning radar project, and in late 1954-early 1955 he temporarily assumes command of an Air Defense Command interceptor squadron. In this latter role Canyon and Colonel Davey, the temporarily out of commission squadron commander, discuss how important the air defense system is to America because, as Davey observes, “if Ivan tries a quarterback sneak it’s our job to stop as many of his bombers as we can, and alert our next line of defense!” Canyon, warning against complacency, states, “While we sensible  people know [Soviet bombers] aren’t there this minute, but that they could be  two minutes from now!” Even Caniflf, though, stresses that air defense could only stop a fraction of the incoming Soviet bombers.5 2 The advent of the Soviet nuclear threat was another challenge to the air power advocates’  emphasis on strategic bombing. The public clamor for air defense ensured that the Air Force, not unwillingly, would continue to strengthen defenses against air attack. But the air power advocates’  strategy of mixing reassuring images of potent air defense with often not too subtle warnings that no defense system could avert a national disaster and that true security could only be found in strong nuclear forces to deter such an attack 256 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 268 --- helped keep strategic bombing at the forefront of American air power. With this strategy air power advocates went a long way toward making the Strategic Air Command the preeminent symbol of security in American popular culture through much of the fifties. IM PACT OF THE KOREAN WAR O N THE POPULAR CULTURE CAMPAIGN While the nation was still debating air power’s response to t
Node: 21336, Score: 0.033975330340717, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0406.txt, Content: did not preclude Kubrick from making a movie that was quite popular. Kubrick did request Air Force assistance but the depiction of their Positive Control system precluded any help. Undeterred Kubrick used models for the flight scenes and his imagination for much of the rest. As with Fail-Safe  realistic depictions of Air Force procedures did not really matter, especially since Kubrick’s medium was humor. The humorous element, though, may have backfired. The film was very popular. Two New York City theaters broke opening day attendance records, and long lines withstood freezing weather to see the film, but some observers claim that movie-goers were too busy laughing to take the movie as seriously as Kubrick had hoped. Still, its anti-air power images became fixed features in popular culture. To this day people ask B-52 pilots if they keep a Stetson on board as Kong did. More important, however, Dr. Strangelove  along with Fail-Safe  marked the complete abandonment of any hesitancy in Hollywood to portray air power in a negative light.5 9 356 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 368 --- Yet another indication of changed attitudes in the early to mid-sixties is the writings of some erstwhile air power advocates. Some, like Sy Bartlett and Ira Eaker remained actively in the fight to the end. Others, though, while not necessarily becoming anti-air power, showed signs that their thinking about air power had changed along with society. One such example is William Bradford Huie. After a brief stint as a notorious air power advocate in the late forties, Huie dropped from the air power scene after the Revolt of the Admirals. He went on to other causes, most notably civil rights and military injustice. In this latter area he wrote The Execution o f Private Slovik  in 1954 and The Hero o f Two Jima  in 1962, but another work in 1964 indicates an evolving attitude toward air po
Node: 21225, Score: 0.0335064960966622, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0295.txt, Content: While the Air Force claimed in the years leading up to Korea that it supported its commitment to provide the Army’s tactical air power needs, the continued lack of enthusiasm is best seen in the difficulties working out joint doctrine with the Army and the fact that in 1948 the Air Force down-graded Tactical Air Command from a major command to a subordinate command within Continental Air Command. This latter move indicates another element of the close air support problem. What support for tactical air power there was in the Air Force generally saw it as an air superiority role which seemed closely related to air defense, so Air Defense Command and TAC were joined into one organization to facilitate cooperation between the two. With the Air Force’s emphasis on strategic nuclear bombing few Air Force leaders envisioned a war that would pit large ground forces in prolonged combat. The difficulties in working out joint doctrine between the two services hurt close air support efforts early in Korea.5 4 On the whole the Air Force provided effective close air support in Korea as Army leaders themselves were quick to point out. Major General William B. Kean, 25th Infantry Division commander, stated, “The close air support rendered by Fifth Air Force again saved this division as they have many times before.” General Walton H. Walker, Eighth Army Commander, told a group of Air Force evaluators, “if it had not been for the air support that we received from the Fifth Air Force we would not have been able to stay in Korea.”5 5  Not everyone agreed, though, that the Air Force was doing all it could do. The Alsop brothers acknowledged that it was doing “superbly well with what it had,” but they felt that the Air Force’s emphasis on air superiority in Korea was ignoring the other 258 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 270 --- half of its tactical air responsibility. Others agreed
Node: 21231, Score: 0.0331727248033928, Chunk File: call_people/chunks/call_people_0301.txt, Content: nd fits the image of the fighter pilot into the image of revolutionary air power. The United Artist film Sabre Jet,  starring Robert Stack, highlighted the F-86, the Air Force’s frontline fighter, and used actual combat footage shot in Korea to capture an authentic flavor of the Air Force’s effort to win air superiority and help the Army on the ground. As with later air power films, it also showcases the dedication of Air Force pilots as they deal with family problems generated by wives forced to wait in Japan while their husbands fly combat missions over Korea. The pilots, sensing the “higher calling” of what air power can do in the war, place the Air Force’s needs above their wives’  concerns, and the wives in turn realize the importance of air power and embrace their husbands’ commitment. In one critical scene Stack’s wife, an ambitious combat reporter, realizes that her need to support her squadron commander husband outweighs her career goals.6 4 Air power advocates even turned the public concern over tactical capabilities to their own advantage. Since they never felt the Air Force was large enough to meet its many commitments they added tactical air power to their list of “dangerously” weak areas. Part of this effort focused on Korea. For example, some called for immediate action to reverse the inferiority of American jet fighters to the MiG-15. Fletcher Knebel, writing for 263 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 275 --- Look  magazine, stated the disparity dramatically: “The fact is that the Communists can rub us out of the air there any month they want to do it,” and asked “What has happened to the American fighting plane that only eight years ago ruled the skies of the world?” Knebel laid the blame on budgetary constraints that forced the Air Force to design the F- 86 as an all-purpose aircraft intended to perform air superiority, air interdiction, and clos