Node: 10235, Score: -0.0183184006937634, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0010.txt, Content: kdown of labour at several of the works might have been confidently expected. '36 Indeed, speculation and extrapolation were regular features of the reports; the team frequently focused more on what might have happened (had the bombing continued) than what actually did happen as as result of it. A most vivid example of this tendency to extrapolate came from a separate survey of bomb damage in Belgium, headed by Major E. Childers. After explaining that the bombing in Belgium had been 'at best a secondary and very imperfect method of attack', the authors nonetheless concluded that, 'It is a simple deduction from experience to say that with the progress in air science that seems likely to continue, it will be possible in a few years . . . for a powerful military nation . . . to obliterate cities in a night and produce the stunning moral effect necessary to victory. '37 The survey team in Germany sometimes had to cope with evidence which undermined their thesis. For instance, German workers (including women, who were not choosing between factory work and the battle front) could be persuaded to stay on the job by salary increases. In addition, some of the factory directors interviewed claimed that strategic bombing had no moral effect, and indeed was simply wasteful - and criminal to boot. One even explained that when the need arose to enter shelters, the workers entertained themselves by dancing and enjoying other amusements.'" While the RAF team acknowledged these incidents, it attempted to downplay their signifi­ cance where possible. In particular they sought to buttress their assertions about the 'moral effect' of bombing.39 Evidence which cast doubt on the significance of the moral effect of bomb­ ing was subsequently left out of the Air Ministry's final report on bombing results, published nearly a year after the survey results were submitted. That report, 'Results of Air Raids on Germany Carried out by the 8th Brigade and Independent Force' (A.P. 1225, 3rd ed.) c
Node: 10226, Score: -0.0164021548034279, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0001.txt, Content: es by contrast that no one target or target set is more vital than another, and that one best uses airpower to cause a general level of destruction which will overwhelm the enemy's war economy and, especially, his will to fight.' While this difference was in many respects a result of the prevailing circumstances and available resources within each air service, it also was determined by patterns and predispositions which can be traced back to each organisation's experience during and after World War I. Superficial stereo-  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 2 --- 92 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE types of British 'terror bombing' and American 'precision bombing' are oversimplified and misleading; the courses and channels of thought -as well as the actual flow of bombardment practices -often overlapped and are not easily categorised. Nonetheless, it is possible to identify different trends in the evolution of ideas within the two air services which ultimately did influence the way each organisation fought World War II. These trends allow us to see, as well, how optimistic assumptions about airpower were often out of step with the realities of air warfare as it ultimately was practiced between 1939 and 1945. Both the Royal Air Force (RAF) and the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) went into the war with mistaken ideas which would only be worked out through costly and often bitter experience. The 'Moral Effect' of Bombing In a dispatch published in January 1919, the commander of Britain's Independent Force (IF), Major-General Sir Hugh Trenchard, rather boldly asserted that, 'At present the moral effect of bombing stands undoubtedly to the material effect in a proportion of 20 to 1 ... •• Instead of the word 'moral', Trenchard might have chosen the word 'psychological'. Indeed he viewed the terms as essentially interchangable, but, as he explained later in his career, he shied away from the latter because he had difficulty spelling it.5 The ratio itself (20 to 1) ha
Node: 10300, Score: -0.0143691734914913, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0075.txt, Content: ed an idea he called 'national attrition'. He argued that in modem, total war, 'The entire population and the whole weight of the resources and industries of the opposing nations are thrown into the balance. The success of the armies or fleets entirely depends upon the energy and "moral" of the nation supporting them.' See 'Review of the Air Situation and Strategy for the Information of the Imperial War Cabinet', 27 June 1918, repr. in Sykes, From Many Angles (note 9), pp.544-54, see esp. p.545. 34. Between 7 Dec. 1918 and 20 Jan. 1919 the British surveyed bomb damage done to target sites in Germany. The survey, which was undertaken by three intelligence officers and three other ranks under Maj. H.W.M. Paul, was submitted to the Air Ministry on 26 Feb. 1919. It was comprised of seven reports -six on specific targets, and a set of conclusions. They are found in AIR 1/1998 and AIR 1/1999. Scholars interested in the World War I bombing survey should see, in addition to the documents themselves, the pioneering work of Wise, Canadian Airmen (note II), Ch.ll; and, esp. Williams, (note 9). For details about the composition of the survey team see Williams, pp.46-48, and 337-9. 35. The Industrial Centres report claimed ' ... it may be said that the moral effect of air raids was very considerable from every point of view.' See Air 1/1998/204/273/264. The report on Chemical and Munition Center raids argued that, 'In contrast to the material damage caused by air raids, the moral effect on the workmen and others at the BASF and the Oppau works was considerable.' See AIR 1/1999/204/273/268. Frequent use was made of the word 'considerable,' although there was never an attempt to define it in the reports; one thus senses that its significance was mainly bureaucratic. 36. 'Results of Blast Furnace Raids', AIR 1/1999/204/273/269. The report on chemical and munitions factories came to a similar conclusion, pointing out that, had the raids been more frequent, the results 'might have be
Node: 10298, Score: -0.0124121961849932, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0073.txt, Content: ones, Origins of Strategic Bombing (note 9) pp.162-3. Michael Paris has stressed this general point too in Winged Waifare (note 1), pp.242-3. 27. See Travers (note 23), pp.250-1, who points out that Haig, in his 1919 Rectorial Address to the Univ. of St Andrews, continued to describe war in terms of moral qualities. 28. John Keegan, The Face of Battle (NY: Viking, 1976), p.302. One might note as well the current US Marine Corps Warfighting Manual, FMFM-1, (Washington, DC: Headquarters, USMC, 1989), which states ' ... moral forces exert a greater influence on the nature and outcome of war than do physical [forces] ... For example, the greatest effect of fires on the enemy is generally not the amount of physical destruction they cause, but the effect of that physical destruction on his moral strength.' p.l3. 29. That the urban working classes could pose a 'threat' was an idea that gained momentum in Britain during the middle 1880s when the rise of socialism and various forms of collec­ tivism combined with an economic downturn and a chronic shortage of working class housing. As historian Gareth Stedman Jones has written: 'It has been argued that the pre­ dominant reaction to the rediscovery of poverty in the early 1880s was not so much guilt as fear. The discovery of a huge and swelling residuum and the growing uncertainty about the mood of the respectable working class portended the threat of revolution ... From 1883 onwards the quarterly journals and the press were full of warnings of the necessity of immediate reform to ward off the impending revolutionary threat.' Jones, Outcast London (NY: Pantheon, 1971), p.290. On the concerns raised by the potential domestic threat, see also D.C. Watt, Too Serious a Business (Berkeley, CA: Univ. of California Press, 1975). On the mistrust by officers of the urban poor existing within the ranks of Britain's army, see Travers (note 23), pp.37-40. European military thinkers also feared that the effects of civil life would prove u
Node: 10253, Score: -0.010503004620529, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0028.txt, Content: US survey members (divided into 12 teams of one officer and two enlisted men each) noted the material and moral effects of bombing in the cities and factories they examined. They also noted the cost devoted to defensive efforts in these areas. The individual reports on cities and factories made frequent reference to the 'moral effect' of bombing. In addition, the 'Narrative Summary' section devoted to 'Moral Effect' began with the state­ ment: 'It is certain that air raids had a tremendous effect on the morale of the entire people.' The authors pointed out that the enemy's factories were running 24 hours a day, so that losses in production by workers could not be easily made up. With reference to German iron and steel used in the manu­ facture of war material, they argued: 'The enormous expense of maintaining balloon barrages, home defense flights, and anti-aircraft artillery must be an  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 18 --- 108 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE indication that the material was needed as well as that the popular clamor for protection was great. '92 In the section of the 'Narrative Summary' called 'Criticisms of Bombing in the Present War', however, the Americans were quite critical of the British efforts. Making a point that many on the Air Staff in London would have agreed with, the Americans claimed that the greatest failing of the British bombing was 'the lack of a predetermined program carefully calculated to destroy by successive raids those industries most vital in maintaining Germany's fighting forces.' The US survey stated further that, 'Evidence of this is seen in the wide area over which the bombing took place as well as the failure of crippling, beyond a limited extent, any one factory or industry. '93 The survey also noted dissent among the British ranks regarding targeting policy, and pointed out that 'these [British] officers ... did not believe they were getting the best results possible and that while the wish ... to "bomb somethi
Node: 10232, Score: -0.0087785265587355, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0007.txt, Content: , a disciple of Haig's with a similar penchant for the offensive, had pursued the RFC's air campaign in much the same way-often accepting very high loss rates among his pilots.25 In addition, Trenchard's experience told him that aircraft operating in support of the ground battle had a strong psychological effect on enemy troops. As head of the RFC he ran constant 'offensive patrols' designed to keep the enemy on the defensive and thus at a 'moral' disadvantage. Taking this principle and applying it to long range operations was not, in the end, a radical departure for him. 26 The war itself had revealed the crucial quality of technical proficiency on the modern, industrial battlefield. But the rhetoric of the moral factor -with its emphasis on the human aspect of battle -lingered. Men like Haig and his former army commander, General Sir Henry Rawlinson, continued to emphasize it in their postwar writings and speeches.27 They believed that their nation had prevailed over the German armed forces and the German nation in an extended contest of will and determination. Indeed, 'moral effect', today expressed and understood in a slightly different way, continues to inform our understanding of combat. In the concluding pages of his well-known book, The Face of Battle, John Keegan wrote: 'Battle ... is essentially a moral conflict. It requires, if it is to take place, a mutual and sustained act of will by two contending parties, and if it is. to result in a decision, the moral collapse of one of them. '28 But this intuitive and simple idea, which is as elusive and unquantifiable as it is powerful and tenacious, gained a life of its own with respect to airpower theory. Its elusive quality certainly served Trenchard's pressing bureaucratic needs, but there was yet an additional advantage which was particularly relevant to strategic bombing. While the 'moral' aspect of war was accepted and established, it also was just then being transformed, intensified, and  File: --- biddle_
Node: 10313, Score: -0.0081889180687628, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0088.txt, Content: orale of those troops. 96. The authors wrote: 'The effect of destroying the enemy's materiel and personnel is not commensurate with the effect gained by day bombardment in weakening the morale of troops and civilians in the bombed areas. The relation of the effect of lowering the enemy's morale over that of destruction is estimated as 20 to I. See 'Aerial Tactics,' Vol.I, No.88, (Washington, DC: GPO, 1920), Part II, Bombardment, p.25. 97. Letter, Spaatz to Lt. H.W. Cook, 13 Feb. 1923, Papers of Carl Spaatz, Box 2, Diary, Library of Congress MS Room, Washington, DC. Spaatz's views were likely influenced by Billy Mitchell, who had spent time with Trenchard during World War I. See Richard G. Davis, Carl A. Spaatz and the Air War in Europe (Washington, DC: Center for Air Force History, 1993), p.17. In 1926 William C. Sherman, an instructor in Air Tactics at the US Command and General Staff School, reinforced a predominant British view of World War I strategic bombing when he argued that, 'The Germans believed that the clamor of civilians for protection would find a ready echo among the governing politicians who would force the military authorities to protect their city. The event seems fully to have justified their belief.' See his Air Warfare (NY: Ronald Press, 1926), p.211. 98. For Baker's views, see War Department Annual Reports, 1919 (Washington, DC: GPO, 1920), pp.68-75. Baker felt that 'the aerial bombardment of back areas and inland cities' ought to ruled out 'upon the most elemental ethical and humanitarian grounds.' (p.70). And he was unimpressed with air attacks on cities, arguing that they 'had no appreciable effect upon the war-making power of either nation'. (p.68). 99. See for instance, 'Tentative Manual for the Employment of Air Service', (1919), reprinted in Maurer, US Air Service in World War 1, Vol.II, pp.313-408; or 'Fundamental Conceptions of the Air Service,' (1923), USAFHRC, decimal no.l67.404--IO. This docu­ ment was used as a training text for of
Node: 10241, Score: -0.0072692731331575, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0016.txt, Content: Even events like the 1926 general strike and the 1929 financial collapse seemed to cast a shadow on the idea that governments could control the masses. The atmosphere of civil-military tension aroused by the costly war and its after­ math gave an added edge to these issues. By 1935 Air Commodore L.E.O. Charlton argued (in the public debate) that: ' ... it will be the labouring masses ... themselves the most difficult people to control (factory employees in particular), who will be more susceptible than most to dismay and stampede when the air-raid warning goes.'" The Trenchardian solution -to bomb the other side harder -came to dominate RAF thinking in the 1920s, despite the fact that it downplayed the vulnerability of London to air attack. When he retired as CAS in 1929 after a decade of service, Trenchard had pretty well inculcated the 'moral effect'  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 11 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 101 into the heart of RAF thinking and planning. His ideas were promulgated at the RAF Staff College, which had begun training officers in 1922.56 The 1928 RAF War Manual ('Operations' section) stated unequivocally: 'Although the bombardment of suitable objectives should result in considerable material damage and loss, the most important and far-reaching effect of air bombard­ ment is its moral effect.' The Manual continued: 'A single air raid on such vital centres may bring work to a standstill over a large area during the whole period of the raid and prolonged attack consisting of air raids at short intervals may be expected to result in such dislocation and confusion as a consequence of the continual stoppage of work and the strain on the workers, that supplies essential to the successful continuance of operations will not be forthcoming. '57 Besides hyperbole, a key problem with such confident rhetoric was that it was almost completely divorced from the reality of the late 1920s RAF. Labouring under the budgetary contraints influ
Node: 10230, Score: -0.0063164440942659, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0005.txt, Content: ults. His frequent news releases and monthly dispatches revealed the emphasis he gave to aerodromes and railway stations, but they also highlighted his occasional efforts in the direction of other targets like the Badische Analin und Sodafabrik in Ludwigshafen, a favourite of Air Staff planners and the British public alike. Once in the midst of the undertaking, he felt at least some obligation to explain himself in regard to it." Feeling bureaucratic pressure for results, he increasingly relied on the rhetoric of the 'moral effect,' and by the end of the war he was prepared to assert its primacy and promise.'8 He was not, however, the first: the Royal Naval Air Service had done the same with respect to its. own strategic bombing efforts during the war, as had Brigadier-General Cyril Newall, the commander of the small British bombing unit which operated from October 1917 until the establishment of the IF in June 1918.'9 Such rhetoric became all the more important when Trenchard became the postwar Chief of Air Staff. To a government obsessed with economies, Trenchard was an attractive candidate for CAS because he was willing to accept plans for a modest-sized postwar RAF.20 Once in his post, however, he took an increasingly protective stance toward the new service he now headed. He became especially determined to keep the fledgling RAF from the eager grasp of the Royal Navy, which was determined to re-acquire its air arm. Needing a bureaucratic rationale to justify the continued existence of a separate service, he found it in the unique role of strategic bombing, which was in tum supported by arguments about the 'moral effect' of bombing.2' To say that Trenchard exaggerated the 'moral effect' for reasons of expediency is not to claim that he had no belief in the notion, however. The 'moral effect' argument unquestionably suited his needs at the time. It was, as well, integral to his vocabulary; derived from the professional context in which he worked and fought, it fo
Node: 10233, Score: -0.0053136826266375, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0008.txt, Content: vantage which was particularly relevant to strategic bombing. While the 'moral' aspect of war was accepted and established, it also was just then being transformed, intensified, and  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 6 --- 96 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE extended due to the changing nature of warfare. In the era of 'total war,' con­ flict would no longer be confined to armies on a battlefield -a point that long range bombing had served to underscore. Already in the years before the Great War, military men had begun to concern themselves increasingly with the behaviour of those on the homefront in a future conflict. Such concern was exacerbated by the class tensions caused by industrialisation itself. If the privations of warfare could be brought directly onto the heads of the working masses, what would the outcome be? How would 'undisciplined' popula­ tions, alienated already by the nature of their work and their uncomfortable lives, fare in the face of the burdens of modem warfare?29 Air plans drawn up in London in the latter stages of the war often revealed a chauvinistic intent to exploit these 'vulnerabilities' within the enemy home front, especially among the working classes. Major Tiverton, an early advo­ cate of bombing for material effect, nonetheless felt that it would be possible to apply collateral pressure to the German 'operatives'- those in the factories who carried out the work of industrial manufacturing. One memorandum on the use of V 1500 bombers explained that ' ... the moral and political results which could be obtained by even six "V" type Handley Page machines would be ... of a "disintegrating" character, i.e. they would tend to set the capitalist and the masses against the military power. '30 On 12 September 1918 the Director of Flying Operations (Maj.-Gen. P.R.C. Groves) sent to Trenchard's attention a communication from the Foreign Office noting that '. . . the despondency in Germany is at the present moment intense; and that this would
Node: 10251, Score: -0.0042416469945149, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0026.txt, Content: aimed at and cut off the necessary supplies without which the armies in the field cannot exist. '85 He saw long-range bombing as a kind of deep interdiction which would keep needed material out of the hands of the enemy's army. In discussing specific objectives, he followed Tiverton precisely -calling for attacks on four main target centers in Germany's industrial heartland as the best and most efficient way of seriously impairing the German war machine.'6 Gorrell's plan also took from Tiverton an emphasis on systematic bomb­ ing. Changing Tiverton's wording only slightly, Gorrell wrote that, 'From both the morale point of view and also that of material damage, concentration of our aerial forces against single targets on the same day is of vital impor­ tance since it tends to hamper the defense and also to complete in a thorough manner the work which the bombardment is intended to perform.'"' The plan appreciated the potential for the 'moral effect' of bombing too. Again following Tiverton's lead, Gorrell wrote that in a prolonged bombard­ ment against a German target, the breakdown of order might cause results 'out of proportion to the immediate effects of the bombs'."' With respect to the 'moral effect,' Gorrell was influenced directly by Trenchard as well; he incorporated several of Trenchard's ideas into a paper he wrote later called 'The Future Role of American Bombardment', which argued that, 'the  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 17 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 107 appearance of only one or two machines over London is the equivalent of a loss of manhours which results in the loss of production of more airplanes than the whole of the enemy aerial forces destroy over the period of a fortnight on the front, and the loss of production of shells and cartridges amounting to those necessary for a good size battle by the Allies, to say nothing of the material and moral damage that the enemy airplanes cause in addition. '89 From his British colleag
Node: 10286, Score: -0.003110804242854, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0061.txt, Content: ndence and organisational flexibility; the overriding conclusion that domestic populations would be a weak point for all states in future wars, but that the British population could be relied upon somewhat more than others; the interwar emphasis on deterrence rather than warfighting; and the anti-empirical mindset that brought 'moral' factors to the surface in an exaggerated way. Many of the ideas which had defined the offensive a l' outrance prior to the war seemed to have been absorbed by Trenchard, adapted slightly, and applied to the air. Between the wars the air forces of both nations were captured by the idea that modem industrial states are made of what Liddell Hart described as a 'complex and interdependent fabric'.'" They both believed that the delicate sinews -whether material or moral -holding together such intricate creations ought to be easily subject to the overwhelming offensive power of aircraft. Why the Americans chose, by the early 1930s, to emphasise the material undoubtedly had much to do with the political, geographical, and economic position of the United States at the time. By generally holding to the ideas contained in the Gorrell plan, the Americans attached themselves to the 1917 ideas of the British Air Staff-ideas which, ironically, Trenchard ultimately chose to ignore. But both the US and Britain made the same mistake in fixating an exaggerated faith on the offensive, and elevating it -to an extraordinary degree -over the power of the defensive. Both air forces incorporated biases into their air exercises, and tended to screen out information that did not reinforce prevailing conceptions and prejudices. Under the desperate pressures of combat that caused them to face the tactical reality of their unenviable situation, the RAF re-evaluated its position: the Trenchardian focus on the 'moral effect' of bombing, which had served well for bureaucratic purposes, and which -for a time -had served as the rhetoric of deterrence, was suddenly repl
Node: 10312, Score: -0.0022481082483057, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0087.txt, Content: nstrates that the moral effect of bombing indus­ trial centres will be great even though at times the material effect may be small.' See Edgar S. Gorrell, 'The Future Role of American Bombardment Aviation', Documents of the Air Service Field Officer's School, ACTS History, USAF Hist. Res. Center (USAFHRC) decimal no.248.222-78, (copy at the Office of Air Force History, Bolling AFB, Washing­ ton, DC.), pp.9 and 15. The document is undated but was very likely written in winter 1917-18. The reader should compare it to Trenchard's 26 Nov. 1917 paper called, 'Strategic and Tactical Considerations Involved in Long Range Bombing', in AIR 1{725/ 97{1. 90. In summer 1918 the name 'Strategical Aviation, Zone of Advance' was changed so as not to promote the idea that this operation of the Air Service was in any way independent of the rest of the Army. See Maurer, US Air Service (note 82), pp.155-{i. 91. Ibid. Vol.IV, pp.l-3, and 363-7. See also, Williams (note 9), pp.338-9. 92. See 'Narrative Summary', US Bombing Survey, in Maurer US Air Service Vol.IV, esp. pp.498-9. This volume reprints documents found in 'Gorrell's History of the American Expeditionary Forces Air Service 1917-1918,' Record Group 120, National Archives and Records Admin., Washington, DC. The reports on the effects of bombing are in Series R, Vol.II; the Narrative Summary is in Series R, Vol.!. 93. 'Narrative Summary' in Maurer, US Air Service (note 82), Vol.IV, p.50l. 94. Ibid. It is clear that at least some members of the British Air Staff had a full opportunity to express their grievances to the American survey team. 95. Ibid., pp.501-2. It is important to point out here that the Americans were not critical of the direct bombing of troops in the field, which they recognised to have an immediate effect on the morale of those troops. 96. The authors wrote: 'The effect of destroying the enemy's materiel and personnel is not commensurate with the effect gained by day bombardment in weakening the morale of troo
Node: 10227, Score: -0.0018716062780633, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0002.txt, Content: Indeed he viewed the terms as essentially interchangable, but, as he explained later in his career, he shied away from the latter because he had difficulty spelling it.5 The ratio itself (20 to 1) had no basis in anything scientific. Trenchard used numbers liberally but never based them on anything except his own hunches.6 A little drama was probably necessary at the time, however, as the independent status of the newborn RAF was already coming under challenge. In his dispatch, Trenchard was trying to explain why he had chosen to employ the bombers available to him in 1918 for widely dispersed attacks on German industrial centres. He argued that since he did not have the bombers to do sufficient material damage 'so as to completely destroy industrial centres', he chose instead to 'attack as many of the large industrial centres as it was possible to reach' in order to maximise the all-important 'moral effect' upon the enemy.7 If his mathematics were correct, then bombing for 'moral effect' would have been the most efficient strategy no matter how many bombers were available, but it is not clear that Trenchard had thought through the full implications of his own statement. As General Officer Commanding in the field, justifying his use of resources was more immediately on his mind. It is certainly true that he did not have enough bombers to do serious damage to German industry. Constant production delays and demands arising from the ground campaign ensured that, during the five months it operated, the IF never had more than nine squadrons of aircraft, and many of those  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 3 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 93 were unsatisfactory. While the planners of the British air campaign initially had high hopes for the destruction of key German war industries through repeated attacks, the shortage of resources caused them to modify their expectations. In September 1917 Major Lord Tiverton, who would become one of the Air Staff's key
Node: 10228, Score: -0.0011162622231272, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0003.txt, Content: German war industries through repeated attacks, the shortage of resources caused them to modify their expectations. In September 1917 Major Lord Tiverton, who would become one of the Air Staff's key planners, wrote a paper offering a programme of objectives for strategic bombing. He divided bombing objectives into four groups (the Dusseldorf group, the Cologne group, the Mannheim group, and the Saar Valley group), all of which offered key military and industrial targets - especially chemicals, machine shops and steel production -and therefore promised the greatest possible impact on the German war effort. Tiverton had in mind the 'systematic destruction' of the German munition works.8 As it became increasingly clear, however, that genuine 'material damage' could not be achieved, Air Staff planners hoped that bombing at least would have a 'moral effect' on Germany. They shifted their focus during 1918 from obliteration Of Germany's 'root industries' to trying to cause enough dis­ ruption and dislocation to hinder German industrial output, and to cause the German people to reconsider continuing the war.• Though the Air Staff realised that the latter goal was a less tangible one, they saw it as a viable plan under the circumstances. Tiverton noted candidly, 'Moral effect is strongly reminiscent of that sweet and blessed word "Mesopotamia". It is used most loosely to embrace all manner of different enterprises.'10 In 1918 Air Staff planners hatched a variety of schemes to enhance the 'moral effect' of bombing, including attacks on worker's housing, and the use of newly-developed incendiary weapons. In August Tiverton requested- in an interesting foreshadowing of World War II-a list of towns with concentrated workmen's dwellings, which he considered 'a reasonable target'. Plans were drawn up as well to use a new long-range bomber, the Handley Page V1500, to play a part in producing a 'moral effect' in Germany.11 Still, many of those planners believed that the material e
Node: 10245, Score: -0.0006619814958799, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0020.txt, Content: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 13 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 103 doubts continued afterwards.66 Trenchard had shown limited interest in co­ operation with the other services, and, as noted above, he drew away from the idea that the RAF would need to defeat the enemy air force before proceeding to its 'vital centres'. By 1928 he argued that such counterforce work, though not completely avoidable, would be a distraction from the main task at hand. In the age of long range bombers and total warfare, the issue of what con­ stituted a 'military target' was a particularly vexing one; attempts to work it out at the Hague in 1922-23 had led to a set of draft rules which attempted to protect civilians, but they had not been ratified by any nation.67 Trenchard felt he was clear in his own mind about the issue: he believed that the civilian in a factory producing war materiel held a different status than the man on the street. But his steady emphasis on the 'moral effect' was inherently vague and led many to think that this distinction was more apparent than real. That this issue was not settled in the RAF either was indicated by the commotion kicked up by an appreciation written for the ADGB Staff Exercise of 13-15 March 1933, in which the Air Officer Commanding-in­ Chief based his air war plan on breaking the morale of the enemy civilian population by 'striking at targets located in thickly populated areas'. 68 Some of the reviewers had no major problems with the appreciation, but the then Group Captain Charles Portal, who reviewed the document later in the year, stated that the language was 'about as unfortunate as it could be', since it 'leads directly to that idea that we can "make war on our own" by "indiscriminate attacks on the civil population," which is exactly what ... we have told the Government that it would not pay us to do. '69 The Commandant of the RAF Staff College, Joubert de la Ferte, was also interested in trying to clarify the 'aim of the
Node: 10254, Score: -0.0005461473073006, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0029.txt, Content: he British ranks regarding targeting policy, and pointed out that 'these [British] officers ... did not believe they were getting the best results possible and that while the wish ... to "bomb something up there" might have appealed to one's sporting blood, it did not work with the greatest efficiency against the German fighting machine. '94 Significantly, the survey members insisted that to obtain useful results, it would be important first to make a 'careful study' of the different kinds of industries in an enemy nation, and to ascertain 'how one industry is dependent on another· and what the most important factories of each are.' The Americans were, in essence, recommending what Tiverton had recommended during the war-and Trenchard had largely ignored. While the Americans were willing to concede that World War I long-range bombing had an effect, if unquantifiable, on the enemy nation, they were not impressed with its overall effect on the enemy fighting forces. Indeed they wrote: 'This investigation has decidedly shown that the enemy's morale was not sufficiently affected to handicap the enemy's fighting forces in the field. The policy as followed out by the British and French in the present war of bombing a target once or twice and then skipping to another target is erroneous.' Willing to concede the 'moral effect' of bombing, the Americans were nonetheless unwilling to concede that seeking it as a primary effect was an efficient way of fighting a war. They pointed out in closing: 'Bombing for moral effect alone ... which was probably the excuse for the wide spread of bombs over a town rather than their concentration on a factory, is not a pro­ ductive means of bombing. The effect is legitimate and just as considerable when attained indirectly through the bombing of a factory. '95 Of course it is impossible to know how closely the Americans would have followed their own advice, especially in the face of the very real technical difficulties posed by bombing in th
Node: 10266, Score: -0.0002715393768966, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0041.txt, Content: rk out many of the scientific problems vital to successful bombing. It was pointed out that a similar proposal had been made at the second, third, and tenth meetings of the Bombing Committee (which had begun meeting in 1934), but 'nothing had eventuated.' 125 The issue that seemed most pressing as the clouds darkened over Europe was: how might Bomber Command find a way to identify and strike 'military targets' only, so as to give the Germans an incentive to do the same -at least until the initial crises could be weathered and Bomber Command's strength built up? In the event of war, some air action would certainly be required, but the priorities -and constraints -of the new grand strategy were different than those Trenchard had imagined. Defending Britain -which now seemed especially vulnerable because London was such an accessible and critical target -and conserving the bombing force for a later day were the new guidelines for action.126 The government encouraged the Air Ministry to tighten, as far as possible, the definition of 'military' targets in order to encourage the Germans to do the same. The Air Staff's attempts to pick specific targets from the broader set marked 'Ruhr industrial targets', brought them, in essence, into line with the American search for 'key nodes'. In many ways this was a return to the views promulgated by Air Staff planners in London during World War I, whose first instinct had been to find a way to shut down the German war machine most efficiently. In the summer of 1940 the Air Staff argued that, 'moral effect, although an extremely important subsidiary result of air bombardment, cannot in itself be decisive. There must be material destruction as a primary object.' 127 The Trenchardian insistence on the primacy of 'the moral effect' of bomb­ ing had been abandoned, but only for the moment. The change in emphasis would be neither total nor permanent. Its revival was, in part, tied to the legacy of the Trenchard years: inattention to the
Node: 10315, Score: -0.000158152413392, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0090.txt, Content: ually accomplishes its avowed purpose -to weaken the morale of the hostile nation and thus hasten the end of hostilities -is doubtful in some cases. The reactions may be in exactly the opposite direction.' Bombardment (Washington, DC: US GPO, 1926), p.64. Regarding strategic bombing in general the authors wrote: 'Its use on strategical missions is held to be in the same category as any other act of strategy; it is a necessary adjunct to tactical employment; it will have an important bearing on the outcome of a war, but it must not take precedence over the support of ground operations by proper tactical employment.' p.72. See also, Thomas Greer, The Development of Air Doctrine in the Army Air Arm, 1917-1941, (Washington, DC: Office of Air Force History, 1985-first pub. 1955), p.41; and Johnson (note 100), pp.208-9. 104. Greer, Development of Air Doctrine, p.41. 105. Indeed, sometimes the 'moral effect' garnered more than a little attention. Part of the 1934--35 'Air Force' text, for instance, described the relationship of bombing to the 'social sphere' in the following way: 'The object here is the dislocation of normal life to the extent that the people are willing to surrender in the hope that they can at least regain a normal mode of living. Large urban populations and high standards of living broaden the possible range of dislocation and add length to the lever that an air force can apply against morale.' See 'Air Force' course text ('Air Force Objectives'), 1934--35, USAFHRC, decimal no.248.101-l, pp.3-4. 106. 'Air Force' text, 'Air Warfare' section, Air Corps Tactical School, I Feb. 1938, USAFHRC, decimal file no.248.101-l. On this theme generally, see Mark Clodfelter, 'Pinpointing Devastation: American Air Campaign Planning Before Pearl Harbor,' in Journal of Military History 58/1 (Jan. 1994). 107. He added, 'These will be carefully determined, usually before the outbreak of war. On the declaration of war, these key plants should be made the objective of a syst
Node: 10255, Score: 0.0001117406668743, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0030.txt, Content: a factory. '95 Of course it is impossible to know how closely the Americans would have followed their own advice, especially in the face of the very real technical difficulties posed by bombing in the Great War. Ironically, the Americans' virgin status with respect to bombing gave them the freedom to be critical of their allies' efforts. The problems that Trenchard was up against, including primitive technologies and aircraft shortages, ought not to be underestimated.  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 19 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 109 Yet the fact of serious dissension within RAF ranks indicates that he had at least some room for choices in his targeting policy. What is interesting to note here is that some of the distinctions between the American and British views of bombing- distinctions that would last through World War II-were already beginning to emerge, if in a rather rudimentary way, by the spring of 1919. But there was no absolutely clean divide; many of the views that took hold in Britain under Trenchard were repeated on occasion in the United States. For instance, the 'Aerial Tactics' manual pro­ duced by the Director of the Air Service in June 1920, simply repeated (with­ out attribution) Trenchard's 20 to 1 rule on the 'moral effect' ofbombing.96 In 1923 the Commander of the US 1st Pursuit Group, Carl A. Spaatz, pointed out in a letter that, 'The first bomb dropped by an enemy on one of our cities will cause such a clamor for protection that no executive would be strong enough to withstand it. '97 Immediately after World War I the US Air Service -which was still very much a part of the Army -was forced to accept constraints on its con­ ceptualisation of bombing in future wars. The Army's top leadership con­ tinued to conceive of the Air Service as an auxiliary arm. The Secretary of War, Newton Baker, was hostile to strategic bombing for several reasons, not the least of which was that he thought it immoral; American foreign policy w