Node: 10264, Score: 0.0697108146234514, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0039.txt, Content: fective counter weapon' .118 He argued that by using defense warning systems which relied on improved radio technologies, fighter aircraft could intercept hostile bombers. Finally, he felt that the exercises of the early 1930s, which allegedly 'proved' that bombers were dominant over fighters, had been rigged and were dis­ ingenuous.119 Chennault went toe to toe on this issue with Lieutenant Colonel H. H. Arnold, who commanded 1st Bombardment Wing, and later became Commander-in-Chief of the USAAF in World War II. In exercises at Fort Knox in 1933, Chennault was able to show that even outdated fighters could intercept bombers if they were provided with adequate information through a central control authority. Despite Chennault's pugnacious and worthy challenges to the bomber advocates' theory, though, he was not able to slow their momentum substantially. And when he retired in 1937, there was no strong voice left to lobby for fighter aircraft.' 20 Their failure fully to heed Chennault's warnings about defence would later prove to be a near fatal mistake for the American bomber advocates. 121 Confidence that bombers would get through to their targets did not cause the Americans to drop completely the idea of escort fighters however. As the German threat grew, the Americans recognised that they ought to hedge their bets, and thus they gave relatively more attention to escorts -but increased attention to the problem did not yield an early solution. Unfortunately, American designers tended to focus on large, twin-engined types like the the Bell YFM-lA Airacuda, the Lockheed XP-58, and the Northrop XP-61 (which eventually went into production, but as a night fighter). The idea of equipping certain heavy bombers to serve as escorts to the others was even considered, yielding the YB-40 - a modified B-17, which proved eventually to be a complete failure. 122 Ideas and Realities: The Early Phase As the German threat loomed ever larger, Britain's Air Ministry began to make det
Node: 10271, Score: 0.0636767042781485, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0046.txt, Content: ce against the city of Berlin in February 1945.142 The authors of A WPD/1 also suggested that escort fighters might be necessary to protect the bombers. But the authors misjudged the type of aircraft that would be required when they called for specifications to be drawn up for a large, heavily-gunned, two-seater type with a range equal to the bombers to be escorted, and with armour to protect each of the crew members. 143 Once the Americans were drawn into the war, the two allies had to form some basis for cooperation. 144 By early 1942 they were heading in two different directions, and these had to be reconciled -or at least dealt with. In the event, the process would prove to be rather tumultuous. The British, due to their own grim experience, had no faith in the Americans' ability success­ fully to pursue a daylight precision campaign in the skies over Germany. The Americans, for their part, had no interest in changing their plans. In a paper delivered at the US Air Force Academy in 1968, RAF official historian Noble Frankland argued that there were three reasons why the Americans clung so tenaciously to daylight bombing of selected military targets even though there was plenty of evidence to indicate that it was a problematical strategy. He said that: ( 1) they believed that the B-17 was better suited to daytime operations than to night-time ones; (2) they were less than impressed with the British effort so far; and (3) they were simply determined to run their own air force and to operate independently. 145 He was quite right on all counts, though point three deserves elaboration. Americans have always liked to do their own thing, and the USAAF posed no exception to the rule -fixated as it was on the postwar fight for organisational independence. But there was more at work than national assertiveness. American airmen had genuinely convinced themselves that the theory they had developed at ACTS was going to work. They felt that they had tapped into a bit of geniu
Node: 10277, Score: 0.0612803427529329, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0052.txt, Content: October, the theory of the self-defending bomber was severely tried. During the second mission 60 of the 291 Fortresses sent out did not return, and another 138 came back badly damaged.'"' In four raids carried out over six days in October 1943, 148 American bombers had failed to return to their bases, and the German fighter  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 32 --- 122 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE force was increasing in strength. 162 There could be no sustained selective bombing campaign until air superiority was won. 163 The crisis for Bomber Command came in the area campaign waged against Berlin between November 1943 and March 1944, in which Air Chief Marshal Harris had placed great hopes. A poor target for the H2S radar aid, Berlin proved elusive and increasingly costly; rates of damage diminished while bomber losses continued to rise. Some 9,000 sorties were flown, but they brought Britain no closer to victory. There was no clear decline in the war economy, and no crack in morale. German night fighters were taking an ever increasing toll on British efforts, and Bomber Command had no answer to them.164 But the Americans were already working on a solution that would go far towards saving the day for both air forces. In their moment of crisis they decided to switch tactics rather than targets. Reassessing their earlier assump­ tions about the penetrative power of bombers in formation, they concluded that fighter escorts were required after all. Outfitted with drop tanks for long distance flying, planes like the North American P-51 Mustang helped to tum the tide in the air war.'65 Relying on their now enormous industrial production base, the Americans built escorts and brought them into the European theatre in large numbers. 166 Over the winter and spring the USAAF fought furious and costly battles of attrition in the skies above Germany. By flying to strategic targets which the Germans had to defend, the American bombers drew the German fighters into the sk
Node: 10318, Score: 0.0523494005472274, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0093.txt, Content: lso Johnson (note 100), who points out that Chennault, who focused on defensive operations, proved uninterested in involving himself with the question of long-range escort fighters, pp.40 1-2. 121. On the issue of defenses and fighter escorts in American planning general! y, see B .L. Boylan, 'The Development of the American Long Range Escort Fighter', PhD thesis, Univ. of Missouri, 1955; I. B. Holley, 'An Enduring Challenge: The Problem of Air Force Doctrine' in H. Borowski (ed.), The Harmon Memorial Lectures in Military History, 1959-1987 (Washington, DC: Office of AF History, 1988), pp.428-30, and 'Of Saber Charges, Escort Fighters, and Spacecraft', in Air University Quarterly Review 34/6 ( 1983), pp.5-ll. For an investigation of the problem as it existed in both the US and in Britain, see Williamson Murray, 'The Influence of Pre-War Anglo-American Doctrine on the Air Campaigns of the Second World War', in Boog, Conduct of the Air War (note 1), pp.235-53. On the British side, see also the documents in AIR 2/2613, PRO, London. I 22. See Robert Frank Futrell, 'Historical Evaluation of the Combined Bomber Offensive: Twenty Years and Two Wars Later', delivered at the Second Annual Military History Symposium, USAF Academy, 2-3 May 1968, pp.3-4 (original draft); also Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea Cate The Army Air Forces in World War II (Chicago, IL: Univ. of Chicago Press, 1948), Voi.I, p.604. 123. Webster and Frankland (note 2), Vol.I, p.91. 124. Bomber Command evaluated W A I, a plan for the attack on the Luftwaffe and its main­ tenance organisation. But though the plan was listed first, it never had real pride of place with the Air Staff. Though they recognised that it might be necessary to try to reduce the Lutiwaffe in order to curtail attacks on Britain, they were not optimistic about the prospects. Believing that the Germans would disperse their aircraft to numerous aero­ dromes, they could not see a way to reduce the enemy force efficiently, or without sub
Node: 10247, Score: 0.048140539639904, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0022.txt, Content: ould do it. In addition, the 'locust years' had taken a toll on the British aircraft industry, and it could not be retooled overnight. And if this were not enough, the tech­ nology of air warfare was by then changing at such a rapid rate that there was genuine fear of building an air fleet that would be obsolete even before it was completed. Economic issues entered the picture in a profound way, too, as Chancellor of the Exchequer Neville Chamberlain was deeply fearful of bankrupting Britain while trying to re-arm her. Ultimately British air rearmament policy aimed at building aircraft so as to maintain parity with the Germans (and thus deter them) without provoking them into further expansion. This policy, how­ ever, surrendered the initiative, and kept Britain in a reactive stance.72 In these years, the RAF's faith in the power of the offensive continued to hold up.73 By 1935-36, with increasing developments in radar, there was evidence that defensive air power had more to recommend it than previously had been acknowledged. The RAF, as historian R. J. Overy has pointed out, 'accepted the development of defensive capability with an ill grace'. 74 Still, they had had the foresight to hedge their bets by spending rare research money on defensive techniques, and creating a communications net for fighters and anti-aircraft weapons -two decisions that would would prove critical during World War IP' Despite developing an air defence net, the Air Staff continued to be sceptical about providing escorts for bombers. In part this stemmed from the sheer faith in the bomber's ability to 'get through', and in part it stemmed from a belief that there were technical difficulties in building a fighter that could stay with and defend a large, fast bomber. In 1936, responding to reports about escort fighters being used in the Spanish Civil War, the RAF's Deputy Director of Operations suggested, if unenthusiastically, that the question of escorts be taken up, and that specifications
Node: 10273, Score: 0.0419940659130517, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0048.txt, Content: e-face. Decisions made in 1942 would determine what could be done in 1944. In a memo of 26 September Portal asked rhetorically if it were not 'essential' to persuade the Americans to at least lay the foundations for night bombing.150 Assistant CAS Sir John Slessor, who had been in America on a special mission in the winter of 1940-41, was by far the most optimistic about the Americans' prospect for success with their preferred approach. He argued: I have talked about this a great deal to Spaatz and to others of my American friends. They are, I think, a bit unwarrantably cockahoop as a result of their limited experience to date. But they are setting about it in a realistic and business-like way, paying special attention to gunnery training, distribution of ammunition in the aircraft, cutting the bomb­ load and increasing the ammunition of wing aircraft, and so on. And making all allowances for their natural optimism, I have a feeling they will do it ... They have hung their hats on the day bomber policy and are convinced they can do it ... to cast doubts on it just at present would only cause irritation and make them very obstinate.151 Slessor expressed confidence in the American plan and the American commanders, and argued that he believed very large numbers alone might make daylight bombing possible.152 Neither Churchill nor Portal were convinced, however, and their letters and minutes accurately foresaw many of the problems that the USAAF would face in the coming year. But Secretary of State for Air Sir Archibald Sinclair stepped into the fray as a voice of reason and diplomacy. He urged Churchill  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 30 --- 120 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE not to bring the issue to a crisis before the Americans had made a real try at their 'cherished policy of day light penetration'. And he further argued that to be fractious over bombing policy would play right into the hands of navalists like Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Ernest J. King,
Node: 10248, Score: 0.0397636705475984, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0023.txt, Content: about escort fighters being used in the Spanish Civil War, the RAF's Deputy Director of Operations suggested, if unenthusiastically, that the question of escorts be taken up, and that specifications for an escort fighter be considered. The Director of Staff Duties (Air Commodore Sholto Douglas) also advocated such an investigation, but qualified it, stating, 'My own feeling in the matter is that the bombers should be able to look after them­ selves ... ' Deputy Chief of the Air Staff Air Vice-Marshal Christopher Courtney declared, 'I have no doubt in my own mind that the whole con­ ception of fighter escorts is essentially defective. '76  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 15 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 105 In general, the Air Staff looked warily on anything -including information coming out of the Spanish Civil War -that ran counter to their own con­ ceptions of how an air war should be fought. 77 And they remained reluctant to divert money from bombers to defensive fighters for Britain. There were some in the RAF who championed the single-seat, monoplane fighter, and their efforts are to be applauded -as are the efforts of those in private industry who put forth excellent aircraft designs at a crucial moment. But in the end it would take a shake-up in organisation and authority to change -if temporarily- Air Staff priorities. In March 1936 Sir Thomas Inskip was appointed to the unenviable position 'Minister for the Co-ordination of Defence', in order to help reconcile the strategies and financial requirements of the three services. He was empowered to act as deputy for the Prime Minister in the Chiefs of Staff Committee, the Committee of Imperial Defence, and the Principal Supply Officers Committee. During the latter half of 1937, Inskip undertook a review of defence policy, resulting in what became known as the 'Inskip Report', which one historian has called 'the single most important document produced on defence matters in the 1930s. '78 The r
Node: 10322, Score: 0.0394404021162602, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0097.txt, Content: ge 52 --- 142 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE dated Aug. 1946, in the Papers of Carl Spaatz, Box 70, Library of Congress MS Room. Further insights into the Anglo-American relationship can be found in Richard G. Davis, 'Carl A. Spaatz and the Development of the Royal Air Force-US Army Air Corps Relationship, 1939-1940', in Journal of Military History 54/4 (Oct. 1990), pp.453-72. 145. The Combined Bomber Offensive', a lecture delivered by Noble Frankland to the Second Annual Military History Symposium, USAF Academy, 2-3 May 1968. (See pp.7-8). Copy in Robert Saundby Papers, AC 72/12, Box 5, RAF Museum, Hendon. 146. The American official historians have pointed out that with respect to the theory of 'day­ light precision bombing,' the Americans were committed 'more as a matter of faith than of knowledge empirically arrived at.' See Craven and Cate (note 122), Vol.II, p.298. 147. Letter, Churchill to Roosevelt, 16 Sept. 1942, AIR 8/711. In order to bolster FDR's enthu­ siasm, Churchill made an argument he himself did not fully believe, stating: ' ... we know our night bombing offensive is having a devastating effect.' 148. Churchill wrote: 'Whether the Fortresses and Liberators will be able to bomb far into Germany by day is one of the great tactical questions of the war and one that is at present unanswered ... We do not think the claims of fighters shot down by Fortresses are correct though made with complete sincerity, and the dangers of daylight bombing will increase terribly once outside fighter protection and as the range lengthens.' Letter, Churchill to Hopkins, 16 Oct. 1942, AIR 8/711. 149. The circle included ACM Sir Charles Portal, CAS, RAF; Sir Archibald Sinclair, Secretary of State for Air; and A VM John Slessor, Asst Chief of the Air Staff for Policy. The docu­ ments on this internal debate are in AIR 8/711, PRO, London. Also, a chapter based on many of these documents can be found in Webster and Frankland, Vol.!, pp.353-63. !50. Memo by Portal 'Note on US Bo
Node: 10276, Score: 0.0388890349353496, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0051.txt, Content: achievement of air superiority, and thus he designated the offensive against German fighter strength an intermediate objective second to none. This was reflected in the 'Pointblank' bombing directive of June. But trying to defeat the Luftwaffe by bombing aircraft factories (and components factories) would prove to be no mean feat. 159 While Harris posed no major objections to Eaker's plan, he would allow himself to be pulled only so far in the direction of selective targeting. His formal response was positive, but he continued to make sure he had the practical latitude to continue his general area offensive. (Indeed he showed a particular talent for subtly re-arranging the wording of the Casablanca directive and Eaker's plan.) In order to maintain the area offensive, though, he had to produce results. Thus, 1943 became, in the words of the British official historians, a 'bombing competition' rather than a combined offensive.'60 The years 1942 and 1943 had brought some successes for Bomber Command, including the devastating fire raids on Hamburg in July 1943. The RAP's strategic arm had grown much larger and had developed radar and electronic aids (including Gee, Oboe, and H2S) that enabled it to become a vastly more destructive force. In addition, special units proved themselves sporadically capable of remarkable bombing accuracy. But 1943 was also a year in which both the British and the Americans would suffer severe set­ backs and would be forced to cope with the inescapable problem that air forces could not proceed repeatedly to 'vital centers' without first defeating enemy forces in being. The American 'Waterloo' was Schweinfurt, chosen as a 'key node' target for its anti-friction bearings industry. In two raids against the city's ball­ bearing works, in August and October, the theory of the self-defending bomber was severely tried. During the second mission 60 of the 291 Fortresses sent out did not return, and another 138 came back badly damaged.'"' In four ra
Node: 10278, Score: 0.038577722553446, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0053.txt, Content: AAF fought furious and costly battles of attrition in the skies above Germany. By flying to strategic targets which the Germans had to defend, the American bombers drew the German fighters into the sky. The ensuing battles of attrition ultimately led to the defeat of the Luftwaffe, which not only made possible the Allied amphibious invasion of the Normandy coast, but also made possible a more sustained offensive against selected targets, which in tum helped the advance of Allied armies.167 This battle for control of the skies also helped pull British chestnuts out of the fire, since victory immediately affected the German night fighter forces by dislocating its training and practice flying, and more important since it triggered events leading to the full defeat of the Luftwaffe. 168 In April 1944 command of the Anglo-American strategic air forces was put under the control of General Dwight D. Eisenhower, who had been appointed Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, and his deputy, Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder, in preparation for the Normandy invasion.'69 Under Eisenhower's control the strategic forces attacked key communications targets and did much to upend the Germans' ability exploit interior lines of communication on the continent. In September, control of the forces reverted to their respective commanders: Harris of Bomber Command, and General Carl Spaatz, who commanded the newly-designated United States Strategic Air Forces (USST AF), comprised of the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces. 170 A lively debate over targeting, begun in spring, resumed in late summer.  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 33 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 123 Tedder favoured extending attacks on transport and communications targets into Germany, Spaatz pinned his hopes on diminishing German oil supplies, and Harris sought to maintain the focus on area attacks -which he still believed would lead to general collapse. In the end there was no real con­ sensus, and the effo
Node: 10263, Score: 0.0380792030467173, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0038.txt, Content: estions regarding 'precision' bombing were asked or anticipated. Like the RAF, the Air Corps seemed to be balanced on the cusp between the old world and the new. For instance, students at ACTS in 1933-34 were required to devote 100 hours of their training program to horsemanship, while only 25 hours were required for air logistics.''6 Perhaps the toughest interwar issue the American bomber advocates had to face was that of getting through to the target. Stanley Baldwin's declaration that 'the bomber will always get through' had not always held sway in the United States, where, during the 1920s pursuit (fighter) aviation had received both attention and respect. In 1930 ACTS still taught that bombers opposed by enemy fighters would require the support of escort fighters. Only a few years later, though, this attitude had changed. The demise of the fighter escort concept in America took place simultaneously with the development of sophisticated, fast bomber aircraft, and the rise of the precision bombing theory at ACTS. The bomber advocates argued frequently that the sleek, fast, high-altitude bombers would be able to use formation flying techniques and their own guns to penetrate -without prohibitive losses -to the targets they would need to reach. ACTS emphasised daylight bombing, when bomber crews would have the best conditions for achieving 'precision'.117 Not everyone at ACTS took to the idea of bomber invincibility however. Captain Claire L. Chennault, who taught pursuit aviation at the School in  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 24 --- 114 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE 1931-36 was the bomber advocates' most outspoken opponent. He felt that bombardment ought not to be made, 'the first exception to the ancient principle that 'for every weapon there is a new and effective counter weapon' .118 He argued that by using defense warning systems which relied on improved radio technologies, fighter aircraft could intercept hostile bombers. Finally, he felt that the ex
Node: 10317, Score: 0.0296727962683063, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0092.txt, Content: .pdf --- Page 50 --- 140 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE 115. In the 1935-36 course on 'Bombardment Aviation,' Lt. Kuter argued: 'Where the objective is a large industrial center, individual bombers must hit specific buildings or areas or the mission may be a failure ... It is thus evident that the destruction of materiel objectives - the reason for the existence or our arm -depends on the ability of bombardment to hit small targets.' See 'Bombing Probabilities', p.2. 116. See 'Program of Instruction, Air Corps Tactical School, 1933-1934, Command and Staff Regular Course, USAFHRC, decimal file no.248.192, and 'Comparison of Courses', Air Corps Tactical School, I July 1934, decimal file no.248.192, AFHRC. On 24 Oct. 1935 Lt. Col. E.L. Hoffman wrote to the Commandant of the School, asking to be exempted from the riding requirement. He argued: 'I have never liked a horse, nor admired one, except at a safe distance ... I am afraid of a horse, do not understand them, and doubt if they have any sense ... I fail to see that horses have any place in the science of aviation.' His request was denied. See 'Equitation', Memo to the Cmndt. from Lt.Col. E.L. Hoffman, 24 Oct. 1935, USAFHRC decimal file no.248.126. 117. On this see Greer (note 103), pp.55-8. 118. C.L. Chennault, 'The Role .of Defensive Pursuit,' (1933), p.l2. USAFHRC, decimal no.248-282-4. On Chennault's views generally, see Greer (note 103), pp.58--67, and Johnson (note I 00), pp.400--2. 119. He quoted the umpire of the official exercises of 1931 as declaring that, 'due to increased speeds and limitless space it is impossible for fighters to intercept bombers and therefore it is inconsistent with the employment of air force to develop fighters'. Cited in Greer (note 103), p.59. 120. Greer (note 103), pp.59 and 82. See also Johnson (note 100), who points out that Chennault, who focused on defensive operations, proved uninterested in involving himself with the question of long-range escort fighters, pp.40 1-2. 121. On
Node: 10244, Score: 0.02951436660669, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0019.txt, Content: to World War I. Trenchard's assertions depended upon the unsubstantiated assumption that the British (now meaning the entire nation) would be better able to endure an offensive contest of wills because they would show greater strength of character and staying power than their potential enemies. All would depend on a sheer determination to press home the offensive. In a 1933 lecture Air Commodore Philip Joubert de la Ferte, then Commandant of the RAF Staff College, told his students: 'The outcome lies, as always, in the natural aptitude for fighting, in the leadership, and in the material employed. The nation with the better fighting men, the stouter hearts, the better leaders and equipment will, in the end, outfight the weaker, who will be forced more and more on the defensive ... '64 But this conception becomes problematical when 'stouter hearts' are overemphasized in relation to other things -most especially training and operational planning. Again, Sir John Slessor summed it up aptly and honestly when he wrote in his memoir, 'Our belief in the bomber, in fact, was intuitive- a matter of faith. '65 The idea of 'pushing' the other side onto the defensive was vague, and caused, at times, more than a little confusion both outside and inside the RAF. The RAF's desire to retain flexibility, and its tendency to avoid com­ mitting itself in advance to a specific target set caused concern in the other services. Both the Army and the Navy wondered: (1) if the RAF would support them in war, (2) if the new service intended to do any counterforce work against an opposing air force, and (3) if it intended to bomb civilians indiscriminately. Trenchard attempted to address all these issues in a lecture he gave to the Imperial Defence College in October 1928, but confusion and  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 13 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 103 doubts continued afterwards.66 Trenchard had shown limited interest in co­ operation with the other services, and, as
Node: 10260, Score: 0.0284963401015129, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0035.txt, Content: ed land­ based and naval aviation between the Army and the Navy, gave the Army an officially-sanctioned, defensive use for long range bombers: defenders of the American coastline. The need to hit a ship at sea put a premium on 'precision' capability.109 This need dovetailed nicely with the arrival of the Norden bombsight, and the advanced Martin B-10 bomber aircraft, which, with its sleek design, speed over 200mph, and altitude ceiling over 20,000 feet, pointed out the direction that future bomber aircraft might take.110 Also, the memory of Secretary of War Newton Baker lingered; the defensive nature of American security policy meant that US airmen had to be very careful in their statements, and they had to be especially care-  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 22 --- 112 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE ful not to imply that they were interested in anything that smacked of indiscriminate bombing. Finally, the trend of thought may have come from a momentum which developed when ACTS moved from Virginia to Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, and set out consciously to become the hub of air force thought and theory. As a centre for 'air power' thought, Maxwell brought together a group of men -including instructors Kenneth Walker, Donald Wilson, Laurence Kuter, and Haywood Hansell -who tended to think along the same lines, and to share their ideas with one another. Removed from the immediacy of the air threat in Europe and its social overtones, they began to think about strategic bombing in economic terms. The onset of the Great Depression -which had a particularly harsh impact in America -had reinforced the notion of the intricate interdependence (and thus the essential frailty) of advanced industrial economies. Interpreting this through the lens of economics, and combining it with con­ cepts of concentration and efficiency (ideas important to them as military men), they developed a way of thinking which they viewed as uniquely and distinctly theirs -a product of ACTS bu
Node: 10268, Score: 0.0283277562157515, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0043.txt, Content: as the only feasible use to which Bomber Command could be put. As this situation and its consequences sank in, arguments increased for using bombers to attack German morale. While serving as Chief of Bomber Command, Portal concluded that German actions in the war had justified the destruction of German cities, and that such a course might, under the circum­ stances, be the most profitable one to follow. The Ministry of Information had reported in December 1940 that 'the Germans ... will not stand a quarter of the bombing that the British have shown they can take.' And Trenchard (now Lord Trenchard) weighed into the debate in spring 1941, making a case for area attacks. Using some of his infamous mathematics to support the notion that no bomb is wasted on a city, he argued that 'ninety-nine percent of the bombs dropped on cities would contribute directly to the destruction of German morale.' He argued further that the attacks should be made every night -even if only one bomber could be sent over. On 2 June 1941 Trenchard offered his views at a meeting held by the Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal, to discuss bombing policy. He argued exactly what he had argued in 1918 and 1928, pointing out that everything turned on 'the difference between the German and British mentality'. He said that reports from a wide variety of sources indicated that the German civil population stood up 'very badly' to the strain of repeated bombing attacks. Undermining German morale, he argued, ought to be Bomber Command's primary aim; he recommended repeated attacks designed to force the popula-  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 27 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 117 tion into air raid shelters, onto the defensive, and into a state of demoralisa­ tion.131 In July Deputy Chief of Staff Air Vice-Marshal Norman Bottomley wrote that the German weak points were morale and transportation, and that recent attacks on cities had had an impact on morale.132 In Oct
Node: 10272, Score: 0.0271910587778922, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0047.txt, Content: at work than national assertiveness. American airmen had genuinely convinced themselves that the theory they had developed at ACTS was going to work. They felt that they had tapped into a bit of genius down in Alabama, and they were determined to try it out.l46 By the summer of 1942 the Americans were ready to commence their offensive, but the early raids were mere pinpricks on the verges of European airspace. The need to build up the infrastructure of the air arm at British  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 29 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 119 bases, and the drain on resources to support the North Africa invasion took their toll. By the autumn Churchill was deeply concerned about the limited capabilities of the American force, and the Americans' tenacious commit­ ment to daylight bombing. On 16 September he wrote directly to Roosevelt urging him to support and prioritise the production of aircraft, so that the Americans could begin a substantial contribution to the air campaign. 147 One month later Churchill wrote to Roosevelt's special assistant, Harry Hopkins. He diplomatically informed him that the British were not so optimistic as the Americans seemed to be about the initial efforts of the USAAF over France, and warned that there was a danger of committing too fully to the production of bombers suited only to daylight work.148 In London, a debate over 'what to do about the Americans' raged between Churchill and his leading air advisers, and the exchange of letters it produced makes for fascinating reading. 149 Both Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) Sir Charles Portal and Churchill had grave fears that the Americans would commit resources to a campaign they could not ultimately carry out, at which time it would be too late in the day for a tactical volte-face. Decisions made in 1942 would determine what could be done in 1944. In a memo of 26 September Portal asked rhetorically if it were not 'essential' to persuade the Americans to at least lay the
Node: 10242, Score: 0.0261157339842308, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0017.txt, Content: ing. '57 Besides hyperbole, a key problem with such confident rhetoric was that it was almost completely divorced from the reality of the late 1920s RAF. Labouring under the budgetary contraints influenced by the 'Ten Year Rule', the 1928 RAF had progressed little from a decade earlier, consisting mainly of wooden biplanes with limited ranges and capabilities. The main operational experience of the force derived from aerial policing duties in far­ flung colonial outposts. 'Air control', as it was known, helped to give the RAF a desperately-needed rationale for continued existence and funding, but it did little to help prepare pilots and planners for a war between industrialised states.'" Aside from the temporary flurry of concern over the French air force, the RAF had no real enemy to consider during the 1920s, and there was no change going into the 1930s. Indeed, the very raison d' etre of the RAF was called into question during the Geneva disarmament talks of 1932-34, which focused on banning bomber aircraft. Though the talks failed in the end, the British government had taken them very seriously and had agreed to a good faith moratorium on heavy bomber construction while the conference was in session. 59 Certainly the RAF could not escape its circumstances; the lack of a real threat, the stringent finances, and the anti-military spirit of the day all took their toll on planning and functioning. But these problems were exacerbated by the service's own tendency to downplay genuinely analytical thinking about air warfare, and to tolerate a wide gulf between rhetoric and reality. Instead of fostering critical thinking, the RAF Staff College taught a rather single-minded dogma that students had to internalise even before they matriculated.60 Too often it seemed that more attention was paid to fox­ hunting than to target finding and bomb aiming. While the RAF was not alone in this-Britain's Army suffered similar interwar doldrums- the lack of attention paid to operatio
Node: 10294, Score: 0.0260557734230676, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0069.txt, Content: AN STRATEGIC BOMBING 131 Williams, (note 9), pp.223-4, and 232-3; also Wise (note II), p.299. 14. Trenchard was in many ways an odd choice for head of the IF since he had staunchly opposed the formation of an independent air force when momentum for it developed after the German bomber raids on England in spring 1917. (For Trenchard's initial concerns about an independent air force, see his letter of 30 Aug. 1917 in AIR 1/521/16/12/3). It is likely that he took up the reins of the new long-range bombing force because he knew he had good relations with his allies in the field, and could at least oversee and control the the resources being committed to the task. In Dec. 1917 Trenchard was recalled to London and virtually forced to take the reins of the new service as CAS. He was almost immediately at loggerheads with the first Secretary of State for Air (Lord Rothermere), however, and resigned his post in March. Sitting in London without a job was embarrassing to him, and made him more amenable to the offer made to him by Rothermere's successor (Lord Weir) to take charge of the IF, but his acceptance was contingent upon certain conditions. On the events of Dec. 1917 see Andrew Boyle, Trenchard (NY: Norton, 1962), pp.249-55, and Cooper (note 6), p.l20. On Trenchard's decision to become head of the IF, see Smith, British Air Strategy Between the Wars, p.21; also Boyle, pp.284-8, and Cooper (note 6), p.l29. 15. Records of the work of the IF can be found in Trenchard's dispatches back to London, located in AIR l/458/15/312/69. Historian S.F. Wise has analysed the figures in Canadian Airmen and the First World War, pp.298-314. A very detailed analysis and critique also can be found in Williams, 'Statistics and Strategic Bombardment,' pp.324-439. 16. During the months in which the IF operated, CAS Maj.-Gen. Sir Frederick Sykes wished that Trenchard would dedicate more of his attention to genuine 'strategic' bombing. This sentiment was shared by other Air Staff planners. For
Node: 10279, Score: 0.0252987026341459, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0054.txt, Content: diminishing German oil supplies, and Harris sought to maintain the focus on area attacks -which he still believed would lead to general collapse. In the end there was no real con­ sensus, and the effort of the forces was dissipated among these three target sets. Over the spring and summer General Spaatz had become convinced that he had the key to victory in his clutches. To Spaatz, German synthetic oil looked to be the long sought 'key node'-a real bottleneck in Hitler's war machine. His feelings were supported by information derived from Ultra intelligence, indicating that the Germans were indeed beginning to suffer critical short­ ages. There was no easy substitute for it, and the pressure on the Axis increased as Soviet armies advanced west and attained the fuel sources of Eastern Europe. When they were not engaged in tactical missions, Spaatz's bombers were directed to strike oil targets as relentlessly as possible over the summer. Spaatz was working against time. He knew that his bombers, which had never adapted well to radar aids and relied on visual bombing methods for real results, would be handicapped once the autumn weather began to close in.'7' Even after long-range escorts facilitated daylight raids into Germany, American planners still faced the considerable problem of achieving anything approximating 'precision' bombing. Large formations of bombers covered large pieces of real estate -and all that land underneath came under attack when the lead plane released its bombs, cueing all the others. In addition, the consistently cloud-shrouded weather of northern Europe forced USAAF crews to rely on blind-bombing techniques -which they never liked -far more than they would have preferred. A careful study of 57 American 'precision' strikes on three separate synthetic oil plants revealed that only 2.2 percent of the bombs dropped hit 'damageable' buildings and equipment; no less than 87.1 percent 'were spread over the surrounding countryside'- out­ side the per
Node: 10265, Score: 0.0245320423809947, Chunk File: biddle_origins/chunks/biddle_origins_0040.txt, Content: he YB-40 - a modified B-17, which proved eventually to be a complete failure. 122 Ideas and Realities: The Early Phase As the German threat loomed ever larger, Britain's Air Ministry began to make detailed plans for coping with it. 'This process', wrote the British official historians, 'certainly brought them down to earth.' 123 As they came face to face with operational realities, they began to move gradually away from the abstract and ethereal tones of the 1920s, and towards more concrete ideas, and greater specificity in targeting. The first major step in the targeting process took place in the autumn of 1937, just as the severe operational limitations of Bomber Command were being laid bare. The Air Ministry sent Bomber Command a list of 13 plans called the WA (Western Air) plans, with orders to evaluate especially the first three for operational feasibility. That  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 25 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 115 year the Treasury finally, if reluctantly, agreed to a National Defence Loan to help cover the costs of rearmament. The plan ultimately favoured by both the Air Ministry and Bomber Command was WAS, an attack on German war industry intended to produce the maximum dislocation of the German war economy. The plan offered the greatest flexibility and possibility to a force that would be working under real operational constraints. 124 Indeed, it was not until the first meeting of the Bombing Policy Sub-Committee (of the Bombing Policy Committee), on 22 March 1938, that the RAF really settled down to think about many of the vital operational issues involved in getting bombs successfully to a target. The committee members expressed the opinion that there was a 'crying need' for a Bombing Development Establishment which could work out many of the scientific problems vital to successful bombing. It was pointed out that a similar proposal had been made at the second, third, and tenth meetings of the Bombing Committee (which ha