Node: 8130, Score: 0.0833399188756741, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0272.txt, Content: mber penetration and surviv- ability. They pinned their hopes on the self-defending bomber flying to distant targets unescorted: their vision required that sleek, fast, high- altitude bombers would use formation flying techniques, their own armament, and natural possibilities for evasion to reach their targets without prohibitive losses. As Trenchard and the RAF had done, the Americans sought to convince themselves that bombers would “get through.”  Claiming bomber survivability in a future war meant downplaying bomber vulnerability in the last war. While this was a bit awkward, it could be done by asserting that improved tactics and greater bomber speeds would change the equation. The technology of the early 1930s eased the process initially: the development of the B-9, B-10, B-12, and B-17 bombers—all modern combat aircraft with greatly improved speed and range—furthered the idea that fast, well-armed bombers could operate on their own. (Indeed, bomber advocates believed that the the speed differential between bombers and fighters would only in- crease.) Before radar, the assumption that fast bombers would use speed, altitude, and cloud cover to achieve their objectives seemed rather straightforward. Drawing these apparently sound conclusions, American planners deemphasized the requirement for a suitable escort. ‘At the same time, though, one finds in U.S. discussions of bomber vul- nerability an underlying current of subtle but nagging doubt that kept the question of escorts alive. Despite the faith of many in the self- defending capabilities of bombers, some Americans never entirely aban- doned the quest for a suitable escort. This search was ensnared by design and engineering challenges, oversights, and conceptual blind spots—all helping to insure that the doctrine of the self-defending bomber would remain largely intact until wartime experience would rudely challenge its assumptions."  Examples from past military experience (aside from the World War I aviation
Node: 8056, Score: 0.0755243221023348, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0198.txt, Content: bombers should be able to look after themselves without the addition of an escort of fighters; although cer- tain of the bombers might be more heavily armed than the remainder at the expense of their bomb load.””? In his response, the DCAS listed a set of concerns about escorts that was fairly representative of RAF thinking: specialized escorts would demand resources that might other- wise be put into bombers; they would have to be tied to their forma- tion; and they could not necessarily be better armed than the aircraft they were escorting. He concluded that though he did not wish to con- strain free discussion of the question, he felt that “the whole conception of fighter escorts is essentially defective.”**  In June 1937 the Air Fighting Committee of the Air Ministry found itself stymied over the question of escorts. After listening to detailed arguments first in favor of and then against the development of escort fighters, they decided it was not the right time for special requirements to be drawn up.” Instead, they recommended exploring the possibility of fitting certain bombers with more (and larger) guns, more ammuni- tion, and better protective armament.” In the late summer of 1938, Ludlow-Hewitt, then Chief of Bomber Command, suggested very se- rious reconsideration of the Air Staff’s policy on escorts. Confessing to his own past pessimism over escorts, and confusion over what an ade- quate type might look like, he was nonetheless concerned enough to advocate some action. He envisioned, ultimately, a bomber force work- ing out of France, aided by heavily armed escorts." At an April 1939 meeting on Bomber Command readiness, the Director of Operational Requirements reported that further discussion on the issue had yielded the opinion that the defense of bombers could be better undertaken “by bomber aircraft carrying fewer bombs, but more ammunition and guns.”25  ‘As war approached, Air Staff members realized that they had not made sufficient progress on this
Node: 8224, Score: 0.0744040680674696, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0366.txt, Content: ly; they looked to be a concentrated and potentially lucrative target.’ Harris had sought to resist pressure on him—maintained by those he dismissively called the “Schweinfurt fans” —to attack the target. But the Americans were inter- ested. On 17 August 1943, to celebrate the first anniversary of USAAF operations in Europe, American bombers attacked the Schweinfurt anti- friction bearing plants and the Regensberg Messerschmitt factory. It would be the largest and costliest mission U.S. bomber crews had flown to date, with 16 percent of the force shot down. This, however, did not deter a second attack on Schweinfurt in the autumn. The raid of 14 October, which can only be considered a disaster for the Americans, finally brought an end to the theory of the self-defending bomber. Of the 291 bombers dispatched, 198 of them were shot down or damaged. Indeed, in four raids carried out over six days in October 1943, 148 American bombers had failed to return to their bases.**  In a press conference where he explained that 593 Americans had been lost in the second Schweinfurt raid, General Arnold nonetheless sought to put a positive face on things. He argued that the losses were worth the goal, since Schweinfurt’s production was essential to the Ger- man war effort. He pointed out, in what would prove to be a mistaken assumption, “We know the ball-bearing industry represents a potential bottleneck, for it is impracticable to assemble any considerable stockpile of ball-bearings.” Arnold also sought to reiterate the American commit- ment to “precision” bombing, pointing out that the bombing was un- dertaken “with the care and accuracy of a marksman firing a rifle at a bullseye.” The New York Times article conveying Arnold’s commentary also gave optimistic assessments by Sen. Sheridan Downey (D) of Cali- fornia, who insisted that full-scale bombing would “bring the Nazis to their knees in four months,” and by the USAAF’s Brig. Gen. Curtis LeMay, who asserted that Germany would
Node: 8138, Score: 0.0728221312775153, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0280.txt, Content: ending that bomber aviation  170 CHAPTER 3  seek out every means for self-defense; only if all other means failed should additional aircraft be provided to support long-range missions. It suggested that if the need for an escort was fully demonstrated, then a search for a suitable machine should be made among existing aircraft types. The board did not want to see time, resources, or attention taken away from other projects of higher status. Several two-seater designs received preliminary consideration, but the greater promise was seen to reside in a larger platform—perhaps a modified bomber.” Larger planes, however, would not match the maneuverability and fighting characteristics of the defensive fighters they would have to face.  The heightened tensions of the late thirties, and greater investment in aviation generally, drew some attention back to fighters and to the ques- tion of escorts particularly. But a 1938 conference on escorts reflected ongoing confusion regarding design possibilities, and a 1939 study con- cluded pessimistically that there was “little, if any, possibility” of build- ing an escort fighter with the necessary range and performance to cope with the enemy’s short-range interceptors.’” Continuing concern over fire hazards led the Chief of the Air Corps in May 1939 to order that no tactical plane be equipped with a droppable tank."  At the same time, the bomber units themselves tended to consider escorts largely superfluous in light of increased bomber speeds and tac- tics using altitude, cloud, and movement to evade enemy defenses. In June 1939, Lt. Col. Donald Wilson, Director of Air Tactics and Strategy at ACTS, cautioned the Air Corps against diverting too many resources to the escort issue. He argued that bombers modified with additional firepower could serve the purpose. Opinion was divided, however. In- deed, the Air Corps Board took another look at the issue in early 1940 and concluded that bombers would need protection on daylight mis- s
Node: 8137, Score: 0.0679880003222991, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0279.txt, Content: ennault wrote an eight-page critique, arguing that the P-26 was outmoded compared to foreign fighters of far superior quality. He argued further that, instead of proving the invulnerability of bombers, the maneuvers only proved the need for improved intercep- tors, better tactics, and effective ground control.'* In 1936 the Air Corps’s Chief of the War Plans and Training Division felt compelled to dispute and disown a critical article Chennault published in the May— June 1936 Infantry Journal.”  So convinced was Chennault of the soundness of his own ideas that he successfully tested an experimental air defense system that included ground observers, a centralized communications agency, and alert fighters. But while he was able to influence a group of young fighter pilots—one of whom suggested that if the bomber boys could be lured into a fair test, real bullets should be used—Chennault did not make much of a dent in the bomber orthodoxy then ascendent. His retirement in 1937 due to physical disability meant that the bomber advocates were freed from the naysayings of their most persistent and vocal critic.’  As in Britain, this issue was hindered by rivalry and compartmentaliz- ation. No disinterested central authority successfully mediated the de- bate. Once the theory of the long-range self-defending bomber had taken hold, it proved surprisingly robust. The 1935 “Bombardment” text prescribed that escorts for bombers would not be provided unless bombers could not in fact penetrate enemy resistance.’” This contingent statement implied that escorts would be on call if experience ever con- tradicted theory. But, though a fitful quest for an escort continued, it never enjoyed high priority before the war. In 1935 the Air Corps Board chose to handle the escort issue by recommending that bomber aviation  170 CHAPTER 3  seek out every means for self-defense; only if all other means failed should additional aircraft be provided to support long-range missions. It suggested th
Node: 8143, Score: 0.0662653355760978, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0285.txt, Content: and American observers of the war. Conclusions varied with each ob- server, but a few key themes were articulated repeatedly: airplanes could effectively disrupt and demoralize troops on the ground; and unescorted day bombers would be repeatedly harassed and attacked by defending fighters. Indeed, Condor Legion bombers were driven to nighttime at- tacks just as the bomber forces of World War I had been. Nationalist Air Chief Alfredo Kindelan argued that bombers had to have friendly fighter escort whenever enemy fighters were expected in their area.'*  In August 1937 the Air Corps Newsletter had reprinted an article from Revue de l’Armée de I’Air, whose author noted, “It proves to be very difficult for a bombing multi-seater to get away by day from the attacks of a single-seater pursuit plane; the only effective protection is then in the escorting single-seater.’ Maj. Harrison G. Crocker, who had given the sole lecture on the Spanish civil war at ACTS, argued that to prevail against enemy interceptors, bombers required armament, tight formations, and escort protection. And in the summer of 1938 the U.S. attaché for Air in Spain reported that Spanish military leaders unani- mously agreed that pursuit must come first.’ In addition, American intelligence reports made clear that bombers’ defensive armament had not deterred their attackers.” Other independent reports from Spain and China, brought to the attention of the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps, also cast doubt on the invincibility of bombers.’ All of this helped to keep discussions of escorts alive, even if they were not ac- corded first place on the Air Corps priority list.  The pangs of concern felt at this point by some bomber advocates were intensified when war broke out in Europe in the late summer of 1939. Despite his desire to downplay the impact of the air wars of the late 1930s, General Arnold found himself having to rethink his earlier views on the ability of bombers to penetrate to their targets w
Node: 8139, Score: 0.0639407156511983, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0281.txt, Content: er could serve the purpose. Opinion was divided, however. In- deed, the Air Corps Board took another look at the issue in early 1940 and concluded that bombers would need protection on daylight mis- sions where heavy opposition was likely: “The pertinent technical prob- lems incident to the provision of such protection merit thorough investi- gation.” But several studies that year led to inconclusive results on whether, and to what degree, the United States should continue the search for a viable escort."  This atmosphere of conflicting opinions—and doubts as to the tech- nical feasibility of a long-range escort—hardly was conducive to the development of a satisfactory plane. Unfortunately, American designers continued to focus on large, twin-engined types like the Bell YFM-1A Airacuda, the Lockheed XP-58, and the Northrop XP-61 (which belat- edly went into production as a night fighter). Equipping heavy bombers to serve as escorts to the others was considered, yielding the wartime YB-40 (a modified B-17), which proved eventually to be a complete failure."  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 171  “LESSONS” FROM FOREIGN WARS  Air theorists and planners in the United States hesitated to draw firm conclusions or lessons from the “little” wars of the late 1930s. Indeed, American interpretations did not differ substantially from those in Brit- ain, and they were remarkably similar in rhetorical style. Observations were heavily weighted with qualifiers that circumscribed the significance of the information reported or the value of the information itself. Air Corps officers insisted that these scattered foreign conflicts differed fun- damentally from any potential war between “first class powers” in Eu- rope. Despite this attitude, evidence from Spain heightened concerns in the United States about the ability of the bomber always to “get through,” subtly undermining the certainty with which the self-defending bomber theory was asserted.  Several branches of the U.S. Army took
Node: 8198, Score: 0.061963939703465, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0340.txt, Content: had not found any solution to the escort problem. While the board saw a need for auxiliary tanks for fighters, and also for increasing the safety of bombers on deep penetration raids, it “never connected the single engine pursuit aircraft and drop tanks with the bomber protection problem.” If this oversight seems remarkable in hindsight, it speaks to the power of cognitive filters and the enduring blind spots they can produce. Undaunted by either the German or Brit- ish conversion to night operations in the face of unacceptable daylight losses, the Americans convinced themselves that the superior speed and armament of the B-17, along with the maintenance of tighter forma- tions, would avoid the troubles faced by European bombers.  208 CHAPTER 4  Another key assumption of the plan was that American bombers would exploit the accuracy and precision of the gyro-stabilized Norden bombsight to destroy targets at the rate calculated. The faith placed in high-altitude “precision” bombing had yet to be challenged. It rested on data derived from artificial training conditions and bombing competi- tions that bore little resemblance to the operational demands of war in Europe.’ Although the AWPD/1 planners tried to account for the dif- ferences, they still made some mistaken assumptions, such as the num- ber of sorties required to destroy a target, and the number of sorties that could be flown per month given the weather in northern Europe. These problems insured that the plan would have to be altered later, sometimes dramatically, based on operational experience.  In December 1941 the shock of Pearl Harbor focused Allied attention on the American plan for air warfare. Despite the direct attack by Japan, President Roosevelt saw Hitler’s Germany as the more immedi- ate threat to American security. This perception, which had been for- malized in Anglo-American staff conversations earlier in the year, un- derscored the priority of American planning for a European war. For Churchi
Node: 8132, Score: 0.0611948780833744, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0274.txt, Content: uperior to the bombers they were to protect, and ranges equal to them.* In Air Warfare, Wil- liam Sherman made the case for fighter escorts. He argued that while pursuit might not remain continually with bombers, they should ar- range to be with bombers during crucial phases of missions." But lim- ited fighter range vexed the problem of providing escorts for bombers of ever-increasing range and speed. The authors of the 1926 Manual pro- posed that bombers be made as fast as possible to increase their chances of avoiding hostile interception." In addition, they devoted consider- able space to particular types of self-defensive formations for bombers.  In 1925 and 1926 the Air Service had undertaken tests of airplane performance with auxiliary, droppable tanks. These revealed that the extra weight did not seriously affect the general flying characteristics of the aircraft." Unfortunately, despite the feasibility of external tanks to increase range, they were not immediately embraced by the Air Corps for military use. Concern focused on the fire hazard posed by the tanks, and the possible reduction in performance caused by their weight and increased drag. Droppable tanks were discussed at ACTS beginning in 1929, but the “Pursuit” manual concluded that cruising speeds of bombers and fighters differed so much that an escort group would not be able to support bombers all the way to and from their targets. It recommended using two escort groups: one for the outbound phase and one for the return trip. A conference of Air Corps leaders, held at Lang- ley Field in April 1929, discussed the topic of escorts but reached no consensus.'"”  Texts used at ACTS in the 1930s reflected both the tensions sur- rounding the question of bomber survivability, and the increasing lean toward the idea that they could defend themselves. The 1930 “Bom- bardment” text readily acknowledged that pursuit had taken a toll on  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 167  daytime bombing in World War I, forci
Node: 8197, Score: 0.0611568177521837, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0339.txt, Content: ”  In line with the thinking developed at the Air Corps Tactical School, the authors of AWPD/1 believed that bombers could rely on speed, high-altitude, massed formations, armament, and defensive firepower to penetrate to their targets in daylight. Regarding the latter, they called for increased gun power in larger calibre machine guns and in cannon; power-operated turrets; and adequate armor plate protection for the combat crew and vital parts of the airplane.’ Still, the planners thought it wise to hedge their bets by paying at least some attention to the ques- tion of long-range escorts. Following a pattern established in the inter- war years, they misjudged the type of aircraft required when they called for a large, heavily gunned, two-seater type that would have a range equal to the bombers they would escort, and would have armor to pro- tect each of the crew members. They requested that prototypes be built and that production be expanded if such planes proved necessary in numbers.'”  The long-range escort fighter still proved a vexing problem, even though the means of solution—the auxiliary, droppable fuel tank—was within reach if only the right people had been able and willing to grasp it. The need to keep aircraft design simple in order to facilitate high volume production was apparently the reason why Col. Spaatz, who had some sway in these matters by virtue of his work in the AAF’s Plans and Matériel divisions, passed up an opportunity to have auxiliary fuel tanks placed on 623 P-39D aircraft.’* Later, in October 1941, a board convened especially to discuss the future development of pursuit aircraft and failed, again, to perceive the issue with insight and clarity. One of its members, Col. Ira Eaker, would be influenced by the attitudes of the RAE, which still had not found any solution to the escort problem. While the board saw a need for auxiliary tanks for fighters, and also for increasing the safety of bombers on deep penetration raids, it “never conne
Node: 8055, Score: 0.0611083697570968, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0197.txt, Content: oceeding to and from their objective by double, or more than double, their num- ber of fighters, has been found by both sides to be a necessity notwith- standing the ability of the bomber to shoot down fighters.”** (Inter- estingly, his observations on escort fighters were reprinted and distributed within the Air Ministry when the question resurfaced in the spring and summer of 1939.) But even though he had sounded a tocsin, Goddard soothed his readers by pointing out that bombers could defend them- selves with speed, and forward and rear gun defenses; he added that “bomber crews were confident in their ability to bring down fighters, and many successes by bombers were claimed.”2””  Prior to Goddard’s visit to Spain, the DDOps (Richard Peirse) had sent a memorandum to the DCAS indicating that escort operations in Spain ought to be observed, as the war provided “the only examples of modern air forces in actual conflict with each other since 1918.” He was interested in German tactics for using fighters as escorts or “as a sort of advanced guard for the bombers.” Nonetheless, he remained skeptical, stating, “While ... I still feel it would be a confession of weakness and a waste of effort on our part even to contemplate the use of fighters in this way, I cannot help feeling that we ought to be pre-  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 119  pared for such an eventuality.”*"* He asked that the Bombing and Fight- ing Committees look into the question, and that a specification be drawn up for an escort fighter. But he admitted, “I confess I am not at all clear in my own mind as to the type of fighter that should be pro- vided.”*” Commenting on the minute sheet a week later (30 November 1936), the Director of Staff Duties (Sholto Douglas) wrote, “My own feeling in the matter is that the bombers should be able to look after themselves without the addition of an escort of fighters; although cer- tain of the bombers might be more heavily armed than the remainder at the expense of their
Node: 8228, Score: 0.0582438509069126, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0370.txt, Content: to address it; on the other, they tried to reassure themselves that there might be no need for such a plane. If the 1941 American plan AWPD/1 had called for the develop- ment of escorts as a kind of insurance policy, it nonetheless sent plan- ners down an unproductive path toward heavy two-seaters. AWPD/42 did not reemphasize the problem of fighters; instead, it argued that “our current type bombers can penetrate existing German defenses to the limit of their radius of operation without excessive losses.” *  The failure to prioritize escorts and their supporting technology ear- lier meant that possible solutions to the bomber penetration problem were slow to be conceived. The demands of the war intervened too. In 1942 the invasion of North Africa diverted aircraft from Europe and stripped the Eighth Air Force of its P-38 fighters, replacing them with shorter-range Republic P-47 fighters suffering engine and radio troubles.  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 227  Over the summer of 1943 hopes pinned on the YB-40, a B-17 modified to serve as a bomber escort cruiser, proved unfounded. Earlier, how- ever, in the autumn of 1942, the USAAF had made preliminary inquiries into a technology that ought, by rights, to have received more attention sooner: the jettisonable auxiliary fuel tank. Work on suitable tanks pro- ceeded in the spring of 1943, and, in July, the USAAF used them on a combat mission for the first time. Production difficulties in both Britain and the United States held up more extensive use of improved tanks, even as mounting bomber losses in the late summer and autumn gave greater urgency to their manufacture and employment. Not until De- cember 1943 were they arriving in numbers that would allow them to make a difference.“  Adequate numbers of capable fighters were also slow in coming. Fol- lowing a tour of operational units in England in the spring of 1943, Asst. Secretary of War Robert Lovett realized the importance of escorts; he informed General Arnold that th
Node: 8200, Score: 0.0580968876864881, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0342.txt, Content: 42, just days after Bomber Com- mand’s new directive had focused it on the morale of German workers, the British Air Staff in Washington conveyed to the Air Ministry in London the essentials of U.S. air plans. The Americans were “very firmly convinced of the inadequacy of the night bombing and conse- quently of the need to intensify the day bombing effort.” Heavy bombers would be sent to Britain, and the Americans hoped that with improved armament and crew training these bombers could operate without fighter escort.” The British knew that this commitment to day- light “precision” bombing would cause a number of difficulties, and they made clear to the Americans their doubts about deep penetrations into Germany during daylight. They urged the Americans to join them, with the RAF as senior partner, in a bomber offensive waged by night."  Clearly, the Americans and the British were heading in two very dif- ferent directions, and these had to be reconciled somehow. In the event, the process would prove to be tumultuous. The British, due to their own grim experience, had no faith in the Americans’ ability successfully to conduct a daylight precision campaign over Germany. The Ameri- cans, for their part, had no interest in changing their plans. Historian Noble Frankland, in a paper he delivered at the United States Air Force Academy long after the end of World War II, argued that there were three reasons why the Americans had clung so tenaciously to daylight bombing of selected military targets even though there was plenty of evidence to indicate that it was a problematic strategy: (1) they believed that the B-17 was better suited to daytime operations than to nighttime ones; (2) they were unimpressed with the British effort; and (3) they were simply determined to operate their own air forces independently." He was quite right on all counts, though his third point deserves elab- oration. USAAF commanders, focused as they had been on the fight for organizational independe
Node: 8131, Score: 0.0564850227127725, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0273.txt, Content: of the self-defending bomber would remain largely intact until wartime experience would rudely challenge its assumptions."  Examples from past military experience (aside from the World War I aviation experience) were invoked to reinforce subtly the idea that armed forces of an enemy state, when utilizing the initiatives of space and time, were difficult to find and intercept quickly. Armies had been able to maneuver around one another throughout decades of European history, and navies—even as recently as World War I—had successfully evaded one another much of the time. Both the British and the Ameri- cans would point to the “vast expanse of the air above the earth” as a factor in the promised dominance of bombers. But if conclusions rested in part on perceived reality, they rested as well on selective memory and  166 CHAPTER 3  filtering. Like the RAE, the Air Corps generally downplayed informa- tion—available by the late 1930s and based on techological develop- ments—suggesting that bombers would become increasingly vulnerable in light of new breakthroughs enhancing the capabilities of defensive fighters. And (as we shall see next) they largely interpreted the wars of the 1930s in ways that did not disrupt their assumptions about bombers.  The evolution of American thinking about bomber vulnerability is not hard to trace in documents, speeches, and texts. Early post-World War I aviation studies by Americans had revealed a healthy respect for the ability of fighters to intercept bombers. Fighter escorts were recom- mended for bomber formations, even though it was recognized that this would not always be feasible in all situations. In 1922 the commander of the 1st Pursuit Group, Maj. Carl Spaatz, had called for maneuver- able, heavily armed escort fighters with speeds superior to the bombers they were to protect, and ranges equal to them.* In Air Warfare, Wil- liam Sherman made the case for fighter escorts. He argued that while pursuit might not remain continually w
Node: 8229, Score: 0.0563762713997704, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0371.txt, Content: so slow in coming. Fol- lowing a tour of operational units in England in the spring of 1943, Asst. Secretary of War Robert Lovett realized the importance of escorts; he informed General Arnold that there was an “immediate need” in Europe for long-range fighters and “proper tanks”—not only for P-47s, but for P-38s and P-51s as well. The P-51 had been produced originally for the British in lieu of the Curtiss fighters they had requested from North American Aviation, Inc. But the initial model, in which the Amer- icans took little interest, had disappointing performance capabilities. Not until the British replaced its Allison V-1710 engine with a much more capable Rolls Royce Merlin 61 did the plane begin to show real promise. American interest in the plane picked up, and, equipped with the American-built Packard-Merlin engine, the P-51 quickly outclassed other aircraft of its type.  Even in the summer of 1943, however, the Americans had not totally recognized the potential of a solution so near at hand—in large part because they had not yet completely acknowledged that there was a problem to be solved. Of the first 145 P-51B machines produced be- tween June and August 1943, none was sent to Britain as a long-range fighter. Only after the second Schweinfurt raid was the production schedule for the P-51s (and P-38s) reconfigured to give priority produc- tion to long-range escorts over reconnaissance types. Once they had been forced to recognize the problem, however, the Americans took ad- vantage of the available solution. Relying on a fully-functioning indus- trial production base, they built escorts and brought them into the Eu- ropean theater in large numbers. Soon, escorted USSTAF bombers were flying regularly to strategic targets that the Germans felt compelled to defend, provoking furious battles of attrition between German and US. fighters. These contests ultimately proved to be a first step in the destruction of the Luftwaffe.  In this same period, the Americans
Node: 8223, Score: 0.0562481677953622, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0365.txt, Content: es against enemy fighters well enough to keep losses within reasonable bounds.” It credited success to the .50 caliber ma- chine gun arming U.S. bombers and to the tight formations used by bomber groups.** But events would prove that the Americans had not yet earned such bragging rights. Indeed, the basis for their optimism was fast evaporating. Continuing production problems meant that by the end of the summer, the Eighth Air Force was short of strength by some 240 bombers. In the meantime, German fighter strength on the western front had increased at a staggering rate: single-engine fighters had doubled in number, and the repertoire of deadly fighter tactics was expanding just as rapidly.” Also, American attempts at “precision bombing” were consistently hindered by pervasive cloud cover over northern Europe, and by the extreme altitudes forced upon the bomber pilots by German flak, fired by increasing numbers of anti-aircraft guns. The highly touted and publicized Norden bombsight, which had shown such promise in controlled test environments, had distinct operational  224 CHAPTER S$  limitations in Europe. Under the circumstances, Eighth Air Force bomb- ers began to divert with disturbing frequency to area targets or to fringe targets less likely to exact a high price in bombers and crews.“ Despite these setbacks, however, USAAF leaders were determined to maintain the daylight campaign.  Both the U.S. Committee of Operations Analysts (COA) and British intelligence sources had concluded that antifriction bearings represented a potential bottleneck in the German war economy, and that the Ger- mans had not stockpiled them. The factories around Schweinfurt, Germany—sixty-five miles east of Frankfurt—were known to manufac- ture approximately one-half of the total Axis supply; they looked to be a concentrated and potentially lucrative target.’ Harris had sought to resist pressure on him—maintained by those he dismissively called the “Schweinfurt fans” —to attack the tar
Node: 7984, Score: 0.0545263256153037, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0126.txt, Content: t on the Odhams Printing Works in 1918, helped perpetuate the perception that British defenses were somewhere between inadequate and futile.”  But with respect to both zeppelin and Gotha/Giant raids, British de- fenses improved over time, and the cost to the Germans increased corre- spondingly. Indeed, from the German perspective, the air war looked very different. While it did manage to tie up resources in Britain, it was disappointing in other respects. Improved British defenses forced night flying, which in turn complicated the nemeses of long-range bombing— mechanical difficulties and weather. These took an inevitable toll: of the sixty-two German planes lost during the Gotha/Giant raids, forty-three were lost to operational accidents. British defenses accounted outright for the downing of another nineteen planes—nearly one-third of total German losses. Indeed, during its year of operation, the German bomber force “England Wing” was, in effect, wiped out nearly twice over. The German bomber raid flown on the night of 19 May 1918 had been so costly to its perpetrators—over 20 percent of the attacking force was lost—that it helped persuade them to reorient their bombers  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 75  to tactical roles on the continent. The Germans came away from the war unconvinced that the investment in the Giant bomber—in con- struction costs, maintenance, and servicing—had been worth the effort.”  After the war, Trenchard took the stance that defense-oriented expen- diture should be minimized so as to free as many resources as possible for the prosecution of an all-out bomber offensive against the enemy. As we shall see, Air Staff opinions were not uniform on the issue of the offense-defense balance for indigenous forces, and Trenchard would not have his way entirely in this particular realm. Many in the RAF felt it was essential to do the kind of mathematical calculation that Trenchard eschewed: to find the ideal proportion of fighters and bombers that would b
Node: 8222, Score: 0.0541867653748773, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0364.txt, Content: D BOMBER OFFENSIVE 223  ish had failed.’ As we have seen, initial USAAF raids were limited in both range and scope, and they rarely challenged targets the Germans felt compelled to defend. The concentration of German fighters on the eastern and Mediterranean fronts also helped insure that the early American efforts would be relatively unmolested. Indeed, nothing in the American’s experience of bombing had yet forced a reexamination of their faith.  During the spring of 1943 the USAAF turned its primary attention from U-boat pens and construction sites to the German air force. But the campaign against the Luftwaffe, prioritized by Pointblank, proved harder than anticipated: American sorties against German airframe, en- gine, and component factories—limited in number at first because of ongoing production holdups back home—fell victim to the German fighters and anti-aircraft artillery increasingly assigned to the Western Front. In mid-April, 16 of the 115 U.S. bombers dispatched were de- stroyed in a raid on the Focke-Wulf plant at Bremen; a further 44 were damaged. Realizing that the Americans were looking to wrest air su- premacy from them, the Germans set up a defense that, by the summer of 1943, contained a fighter command system covering a geographical zone up to 480 miles deep.  General Eaker retained his faith, however, that daylight bombers op- erating in “well-flown formations” could penetrate enemy air space successfully—with a loss rate of 5 percent or less—in their pursuit of the German aircraft industry.*’ A September 1943 essay for the Royal Air Force Quarterly, written to defend and promote the American bombing effort, argued triumphantly that the Americans had “given the proof” that they could “hit the target from the sub-stratopshere” and “defend themselves against enemy fighters well enough to keep losses within reasonable bounds.” It credited success to the .50 caliber ma- chine gun arming U.S. bombers and to the tight formations used by bomber grou
Node: 8136, Score: 0.0541289801461298, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0278.txt, Content: they rep- resented improvements over the P-26, neither the Seversky P-35 nor the Curtiss P-36 was a match for the B-17.17"  Not everyone, however, accepted the intellectual orthodoxy of bomber invincibility. Lt. Col. Millard Harmon, while a fan of bomber development, nonetheless lamented the short shrift given to pursuit at ACTS. On a board that reviewed the 1935 “Air Force” text, he argued that it was fully conceivable to imagine an enemy air force defeated by hostile pursuit. Likewise, Lt. Col. A. H. Gilkeson, in charge of the 8th Pursuit Group, argued that dismissiveness toward pursuit had led to “the teaching of doctrines which have not been established as being true  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 169  and might even be fatally dangerous to our aims in the event of armed conflict.” And Major O. S. Ferson pointed to improved radio communi- cation as a factor bearing on the future of defensive pursuit and bomber penetration."”  Capt. Claire Chennault, in charge of pursuit aviation at ACTS from 1931 to 1936, acerbically observed that the bomber ought not to be made “the first exception to the ancient principle that for every weapon there is a new and effective counter weapon.”'” At ACTS, Chennault’s frequent verbal battles with bomber advocate Kenneth Walker became legendary. He believed that a responsive ground agency—a defense warning system using improved radio technologies—could solve the in- tercept problem. Outraged that fighter design had been neglected rela- tive to bomber design, he believed that interpretations of the 1930s exercises were flawed and selective. This position, pregnant with impli- cations for an attacking force, brought him into direct conflict with Lt. Col. Hap Arnold. Indeed, in response to Arnold’s interpretation of the 1934 exercises, Chennault wrote an eight-page critique, arguing that the P-26 was outmoded compared to foreign fighters of far superior quality. He argued further that, instead of proving the invulnerability of bombers
Node: 8292, Score: 0.0539316461926724, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0434.txt, Content: ustry, with priority placed on the aircraft industry, were disappointing—indeed they produced little consequential damage. This made Arnold particularly uneasy, for he feared that if American bombers did not make headway in an air force controlled operation, they would be parceled out to army and navy theater commanders.”  The B-29 bomber was the backbone of the Twenty-first Bomber Com- mand. The large plane—the air force’s “three billion dollar gamble” — was to be a war-winning airplane, and thus it had much to prove. The AAF and General Arnold in particular had staked a great deal on the plane. After the second experimental B-29 flew successfully on 27 June 1943, manufacturing sites were set up in Wichita, Kansas; Marietta, Georgia; Omaha, Nebraska; and Seattle, Washington. B-29s were hur- ried off assembly lines to meet President Roosevelt’s pledge that 200 of the aircraft would be ready for combat in Asia by March 1944. But the rush—off the drawing board and off the assembly line both—had costs: the aircraft suffered engine failures, fires, dead power plants, and jammed gear boxes. Thousands of modifications were required to make the plane operationally reliable and effective.”  The manifold teething problems of the B-29 were a major factor in Hansell’s (and Wolfe’s) difficulties, but the weather over Japan was even more of an obstacle. Constant cloud cover, and the prevailing winds of the jet stream (which were imperfectly understood at the time), made it nearly impossible for bombers to keep and hold formation and to bomb their targets accurately. These problems were exacerbated by the unsat- isfactory nature of weather forecasting in the theater and the fact that, due to the long distances being flown, navigational errors could not be corrected: aircraft that went astray either had to return early or bomb a target of opportunity.””  As the failures mounted, General Arnold grew impatient with Han- sell. Like other American commanders and politicians, Arnold wa