Node: 7957, Score: -0.022477951631352, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0099.txt, Content: to examine and evaluate the “material damage done” and the “moral effect caused” by British bombing, and to examine the defensive measures employed by the Germans. They assessed not only the work of the IF, but also that of the RNAS’s No. 3 Wing and New- all’s 41st Wing (later Eighth Brigade). Their reports on various target sets were sent to the Air Ministry on 26 February 1919." In addition, a smaller survey of bomb damage in Belgium was undertaken in November- December 1918.2” Subsequently, in January 1920, the Air Ministry is- sued a publication, A.P. 1225 (Air Publication 1225), titled, “Results of Air Raids on Germany Carried out by the 8th Brigade and Independent Force.” It was produced by a staff headed by Major A. R. Boyle, who had been responsible for producing two wartime assessments—also des- ignated A.P. 1225—analyzing the progress of British bombing. The ear- lier editions were published in August and October 1918.2" The Ameri- cans also arranged for a team to investigate bombing. Undertaken as part of Lieutenant Colonel Gorrell’s effort to put together a history of the Air Service, AEF, the work had as its mandate to secure “as com- plete and reliable information as possible upon which the Air Service may base its future bombing plans.”** The investigators were, like the British, to seek out evidence of material and moral effect. The work of the Americans, discussed below, was done independently of British efforts.  The British Survey  ‘Two principal conclusions were articulated in the original British field survey. The first was that the material damage done to the German war economy generally had been small; the second was that the “moral effect” of bombing had been “considerable.” The first inescapably fol- lowed from physical investigation, but the second, less amenable to em- pirical analysis, could be established only through less direct means— usually interviews and interrogations of factory owners. British survey  58 CHAPTER 1  team members r
Node: 7896, Score: -0.0134497399291162, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0038.txt, Content: ld press; indeed, a wide range of publications sought to glean “lessons” from the Italian experience for the benefit of their own military organi- zations.” Perhaps because of aviation’s dramatic hold on the public imagination, some observers seemed predisposed to view its contribu- tion as revolutionary. The Times (London) correspondent remarked ef- fusively that “it is already clear that no nation can afford to go to war with a marked inferiority in aerial strength.”*  Italian bombing efforts were unsystematic—mainly pilots dropping small bombs arbitrarily over the sides of their planes. Nonetheless, a headline in Italy’s Gazzetta del Popolo, printed after the initial raid, exclaimed that the bombs had scattered the “terrorized Turks.”* The Italians seemed convinced of the psychological impact of the bombing; less subjective observers also were prepared to argue that even though the bombs had virtually no physical impact, they had produced a dis- cernible moral effect." The editors of Scientific American followed up this line of thinking in their commentary on aviation in the Balkan wars of 1912-13. In an article called “Bomb Dropping in the Balkans,” they argued that “the importance of aeroplane bombs lies in their moral effect—in the impression created that the machine in the sky is a real source of danger.”** This rhetoric reflected the dramatic effect that air- planes could induce when they appeared over battlefields and caused ground troops to feel trapped and vulnerable—an effect that would be seen again later in the century. But the rhetoric also reflected expecta- tions embedded deep in the history of speculation over air bombard- ment, and reinforced by prevailing notions of the supremacy of psycho-  20 CHAPTER1  logical factors in war and of the fate of civilians in future conflicts. With regard to aerial bombing, the moral effect would soon take on a life of its own.  THE OPENING ROUNDS: ZEPPELINS OVER BRITAIN, 1914418  Because interested nations graspe
Node: 8121, Score: -0.0129426470275179, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0263.txt, Content: he authors wrote, “The object here is the dislocation of normal life to the extent that the people are willing to surrender in the hope that they can at least regain a normal mode of living. Large urban populations . . . add length to the lever that an air force can apply against morale.”"" Fully aware of the moral and legal problems raised by bombing social centers, the authors justified ad- dressing the possibility of such action nonetheless: while it was “an un- deniable fact that the consensus of world opinion is opposed to such employment of air power, it is common knowledge that nearly all of the leading powers are facing the actualities of war by recognizing the prob- ability of this employment in the preparation of plans and the training of civilians to the end of minimizing the effects of such an attack.”'*  All of this indicated clearly that the Americans continued to think about the impact of bombing on enemy morale and civilian will to fight. At no point during the interwar years did the Americans cease to con- template either the psychological or indirect effects of bombing. They wrestled with it, tried to make sense of it, and sought out the connec- tions between the material and the moral effects of strategic air raids. But they usually found themselves conflicted and confused about it, and they avoided raising the moral or psychological effects of bombing to a privileged rhetorical position.  160 CHAPTER 3  Indeed, the authors of the “Air Force” text were clearly more com- fortable with and confident in their subsection titled “The Economic Sphere,” which received nearly twice as much attention as any other category in the text. In this realm they believed they could escape uncer- tainties and deal instead in practical analysis. Unsurprisingly, they en- dorsed a campaign of selective targeting based on a careful analysis of the enemy’s economic structure. In language reminiscent of the Ameri- can World War I bombing survey (to ascertain “how one indu
Node: 8356, Score: -0.0119373819760716, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0498.txt, Content: y (Winter 1990): 59-63; Sherry, The Rise of American Air Power, 26.  22. Travers, The Killing Ground, 40. For an example of the military em- phasis on discipline, see Lt. Stewart L. Murray, Discipline: Its Reason and Bat- tle-Value (London: Gale and Polden, 1894).  23. Samuel Hynes, The Edwardian Turn of Mind (Princeton: Princeton Uni- versity Press, 1968), 21-22, 54-55, 63.  24. See ibid., 24.  25. Masterman quoted in Hynes, The Edwardian Turn of Mind, 61-62. In his “frontline diary,” published under the title Gallipoli Correspondent, First World War journalist C.E.W. Bean would write, “The truth is that after 100 years of breeding in slums, the British race is not the same, and can’t be ex- pected to be the same, as in the days of Waterloo” (Gallipoli Correspondent reprint, Sydney: Allen and Unwin, 1983), 154.  26. See Hynes, The Edwardian Turn of Mind, 42-46; Playne, The Pre-War Mind in Britain, 100.  27. Maj. Stewart L. Murray, The Peace of the Anglo-Saxons (London: Watts, 1905), 2.  28. Lloyd George quoted in Alfred Gollin, No Longer an Island: Britain and the Wright Brothers, 1902-1909 (Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1984), 351; see also p. 345. On Baden-Powell, see Travers, The Killing Ground, 39.  29. See Alfred Gollin, The Impact of Air Power on the British People and Their Government, 1909-1914 (London: Macmillan, 1989), 49-63.  30. The Daily Mail cited in Gollin, The Impact of Air Power, 72; see also pp. 64-76.  31. Churchill quoted in Playne, The Pre-War Mind in Britain, 101. Playne’s own critique of the popular press, and its frequent resort to sensationalism, can be found on 104-24.  32. See G. S. Jones, Outcast London; Judith R. Walkowitz, City of Dreadful Delight (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1992), esp. 26-27; Richard Hofstadter, Social Darwinism in American Thought, 4th ed. (Boston: Beacon  308 NOTES TO CHAPTER 1  Press, 1992); John Higham, Strangers in the Land, 3rd ed. (New York: Ath- eneum, 1963); and Thomas F. Gossett, Race: The
Node: 7864, Score: -0.0117777820972081, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0006.txt, Content: nce to become one, and then encouraged me all through graduate school. Paul Kennedy, who advised this project when it was a doctoral thesis, was an inspired role model for me in every sense. My Duke colleague Alex Roland has been no less an inspiring role model, and has helped to make working in the field of military history both a pleasure and a privilege. I thank him for his unfailing willingness to read drafts of my work and to offer—always—incisive advice.  Those who aided me and influenced my thinking in the early stages of this project include: Ashton Carter, Stephen Van Evera, Sir Michael Howard, Robert O’Neill, Noble Frankland, Ramsay D. Potts, David Maclsaac, and the late Lord Zuckerman. I am particularly indebted to Air Commodore Henry Probert, RAF (ret.), former head of the Air His- torical Branch, RAF, who offered patient guidance to a novice re- searcher who first turned up in his office many years ago.  No project of this nature can be undertaken without substantial fi- nancial assistance. For their support of my work over the years I am greatly indebted to: Yale University, the Social Science Research Coun- cil, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University, the U.S. Air Force Historical Research Center, The Brookings Institution, the National Air and Space Museum, and Duke University. Luke Arant, Lisa Kellmeyer, and D’Arcy Brissman provided able research assistance; Wayne Lee helped bring me into the computer age. Teresa Lawson and Kathy Goldgeier offered excellent editorial guidance on the final manu- script. I thank the U.S. Army’s Military History Institute for support through the Harold K. Johnson Visiting Professorship, 2001-2002.  Over the years I have benefited enormously from the resources and assistance made available to me by the staffs of the Air Historical Branch, RAF (UK), the Office of Air Force History (USA), the Air Force Historical Research Center (USA
Node: 7993, Score: -0.0114655851848164, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0135.txt, Content: uments are available to any researcher willing to delve even briefly into Air Staff documents of the early postwar years.**  Hewing to Trenchard’s line, the Committee of Imperial Defence’s first committee on Air Raid Precautions concluded in 1924 that the moral effect of bombing in a future war will be “out of all proportion greater” than the physical consequences.** Writing later about such committee conclusions, official historian Richard Titmuss argued, “[I]t seems sometimes to have been accepted almost as a matter of course that widespead neuroses and panic would ensue.” Yet he found that this conclusion rested on assumption rather than analysis: “In sifting the many thousands of papers, which passed through Governmental agen- cies during the nineteen-twenties and nineteen-thirties, it is difficult to find even a hint that this fear of a collapse in morale was based on much else than instinctive opinion.” And he added that the evidence, such as it was, had been passed through “a dense and reduplicated veil of human interpretation.” Among the details sometimes cited were the number of people sheltering in the tubes during 1917-18, the work stoppages among the railways, and the number of industrial work hours lost due to air raids. But there was little systematic evaluation of what had actually taken place during the war. The consistently dire prog- nostications of the interwar years, he argued perceptively, could not be understood “if divorced from the public temper and the time when they were written.”””  Like its emphasis on the “offensive,” the RAF’s focus on the moral effect would have important long-term consequences. Trenchard be- lieved that material effect would be necessary (at least initially) to pro- voke a moral effect, but he elevated the latter, arguing specifically that it was the more important of the two consequences of long-range bomb- ing. This was problematic because it downplayed the fact that bombing designed to maximize the material effect
Node: 7874, Score: -0.0109593093222304, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0016.txt, Content: he real drawbacks of one bad option moderates apparent costs when one must be chosen anyway. Either strategy, however, leads to a mistaken assessment of at least one choice, and a tendency to overlook poten- tially important information. The higher the stakes—the more repug- nant or the more attractive the options—the greater the stress and the greater the tendency to misperceive.  When a choice between unattractive alternatives cannot be post- poned, avoided, or miscast, the result can be especially stressful. The process of such decision making is often so onerous as to create power- ful barriers to reconsideration, even when new information casts doubt on the initial choice’s validity. Thus, rather than revisit the original choice, decision makers discount, misinterpret, or ignore new informa- tion bearing on that choice. Finally, in addition to seeing what we ex- pect to see, and not seeing what we find too stressful to absorb, we often see what it is in our interest to see. Decision makers with powerful organizational goals or self-interests may discount or minimize incom- ing information that conflicts with those interests, and highlight infor- mation that supports them. This may reflect cynicism or deliberate mis-  6 INTRODUCTION  representation of the facts, but, more commonly, these strongly felt de- sires have a subtler effect, coloring our interpretation of data in ways we may not fully recognize.  Alll of these information-processing biases influenced thinking about strategic bombing in Britain and the United States, and in the narrative that follows I draw attention to the places where their influence and effect are most evident. In writing this book, I have relied on a combi- nation of extensive primary source research, a comparative perspective, attention to the social and intellectual context in which planners and policymakers worked, and a sensitivity to the insights derived from the concepts outlined above. By examining British and American ideas t
Node: 8375, Score: -0.0107565914988372, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0517.txt, Content: ity of North Car- olina, Chapel Hill, 2000), 34-50.  180. Wise, Canadian Airmen, 325.  181. Trenchard’s private diary entry (18 August 1918) quoted in Williams, “Statistics,” 350.  182. Williams, “Statistics,” 58.  183. Quoted in ibid., 59, also 58.  184. “Moral,” The Spectator, 11 March 1916, pp. 344-45.  185. Official statements that made their way into the American Expedition- ary Force’s air intelligence bulletin (titled “Summary of Air Information”) habit- ually emphasized the “moral effect” of bombing. See, for instance,“Summary of Air Information,” Air Intelligence Bulletin, GHQAEF Second Section, General Staff, 4 April 1918.  186. “Huns Raid Panic,” Daily Mail (London), 21 September 1918, copy in AIR 462/15/312/116. The claims about Frankfurt came from a letter taken from a German prisoner of war.  187. “Huns Raid Panic,” in AIR 462/15/312/116.  188. Unsigned document, “Remarks for D.RO.,” 18 June 1918, in AIR 1/461/15/312/107. See also Williams, “Statistics,” 236-37.  189. In response to a toast in his honor in December 1917, Secretary of State for Air Lord Rothermere said, “It is our duty to avenge the murder of innocent women and children. As the enemy elects, so it will be the case of ‘eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth,’ and in this respect we shall slave for complete and satisfying retaliation” (quoted in Williams, “Statistics,” 203). On 25 March 1918, M.P. Sir Henry Norman drew up an elaborate bombing scheme. He envi- sioned a force that would deliver twenty tons of bombs hourly for ten consecu- tive hours, so as to bring victory ‘in sight’ in a month. He was, however, a bit out of step with reality as it had taken the 41st Wing five months to drop forty- eight tons of bombs on German targets. See Williams, “Statistics,” 199-203.  190. See Boyle, Trenchard, 312; Powers, Strategy Without Slide Rule, 158.  191. See, for instance, Groves to Sykes, 12 September 1918, in AIR 1/461/ 15/312/107.  192. Minute, Gammell to Groves (DFO), 21 September 1918,
Node: 7887, Score: -0.0104011585879922, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0029.txt, Content: n charges might have a “moral effect” on the enemy that “should not  14 CHAPTER 1  be lost sight of” in estimating their combat value. The moral effect (pro- nounced “morale” but spelled without the “e,” as in the French) re- flected a widespread fixation within contemporary European militaries. It revealed in part the influence of Carl von Clausewitz, whose writings had become particularly popular after the Franco-Prussian war when von Moltke claimed that they had influenced him. Clausewitz’s On War (1832) had been translated into English by the end of the century, and was studied at the Army Staff College in Britain. The work of Ardant du Picq, Foch, Langlois, and Grandmaison added to a trend emphasiz- ing the role of “will” and moral factors in warfare. The French writers argued in particular that soldiers were sustained by powerful psycho- logical elements such as élan, espirit de corps, and a willingness to seize and maintain the offensive. These ideas helped shape strategy, war plan- ning, and conceptualizations of future conflict in Britain. Indeed, the 1913 Gold Medal Prize Essay topic for the Royal United Services Insti- tution was, “How Can Moral Qualities Best Be Developed During the Preparation of the Officer and the Man for Duties Each Will Carry Out in War.” In a 1914 volume called Principles of War Historically Illus- trated, Maj. Gen. E. A. Altham argued, “The moral effect of the bayo- net is all out of proportion to its material effect, and not the least im- portant of virtues claimed for it is that the desire to use it draws the attacking side on.”"* The emphasis on moral effects reflected and high- lighted the qualities valued by upper-middle-class Victorian and Ed- wardian society—courage, initiative, resourcefulness, tenacity, and will- power—but it also resonated with prejudices and darker trends therein, including social Darwinism, anti-intellectualism, aggressiveness, and a strict class system.”  Psychological factors could be a double-edged
Node: 8403, Score: -0.0102180681033973, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0545.txt, Content: pp. 2, 7.  121, Webb-Bowen explained, “Having examined closely all the available tar- gets, I came to the conclusion that it would be quite impossible to achieve the aim by considering material damage alone. That would imply continuous and sustained attack on one object after another until each was thoroughly de- stroyed. With scattered objectives and a small force . . . the time which would be taken to break down any particular service essential to the continued exis- tence of the nation, would be altogether excessive. I decided that the aim must be achieved by exerting moral pressure on the enemy.” See “Remarks by Air Vice-Marshal Sir Tom Webb-Bowen (‘A’ Syndicate) at the Final Conference on 15.3.33,” in AIR 2/675, p. 1.  122. P. B. Joubert de la Ferte, The Aim of the Royal Air Force, May 1933, in AIR 2/675.  123. Ibid., 2.  124. Ibid.  125. Ibid.  126. Ibid., 12.  NOTES TO CHAPTER 2 335  127. Ibid., 10.  128. Portal to DCAS, Minute, 2 August 1933, in AIR 2/675.  129. He stated at the top of his memo: “This file, which has been dormant for some time, deals with the ‘War Aim of the R.A.’ and contains various complaints and criticisms to the effect that the definition of the Aim which was originally agreed to by the Chiefs of Staff is nowhere clearly and concisely ex- plained, although it is referred to in various places in the War Manual, Part I” (Memo from Group Captain A. T. Harris to D.D.O.L, 1 March 1935, in AIR 21675).  130. Unsigned draft, The War Aim of the Royal Air Force, 15 November 1935, in AIR 2/675, p. 1.  131. Ibid., 9.  132. Slessor, Air Power and Armies, 65-66.  133. Of British public opinion in the 1920s, John Ferris made an observation that might apply equally to the 1930s. “British public opinion,” he wrote, “re- mained contradictory and unpredictable: simultaneously able to support the most pacific and aggressive of international actions; and to favour the mainte- nance of British prestige and Wilsonian internationalism, the strongest navy on e
Node: 8074, Score: -0.0099929776762061, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0216.txt, Content: AE The Americans believed, however, that bombing did produce a “moral effect.” But though they discussed it throughout the interwar years, they never fully specified what it meant or how it might be quantified. How did it inter- act with and overlap the material effect of bombing? How, exactly, might it bear on war? These questions never were adequately answered, and the Americans would never come to a consensus on the meaning, significance, and operational definition of the moral effect. In addition, uncertainty and vagueness surrounded the American conceptualization of what constituted enemy morale, and what might be the most effec- tive and efficient means of undermining it. Failure to specify and reach consensus in this regard also complicated American debates over the legal and ethical aspects of long-range bombing. These problems, and the confusion and uncertainty that they engendered, were reflected in inconsistent and even contradictory writing on the subject.  The Americans, however, felt they had a clearer idea of how to achieve “material effect,” even though they never closed with how, ex- actly, this might translate into victory in war. From the moment that Edgar S. Gorrell first borrowed the ideas articulated in Tiverton’s Sep- tember 1917 paper, American airmen embraced the assumptions under-  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 131  lying the selective targeting of key elements in an enemy’s industrial economy. The American critique of British World War I bombing, influ- enced by the London Air Staff, chided Trenchard for not following through on a systematic program based on analysis. The Americans, impressed by the potential frailties and weaknesses in the interlocking structure of a modern industrial economy, postulated that careful anal- ysis could guide planning in crucial ways and produce effective results. They came to believe that their own long-range bombers would be able to undermine efficiently the integrity of an enemy’s war economy by attacki
Node: 8073, Score: -0.0098331320750228, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0215.txt, Content: on- ceptions. If Trenchard concerned himself mainly with the upheaval, dis- ruption, and dislocation caused by bombers getting into the general vi- cinity of a target, the Americans tended to keep their focus more on the  130 CHAPTER 3  nature of the damage that might be directly imposed on a given target. The destruction of the target itself—and the resulting impact on the enemy’s economic structure—mattered primarily.  Third, because the Americans had no direct experience of strategic bombing in World War I, they had no record to explain or protect in the interwar years. As we saw in chapter one, much of what the Ameri- cans learned about “strategical” bombing in World War I came from observing the experience of their allies, and from the bombing survey that they undertook independently at the end of the war. While they were strongly influenced by the British experience, American airmen de- veloped an approach to air warfare and strategic bombing that reflected their own circumstances and predispositions. For example, the Ameri- cans never distanced themselves so much as the British did from the assumption that the first objective in war would have to be the enemy air force. When they imagined air warfare, Americans generally envi- sioned large-scale counterforce operations through bomber attacks against the enemy air force on the ground (airfields, hangars), and through air-to-air combat waged by armed bombers flying in defensive formation.  Like the British, the Americans felt that victory in war came to the side able to undermine most effectively its enemy’s will to war. The Americans did not privilege the elusive “moral effect” of bombing in the same way that Trenchard did, and therefore it did not come to have the high-profile rhetorical role that it had in the RAE The Americans believed, however, that bombing did produce a “moral effect.” But though they discussed it throughout the interwar years, they never fully specified what it meant or how it might be q
Node: 7997, Score: -0.0097904567461037, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0139.txt, Content: c- ing in Iraq and Palestine. The army resented the encroachment, and both the army and navy condemned as immoral the aerial bombing of tribal peoples. The RAF countered that bombing was no more indis- criminate than long-range shelling by the army or the navy.** Although air control exacerbated interservice problems and has remained contro- versial to this day, it helped insure the RAF’s continued survival since it served Churchill’s interests and offered apparent economies in the re- gions where it was applied.“ Air control did not entirely replace troops on the ground, though. Indeed, despite the fact that it raised bureaucra- tic tensions between the army and the RAF, in practice it produced a rare interwar phenomenon: examples of sound army-RAF cooperation in the field.”  Air control also reinforced the RAF’s attachment to the rhetoric of the moral effect of bombing. One Air Staff Memorandum (1920) ar- gued, “Aircraft depend to a great extent on the moral effect they create: this is at present considerable owing to ignorance in the native mind.” Another claimed, “In the later stages of operations when the enemy has learnt to conceal himself . . . air action must rely for its effect less on material damage inflicted than on the effect on the tribal morale of    BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 85  T.C.R. Higgins, an expert on home defense in 1918—argued on behalf of air defense, a compromise was reached that authorized the inclusion of seventeen fighter squadrons for the fifty-two-squadron force. This was twice as many as Trenchard preferred.” It represented a political compromise within the organization, but it also pointed to a difference of opinion in the RAF over the allocation of resources in strategic plan- ning, and—though not fully countenanced at the time—a potential dis- connect in the logic of emerging RAF declaratory policy. The stridency and consistency of Trenchard’s position in this debate implied that it was undergirded by more than a cynical view of in
Node: 7875, Score: -0.0092884566518948, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0017.txt, Content: to the social and intellectual context in which planners and policymakers worked, and a sensitivity to the insights derived from the concepts outlined above. By examining British and American ideas through the whole sweep of time from the pre-World War I period through 1945, I am able to trace the way in which the “lessons” of World War I were interpreted and applied, highlight the differences and similarities in British and American thinking as well as the reasons for them, and offer a critique of the operations and effectiveness of the Combined Bomber Offensive (CBO) of World War IL!  In this study, institutional responses to bomber aircraft take center stage. The invention of aircraft prompted important organizational modifications in the military structures of Britain and the United States. In a dramatic wartime reorganization, the British in 1917-18 estab- lished a separate air force. Its autonomy was not guaranteed after the war, however, and its new leaders had to find ways to justify its contin- ued existence. The American Air Service did not win organizational in- dependence during the First World War, but its personnel nonetheless had high hopes for autonomy, and sought to hasten its achievement. Thus, the interwar experience of Anglo-American airmen was heavily conditioned by the quest for institutional autonomy, to preserve it or win it. To acquire legitimacy, any institution must make the argument for its existence in reason and in nature.’ This is precisely what British and American airmen sought to do, but the process was inherently lia- ble to error and bias.  No institution speaks with a single, wholly unified voice, but, among any group of individuals, particular preferences and views come to be privileged, and these form the basis of what may be called organiza- tional thought. I trace organizational thought by examining the rhetoric used by British and American airmen, in intra- and inter-institutional conversations and in public statements. Thi
Node: 7876, Score: -0.0080306269229571, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0018.txt, Content: ed organiza- tional thought. I trace organizational thought by examining the rhetoric used by British and American airmen, in intra- and inter-institutional conversations and in public statements. This rhetoric resides in a variety of places: the minutes of meetings, internal policy and planning docu- ments, speeches, lectures, journal articles, letters, and teaching materials for the air staff schools. All these sources reveal the ways in which two nascent air organizations envisioned and articulated their function as well as their plans for carrying out that function. As new organizations  INTRODUCTION 7  dealing with brand-new, rapidly evolving technologies, they faced chal- lenges, but their members brought energy, stubborn determination, and, sometimes, an almost religious fervor and commitment to their work. These qualities helped secure the place of air forces and elevate their status, but they also contributed to problems of conception and rigidity of thought.  My approach is premised on the assumption that articulations of function and policy reveal fundamental ideas within military organiza- tions and that such ideas matter. They matter because they often serve as guides to action, in whole or in part. Thus, to understand actions we must understand the premises on which they rest. And once articulated in a formal way, the premises have consequences outside the institution itself. Of course, public or “declaratory” policy may not be wholly con- sistent with actual practice. Even if later modified, a declaratory policy promulgated for any length of time not only creates echoes and socializ- ing effects inside an organization, but also produces independent conse- quences: it conveys information to other organizations, which may then modify their own behavior in response, and—particularly in the case of national institutions within democracies—it sets up public expectations about the future.  My approach is premised as well on the assumption that fundamental i
Node: 7938, Score: -0.0073228725018883, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0080.txt, Content: ade by his predecessors in the RNAS and RFC." Over time the RNAS had relied increasingly on the moral effect as a way of justifying the existence of No. 3 (Luxeuil) Wing, and this tendency reached its climax when the unit was under pressure to disband and transfer its assets to the army. An excerpt of a letter from a German factory man- ager claiming that he could no longer give his clients firm delivery dates because of wartime disruption and aerial bombing was translated by the Admiralty into an assertion that Allied raids “have caused panic among the workmen, and they refuse to carry on their work. Nearly all of them have cancelled their agreements, fearing for the safety of their lives on account of the Allies’ machines.” Likewise Newall had stressed moral effect as a primary achievement of the Eighth Brigade’s work.  The ubiquitous phrase made sense to an audience that accepted it unquestioningly. In 1916 a brief essay in The Spectator had explained that the term “moral” (pronounced with the accent on the second sylla- ble) is “on the lips of everyone.” The author traced the term to the French (and noted that the British often misspell it by placing an “e” on the end).'** For Trenchard, asserting the primacy of the moral effect mollified public opinion and permitted him to deal effectively with the press. In general, vaguely articulated pilots’ claims—‘considerable damage appears to have been done”—formed the heart of many field dispatches, and, subsequently, many official statements on air activities." And Trenchard relied on the phrase in interviews. An article in the Daily Mail of 21 September 1918, for instance, highlighted the work of the IF in support of the American advance at St. Mihiel, and ended with a description of a raid (of 16-17 September) against Frankfurt, in which  46 CHAPTER1  it was claimed that the attack—carried out by only one bomber—had killed 120 persons and left the Opera House a “heap of ruins.” Inter- viewed for the story, Trenchard
Node: 8085, Score: -0.0071123318881797, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0227.txt, Content: bove the heads of his colleagues, and directly to the masses. He had such faith in his convictions and found them so instinctively correct that he was confident the public, once roused to awareness, would rally to his cause.  But this did not happen. Though intrigued by Mitchell’s antics and exploits, the American public did not feel any corresponding urgency to demand a Department of Aeronautics over Army and Navy resistance. Indeed, following World War I many Americans felt a general revulsion to war (and preparation for war); this was accompanied by support for isolationism, later manifested in the Neutrality Acts of the 1930s, and vigorous investigation, under North Dakota Republican Sen. Gerald Nye, of “Merchants of Death” (an alleged collusion of bankers and munitions manufacturers). Nonetheless, Mitchell persisted. He was per- ceived as a gadfly by army leaders, and as “General of the Hot Air Force” by navy leaders.*  Another round of congressional interest in aviation matters (1923- 25) elicited further aggressive testimony from Mitchell, capped by a series of articles for the Saturday Evening Post. In the latter he argued that a powerful air force could make war a briefer, more humane, and cheaper affair by obliterating an enemy’s industrial centers.’ His examples presumed that all industrial states were essentially alike. As one scholar later explained, “he bestowed on the governments under attack a degree of rationality that ignored the war aims of the enemy and the possibility that the population would willingly suffer to avoid capitulation.”**  In 1925 the army, finally fed up with Mitchell’s maverick behavior, demoted him to colonel and assigned him to an obscure post in Texas. But this only pushed him to a more radical stand. He used the loss in a storm of the navy dirigible Shenandoah as a pretext for issuing a highly inflammatory statement to the press, indicting the War and Navy De- partments on charges of “incompetency, criminal negligence, and al
Node: 8035, Score: -0.0066396709371804, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0177.txt, Content: cendiary bombs. His motive in writing the book was to bring the danger to the attention of the public, and to set up the conditions that might lead to international abolition of chemical weapons." Such dire predictions—official and literary—had the effect of encouraging liberals and pacifists to lobby hard for air disarmament. For instance, A. $. (Susan) Lawrence, an undersecretary in the Labour government of 1929, argued in 1927 that the government was obliged to make a serious and genuine commitment to aerial disar- mament. Citing the 1922 Groves articles, she asserted that there could be no defense against an attack that would produce such terror, disor- der, and disorganization as to “break up” London as a civil community in two to three hours. She estimated that millions would die, especially from gas attacks."  Lawrence’s arguments anticipated a wave of popular fiction on air and gas warfare that continued until the outbreak of actual war in 1939. The perfection of instruments of destruction was at the heart of S. Southwold’s 1931 book The Gas War of 1940, a tale set in the late summer of 1940: Germany attacks Poland and destroys France’s defen- sive fortifications; London is smashed by a succession of air raids, and all of the world’s great cities experience bombardment with high explo- sives and poison gas. Following closely in this genre were such interwar works as The Poison War, The Black Death, Menace, Empty Victory, Invasion from the Air, War Upon Women, Chaos, Air Reprisal, and What Happened to the Corbetts.'** The impact of these was augmented not only by the futurist scenarios being played in the (increasingly pop- ular) cinema, but also by the ominous and troubling events of the 1930s, including the Japanese attack on Manchuria, the Italian attack on Abyssinia, and the Spanish civil war.  By this time as well, the ideas of the Italian air enthusiast, Gen. Giulio Douhet, were becoming more widely known in English-speaking coun- tries, Douhet’s 1921 b
Node: 7988, Score: -0.0063802066112271, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0130.txt, Content: fought.” In his 1916 memorandum on the pri- macy of an offensive posture in the air, he wrote, “[T]he moral effect produced by a hostile aeroplane . . . is all out of proportion to the dam- age which it can inflict.” He added, “The sound policy which should guide all warfare in the air would seem to be this: to exploit the moral effect of the aeroplane on the enemy, but not to let him exploit it on ourselves.” The March 1917 edition of the RFC’s manual “Fighting in the Air” had asserted that the psychological impact of aircraft is similar to the psychological impact of a successful cavalry action, and that the “moral effect produced by an aeroplane is also out of all proportion to the material damage which it can inflict, which in itself is considerable.”**  In moving from the tactical realm to the strategical realm, Trenchard took the idea with him. Now, however, it applied not just to fighting men and their leaders, but to entire societies. The transfer seemed natu- ral enough: the idea that modern war was nothing less than an all-out struggle between states (requiring all their resources) had been a funda- mental tenet of the German school, and the argument had resonated in England. In 1905, for instance, Maj. Stewart Murray referred to “these days of scientific warfare when wars are waged by great empires with the whole united force of their peoples.” The “total” nature of the Great War had been lost on no one who lived through it. Sir Frederick Sykes, in his June 1918 paper, “Review of Air Situation and Strategy for the Information of the Imperial War Cabinet,” described what he called “national attrition”: “The entire population and the whole weight of the resources and industries of the opposing nations are thrown into the balance. The success of the armies or fleets entirely depends upon the energy and ‘moral’ of the nation supporting them.””*  The personnel of the new Royal Air Force well understood that their service had been brought into existence largely
Node: 7940, Score: -0.0062926267107645, Chunk File: biddle_rhetoric/chunks/biddle_rhetoric_0082.txt, Content: ed, “If I were you I would not be too exacting as regards accuracy in bombing railway sta- tions in the middle of towns. The German is susceptible to bloodiness, and I would not mind a few accidents due to inaccuracy.” And Prime Minister Lloyd George looked ahead to 1919 when the RAF would be in a position to wage “devastating raids” on the German homeland.'”  If the Air Staff accepted the idea of the moral effect of bombing, they nonetheless ultimately parted company with Trenchard regarding the way to achieve it, the emphasis to be placed upon it, and the degree to which it should be elevated rhetorically as the “primary effect” of the Independent Force.” Immediately after Trenchard’s story appeared in the 21 September 1918 Daily Mail, Lt. Col. J. Gammell fired off an angry memorandum to Groves. While Gammell accepted the concept of moral effect, he questioned Trenchard’s exaggerated claims and appar- ent dismissal of bombing’s material effects. He argued: “G.O.C., LE. is alleged to have said that the moral damage is of far greater importance than the material. This is at variance with the policy of the Air Force  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 47  submitted to the War Cabinet and adopted by them.” He complained that Trenchard had not stressed the “war against vital German indus- tries which is the real work of the Independent Force,” and he pointed out in frustration, “If statements of this kind appear in the press . . . it is difficult to see how the public can be educated up to appreciate the real policy of the Air Staff and so give the War Cabinet enough support to enable their policy to be carried through.” Tiverton, who had dili- gently explored schemes to make terror bombing work, nonetheless re- mained committed to the primary importance of the material effect of bombing. In early October 1918 he composed yet another memoran- dum on the future possibilities for long-distance bombing. Working from the premise that it would be possible, realistically, to wage only