Node: 4052, Score: 0.0851721969304071, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1161.txt, Content: ttacks from every angle, the B-17s flew across Germany and inflicted even more damage on the Schweinfurt ball-bearing plants than they had done in August. But again 60 Fortresses failed to return home. These 60, added to the 100 lost since October 4, represented a depletion of Eaker’s force that he could not afford  Arnold, expecting an adverse reaction in Washington, sent Eaker an extraordinary cable the next morning. Apparently forgetting the cable he had sent four days earlier, which described the German fighter forces as “still-growing,” he now wrote:  It appears from my viewpoint that the German Air Force is on the verge of collapse. We must not (repeat) must not miss any  symptoms of impending German collapse... .Can you add any substantial evidence of collapse?  : In view of what the German air force had done to the B-17s at Schweinfurt the previous day, Eaker was hard put to supply any such optimistic evidence. He sent a cablegram describing the battle and assuring Arnold that despite the losses, “this does not represent disas- ter.” He was ready to continue the fight. “We must show the enemy we can replace our losses,” he said. “He knows he can’t replace his.”  At a Washington press conference on the fifteenth, President Roosevelt hedged in response to questions about the loss of 60 bombers in one day. Arnold, apparently unsatisfied by Roosevelt's reaction rushed into print in support of the Eighth Air Force: 4  This attack on Schweinfurt was not merely a spectacular air raid. It was an engagement between large armies—a major campaign. Ina period of a few hours we invaded German-held Europe toa depth of 500 miles, sacked and crippled one of her most vital enterprises.  We did it in daylight and we did it with precision, aiming our explosives with the care and accuracy of a mar ksman firing a rifle at a bull’s-eye.  We moved in on a city of 50,000 people and destroyed the part of it that contributes to the enemy's ability to wage war against us, When that pa
Node: 4030, Score: 0.0782717819388378, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1139.txt, Content: ured. It would be impossible to sustain such losses indefinitely. The Eighth had to pause for rest and reinforcement.  During this time, plans had been in progress for the mission Arnold suggested in March against the German ball-bearing center in Schwein- furt, deep in Bavaria. It was scheduled for August 10, but weather forced its postponement. For a week the bad weather continued, forcing postponement also of a mission scheduled August 13 against the Messerschmitt aircraft factory in Regensburg. On August 17, these missions were combined, with 146 Fortresses led by Col. Curtis LeMay going to Regensburg in the hope of luring away the German fighters while 230 Fortresses led by Brig. Gen. Robert Williams struck the Schweinfurt ball-bearing plants. The weather was again uncooper ative. The Regensburg force took off on time, but the Schweinfurt force was so long delayed by ground fog that the German fighters were able to attack both formations in turn. The Flying Fortresses and the German fighters that day fought the biggest and most ferocious battle in the history of aerial warfare up to that time. An undetermined number of German fighters went down. The Messerschmitt plant in Regensburg and  Thomas M. Coffey * 316 i =  1 am willing to do anything possible to build up your forces but you userid Cae must play your part. My wire was sent to you to get you to toughen up—to can these fellows who cannot produce—to put in youngsters who can carry the ball You have to be tough to handle the {peri Winn situation {iat  Aap lsltent abh  scvlniestintt  chad  On June 28 Arnold sent Eaker another cable blaming him for being so slow to fire his fighter commander. The next day, Eaker exploded in a five-page letter to his old friend. He hadn't relieved his bomber and  fighter commanders earlier, he said, because he didn’t have proper replacements. Now he had found the men he wanted. Brig Gen. Fred L. ialicdyipmim Anderson would be the new bomber commander and Maj. Gen. William dct
Node: 4049, Score: 0.075938816956556, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1158.txt, Content: y from ship-building cities and toward crippling the sources of the sull-growing German fighter forces the air war is clearly moving toward our supremacy in the air. Carry on  Eaker did exactly that. On the fourteenth, he sent 291 Fortresses back to Schweinfurt. Those bombers soon found themselves up against several hundred German fighters in what still ranks as the most horrendous air battle of all time. Despite constant attacks from every angle, the B-17s flew across Germany and inflicted even more damage on the Schweinfurt ball-bearing plants than they had done in August. But again 60 Fortresses failed to return home. These 60, added to the 100 lost since October 4, represented a depletion of Eaker’s force that he could not afford  Arnold, expecting an adverse reaction in Washington, sent Eaker an extraordinary cable the next morning. Apparently forgetting the cable  he had sent four days earlier, which described the German fighter forces as “still-growing,” he now wrote:  It appears from my viewpoint that the German Air Force is on the verge of collapse. ,..We must not (repeat) must not symptoms of impending German collapse substantial evidence of collapse?  miss any Can you add any  In view of what the German air force had done to the B-17s at Schweinfurt the previous day, Eaker was hard put to supply any such optimistic evidence. He sent a cablegram describing the battle and assuring Arnold that despite the losses, “this does not represent disas- ter.” He was ready to continue the fight. “We must show the enemy we can replace our losses,” he said. “He knows he can’t replace his.”  At a Washington press conference on the fifteenth, President Roosevelt hedged in response to questions about the loss of 60 bombers in one day. Arnold, apparently unsatisfied by Roosevelt's reaction rushed into print in support of the Eighth Air Force: 5  This attack on Schweinfurt was not merely a spectacular air raid. It was an engagement between large armies—a major campaign Ina p
Node: 4078, Score: 0.0660593081285892, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1187.txt, Content: e skills needed to produce such a complex machine were in short But the basic problems still resided in the mac hine itself. Every slane has bugs. This one had more than usual, first, because it vig and had so many revolutionary features; second, because it eloped under wartime pressure and many of its component thich in peacetime would have been subjec ted separately to  h testing, were now being tested on the airplane.  » result of all this was that in January 1944, ninety-seven B-29s ae off the assembly lines but only sixteen of them were flyable 2 shortage of planes had delayed the training of their crews. Saunders, now back from the Pacific and promoted to brigadier  bilP Ten 19  ince the American entry into the war, Hap Arnold had been Scan on the B-29 Superfortress to play the major Air Forces role in the defeat of Japan. He hoped, in fact, that by itself it would force Japan's surrender. An aircraft half again as large as any heavy bomber then in operation, the B-29 could carry twice the weight a B-17 could, and carry it twice as far. Its wingspan was 141 feet, its fuselage 99 feet long, and it stood 28 feet, almost three stories, high. Thanks to Arnold's persuasion of the president and the Congress, the U.S. government had already spent more than $1 billion on it before the end of 1943 and was destined to spend $3 billion on it before the end of the war, But the project was in deep trouble as 1944 began, and so, therefore, was Arnold, who had bet so heavily on it  The aircraft was still plagued by engine problems. The new, 2,200-horsepower Wright Duplex Cyclone that propelled it had been subjected to 2,000 engineering changes but it continued to overheat. Since the engine fire that caused the fatal crash of test pilot Eddie Allen in February 194  3, several other B-29 engines had caught fire, though few fatalities had resulted. In addition, the fire-control and pressuriza- tion systems weren't yet functioning reliably, One man had been blown out of a gun bl
Node: 4050, Score: 0.0640793841930836, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1159.txt, Content: t's reaction rushed into print in support of the Eighth Air Force: 5  This attack on Schweinfurt was not merely a spectacular air raid. It was an engagement between large armies—a major campaign Ina period ofa few hours we invaded German-held Europe to a depth of 500 miles, sacked and crippled one of her most vital enterprises  We did it in daylight and we did it with precision, aiming our explosives with the care and accuracy of a mar ksman firing a rifle at a bull’s-eye.  We moved in on a city of 50,000 people and destroyed the part of it that contributes to the enemy’s ability to wage war against us. When that part of it was a heap of twisted girders, smoking ruin and pulverized machinery, we handed it back, completely useless, to the  Germans. Ball-bearings cannot now pour from this ruin, and no moving machinery will operate without ball bearings.  It was a much more glowing description of the second Schweinfurt raid than the facts warranted. Though the ball-bearing plants had been badly damaged, they had not been rendered “completely useless.” And the Eighth Air Force was now in critical condition. On the fifteenth, Eaker again asked for long-range fighters—P-38s and Mustangs. On the twenty-ninth, Arnold informed him that all the P-38s and P-51s intend- ed for Africa and the Pacific were being diverted to England. Until they arrived, the Eighth Air Force would not be able to resume its offensive  against Germany.  On November 11, Arnold, along with Gens. Laurence Kuter, Haywood Hansell, and Rosie O'Donnell, joined Marshall, King, and their staffs, plus President Roosevelt and his staff, for a trip on the where they were to confer once more with Chiang Kai-shek would also be there, to  battleship Jowa to Cairo Churchill and his staff represent China. After these three powers finished their deliberations, everyone would move on to Tehran for a four-power conference with  alin, whom the American press now referred  Russia's dictator, Joseph to as the “president” o
Node: 3762, Score: 0.0637734131064418, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0871.txt, Content: s the only one we have right now, but . “There won't be any more deliveries,” Arnold announced  “No more deliveries?”  “For some time.  But his lack of dive bombers did not concern Arnold as much as his lack of heavy bombers. And his concern about heavy bombers was intensified by the British reports that the B-17 performed badly in combat, The Air Corps was so deeply committed to the B-17 that Ar nold would be in trouble if it fell short of expectations. He was somewhat relieved when George Brett reported from England that the British disliked the plane only because they had misused it. Their training and maintenance were poor, and so was their flight planning. They had made “no attempt to institute check lists for takeoff and landing.” There was “no inspection system in effect.” One pilot was sent on a mission without ever before having flown with his crew. Neither he nor the crew had flown a B-17 above 2,000 feet before this mission, in which they had to fly above 25,000 feet. The pilot had never before used Bocing oxygen equipment, nor had he ever feathered an engine or operated the automatic pilot. The crew had never used the interphones or fired fifty-caliber machine guns,""  Brett also sent word of another B-17, which on August 15 had attacked the German battleships Scharnhorst and Gneisenau at Brest. After dropping its bombs, this plane had been attacked for a total of twenty-three minutes by two Heinkel 113s and five Messerschmitt 109s.  “Approximately 20 cannon shells” hit the plane and six of them burst  inside the fuselage. Several crew members were killed or wounded. The bomb-bay doors were jammed open. The left aileron was “practically shot away.” The trim tabs were shot away and the rudder was damaged Yet the plane returned to E ngland. People would tell many similar stories about Flying Fortresses during the next four years, but this one was especially reassuring because it was the first such story  Despite Brett's encouraging report, Arnold was aware
Node: 4039, Score: 0.0630414549130419, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1148.txt, Content: use  the attrition rate was too high.” Having defended it so staunc hly, however, Arnold had to do  everything possible to make it work. On August 31, he flew to England to help and encourage his beleaguered friend, Ira Eaker. The Schweinfurt-Regensburg raid had so shatter ed the Eighth Air Force that it had been unable to launch another mission for ten days, and then, on August 27, only as far as Calais. The day Arnold arrived, the B-17s went to Paris on another “milk run.” But while he was there, on September 6, Eaker was able to piece together a fleet of 338, which he sent to Scuttgart. Again the big bombers were savagely attacked and 45 of them went down.  }. Faker had been pleading steadily for long-range fighter support, and in late August, before leaving for London, Arnold had promised him some P-38s and P-51s, but he couldn't say when they would arrive. When Arnold got to England and saw the condition of the planes  Thomas M. Coffey *  In a briefing one day to prepare him for a Joint Chiefs meeting, he read what his staff thought he should know about the subjects on the agenda, then began asking questions so penetrating and so difficult nobody in the room could answer them, Finally he threw everybody out of the room. “Do your lesson,” he said. “You haven't done your lesson.”  “He never tried to win a popularity contest,” Dean recalled. “I have seen four-star generals time and again backing out of his office saying Yes, sir, yes, sir, yes, sir.’"" But Dean also concluded, “He wasn’t a mean person. He [simply] could not tolerate incompetence, laziness, [or] poor judgment.”  Among the visitors to his office one day was a group of five men led by Gen. Dave Grant, the Air Forces chief flight surgeon, and Col. Howard Rusk, who had developed the Air Forces program for rehabili-  tation of wounded men. With them were three young pilots, limping noticeably. All five had angry expressions on their faces  At Grant's suggestion, each of the young pilots rolled up a pant
Node: 4046, Score: 0.0630239503591495, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1155.txt, Content: dministering to German industry. Despite such time as an invasion could be launched, the i supe  F , they would continue to be the only American weapons hurting Germany. His faith in daylight  bombing, though it may have been shaky when he arrived, was strength- ened now. Even the Schweinfurt  their losses, he decided they were indeed hurting Germany  raid, costly as it had been, seemed ssi hwhile to him when he studied the photographs of damage to the  all-bearing factories. And when Portal spoke to him about the impor- tance of knocking out those factories completely, he decided the  Fortresses should go back to Schweinfurt without delay to finish the job they had begun i : I know you'll get to it,” Arnold said to Eaker, “as soon as the weather permits.”* , He did not say, “as soon as I send you long-range fighters.” Arnold i Eaker agreed that the war wouldn't wait to be fought. They had to eep fighting it with whatever weapons were available. They didn't dare rive the Ge: : K : give the Germans time to rebuild and repair the damage already done to their industries. But Arnold did concede now, more  20Sitively than eve before, F lan ever  that long-range fighters were desperately needed. He had been somewhat late in coming fully to this realization. W riting about the P-51  $23 & HAP  in his memoirs, he took upon himself some of the blame for its slow development. “That we did not have it sooner was the Air Forces’ own fault.” But once he realized the need, he rushed the production of P-51s with his customary urgency,  The P-5ls did not arrive in England quickly enough, however, to alleviate the pain of the second Schweinfurt mission Within two weeks after Arnold returned to Washington, he was again becoming impatient for more action against Germany, On September 7,9, 15, 16, 23, and 26, Baker's Fortress fleet, not yet recovered from the battering at Stuttgart and hampered by more bad weather over Germany, hit targets in France, but never with more than 300 planes
Node: 4081, Score: 0.0620655725814195, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1190.txt, Content: s had delayed the training of their crews. Blondie Saunders, now back from the Pacific and promoted to brigadier  illP TeH 19  en the American entry into the war, Hap Arnold had been counting on the B-29 Superfortress to play the major Air Forces ro  in the defeat of Japan. He hoped, in fact, that by itself it would force  Japan's surrender, An aircraft half again as large as any heavy bomber then in operation, the B-29 could carry twice the weight a B-17 could, and carry it twice as far. Its wingspan was 141 feet, its fuselage 99 feet long, and it stood 28 feet, almost three stories, high. Thanks to Arnold's persuasion of the president and the Congress, the U.S. government had already spent more than $1 billion on it before the end of 1943 and was destined to spend $3 billion on it before the end of the war, But the project was in deep trouble as 1944 began, and so, therefore, was Arnold, who had bet so heavily on it  The aircraft was still plagued by engine problems. The new, 2,200-horsepower Wright Duplex Cyclone that propelled it had been subjected to 2,000 engineering changes but it continued to overheat. Since the engine fire that caused the fatal crash of test pilot Eddie Allen in February 1943, several other B-29 engines had caught fire, though few fatalities had resulted. In addition, the fire-control and pressuriza- tion systems weren't yet functioning reliably, One man had been  ,000 feet. The radar bombing system was complicated to operate and often inaccurate. And  blown out of a gun blister by excess pressure at 2  the electrically controlled bomb-bay doors seemed to open and close at their own convenience  Arnold had once promised the president he would have the plane in combat by the beginning of 1944, but the bewildering succession of problems had forced him to renege on that promise. After waiting as long as possible, he had written a (for him) humiliating memorandum to Roosevelt on October 11, 1943  In connection with the bombing of Japan from Chi
Node: 4101, Score: 0.0616949703230618, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1210.txt, Content: considered still in the development stage. As of early February, the entire 20th Bomber Command had flown a mere 9,000 hours in training, testing, and so  forth, and “only a negligible number of these hours had been flown over  20,000 feet, due to power plant limitations.”’* (The B-29 was supposed to be a high-altitude bomber.) And the fire-control system had not yet been fully tested in operation. As of March 1, 1944, even the “trained” crews had been able to fly only two-thirds of the B-29 hours required, and very few of them had received more than a fraction of the fire-control practice they would need. Only two aircraft so far were equipped with a complete central fire-control system.  Because the crews were being trained at several bases in Kansas, the modification program was centered there, which meant that a whole cadre of Air Force officers, plus representatives of Boeing and other companies now involved in B-29 production, were swarming over the state, trying to keep up with developments. The situation was chaotic and the Kansas winter was making it worse. The snow in many places was eighteen inches deep and temperatures were below zero. Mechanics were working on airplanes in unheated hangars or even on the run-  ways.!  * Tempers were boiling but hands were freezing  On March 8, Arnold dropped out of the sky from Washington and into the mess at a place called Pratt, Kansas. “I was appalled at what I found,” he later said. “There were shortages in all kinds and classes of equipment. The engines were not fitted with the latest gadgets; the planes were not ready to go. It would be impossible for them to be  anywhere near China by the 15th of April unless some drastic measures 4  were taken.  On the ninth, he flew to Salina and found the situation just as distressing. There he me  a Technical Service Command officer, Col. L. W. Stephenson, who had the misfortune of being in the wrong place at the right time. Would he please explain all these shortages?  Colon
Node: 3611, Score: 0.0582417491577971, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0720.txt, Content: Board members like Anderson, Sorenson, and Snyder argued, however, that these developments would not eliminate the need for fighters, but that the range of fighters would have to be increased, because unless bombers were escorted by fighters on long missions into enemy territory, the bomber losses would be prohibitive  This proved to be a minority opinion. The bomber advocates tended to disagree with it because they were imbued with the doctrine that the bomber would always get through. And fighter advocates, of whom Arnold's old friend “Miff” Harmon was a leader, took exception because they didn't believe the range of fighter planes could be significantly lengthened without sacrificing combat performance. In- creased gas loads and decreased ammunition loads, for instance, would lengthen the range of fighters, but a shortage of ammunition would make them vulnerable to enemy fighters, and the extra gas would make them more flammable when hit. The fighter advocates at Maxwell Field argued, therefore, that it would be useless to send fighters all the way with the bombers because they wouldn't be able to protect the bombers when they got there. The bombers, they argued, should be armed to protect themselves.  This argument prevailed in 1939, and for more than three years thereafter, because the technological limitations of the time made it difficult to refute. The result was the development of bombers that bristled with guns but because of this excess weight were limited in their bomb loads; and the development of fighters with ranges so short they could escort the bombers only for pathetically inadequate distances Arnold would one day be plagued by the fact that he accepted the majority view of his strategists on this question  With Hitler preparing to occupy Czechoslovakia (which he did on March 16, 1939), while France and England finally scrambled for weapons to resist him, the danger of war in Europe was inc reasing daily And in Washington, confusion reigned as the
Node: 4104, Score: 0.0576007307388519, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1213.txt, Content: been flown over  20,000 feet, due to power plant limitations.”"* (The B-29 was supposed to be a high-altitude bomber.) And the fire-control system had not yet been fully tested in operation. As of March 1, 1944, even the “trained” crews had been able to fly only two-thirds of the B-29 hours required, and very few of them had received more than a fraction of the fire-control practice they would need. Only two aircraft so far were equipped with a complete central fire-control system  Because the crews were being trained at several bases in Kansas, the modification program was centered there, which meant that a whole cadre of Air Force officers, plus representatives of Boeing and other companies now involved in B-29 production, were swarming over the state, trying to keep up with developments. The situation was chaotic and the Kansas winter was making it worse. The snow in many places was eighteen inches deep and temperatures were below zero. Mechanics were working on airplanes in unheated hangars or even on the run- ways.’ Tempers were boiling but hands were freezing.  On March 8, Arnold dropped out of the sky from Washington and into the mess at a place called Pratt, Kansas. “I was appalled at what I found,” he later said. “There were shortages in all kinds and classes of equipment. The engines were not fitted with the latest gadgets; the planes were not ready to go. It would be impossible for them to be  anywhere near China by the 15th of April unless some drastic measures  were taken.  On the ninth, he flew to Salina and found the situation just as distressing. There he met a Technical Service Command officer, Col. I. W. Stephenson, who had the misfortune of being in the wrong place at the right time. Would he please explain all these shorts  Colonel Stephenson could not explain them  os?  Was he running this place?  No, he wasn’t  Well, who was running it, then? “If no one else is,” Arnold said, will.”  He ordered Stephenson to prepare, by the following morning, a
Node: 3134, Score: 0.0573890446470376, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0243.txt, Content: e dangers of flying such an unstable machine. It was not that he optimistic. He, too, expected to be killed, but he seemed able usually to talk himself into a state of calm when faced with danger. Speaking of himself and other pilots in those early days, he once said, “Everybody xpected to be killed, That's absolutely true. Good Lord, I don’t know of anybody who didn't figure he'd be killed before he got through, and I still don’t see how in the devil I wasn't, when I look back and see how close I came to being killed, so many times. But the reason you don't is, to begin with, you know how to fly. That's what Orville Wright always said. The second thing is, you don’t panic. This thing about reliving your life, all that goof you hear—I don’t think I've ever been cooler in my life than when I knew, by the Jesus God, there it is, I'm through. Well, if 'd panicked, 1 would have been through, but I said to myself, ‘not till I see the last of it.’ ”**  Between October 28 and November 3, Arnold and Milling had  more  to delay their Fort Riley experiment because of bad weather. On November 2, Arnold and a wireless operator made a thirty-three-minute flight to Ogden, six miles northeast of the post, but this flight was ter- minated because “the cold was intense” in their completely open and unprotected cockpit. On the third, Milling made two short flights despite a twenty-five-mile-per-hour wind, but both were aborted due to engine troubles. On the fourth, Arnold and Milling each made successful flights, Arnold sending radio signals and Milling, in another experiment, send- ing smoke signals back to earth.  Thomas M. Coffey * 60  sent them to Fort Riley, Kansas, for extensive reconnaissance maneu- vers, which would soon bring Arnold to the most grievous and disrup- tive crisis he had yet been forced to face.  Ever since the invention of cannon shortly after the discovery of gunpowder in the fourteenth century, artillery commanders through- out the world had been plagued by t
Node: 3506, Score: 0.0573591753708494, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0615.txt, Content: But before that hap-  Flying Fortress.”  pened, there was a lot of travail. , or On October 30, 1935, Maj. Ployer P. “Pete” Hill, chief of the Wright Field Flight Testing Section, decided he would fly the new Model 299, which his primary test pilot, Lt. Donald L. Putt, had successfully conducted through its competitive testing. Putt went along as copilot that morning, and Boeing test pilot Les Tower went along as an  observer."*  When Hill took the plane off the ground, it had barely become airborne before it fell off on one wing and crashed, Hill was killed immediately. Tower later died of his injuries. Putt survived with a deep gash on his head. The cause of the accident was easy to determine. Boeing’s Model 299 was the first plane built with internal loc ks on its aileron, rudder, and elevator controls. But in those days, as Putt later explained, “we didn’t have any ¢ heck lists. You got in, just as if it were an automobile, stepped on the starter and took off.” Major Hill had taken off with the elevator control locked.  Though it would seem obvious that the plane should not be blamed  Thomas M. Coffey  the first campaigns in which Arnold became embroiled was the effort keep the War Department from using up a large portion of the A Corps appropriations to buy short-range support planes, the kind Hug Drum favored, for the Infantry. The stakes in this battle were high involved the very concept for which Air Corps men had been fightir since the days of Billy Mitchell, the concept which Douhet and Trencl ard and the brilliant young strategists at Maxwell Field had bee painstakingly refining for several years. If the Air Corps allowed itself | become primarily an Infantry support unit, the whole dream of buildir a long-range striking force would be shattered and the revolutionar new B-17 Flying Fortress on which airmen had based so many hope might as well fly directly to the scrap heap  In later life, Arnold felt that the development of the four-engin bomber represent
Node: 3616, Score: 0.0572375991339408, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0725.txt, Content: them vulnerable to enemy fighters, and the extra gas would make them more flammable when hit. The fighter advocates at Maxwell Field argued, therefore, that it would be useless to send fighters all the way with the bombers because they wouldn't be able to protect the bombers when they got there. The bombers, they argued, should be armed to protect themselves  This argument prevailed in 1939, and for more than three years thereafter, because the technological limitations of the time made it difficult to refute. The result was the development of bombers that bristled with guns but because of this excess weight were limited in their bomb loads; and the development of fighters with ranges so short they could escort the bombers only for pathetically inadequate distances Arnold would one day be plagued by the fact that he accepted the majority view of his strategists on this question.  With Hitler preparing to occupy Czechoslovakia (which he did on March 16, 1939), while France and England finally scrambled for weapons to resist him, the danger of war in Europe was increasing daily And in Washington, confusion reigned as the American armed forces struggled to expand despite the resistance of the strong isolationist faction in Congress. The clouded future made everyone in America uneasy and prone to believe rumors, especially the young men who would have to fight any war that might come  Arnold’s son Hank was now  in his third year at the Military Academy, which, being part of the Army, was  almost as much a rumor factory as it was a school  The rumors were piling up so fast there in the  199 HAP  spring of 1939 that Hank, on March 8, wrote an amusing letter to his father in the hope of finding out, from a man in authority, what to  believe:  We've got about 20 good “sinkoid” rumors floating around, and also we've heard bits about all kinds of bills up before Congress which may or may not directly affect us. How about this probation bill putting all new officers on three
Node: 4044, Score: 0.0547343978282659, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1153.txt, Content: ed, he rushed the production of P-51s with his customary urgency.  (The P-51s did not arrive in England quickly enough, however, to alleviate the pain of the second Schweinfurt mission{ Within two weeks after Arnold returned to Washington, he was again becoming impatient for more action against Germany. On September 7, 9, 15, 16, 23, and 26, Eaker’s Fortress fleet, not yet recovered from the battering at Stuttgart and hampered by more bad weather over Germany, hit targets in France, but never with more than $00 planes. Arnold couldn't under- stand this, He had sent almost a thousand B-17s to England. Why was Eaker dispatching only 300 at a time: ‘To us here in the United States,” he wrote to Eaker September 20, 1943, “it looks as if the employment of large numbers of heavy bombers has not been followed through by your . Since my visit to England the impression in  headquarters and staff my mind is that you still figure on employing small numbers of 300 or maybe 400 at a tim Despite Eaker’s explanations, Arnold seemed unable to accept the fact that so many of the bombers he had sent to  Europe were lost or damaged beyond repair.  Eaker on September 27 sent his Fortresses back to Germany in the hope of bombing Emden by radar through an overcast, but only 305 bombers could make the trip and the results were indifferent. In Washington on the twenty-eighth, Gen. Laurence Kuter, now assistant chief of air staff for plans, prepared at Arnold’s direction three radiograms to “put more heat on the Eighth Air Force” and “build a fire under Gen. Eaker.”  “Your bombing through the overcast,” one of these messages said, “indicates an additional type operation which should result in more  bombs on the German fighter factories. What are your views as to  the possibility of using your entire force during the bad weather now approaching for bombing within as well as on top of the over- cast?”  Another message said: “When North African fighter groups escort bombers it is a matter of h
Node: 4043, Score: 0.0531145540141045, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1152.txt, Content: y airplanes as possible but strongly recommend that the answer to his request for P-38s be “No,” repeat, “no.”  On this trip to England Arnold saw for the first time with his own eyes what a beating the B-17s were taking. But he also saw, from aerial photographs taken not by the Eighth Air Force but by the British, what a beating these Fortresses were administering to German industry. Despite their losses, he decided they were indeed hurting Germany. And until such time as an invasion could be launched, they would continue to be the only American weapons hurting Germany. His faith in daylight bombing, though it may have been shaky when he arrived, was strength- ened now. Even the Schweinfurt raid, costly as it had been, seemed worthwhile to him when he studied the photographs of damage to the  ball-bearing factories. And when Portal spoke to him about the impor- tance of knocking out those factories completely, he decided the  Fortresses should go back to Schweinfurt without delay to finish the job they had begun  I know you'll get to it,” Arnold said to Eaker, “as soon as the weather permits.”*  He did not say, “as soon as I send you long-range fighters.” Arnold and Eaker agreed that the war wouldn't wait to be fought. They had to keep fighting it with whatever we apons were available. They didn’t dare  give the Germans time to rebuild and repair the damage already done to  their industries. But Arnold did concede now, more positively than ever  before, that long-range fighters were desperately needed. He had been somewhat late in coming fully to this realization. W riting about the P-51  323 « HAP  in his memoirs, he took upon himself some of the blame for its slow development. “That we did not have it sooner was the Air Forces’ own fault." But once he realized the need, he rushed the production of P-51s with his customary urgency.  (The P-51s did not arrive in England quickly enough, however, to alleviate the pain of the second Schweinfurt mission{ Within two wee
Node: 3137, Score: 0.052826057903318, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0246.txt, Content: ck during the trophy competition flight, he seemed to feel, perhaps because he had never experienced a crash, that he was better able than Arnold to cope with the dangers of flying such an unstable machine. It was not that he  more optimistic. He, too, expected to be killed, but he seemed able usually to talk himself into a state of calm when faced with danger. Speaking of himself and other pilots in those early days, he once said, “Everybody xpected to be killed, That's absolutely true. C  »0d Lord, I don’t know of anybody who didn't figure he'd be killed before he got through, and I still don’t see how in the devil I wasn't, when I look back and see how close I came to being killed, so many times. But the reason you don't is, to begin with, you know how to fly. That’s what Orville Wright always said. The second thing is, you don’t panic. This thing about reliving your life, all that goof you hear—I don’t think I've ever been cooler in my life than when I knew, by the Jesus God, there it is, I'm through. Well, if 'd panicked, | would have been through, but I said to myself, ‘not till I see the last of it.’  Between October 2 to delay their Fort Riley experiment because of bad weather. On November 2, Arnold and a wireless operator made a thirty-three flight to Ogden, six miles northeast of the post, but this flight was ter-  veh  8 and November 3, Arnold and Milling had  minute  minated because “the cold was intense” in their completely open and unprotected cockpit. On the third, Milling made two short flights despite a twenty-five-mile-per-hour wind, but both were aborted due to engine troubles. On the fourth, Arnold and Milling each made successful flights, Arnold sending radio signals and Milling, in another experiment, send- ing smoke signals back to earth.  Thomas M. Coffey * 60  sent them to Fort Riley, Kansas, for extensive reconnaissance maneu- vers, which would soon bring Arnold to the most grievous and disrup-  tive crisis he had yet been forced to face.
Node: 3503, Score: 0.0528068093286505, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0612.txt, Content: ed that a newsman dubbed it the  planes look puny.  s also easy to fly.  Flying Fortress.” As its modifications began, the 299 became the Y1B-17, and eventually, with several improvements, the celebrated B-17, But before that hap- pened, there was a lot of travail.  On October 30, 1935, Maj. Ployer P. “Pete” Hill, chief of the Wright Field Flight Testing Section, decided he would fly the new Model 299, which his primary test pilot, Lt. Donald L. Putt, had successfully  conducted through its competitive testing. Putt went along as copilot  that morning, and Boeing test pilot Les Tower went along as an observer.’*  When Hill took the plane off the ground, it had barely become airborne before it fell off on one wing and crashed, Hill was killed immediately. Tower later died of his injuries. Putt survived with a deep gash on his head. The cause of the accident was easy to determine Boeing’s Model 299 was the first plane built with internal locks on its aileron, rudder, and elevator controls. But in those days, as Putt later explained, “we didn’t have any ¢ heck lists. You got in, just as if it were an automobile, stepped on the starter and took off.” Major Hill had taken off with the elevator control locked.  Though it would seem obvious that the plane should not be blamed  Thomas M. Coffey  the first campaigns in which Arnold became embroiled was the effort to keep the War Department from using up a large portion of the Air Corps appropriations to buy short-range support planes, the kind Hugh Drum favored, for the Infantry. The stakes in this battle were high. It involved the very concept for which Air Corps men had been fighting since the days of Billy Mitchell, the concept which Douhet and Trench-  ard and the brilliant young strategists at Maxwell Field had been  painstakingly refining for several years. If the Air Corps allowed itself to become primarily an Infantry support unit, the whole dream of building a long-range striking force would be shattered and the rev
Node: 3613, Score: 0.0526675975570846, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0722.txt, Content: to enemy fighters, and the extra gas would make them more flammable when hit. The fighter advocates at Maxwell Field argued, therefore, that it would be useless to send fighters all the way with the bombers because they wouldn't be able to protect the bombers when they got there. The bombers, they argued, should be armed to protect themselves.  This argument prevailed in 1939, and for more than three years thereafter, bec  use the technological limitations of the time made it difficult to refute. The result was the development of bombers that bristled with guns but because of this excess weight were limited in their bomb loads; and the development of fighters with ranges so short they could escort the bombers only for pathetically inadequate distances Arnold would one day be plagued by the fact that he accepted the majority view of his strategists on this question  With Hitler preparing to occupy Czechoslovakia (which he did on March 16, 1939), while France and England finally scrambled for weapons to resist him, the danger of war in Europe was increasing daily And in Washington, confusion reigned as the American armed forces struggled to expand despite the resistance of the strong isolationist faction in Congress. The clouded future made everyone in America uneasy and prone to believe rumors, especially the young men who would have to fight any war that might come  Arnold's son Hank was now in his third year at the Military  Academy, which, being part of the Army, was almost as much a rumor  factory as it was a school. The rumors were piling up so fast there in the  199 HAP  spring of 1939 that Hank, on March 8, wrote an amusing letter to his father in the hope of finding out, from a man in authority, what to  believ  We've got about 20 good “sinkoid” rumors floating around, and also we've heard bits about all kinds of bills up before Congress which may or may not directly affect us. How about this probation bill putting all new officers on three years probation a