Node: 3334, Score: -0.0248591832034652, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0443.txt, Content: emoted to the rank of colonel, and assigned as air officer at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio.  General Patrick's position as Air Service chief was renewed at the same time, not because his views differed from those of Mitchell, but because he played within the Army rules. While he may not have liked Mitchell, Patrick often supported him, and when Secretary Weeks was pressing for Mitchell's dismissal, Patrick suggested that instead of being fired, the man should be “admonished by the War Department for his attitude and his methods,”' and told to stop using immoderate language  For Hap Arnold, the removal of Mitchell was an irreparable loss  because, even though Patrick was a staunch supporter of air power, he  The HAP  lint seem o be a very eect on, And in any (as, Amol spl i he hin, or vas halon that fel Pay becau Pack ht the psn many people thug Mich! soll cup, be was popu ith asa waner oyun ocean ones th  at ofthe oles He wore ap  has taken wo cout fstfal baa ok noo  don sta ager fling ihr ote ind prop. Oe wile he vas eveving too, the neil happened, A nearby  ast, 8 afer, was  plane une axon haat ropa aa bishpe asi vere eaer ina sorm Bythie oe he cote men ad reed it and rough i back dangling foto fingers after dead mous, th story of Fai’ hig wig was already on Le wing  He was aoa rahe uncle man anda itary drier, His pero pil CaS, Cir Set an usanng ier vho a ben ‘ery ct Michel, ed to comin hat Pick wo erin fom isda or medicinal purpose on vay he Could gett egy rng Potion then male Set goto the thugsoe wo hae he prescription ld bat never fle a dik  Amol and Pack ad ouch ean forcing each er They amply cold’ get along fit tat became oviows at the tie of MKtchl’s dis Arnold amanged a fae unchon fri de pos rnd at the Racquet Cub in Washing, and apparent as an alerbouh to acommodae pple who dd et the uneon, a des for thus pel emphasing is sympa or Mi  ld get Luar  BH Lrbcue party that nigh Patrick ated thence, ich Armld went inti ofce io mae sree vas ined th babu party.
Node: 2952, Score: -0.0245439411699598, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0061.txt, Content: ed her assignment so zealously, in fact, that as the boys grew older she became protective, especially of Henry, to the point of being almost possessive, a circumstance from which he constantly struggled to free himself.)  In 1890, Dr. Arnold moved his family from the farm to a house in Ardmore, but he did not sever his association with the Pennsylvania Dutch farmers in the area. Each morning at five he would harness his horse, climb into his buggy, and begin his rounds of the farms in his territory, riding the back roads hour after hour to treat his patients, mostly Mennonites, who respected his medical skills even though,  following his father’s example, he had rejected their religion. At five in the evening, twelve hours after leaving home, he would return to the plain dinner his wife, Louise, had ready for him, then hurry into his crowded waiting room to treat more patients until eleven or even midnight.  The good doctor's only concession to the human need for pleasure came on Sundays, after the entire family returned home from the three-hour service at the Baptist Church in Ardmore. The Arnolds’ Sunday dinner was always a wholesome feast. But even that provided no more than a circumscribed pleasure for the children, who were allowed to speak (after carefully laying down knife and fork) only when their father addressed them directly; and perhaps even less pleasure for his wife, since he refused to eat what he called store-bought food. She had to churn the butter, bake the bread, and each autumn preserve a winter’s-worth of vegetables from the garden she had to cultivate. Unul her sons were old enough, she also had to chop the wood for her iron  cook stove.  Mrs. Louise Arnold, who came from a neighboring Gladwyne farm family, the Harleys (which accounts for young Henry's middle name), was also a product of the Mennonites. Her parents were still members of the Church of the Brethren (sometimes known as “Dunkards” or “Dunkers” because they practiced baptism by imm
Node: 3161, Score: -0.023458104342962, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0270.txt, Content: ad often been in his thoughts during the last six years. Sensing her awakened interest in him, he felt encouraged to court her now, but with sister Betty in attendance, the courtship had to be circumspect. It would have been anyway. Arnold’s background was much too proper and the customs of the times too rigid to permit even the most innocent of intimacies. Though he could see she was immensely intrigued by him, and she was telling herself he was “the most interesting man” she had ever met, not so much as a kiss passed between them as their days together continued. They talked about the Army and Army life, about aviation, about people back home in Ardmore, about the dangers of war in Europe, about baseball, about everything except the subject that interested them most—each other. He took her often to the Army and Navy Club for dinner, and sometimes they were able to steal moments, or even hours, away from Betty.  The Sunday morning before Betty and Eleanor were to catch a train back to Philadelphia, Arnold took Eleanor for a walk through the streets of Washington. Coming to the White House, they stopped and looked in at the grounds, but they weren't thinking about the lawns and trees, or the building itself, or the new president, Woodrow Wilson, who had moved in less than three months earlier. They were thinking of each other, how sad their parting would be, and how much they would miss  which were not strenuous,  each other.  Suddenly, without preamble, he turned to her and, in his quick manner of speaking, said, “Will you marry me?"  Up to this moment he had been so reticent, so inept at conveying his  Thomas M. Coffey * 70  feelings, that his abrupt proposal flabbergasted her. It seemed to her it “came out of a clear sky.” He still hadn't made his first attempt to kiss her. And he had not once told her he loved her. Yet she sensed that he truly did  As soon as she got hold of her own feelings, she looked up at him (she was only five feet tall) and demurely said,
Node: 3725, Score: -0.0227225100336351, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0834.txt, Content: he king's aides there  Thomas M. Coffey 230  seventeenth-century castle an hour late; but that didn’t matter, since  Churchill’s conversation seldom reached high gear until after midnight On this occasion he talked until three in the me  ning  Russia,” he said, “is like an amoral crocodile, lurking in the depths,  waiting for whatever prey may come its way.” He didn't explain the distinction between an “amoral” and a “moral” crocodile. At that time Russia had not yet been drawn into the war by Hitler's invasion.  In a series of more important remarks, Churchill confided to Arnold that the British would be able to do very little against the Germans in 1941 or 1942; that the Battle of the North Adantic could and “must” be won by American aid; and that the United States should send long-range bombers as quickly as possible. “England may not always win battles,” he said in the best British schoolboy tradition, “but always wins wars.”  After dinner Churchill engaged in a series of quips against the Royal Air Force, which hadn't been damaging the Germans enough to satisfy him, but Portal answered him so shat ply that Arnold soon came to  consider him (as did many other people) “one of the most brilliant of the British Chiefs of Staff.”  On April 21, Beaverbrook invited Arnold to dinner and posed for him a sobering question; “What would you do if Churchill were hung and the rest of us were in hiding in Scotland or being run down by the  Germans? What would the people in America do? We are up against the mightiest army the world has ever seen.”  The consensus of the people at Beaverbrook’s dinner was that  Germany could establish a bridgehead in England any time she was  willing to make the sacrifice. - It was not a question of whether [the  Germans] could make the attack but whether the British could keep them from extending the bridgeheads.”  By this time, Arnold was again less than sanguine about England’s  chances of survival. Though the men he met seemed determined to
Node: 3727, Score: -0.022184155074527, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0836.txt, Content: e should be an American air officer on the  commission. He pointed out to Ghormley that “wat today is an air war,” and that “the Air alone can bring Germany to its knees if anything can $ As Arnold should have realized, that was no way to talk to a Navy man Ghormley “would have none of it.” Arnold wrote in his diary, “He is all wet because the British have a strong combination Air-Army-Navy against which we have Army-Navy.” But at least he had found one man in London who seemed unimpressed by the power of the German bombers.  On his next-to-last day Arnold was again surprised when he learned that King George VI wanted to see him at Buckingham Palace. After “a long walk down seemingly endless corridors,” which were cold because most of the palace windows had been shattered by bombs, he entered a room and there was His Majesty. They shook hands and talked for more than a half hour about “everything from Hitler to Washington, from war to peace.” Gradually it occurred to Arnold that he was taking up too much of the king’s time. But how did one end a conversation with a -eople always tell you how to enter and greet a king,” he said to  king? ~ himself, “but why is it that no one ever tells a fellow how to leave a king? What do you say?”  What Arnold said was, have a lot to do, so I will leave.” The king shook hands again and smiled affably. But when Arnold made his way alone back down the long chilly  corridors to the room where he had left his hat, the king's aides there  ir, I know you are a very busy man and  Thomas M. Coffey 230  seventeenth-century castle an hour late; but that didn’t matter, since Churchill's conversation seldom reached high gear until after midnight On this occasion he talked until three in the morning  “Russia,” he said, “is like an amoral crocodile, lurking in the depths, waiting for whatever prey may come its way.” He didn't explain the distinction between an “amoral” and a “moral” crocodile. At that time Russia had not yet been drawn into the
Node: 3321, Score: -0.0216171848274685, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0430.txt, Content: fe of Hap Arnold (whom Lois quite significantly did not deny as her true father), nursed him back to health, and had become the mother of his child. Later, after a short period in the United States during which he was married, he returned to the Philippines with his bride, and together they found Mara with little Lois, whom they bought from the native princess for ten pesos.  Lois told this story whenever an occasion arose, not always in the same detail, but she would always end on a note of mock magnanimity: “Mother [meaning Bee] has always treated me as one of her own children, but they still, to this day, deny the story.”**  It is not unusual for children to imagine that they are actually princes or princesses, separated by some strange or tragic circumstance from their royal parents, and that these parents will one day come to claim them and take them back to some far-off land; but it is unusual,  and somewhat alarming, for a child to believe this literally, as Lois s  ‘ms  117 * HAP  to have done. Such a child today, in a family of substance, would probably receive psychiatric treatment, but in the 1920s, psychiatry was not as accepted, nor was treatment as available, as it is today. So Lois continued constructing her own reality, rejecting her mother as she increasingly idealized her father, while both of her parents continued to hope she would grow out of this disturbing phase.  At the Army Industrial College, Arnold became almost as much a teacher as a student because during the war he had gained extensive knowledge and experience in the subject he was now studying—the Army’s relationship with the manufacturers who produced Army mate- riel. To the surprise of no one who knew him, he was soon involved in another dispute. Army policy in 1924, as in 1917-18, was to rely on the automobile companies as prime contractors for the manufacture of military aircraft. But Arnold remembered what a fiasco this arrange- ment had created during the war, and he said so. He w
Node: 2916, Score: -0.0215726089449909, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0025.txt, Content: y much senior in rank, was also the designated officer in charge of any emergency measures that might be necessary in case of a Los Angeles area disaster. But this evening Hilton was not in when Arnold called. He was on a trip, but no one at Fort MacArthur could say exactly where he had gone or when he would return. Arnold decided to take independent action. It was not a difficult decision for him to make Time after time during his career he had ignored Army regulations and acted on his own initiative. Time after time he had also been disciplined for it, but the Army hadn't yet broken him of the habit.  Unable to reach Colonel Hilton at Fort MacArthur, he put in a call for one of his pilots, Capt. Ira Eaker, who was on detached duty in Los Angeles,”” improving his military prospects by studying for a degree at the University of Southern California. When Arnold called he was in his apartment near the campus, about twenty miles from Long Beach.  “Can you get away right now,” Arnold asked, “and go down to Long Beach?”  The “right now” was superfluous, as Eaker was well aware. Whenev- er Arnold wanted anything done, he wanted it done “right now.” Eaker assured him he could go immediately ‘alk to the mayor and chief of police, we can do to help.”  Despite traffic congestion caused by the northward flow of refugees from the continuing quakes, Eaker was in Long Beach within the hour, making his way to City Hall through the milling crowds of homeless,  Arnold said. “Find out what  Thomas M. Coffey 6  “Well, Hap,” she reminded him, “they told you to do that once.”  “I know it.”  “I don’t think you did anything wrong,” she said, after they had talked awhile,  ‘and you're not going to leave the service with a chip on your shoulder. I think you should ask for a court-martial.”  As he listened to her, his mood brightened. Finally he said, “I was hoping you'd say all that. I wanted to hear you say it.”  When he returned to Patrick's office the next day and announced he had chosen
Node: 3318, Score: -0.0211448178974076, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0427.txt, Content: life of Hap Arnold (whom Lois quite significantly did not deny as her true father), nursed him back to health, and had become the mother of his child. Later, after a short period in the United States during which he was married, he returned to the Philippines with his bride, and together they found Mara with little Lois, whom they bought from the native princess for ten pesos.  Lois told this story whenever an occasion arose, not always in the same detail, but she would always end on a note of mock magnanimity: “Mother [meaning Bee] has always treated me as one of her own children, but they still, to this day, deny the story.”**  It is not unusual for children to imagine that they are actually princes or princesses, separated by some strange or tragic circumstance from their royal parents, and that these parents will one day come to claim them and take them back to some far-off land; but it is unusual,  and somewhat alarming, for a child to believe this literally, as Lois s  ‘ms  117 * HAP  to have done. Such a child today, in a family of substance, would probably receive psychiatric treatment, but in the 1920s, psychiatry was not as accepted, nor was treatment as available, as it is today. So Lois continued constructing her own reality, rejecting her mother as she increasingly idealized her father, while both of her parents continued to hope she would grow out of this disturbing phase.  At the Army Industrial College, Arnold became almost as much a teacher as a student because during the war he had gained extensive knowledge and experience in the subject he was now studying—the Army’s relationship with the manufacturers who produced Army mate- riel. To the surprise of no one who knew him, he was soon involved in another dispute. Army policy in 1924, as in 1917-18, was to rely on the automobile companies as prime contractors for the manufacture of military aircraft. But Arnold remembered what a fiasco this arrange-  ment had created during the war, and he said so.
Node: 3370, Score: -0.020715333570723, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0479.txt, Content: ere unmentionabl, and he vas 0 uncomfortable mentioning them that he would usualy resort euphemisms when forced to dos  As soon ashe saw the striker intimately engaged with the cook, he retreated hasty, eaving them with a bare minimum of words o wi “Pl deal with you later.” He was sill muttering to himself in the htchen  when Bee came down fr breakfast  “AIL want inthe morning i a couple of eggs and a gas of mil” he said to her, ‘and what do T get? The house i cold, there's no breakfast and I find the cook and striker fornicating inthe basement.”  “You ind them wht!” exclaimed Bee, as much astonished to hear hi mention it as she was to learn that they were doing i  *Fomiaing” he repeated.“ cant get any breakfast around here because ofthe goddamned fornication  From the kichen door came the question, “What fornication?” andthe two parents tuned to find all hee of their children listening,  Fornication was an offense Amold found too embarrassing to tolerate, He damised both of the foricator, but he soon real it woud be easy to replace the cook, beau god ones were had to find on the base, While be launched bis earch, Bee bad to fil in, and afer eating her ooking for jut ashort in, he hastened in bis frs lo get someone ¢ fs. When he revealed his problem to several Cavaly  * HAP  se that? No wonder the kid can't read. rash,”  [ll tell you what I'll do, I'll write you a real things. And it'll be a hell of a lot  132  Thomas M. Coffey  officers at the mess hall, one of them, Maj. Alexander M. Milton (whose son, Theodore R. Milton, would one day become an Air Force four-star general), mentioned that he was about to be transferred and would be forced to give up an outstanding striker-cook combination, a Ninth Cavalry soldier and his wife.  When Arnold went home and told Bee they were about to hire the couple who worked for the Miltons, she said, “You mean Maggie and Cheatham?”  “Yes,” he said. “What's wrong with them?”  “Nothing’s wrong,” she said, an expression of delight s
Node: 3364, Score: -0.0190803981753264, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0473.txt, Content: to confront. The very mention of sex embarrassed him. Though his language was often profane, it was seldom earthy or obscene. He had been taught as a boy that bodily functions were unmentionable, and he was so uncomfortable mentioning them that he would usually resort to euphemisms when forced to do so.  As soon as he saw the striker intimately engaged with the cook, he retreated hastily, leaving them with a bare minimum of words, to wit “Tl deal with you later.” He was still muttering to himself in the kitchen when Bee came down for breakfast.  “All I want in the morning is a couple of eggs and a glass of milk,” he said to her, “and what do I get? The house is cold, there’s no breakfast, and I find the cook and striker fornicating in the basement.”  “You find them what him mention it as she was to learn that they were doing it  “Fornicating!” he repeated. “I can’t get any breakfast around here  * exclaimed Bee, as much astonished to hear  because of the goddamned fornication!”  From the kitchen door came the question, “What's fornication?” and the two parents turned to find all three of their children listening.  Fornication was an offense Arnold found too embarrassing to tolerate. He dismissed both of the fornicators, but he soon realized it wouldn't be easy to replace the cook, because good ones were hard to find on the base. While he launched his search, Bee had to fill in, and after eating her cooking for just a short time, he hastened in his efforts to get someone else. When he revealed his problem to several Cavalry  Thomas M. Coffey * 130  rever they might be playing, they had to be back  might be doing or wh home, with at least one foot on the steps of the front porch, within , they  fifteen minutes after the retreat gun sounded on the base. If no were solidly spanked despite Bee’s continuing disapproval.'* “You strike that child and I’m leaving!” she would cry, whereupon he would quickly administer another whop, but she would never get around to leaving.
Node: 2912, Score: -0.0189198299908158, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0021.txt, Content: military discipline,” the future of men like Hap Arnold and others who had supported him, as well as the future of air power in America, looked bleak. The decision so depressed Arnold that he considered leaving the Army to take a job as president of the newly formed Pan American Airways.” While this possibility was pending, however, he continued to campaign for a stronger air force. Even after Mitchell had been suspended, and the General Staff had pointedly forbidden the young air zealots to pursue their public agitation, Arnold, with several associates, kept up a steady,  surreptitious flow of air-power propaganda to friendly « congressmen and  5 * HAP  newsmen."® These associates included Maj. Millard F. “Miff" Harmon, Capt. Ira C. Eaker, Lt. David Lingle, and, not surprisingly, Maj. H. A. “Bert” Dargue, the same man with whom Arnold had teamed, to their mutual detriment, nine years earlier in San Diego. (Partly through  Arnold’s efforts, Dargue had been reinstated in the Air Service. In early Februar  the cry for more air power was continuing unabated in the press, and  1926, when War Department officials noticed that  when it became apparent that congressmen were still being bombarded with letters in favor of a separate air force, Secretary of War Dwight F. rvice, Maj. Gen. Mason M. Patrick,  Davis ordered the chief of the Air to conduct an investigation and find out who the agitators were. The investigation didn’t take long: Patrick knew the men behind the mailings because until the Mitchell trial he had been abetting them. It was imperative now that he take some action, at least against the principal offenders, who were Arnold and Dargue.  Patrick was reluctant to punish Dargue, who had been his personal pilot and was one of his most reliable aides, but he wasn’t at all hesitant about punishing Arnold, with whom he had never been on friendly terms. One day in 1925, he had become so angry at his information officer that he had thrown a paperweight at him." Gene
Node: 3367, Score: -0.0184641669609321, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0476.txt, Content: language was often profane, it was seldom earthy or obscene. He had been taught as a boy that bodily functions were unmentionable, and he was so uncomfortable mentioning them that he would usually resort to euphemisms when forced to do so.  As soon as he saw the striker intimately engaged with the cook, he retreated hastily, leaving them with a bare minimum of words, to wit: “Tl deal with you later.” He was still muttering to himself in the kitchen when Bee came down for breakfast.  “All I want in the morning is a couple of eggs and a glass of milk,” he said to her, “and what do I get? The house is cold, there’s no breakfast, and I find the cook and striker fornicating in the basement.”  “You find them what!” exclaimed Bee, as much astonished to hear him mention it as she was to learn that they were doing it  “Fornicating!” he repeated. “I can’t get any breakfast around here because of the goddamned fornication!”  From the kitchen door came the question, “What's fornication?” and the two parents turned to find all three of their children listening.  Fornication was an offense Arnold found too embarrassing to  tolerate. He dismissed both of the fornicators, but he soon realized it wouldn't be easy to replace the cook, because good ones were hard to find on the base. While he launched his search, Bee had to fill in, and after eating her cooking for just a short time, he hastened in his efforts to get someone else. When he revealed his problem to several Cavalry  Thomas M. Coffey * 130  might be doing or wherever they might be playing, they had to be back home, with at least one foot on the steps of the front porch, within fifteen minutes after the retreat gun sounded on the base. If not, they were solidly spanked despite Bee’s continuing disapproval.'*  “You strike that child and I’m leaving!” she would cry, whereupon he would quickly administer another whop, but she would never get around to leaving. Bruce grew to hate the odor of Dyanshine because when his father sp
Node: 4290, Score: -0.0183755084643045, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_1399.txt, Content: oject to record the  Teminiscences of friends of acquaintances of Ge aintances of General Arnold for the Colu University Oral History Research Office sss Anderson, Gen, Orvil A Arnold, Mrs. Eleanor  391 * Sources  Atwood, J.L.  Beebe, Brig. Gen. Eugene, Ret Burns, Col. James H., Ret Cabell, Gen. Charles P.  Castle, Col. Benjamin, Ret Conant, F. W  Douglas, Donald, Sr  Eaker, Lt, Gen. Ira C., Ret Gardner, Gen. Grandison, Ret. Gross, Robert  Kindelberger, J. H  Lahm, Gen. Frank P., Ret Lovett, Robert A.  Lutes, Gen. L. T., Ret Milling, Gen. Thomas DeWitt, Ret Peterson, Col. Clair, Ret Quesada, Lt, Gen. E.P., Ret. Raymond, Arthur E  Self, Sir Henry  Spaatz, Gen. Carl A., Ret Strangman, H  Wagner, Col. Hayden  Wolfe, Lt. Gen. K. B., Ret.  Library of Congress  Most useful to the author were the papers and correspondence of the following Lt. Gen. Frank M. Andrews (the bulk of whose papers are in the library of  Tennessee State University, Nashville) Gen. H. H. Arnold  Gen. Ira C. Eaker  Maj. Gen. Benjamin D. Foulois  Gen. Hugh Knerr  Gen. Frank P. Lahm  Robert P. Patterson  Gen. E. P. Quesada  Gen. Carl A: Spaatz  Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg  National Archives, Washington, D.C  Records of the United States Joint Chiefs Records of the Office of the Secretary of Wars Records of the Adjutant General's Office  Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama Correspondence, records, documents, reports, Gen. Orvil Anderson  and interviews of the following  Gen. H. H. Arnold (some miscellaneous letters, especially concerning  motion pictures and the Air Force song) Gen. Charles P. Cabell  Lt. Gen. William E. Kepner  Gen. Laurence S. Kuter  Sources 390  Historical Foundation, which has given full and generous support to this  project  Interviewed by the Author  Anderson, Gen. Samuel E., Ret., Aug. 31, 1978  Arnold, Col. David Lee, Ret., Sept. 12, 1978; Jan  Arnold, Col. Henry H., Jr., Ret., Sept. 28 & 29, 1978; Jan. 27, 1979  Arnold, Col. William Bruce, Ret., Oct. 18 & Noy. 13, 1978;
Node: 2960, Score: -0.018176706054638, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0069.txt, Content: 1683, but it was not until 1740 that Mennonites (including Henry Arnold’s great-great-great- grandfather John Arnold) began to reach America in significant numbers, after the early settlers sent back word to Europe that a man named William Penn, a Quaker, was founding a colony where religious freedom would be upheld and war denounced. This was exciting news to the German Mennonites of the upper Rhine valley. Since the Reformation, they had been victims of so many wars and so much persecution that they had compiled a chronicle, “The Book of Martyrs,” which told one gruesome story after another about the deprivations, tortures, and brutal murders members of their faith had suffered,  In America, where they soon became known as the Pennsylvania Dutch, they prospered by working hard and helping each other, They got along especially well with the Quakers, who respected them for their industry and agreed with their pacifism. But it was the question of pacifism that first threatened the solidarity of the American Mennonites. When the quarrel between the thirteen colonies and the English mother country began to intensify, the Mennonites naturally sided with their fellow colonists. And when the Revolutionary War began, some of them were so enthusiastically anti-British that they broke theit bear arms.  vows never to  Among those Mennonites who joined the Revolutionary Army were  seven of Henry Arnold's direct ancestors—three on his father’s side and  15 HAP  four on his mother's. It was not surprising, therefore, that in the Civil War, his grandfather Thomas Arnold fought with the Union {c  Gettysburg, And when the Spanish-American War be his father  joined as surgeon of the Pennsylvania Cavalry, taking part in the invasion of Puerto Rico in July 1898. By the time he mustered out of service, in November 1898, Dr. Herbert Arnold was so enamored of the military life that he immediately joined the Pennsylvania National Guard, in which he served with extraordinary distinction as
Node: 3162, Score: -0.0181521717626409, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0271.txt, Content: ss her. And he had not once told her he loved her. Yet she sensed that he truly did  As soon as she got hold of her own feelings, she looked up at him (she was only five feet tall) and demurely said, “I think that would be a very good idea if you can take me with my hay fever.”  Thereupon he solemnly took off his West Point class ring and slipped it onto her finger. Since it was much too big, she put it in her purse after a few moments. The two of them then went off, as if nothing had happened, to meet Betty for lunch, and not once during the lunch did either of them mention to her that they had become engaged  Late in the afternoon, when the two young women were sitting side by side on the train to Philadelphia, Eleanor felt certain that Betty was uncomfortably aware something important had happened. Betty may even have noticed that her beloved Harley's class ring was missing from his finger. Without saying a word, she reached over, picked up Eleanor’s purse, opened it, and looked inside. The ring was there. Betty knew now what had happened but she said nothing  The following Sunday Arnold came to Philadelphia to ask Eleanor's father for her hand in marriage. In the morning, before that ritual was to take place, the two lovers were able to sneak away by themselves and, for the first time since openly acknowledging their love for each other, enjoy the pleasure of being alone together. They enjoyed it so much and were so reluctant to interrupt it that the dozen or so people anticipating Sunday dinner at the Pool home became quite hungry awaiting their arrival. One of the Pools’ guests that day was Miss Ruth Harrison, who would quite coincidentally become, several years later, the wife of Arnold's close friend and subordinate Carl Spaatz, but who in 1913 was a school friend of Eleanor’s younger sister, Lois.  “We waited and waited for Bee and a young man who was visiting  her,  Mrs. Spaatz later recalled. “But they didn’t return so we finally sat down to eat.””  Elean
Node: 3407, Score: -0.0179398420831992, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0516.txt, Content: is father arose not from the old man’s conduct at home but from his habit of instructing peo- ple he encountered on the base, soldiers and civilians alike. He found it almost impossible to watch men do anything without telling them how to do it better. This gave rise to some delicate situations because no one wanted to tell the commanding officer's father to go to hell.  A new base theater was under construction when he arrived and he especially enjoyed visiting the site because it seemed to him the men working on it needed a lot of guidance. One day the contractor visited Arnold at base headquarters and insisted that something had to be done. His men were civilians and they didn’t have to take it any more.  Hap spoke sharply to his father that night, which proved of course that Hap, too, needed some instruction. When Hap persisted in his error, the old man took considerable umbrage, but he did, thereafter, stay away from the theater site. Fortunately for him, other activities on the base needed his attention. He began to spread his advice around, and there were no more complaints about him for quite a while because no group was getting a concentrated dose of him. One day, however, he discovered the repair hangars on the flight line When he saw what the mechanics were doing with those aircraft engines, he couldn't resist pointing out their mistakes.  Thomas M. Coffey * 146  all. The people there, including the merc hants, were not above posting and Soldiers—Keep Out.” Relations between the  signs that read: “Dc Air Corps troops and the good citizens were so strained that Arnold  arranged a meeting with the city fathers, hoping to relieve the situation. When he realized this meeting had done no good, he tried a new strategy. He declared Riverside off limits to all of his men and provided buses to take them to San Bernardino on their free days.  Riverside merchants soon felt the business loss so acutely that it was they who asked for the next meeting. At their request
Node: 3409, Score: -0.0177714913207115, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0518.txt, Content: . One house after another was foreclosed because the doctor's tenants had no money to pay rent and he therefore had no money to make his mortgage installments. Out of compassion for him, Hap and Bee invited him to visit them, and in March he agreed When he arrived they soon found that while he had lost his money, he  147 * HAP  had lost very little of his irascibility or his conviction that only his ways  wer  > the right ways  During his visit, Prohibition came to an end, and Hap took delight in being able legally to mix drinks for his friends, though he still refrained from drinking himself, since he was convinced alcohol would aggravate his ulcers. His father, having quickly settled in as a member of the family, would walk into the living room just as the guests were  beginning to feel mellow and say, “Where’s my supper?” His custom was to eat at five, and he was not a man who believed in changing his customs. While Hap tried to pacify him, he would look around at the assembled company and say, “Why are you people drinking? You know you're not supposed to drink.” Whereupon he would launch one of his well-practiced lectures on the evils of alcohol.  Inasmuch as Hap and Bee had no intention of disrupting their nged for him to eat in the kitchen at five o'clock with David, who also liked to eat early. David soon decided, however, that he didn’t like to eat that early if he had to eat with his grandfather. Though the boy was only five years old, he was old  social life to comply with him, they finally ar  srandad was “a nasty old bastard.”  enough to decide that  More serious problems between Arnold and his father arose not from the old man’s conduct at home but from his habit of instructing peo- ple he encountered on the base, soldiers and civilians alike. He found it almost impossible to watch men do anything without telling them how to do it better. This gave rise to some delicate situations because no one wanted to tell the commanding officer's father to go to he
Node: 3177, Score: -0.0169253910791399, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0286.txt, Content: ing wife, called “Matie,” drank gin, less sparingly but not isitors were usually offered a wide choice. In his sitting  Thomas M. Coffey * 74  be a Baptist, and when she didn’t choose to do something, she could be as strong-minded as Betty. Trying to sound friendly and reasonable, she said, “Betty, I couldn't be true to myself if I became a Baptist.”  “Well, every wife in the Arnold family becomes a Baptist,” Betty insisted, ignoring the fact that the family itself had been Baptist for only two generations. “You've got to do it.”  Besides feeling outraged, Bee felt hurt at being ordered about so peremptorily, but she could see no point in trying to convey that to Betty. Instead of continuing the argument, she simply waited until the next weekend when Hap came home. Though he had intended as a boy to become a Baptist minister, he no longer entertained strong religious feelings.  She told him what Betty had said and asked him, “Do you think I should become a Baptist?”  “Hell, no!” he exclaimed. “Will you tell me what that’s got to do with us?” The wedding, he decided without consulting Betty, would be exactly where the Pools wanted it, at the First Unitarian Church in Philadelphia. Betty decided thereafter that she would not be a member of the wedding party. But in the days and weeks ahead, she changed her mind about that several times. As the wedding approached, no one was quite sure what she would do.  Her mother, on the other hand, tried in every possible way to help her prospective daughter-in-law, even going so far as to drop hints that her son didn’t have to treat his bride the way his father treated her. Sidney Pool was a gentleman with courtly manners learned in an English boarding school, and after the Arnolds had visited the Pools, Mrs. Arnold grasped the opportunity to tell her son pointedly how pleasant it was to go there and have Mr. Pool show her so many courtesies. Unlike her husband, he thoughtfully opened doors for her, helped her into her chair, and
Node: 2945, Score: -0.0166616114499608, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0054.txt, Content: cized and defied.  Thomas M. Coffey 10  Department and Arnold on one side, Morgenthau and our beleaguered European allies on the other. It was a struggle that had continued through 1939 and was reaching a peak when, on March 5, 1940, Arnold was called to testify at a secret meeting of the House Military Affairs Committee. He was soon to realize that there is no such thing as a secret meeting of congressmen  Arnold told the committe  in confidence, that the Air Corps was paying too much for its airplanes. The cost of 2,100 planes ordered  during the corps’ expansion program, he said, had exceeded original estimates by  $20 million. This was due, he said, not only to a rise in cost of materials, but to the large orders placed with American aircraft companies by the British and French. The American companies, he indicated, were giving preference to the orders of the Allies TERRE they didn’t want to lose their business.  Arnold's secret testimony soon reached the White House, and  President Roosevelt reacted quickly, On the afternoon of March 12, he  summoned to his office the War, Navy, and Treasury secretaries and their assistants, plus the Army and Navy air chiefs, General Arnold and Admiral John Towers.  The president began by addressing himself to the need for coopera-  tion and coordination between all the members of his government in  arranging foreig: = ging foreign sales of aircraft and arms. He then moved on to the  need for caution in answering questions before congressional com- ittees. He wasn't happy  he said, with the way some people had n testifying before Congress—in particular,  be ae some War Department  At this poir us point he looked directly at Arnold. If certain chiefs could not  take care =mselves ¢ of themselves as witnesses before committees, he said, it might  be neces: 4 cessary to send the second or third in command up the hill to  testify  The: z hen, staring coldly at Arnold, he issued a threat that could not be  misunderstood. As for offi
Node: 2982, Score: -0.016599110225154, Chunk File: coffey_hap/chunks/coffey_hap_0091.txt, Content: hysician in the area, he was their family doctor, but he was not part of their social milieu. There were some aspects of the Pools’ way of life that he could hardly view with approval. Sidney Pool was the kind of jovial, convivial businessman who liked to gather his friends around him, tell some stories, have some fun, He made no secret of the fact that he liked an occasional drink. What was worse, so did his wife, Annie, who could be  charged with the additional sin of having sung in operas during her  23 « HAP  earlier years. But despite such flaws, they were people of quality and high standing in the community, and it seemed to Dr. Arnold that their comely young daughter Eleanor would be quite suitable for his son Henry, who was about to achieve the socially acceptable status of an Army officer  One day in March 1907, when Dr. Arnold was treating Eleanor Pool for a spring head cold, he decided the time was ripe for his son to meet her."* As he left the house, he casually mentioned to her mother that his own daughter, Betty, was planning a trip to West Point to visit Henry. Would Eleanor like to go along? The outing would be good for her, help her fight off her cold. Eleanor’s mother thought it an excellent idea, and so did Eleanor herself. The plans were set and one weekend in April, Eleanor Pool, chaperoned by Betty Arnold, who was seven years her senior, made her first trip to the academy. After a train trip to New York, they boarded a small, rinky-dink trolley that tootled up the right bank of the Hudson to the little station just below the West Point plateau. From there they rode up the hill in a horse-drawn hack to the only available lodging, the always-crowded West Point Hotel near Trophy Point. A small building, reputed once to have been General Washington’s head- quarters, it became each weekend a swarming hive of young ladies, all from proper families and all well chaperoned, who were there to dance with their cadet friends at the academy hops or go walk