Node: 16194, Score: 0.0738973298374205, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0313.txt, Content: omb Wing.  Weather intervened, and the Ist Bomb Wing took off three and a half hours late, which meant that the Luftwaffe had plenty of time to attend to both incursions. German fighters attacked continuous- ly from the point the American escort fighters left, all the way to the targets and all the way back to the point where the second wave of American escort fighters were waiting.  LeMay was in the lead plane, a Boeing B-17F of the 97th Bomb Group, and he saw to it that three hundred tons of bombs were dropped accurately on the Messerschmitt factory at Regensburg. Production was disrupted for five months, and the fuselage jigs for the top-secret Messerschmitt Me 262 jet fighter were destroyed. LeMay led his group on over the Alps to land in North Africa, after losing twenty-four aircraft—16.4 percent of the force.  The 1st Bomb Wing fared even worse, losing 36 out of the 183 air- craft it put over Schweinfurt, a startling 19.7-percent loss rate. The 1st did inflict significant damage on the plant, but the Germans were resilient, making up the losses with purchases from Sweden, and substituting other types of bearings where possible.  The two battles were an outstanding Luftwaffe victory, but were not interpreted as such by the German High Command. The combination of the recent devastating bombing of Hamburg and the coincidence of a British raid on Peenemiinde on the night of August 17-18 infuri- ated Hitler. He savaged Goering, who responded as usual by berating Jeschonnek. The latter committed suicide rather than continue to be blamed for things over which he no longer had control.  The heavy losses forced the Eighth Air Force temporarily to con- centrate on targets where escorts could be provided. Then on October 14, the Eighth went back to Schweinfurt, again with fight- er escorts for only the route to and from Aachen. From that point on the Eighth’s bombers were escorted only by the Luftwaffe, which shot down 60 out of the 229 aircraft in the attacking force,
Node: 15981, Score: 0.0720523337963449, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0100.txt, Content: , but the armor provided welcome protection from small arms fire.  The German Army became very proficient in the employment of these close support aircraft, and a captured German document    Fighters and Bombers 87  published by the Department of War on February 26, 1918, reveals how sophisticated they had become. The document, entitled “The Infantry Aeroplane and the Infantry Balloon,” states, “The infantry aeroplane (contact patrol) is, if there is proper cooperation with the troops, the most reliable and rapid means of reconnaissance and of obtaining information on the battlefield.”  The document goes on to outline the duties and employment of the infantry aircraft, with flights arriving over the lines before dawn, using its own machine guns to suppress enemy ground fire. Flights made during the day were to make approaches by indirect methods, making sure not to compromise the direction or position of a German infantry assault. The Schlachstaffeln aircraft were urged to fly as low as possible, for “assembly of troops in trenches can be overlooked by even a trained eye if the flight is made at a height of over 300 meters.”  The instructions were specific that all crews in a Schlachstaffel be well trained in the mission. Coordination with the infantry was emphasized, and some offensive battles were planned which required split-second arrival of the attack aircraft to support German storm troops assaulting a position." All of these ideas found expression in the German Luftwaffe of World War II.  After the failure of the great German offensives in the spring and early summer of 1918, the Schlachstaffeln had to be used more and more in a defensive role where they proved themselves to be equal- ly invaluable.  The British also recognized the importance of close air support, which they conducted for the most part with Sopwith Camels, S.E.5s, and Bristol F.2B fighters. The de Havilland D.H. 5 was intro- duced in 1917 as a ground attack plane, but was unpopular for a numb
Node: 16195, Score: 0.0701028988241169, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0314.txt, Content: ight- er escorts for only the route to and from Aachen. From that point on the Eighth’s bombers were escorted only by the Luftwaffe, which shot down 60 out of the 229 aircraft in the attacking force, a hor- rendous 26.5-percent loss rate. Another seventeen B-17s were scrapped after return to the United Kingdom, and 121 more were    The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 245  damaged. Neither the Eighth nor any other air force could sustain such losses, and the Luftwaffe had achieved daylight air superiority. Fighters had unquestionably prevailed against bombers, which were not invincible. They did, in fact, always get through, but at an unbearable cost.  Bomber Command’s Grueling Night Battle against the Luftwaffe  Early daytime raids had convinced the Royal Air Force Bomber Command that it was impossible to conduct daytime strategic raids against Germany. It shifted immediately to night raids, and for a period of time sincerely believed that those raids were severely dam- aging the German capacity to wage war.  The German Ruhr became a particularly attractive target, not least because the steel mills and armament factories were relatively easy to find, and were well within the bomb range of British aircraft. Unfortunately, equipment and training of the Bomber Command crews was not adequate to strike accurately, with as few as one-third of attacking forces ever getting within five miles of the intended tar- get. Despite this situation, Britain had no other means of attacking Germany, and first priority was given to the production of heavy bombers, including the Short Stirling, Handley Page Halifax, and Avro Lancaster. The Chief of Staff of the Royal Air Force, the admirable Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal, had once headed Bomber Command himself, and he now endorsed a report which stated that with a force of four thousand heavy bombers, Germany could be driven out of the war in six months. This report did not promise an early end to the war, however, for there were cu
Node: 16193, Score: 0.0683986663252932, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0312.txt, Content: t was inevitable in attacks on bomber for- mations that there would be multiple claims for every aircraft shot down, more for probables, and even more for wishful thinking. Actual German losses were relatively light, although the Luftwaffe did react by bringing in more fighters from the Eastern Front.  Daytime Air Superiority Won—by the Luftwaffe  The pressure on the Eighth Air Force became overwhelming despite its grudging participation in out-of-theater missions such as the August 1, 1943, raid on the Ploesti oil fields, when 54 out of 177 attacking planes were lost.  A decision was made to send the bombers on long missions to Regensburg and Schweinfurt in the full knowledge that fighter escort would be available only for the initial legs into German-occu- pied Europe, and the final legs out. This was the championship title bout, the chance to prove the theory that the bomber advocates had advanced. Unfortunately, the Luftwaffe was attempting to prove some theories of its own, including the importance of concentrat- ing fighters en masse, flying line-abreast head-on attacks, and mak- ing as many sorties as possible by landing at the nearest flying field for refueling and rearming rather than returning to home base.  LeMay, newly promoted to brigadier general, led the 4th Bombardment Wing to attack Regensburg with 146 aircraft. The plan called for 230 planes of the 1st Bombardment Wing, under  244 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Brigadier General Robert B. Williams, to take off ten minutes after the last of LeMay’s planes had departed, and attack the vital ball bearing plants in Schweinfurt. The idea was that the 4th Bomb Wing would draw in most of the Nazi fighters, which would have to land to refuel and rearm and thus miss the opportunity to strike the 1st Bomb Wing.  Weather intervened, and the Ist Bomb Wing took off three and a half hours late, which meant that the Luftwaffe had plenty of time to attend to both incursions. German fighters attacked cont
Node: 16131, Score: 0.0664721239785252, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0250.txt, Content: at the outbreak of the war the Luftwaffe was in superb shape compared to other air forces in the world. It had adopted the Messerschmitt Bf 109 as the standard single-seat fighter and was introducing the E model of that aircraft into squadron service. Goering and the German High Command still considered the twin-engine Messerschmitt Bf 110 to be the premier fighter, and it would serve well in the first campaigns. Bomber units consisted of Heinkel He 111 and Dornier Do-17 aircraft, supple- mented by the deadly Junkers Ju 87 Stuka. Even the obsolescent Henschel Hs 123 biplane was put to good use. This combination of aircraft, flown by enthusiastic and well-trained crews, overwhelmed the Polish Air Force when Germany invaded on September 1, 1939.  Working in combination with the panzer arm, the Luftwaffe established the pattern for Blitzkrieg (lightning war) operations upon which Germany depended for success. The Luftwaffe had matured into a perfect vehicle for continental air operations in wars of limited scope and duration. These were the only types of wars of which Germany at that time was capable, and they were the sort of wars that Hitler counted on to fulfill his plans of conquest. Unfortunately for him and the German people, World War II would prove to be of great scope and long duration.  By the practical end of the war in Poland on September 27, the Luftwaffe had learned much that would be of value in the months to come. The Polish campaign revealed some shortcomings in the German Air Force that needed to be addressed. The requirement for high production numbers had led to the reduced production of  The Search for Air Power, World War II, 1939-41 197  spare parts. There was a tendency by some of the Luftwaffe field commanders to regard aircraft as disposable, for it was often easier to obtain a replacement from the factory than to obtain the parts necessary to repair a damaged plane. One natural result of this was for the Schwarze Mannen (Black Men), the black
Node: 16007, Score: 0.0650125642261572, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0126.txt, Content: supplemented by a hand- ful of Bristol Scouts. The B.E.12 had the “best” performance, but it was pitifully inadequate as a Zeppelin interceptor. Essentially an upgraded B.E.2c with a more powerful 140-horsepower engine, it had a top speed of 102 miles per hour, a service ceiling of 12,500 feet, and an endurance of three hours. It was very stable, however, which made it especially suitable for night flying on Home Defense work, an important feature given its lack of instruments and the fact that cockpit and airfield lighting were completely improvised. The B.E.12 was heavily armed for the time, with up to four Lewis machine guns or ten unguided Le Prieur rockets.  There was a tremendous discrepancy between the capabilities of the Home Defense aircraft and the intruding Zeppelins. Yet some- how the defenses worked, for on June 17, 1917, a B.E.12 piloted by Second Lieutenant Loudon Pierce Watkins shot down the Zeppelin L 48 on its first mission over England.  The L 48 was one of the new generation of “height climber” Zeppelins, especially designed to operate at altitudes as high as twenty thousand feet. These altitudes, while rendering the Zeppelin safe from attack, made navigation and bombing accuracy virtually impossible. It was, in addition, extremely difficult for the crew to endure the bitterly cold temperatures and the lack of oxygen. Primitive oxygen systems were available, but they themselves induced illness among the crew, who, in general, preferred a shot of brandy as an alternative to oxygen.  The L 48 was commanded by Kapitanleutnant der Reserve Franz George Eichler, on his thirteenth raid, leading four other Zeppelins, L 42, L 44, L 45, and L 47. His orders had been succinct: “Attack South England—if possible, London.” The L 48 encoun- tered some difficulty with its engines on the inbound leg of its mis- sion, but pressed on. After dropping a dozen bombs in open fields near Kirton, Eichler elected to gain the advantage of a tail wind and descended to 11,50
Node: 16221, Score: 0.0641049406350248, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0340.txt, Content: twaffe bravely rising each day to meet new defeats. By February 25, the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces had flown more than 3,800 sorties and dropped almost 10,000 tons of bombs. The loss rate was high—just under 6 percent—with 226 heavy bombers shot down. The USAAF fighter loss rate was minimal, with only 28 aircraft lost out of 3,673 missions.  It was a different story for the Luftwaffe, which lost 2,121 aircraft in February, and would lose a further 2,115 in March."* Even more devastating to the Luftwaffe, however, was its loss in experienced pilots, especially its Experten, the high-scoring aces with a hundred victories or more. The effect of these losses was devastating, and put an impossible demand on the Luftwaffe replacement program. As more pilots were killed, their replacements were brought in with less and less training; these less-well-trained pilots were killed even more rapidly, accelerating the downward spiral to impotence. The obvious decline in the quality of Luftwaffe pilots was noted in many intelligence debriefings of Allied pilots, with comments made about enemy pilots flying straight ahead when under attack and others bailing out before an attack even began.  From the end of Big Week on, the Luftwaffe took up the chal- lenge less and less frequently, as it tried to husband its dwindling  266 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  supplies of pilots and fuel. Ironically, fighter production continued to soar, but losses to airfield and factory attacks were also soaring. The effectiveness of the suppression techniques was evident in the case of the Messerschmitt Me 262, the superb jet fighter that the Germans began introducing in 1944. Of some 1,340 built, only about 315 ever got into combat, the rest being destroyed by bomb- ing before they could be used.”  Yet the Luftwaffe even in decline had recuperative powers, and would occasionally strike out—it was like a wounded shark that has been brought on deck in a boat, dying, but still capable of
Node: 16219, Score: 0.0635578657624537, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0338.txt, Content: German fighter production, and it was not until the failure of Operation Steinbock, the final, pathetic Luftwaffe bombing campaign against England, that he finally agreed to cease building bombers in favor of fighters.  The Luftwaffe had managed to gather 550 bombers together for Steinbock, including thirty-five of the trouble-prone Heinkel He 177 heavy bombers. Led by Major General Dietrich Peltz, the campaign began with a total of 270 sorties on January 21, 1944, and continued in fitful fashion until April 18. Most raids consisted of 100 to 170 air- craft, and while losses were high, bombing accuracy was low. When the campaign was concluded, Germany had fewer than 130 bombers with which to contend the coming invasion.” In its bumbling way, Operation Steinbock was an instruction manual on how not to use air power, for it was conducted with inadequate resources, ill-trained crews, and no means with which to attempt to gain air superiority.  Establishing True Air Power  By February 1944, the Eighth Air Force had finally grown to the point where its dismal in-commission rate did not prevent it from putting a lot of bombers over Germany. It now had 1,852 heavy bombers of which 1,046 were serviceable—a lackluster 56 percent in-commission rate. (When Eaker had only 350 bombers, a similar low in-commission rate meant that he had a striking force of 196, too few to do much damage—except to his reputation.)  The Eighth was also supplemented by the Fifteenth Air Force, which operated out of Italy with 835 heavy bombers. Of these, 570 were serviceable, a more reasonable 68 percent in-commission rate. With a combined effort, 1,600 heavy bombers could be placed over Germany."  The Luftwaffe had responded to the growing strength of the Eighth’s incursions in 1943 in the only way it could, by increasing its flak installations and building up its fighter force at the expense of other fronts. In January 1943, the Luftwaffe had 635 single-engine and 410 twin-engine fighters, a total
Node: 15943, Score: 0.0625798723909659, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0062.txt, Content: ft of the seventy-two French divisions that waited for the German onslaught, which had been delayed by the unexpectedly stiff resistance of the Belgian Army— the next part of the Schlieffen plan to go wrong.  On August 19, Captain Philip B. Joubert de la Ferté of No. 3 Squadron and Lieutenant G. W. Mappelbeck of No. 4 Squadron took off on the first aerial reconnaissance of the war, flying a Blériot and a B.E.8, respectively. Nothing was discovered on this flight, or on flights on the next two days. On the twenty-second, however, No. 3 Squadron’s Captain L. E. O. Charlton and Lieutenant V. H. N. Wadham discovered that a huge column of the German First Army was passing through Grammont. It was the beginning of a move- ment by General Alexander von Kluck to initiate the right wheel of the Schlieffen plan. This was the first in a series of key observations that would permit the British and French armies to survive.  Armed with this knowledge, Field Marshal Sir John French, the commander of the BEF, undertook to make a stand at Mons, determined to hold for twenty-four hours to give the French Army, under General Charles Lanrezac, time to avoid Kluck’s enveloping maneuver.  There followed the famous series of battles in which the British retreated, day by day, their accurate rifle fire inflicting grievous losses on the Germans and immortalized in the famous book by Captain Walter Bloem, The Advance from Mons. During the retreat, the British were hard pressed, lacking food, water, ammunition, and hope; in contrast, the Germans were surprised at the level of    58 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  British resistance, but more concerned about their inability to sup- ply sufficient black bread to the troops who hungered for it."°  During the British retreat, the Royal Flying Corps flew continu- ous sorties, reporting the position of the Germans, and suffering several losses. The great coup of the RFC came on August 31. General von Kluck had been ordered to stop his eas
Node: 16015, Score: 0.0622473931338738, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0134.txt, Content: cks five miles to the south at Sheerness. Brandenburg was unaware that despite the haze, crowds of pleasure seekers were at the beach, enthusiastically soaking up the unaccustomed sixty- degree temperature.  Both targets were protected by antiaircraft guns, which began spo- radic firing. Either a coincidental engine malfunction or a lucky shot out of the 329 fired caused a Gotha to crash into the sea two miles off  112 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Barton’s Point, where dozens of small boats soon surrounded its wreckage. Neither the pilot nor the observer survived, but the gun- ner, Unterofizer Georg Schumacher, escaped with just a broken leg.”  In this attack, the Gothas killed thirteen, injured thirty-four, and did about twenty-five thousand dollars in damage. (As a convention for this work, all figures are in then values, based on contemporary exchange ratios, the pound then being about five dollars and the dollar about five marks.) Sixty-two fighter sorties launched against the attackers revealed all that was wrong with the British defense sys- tem. The fighters included everything from a Farman F.40 to a Bristol fighter among the sixteen types of aircraft used in the defense, but they had insufficient warning, no means of communi- cation among the aircraft, and no contact with the ground. No tac- tics had been worked out—each pilot was on an individual chase.” Defending pilots claimed a total of three victories and four “driven down out of control,” and the Daily Express newspaper translated this into ten victories out of twenty attackers. In fact, only one aircraft was lost on the raid, but two others crashed near the home base.  The Gotha, while actually quite agile when carrying one-half to a full load of fuel and bombs, became difficult to handle at lighter weights as the center of gravity moved aft. A pilot, exhausted by the strain of the long flight and combat, had to deal with a fractious tail- heavy aircraft at the most critical part of the f
Node: 16146, Score: 0.0617154098647272, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0265.txt, Content: ed forward much faster than the horse-drawn artillery could follow. The psychological effect of the screaming dive of the Stukas, followed by the inevitable bomb burst, was tremendous. French troops frequently proved unequal to the strain, breaking and running at the appearance of the Stukas over the battlefield.  The Germans, in just sixteen days, had effectively won the Battle of France. Goering now tasked the Luftwaffe to destroy the Allied forces before they could be evacuated. Exhausted from the cam- paign in France and the Low Countries, and with ill-prepared fields from which to operate, the tired Luftwaffe nonetheless managed to mount almost two thousand bomber sorties over the seven-day peri- od of the evacuation.  It was not enough, and the German Air Force suffered its first defeat over Dunkirk. Spitfires, flying out of Britain, bested the Luftwaffe and provided the air cover that permitted the operation to succeed. The British put up a slightly smaller number of fighter sorties, but inflicted ninety-two losses, while losing ninety-seven of their own aircraft. The victory came not in the relative exchange, but in the fact that the British were able to evacuate 338,000 British, French, and Belgian troops.  The fighter-versus-fighter conflicts had been conducted at high altitudes, and the very troops that the RAF saved were unaware of the great aerial victory. Instead, once safely back in England, they castigated RAF flyers for their “absence” over Dunkirk.  With the bad experience of Dunkirk behind them, the Germans turned to finish off the French, who still had more guns and tanks than the attacking Nazis, but were completely overwhelmed by the Luftwaffe. The French sued for peace on June 17. The casualties of the ground forces were staggering. The Allies had lost 90,000 dead, 200,000 wounded, and 1.9 million captured or missing. The Germans had about 195,000 casualties, with 30,000 dead.”  While the losses on the ground were one-sided, the air battle of
Node: 16184, Score: 0.0614878194035414, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0303.txt, Content: fighter, and pressed for the funds to develop one. It was admittedly a difficult task and an early attempt, the Bell YFM-1 Airacuda, was a resounding failure. Unfortunately,  The Growth of Air Power, 1941-43 237  the focus on bombers prevented the development of even such long- proven range-extension devices as drop tanks. In May 1939, the Air Corps, concerned about the fire hazard implicit in a droppable fuel tank, issued an order forbidding tactical aircraft to carry such tanks.  Pursuit aircraft, like all others, were designed to specific require- ments established by the Air Corps. When drop tanks were forbid- den, some manufacturers did not include in their new offerings the fundamental plumbing and connections that made carrying drop tanks possible.  As World War II unfolded in Europe, the United States Army Air Corps found itself with four fighters under development. They were promising in speed, maneuverability, and firepower, but were sig- nificantly lacking in range and in many of the requirements for modern combat, including such things as armor, self-sealing tanks, and adequate radios.  The four aircraft included the Curtiss P-40, Lockheed P-38, Bell P- 39, and Republic P-47. The famous North American P-51 had not yet debuted. Neither the P40 nor the P-39 were suitable for European operations, but performed good work in other theaters, including the Mediterranean and Pacific. There was a high demand for both the P-47 and the P-38 to be based in the United Kingdom. The P-47 had been designed without any provision for drop tanks, and on internal fuel had the ability to escort bombers for less than two hun- dred miles. The P-38, without tanks, could reach out to about three hundred miles—that is, as far as Paris.  On February 20, 1942, General Arnold ordered the full develop- ment of drop tanks for the P-38, P-47, and the P-51, which was only beginning to come into service. There were many delays, as succes- sively larger tanks were tested and deployed, but
Node: 16125, Score: 0.0614737647061194, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0244.txt, Content: r speed and the eight-gun armament of the British Spitfire and Hurricane fighters.  Even though the basic excellence of the Messerschmitt Bf 109 was validated in Spain, it was obvious that there was a need for improve- ment in power and armament as well. What was less obvious was that the Messerschmitt lacked the range for more demanding missions,    192 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  such as air combat over England. This lack of insight proved to be fatal in the Battle of Britain. The Germans did know that an escort fighter was desirable, and thought until the fall of 1940 that the Messerschmitt Bf 110 twin-engine aircraft would fill the bill. It did not, primarily because the aerodynamic challenge of creating an airplane that could fly for a very long range and still be a formidable dogfight- er was difficult to achieve. A true escort fighter would not be realized fully until 1943, with the advent of the North American P-51 fighter mated with the Rolls-Royce engine and long-range drop tanks.  In tactical terms, the Luftwaffe created a new formation for fighting units, with aircraft flying in a loose pair (Rotte) with two pairs compos- ing the basic unit, a Schwarm. The Schwarmwas flown in what was called the “finger four” formation, spread out so that a maximum flexibility was afforded the pilots for maneuver and visibility. The experience in Spain also enabled the Luftwaffe to develop effective ground attack techniques that would be invaluable in combination with armored units and confirmed the importance of dive-bombing.  In Spain, the Red pilots adopted the German-inspired “finger-four” formation, but were forced to give it up and revert to standard “V” for- mations when they returned to Russia. In the curious sort of “political correctness” reigning in the Soviet Union during the days of the purge, adopting a foreign combat formation was tantamount to treachery. In the United States, both the Army Air Corps and naval avi- ation adopted what was calle
Node: 16144, Score: 0.0608366124814795, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0263.txt, Content: ssault on Fort Eban Emael amazed the world. The Dutch surrendered in five days, the Belgians in eight. Taken together, the two techniques seemed to confirm the myth of Luftwaffe invincibility, as well as the French predisposition to believe that their air force would not survive a German assault.  In comparison, the French Air Force possessed 5,026 planes, of which 2,176 were positioned to meet the German thrust. Of these 1,368 were considered front-line equipment. Only 637 fighters were available.” In addition, there were now ten squadrons of RAF Hawker Hurricanes, with about 160 aircraft. Ultimately twelve of  206 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  the RAF’s total of forty operational fighter squadrons would be sent to France, and when more were asked for, the head of RAF Fighter Command, Air Chief Marshal Hugh (“Stuffy”) Dowding, would memorably refuse.  A three-to-one ratio is usually preferred for offensive operations, so these numbers show that quantitatively it was not too unequal a contest. As the Bf 110s would not prove to be adequate in fighter-ver- sus-fighter combat, there were 860 German single-seat fighters arrayed against 797 Allied. Unfortunately, there was a pronounced difference in quality. The French Morane-Saulnier M.S. 406 and Curtiss Hawk 75 were substantially inferior to the Bf 109E that now equipped the majority of German single-seat fighter units. The Hurricanes were only marginally inferior to the Bf 109E, and in their combats the decision usually went to the better (or least surprised) pilot. The general introduction of the Bf 109E was extremely impor- tant, for it was greatly improved over the D model and contributed much to the Luftwaffe’s overwhelming success.  The greatest difference came in morale, where the French were deficient. It was generally known that defeatism was extensive in the French Air Force, not least because of the continual problems with fit- ting production aircraft with armament and equipment, but most of all
Node: 16218, Score: 0.0607060215461345, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0337.txt, Content: escort bombers all the way to Berlin and back. Fuel had to be used out of the new internal tank first, to keep the center of gravity within limits, but by the time that fuel was used, and the two external tanks emptied and dropped, the P-51 could whip any German piston-engine fighter it encountered. The first sortie of the P-51B was with the 354th Fighter Group on November 11, 1943. On December 13, the group escorted 710 bombers in a raid on Kiel, a round-trip distance of 980 miles.  The Eighth Air Force now had the weapon with which to defeat the Luftwaffe. There were other good fighters in the Eighth, includ- ing ever-increasing numbers of the Republic P-47 and two Lockheed P-38 groups, but neither had the Mustang’s range. One of the unforeseen benefits of the Mustang’s taking on the aerial superiority role was that it would free the P-47 to become one of the all-time great attack aircraft. Further, once the P-51 had won air superiority, both the P-47 and the P-51 had a free run against the German transportation system.  The Fight for Air Superiority  In some respects the Eighth Air Force and the Luftwaffe were like two champion boxers who fought each other repeatedly, each learn- ing from the other, each growing in strength and proficiency, and, for a long time, neither able to muster a true knockout blow.  The Germans had been forced to denude the most dangerous and critical battle area, the Eastern Front, to protect against the growing British and American onslaught. They also had to force Hitler to agree at last to cease production of bombers. The German leader was an eye- for-an-eye man who believed the British would stop bombing only when he bombed them back. His insistence on continued bomber  264 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  production badly hurt German fighter production, and it was not until the failure of Operation Steinbock, the final, pathetic Luftwaffe bombing campaign against England, that he finally agreed to cease building bombers in
Node: 15939, Score: 0.0600300111432798, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0058.txt, Content: pal attack was to sweep through Belgium, Holland, and Luxembourg in a wide arc that would break through French lines and sweep to the Swiss frontier, ending the war in six weeks. The German railroad system would then move the victorious troops across Germany to meet and defeat the Russians. Little resistance was expected from either the Dutch or the Belgians. Inexplicably, Great Britain was not expected to intervene, and the Russians were supposed to take at least six weeks, and perhaps longer, to mobilize.  Von Schlieffen continued to modify the plan even after his retire- ment, bringing it to (in his judgment) “perfection” by 1912. Unfortunately for the plan, he was succeeded as Chief of Staff by Helmuth von Moltke. The new chief lacked the stomach to carry out the plan as devised, particularly when, in the very first days of the war, things began to go awry. In fairness, it should be noted that von Moltke was facing a different military and political situation than von Schlieffen had counted on. That von Moltke, the German General Staff, and Germany itself continued to rely on the Schlieffen plan despite those changes is one of the great mysteries of history.  Von Moltke has received blame for the failure of the Schlieffen    Air Power in World War I 55  plan because he excluded Holland from the invasion, weakened the right wing of the German Army before the battle began, and then took further strength from it when the Russians mobilized quickly and invaded East Prussia. Where Count von Schlieffen had called for 90 percent of German strength to be placed in the right wing, even if this meant that Alsace-Lorraine would be temporarily lost, von Moltke allocated only 60 percent.  Yet it is fair to say that the ultimate reason for the failure of the Schlieffen plan was the reconnaissance reports made by both British and French aviators, and which, almost miraculously, were not only believed but acted upon by Allied commanders. They came about in the following manner.
Node: 16154, Score: 0.0599094514808379, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0273.txt, Content: d— they simply worked around them. It was different in the Battle of Britain, in which he personally called off attacks on the radar sta- tions as ineffective, and in which he personally dictated that German fighters fly close escort with the bombers, thus giving away all their advantage in speed and maneuverability. There was no way to deny the results of the daily losses, or the damaged aircraft bringing back  214 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  badly wounded crew members. Most important, there was no way to deny that every day the RAF still rose to fight. (Inexplicably, the USAAF would make the same mistake with its fighters as did Goering until the arrival of Lieutenant General James Doolittle to command the Eighth Air Force.)  The Reichmarshall’s problems were compounded because he was given extremely bad information by Colonel Joseph (“Beppo”) Schmid, the superbly optimistic head of the Luftwaffe intelligence section. Unfailing in overestimating RAF losses, Schmid continually failed to identify profitable targets for Luftwaffe sorties. He predict- ed the demise of the RAF so regularly and so often that it became a joking matter. Despite his failure as an intelligence chief, Schmid went on to other posts in which he served surprisingly well, includ- ing that of commanding the air defense of Germany.  On the British side, Hugh Dowding clung slavishly to his plan to sur- vive by defeating the Luftwaffe in the air, allowing radar to direct his carefully hoarded fighter squadrons to attack German formations at precisely the point of greatest advantage. He watched his declining strength with despair, but knew that he had some advantages. His fight- er production was accelerating and although his pilot pool was declin- ing, those who safely parachuted from their aircraft could be returned to combat. He reluctantly turned to the use of more pilots from Bomber and Coastal Commands, and to the use of Polish and Czech pilots. Dowding was pleasantly surprised by
Node: 16143, Score: 0.0588020507967725, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0262.txt, Content: ,000 aircraft per year was adequate. Of the 9,000, only about half were combat types. Either unknown to the Luftwaffe High Command, or ignored for political reasons, British aircraft production had already reached German levels and plans were to increase it significantly in the years to come. A subtler, but perhaps more far-reaching, error came in February 1940, when Field Marshal Goering, confident of victory, stopped all work on aircraft projects that could not be finished in time for use in the war. Among those projects were the new jet engines from Heinkel and Junkers, and new jet fighters from Heinkel and Messerschmitt. Had an adequate number of jet fighters been available in 1943 (as they could have been, given appropriate resources for research and production), the air battles over Europe in 1943 and 1944 would almost certainly have resulted in a decisive German victo- ry. If so, the Allies would not have been able to launch the June 6, 1944, invasion, and the war in Europe might have gone on for several more years. Other “what-if” possibilities from this scenario include a separate peace between the Soviet Union and Germany, and the first use of an atomic bomb on Germany rather than on Japan.  When the German May 10 offensive was launched, the Luftwaffe had 4,050 first-line aircraft, including 1,300 long-range bombers (with some of the new Junkers Ju 88As), 380 dive-bombers, 860 Messerschmitt Bf 109s, 250 Messerschmitt Bf 110s, 640 reconnais- sance planes, 475 transports, and 45 gliders. Of these, about 2,750 participated in the attack.'*  The methods of their use would show the stunning effect of the innovative use of air power. The German parachute troops had a tremendous shock effect that unsettled both the Dutch and Belgian armies, and the brilliant glider assault on Fort Eban Emael amazed the world. The Dutch surrendered in five days, the Belgians in eight. Taken together, the two techniques seemed to confirm the myth of Luftwaffe invincibility, as well
Node: 16016, Score: 0.0583240688852046, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0135.txt, Content: lighter weights as the center of gravity moved aft. A pilot, exhausted by the strain of the long flight and combat, had to deal with a fractious tail- heavy aircraft at the most critical part of the flight, a night landing at home base. Later models of the Gotha had their wings swept back in an effort to cure the instability problem at lighter weights.  In looking at the influence of air power on history, one despairs at noting the many instances when the same general error was repeated. The Germans erred in committing the Gothas to combat over England without sufficient testing. In the next war, they would do exactly the same thing with their largest bomber, the Heinkel He 177. Both aircraft would suffer more losses to accidents than to enemy action.  Eight days later, Brandenburg struck with his Englandgeschwader again, this time against the target dearest to German hearts, London. Eighteen of twenty Gothas succeeded in attacking, killing 162, injuring 432, and inflicting almost $650,000 in damages. Ninety- four British aircraft rose in defense, but none reached the bombers before they had dropped their bombs. A few aircraft harassed the bombers briefly on their return journey, but none was damaged.  Fighters and Bombers 113  The Kaiser was delighted with Brandenburg’s efforts, personally decorating him with the Pour le Mérite, Prussia’s highest decora- tion for valor. Ironically, he was killed on his return flight to the base when the Albatros two-seat aircraft in which he was being carried crashed on takeoff.  He was replaced in late June by Hauptmann Rudolph Kleine, a highly decorated officer who had learned to fly in 1913, and had been wounded twice in air battles. Observers normally commanded German bomber units, just as it was their practice for observers to command the aircraft in which they flew. Kleine’s experience was invaluable for he was an original member of the Ostende Carrier Pigeon group.  He took the Englandgeschwader into action shortly after he
Node: 15907, Score: 0.0582215047185956, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0026.txt, Content: t as birds soar without beating their wings. They also believed that lightweight engines of sufficient power would be avail- able to power the flying machine. They differed from all other experimenters in two basic beliefs, however, and these were crucial to their success. The first of these was that flying was a three-dimen- sional problem, and that the flying machine should not be inher- ently stable, but should be controlled about all three of its axes by the movement of control surfaces—not by shifting the center of gravity. They also understood that the pilot of a flying machine would have to learn to fly by moving control surfaces to direct his course and altitude, and that this would take much practice.  Many inventors moved from one configuration to another. Chanute, for example, was equally interested in experimenting with his multiple-wing Katydid, his two-surface hang glider, his Lilienthal- type machine or, Edward Huffaker’s bizarre cardboard glider. In contrast, the Wrights preferred to solve one problem at a time, building upon past successes. All of their machines had a deep fam- ily resemblance. As a result, they moved swiftly from a kite in 1899 to a fairly successful glider in 1900. Their 1901 glider was less suc- cessful, and drove them almost to despair, even as it led them to the solutions that would create the highly successful 1902 glider. From there it was but two giant steps—the design and creation of an engine and the propellers—to powered flight in 1903.  The 1903 Wright Flyer is a classic example of designing to a point with economy and finesse. The Wright brothers calculated exactly how much lift would be required to raise the machine and a pilot into the air, and then designed and built wings that would provide that lift—plus a little more as a margin for error. The wings had a span of forty feet four inches and a chord (width) of six feet six inches, providing 510 square feet of wing area. They calculated that they would require an eng