Node: 16353, Score: -0.0208164706569483, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0472.txt, Content: will work against terror- ism. One would hope that the West, led by the United States in align- ment with the United Nations, will somehow muddle through perhaps decades of threats, of inconvenience, of expense, and even some level of physical harm from the terrorists. During this time there may be changes in the fervor and the direction of the Muslim world, signs of which are already apparent in Iran. If terrorist acts never again reached the horror of the attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and if even the lower-level attacks such as the suicide bomb- ing in Israel were to diminish steadily over the years, the situation might, in half a century, resolve itself without radical action.  One method that might ultimately lead to such a hopeful solu- tion would be a huge modern Marshall Plan, in which the West and the wealthy Arab nations would provide the capital, resources, and leadership to energize the economies of Arab nations all over the world, bringing them up from their terrible poverty, and offering hope to their young. If in this effort, both sides would put aside con- flict, and direct their military budgets into constructive channels of improved industry and agriculture, the problem might be solved, not in fifty years but perhaps in twenty.  Such a possibility is no doubt Pollyannish. The real question, of course, is whether the terrorists and their sponsoring nations will    Post World War II Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 365  have the restraint necessary to permit the West to be even grudg- ingly temperate in its actions. The impetus toward the use of a major weapon of mass destruction is great; if the September 11 attacks were a high point in terrorism, a nuclear weapon exploded in a major Western capital—Washington, London, Paris—would be the apotheosis of terrorism. Given this trend, restraining terrorists is doubtful, even though they and the nations that support them are painfully aware that there are at least
Node: 16339, Score: -0.0177642916311961, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0458.txt, Content: ly few in number, and for the most part practitioners rather than academics. The first generation included Douhet, Trenchard, and Mitchell whose concepts were put into use in one form or another by military men of the second generation, including Arnold, Walker, Hansell, Kuter, Harris, Yamamoto, and others. One of the best known of the second generation philosophers was Alexander P. de Seversky, whose real merit lay not with his ideas, most of which were derivative, but in his genius to put those ideas in front of the American public. The third generation of philosophers did not have much of a philosophy to boast about, for theirs was the era of mutual assured destruction, of which the premier advocate was General Curtis LeMay.  But beginning with the Vietnam War, there emerged a host of philosophers, academics for the most part, but with many of the aca- demics being military officers. Air-power philosophy and doctrine began to be evaluated and written about much as were other acad- emic disciplines, with seminars, papers, journals, and books appear- ing in droves. Often of the highest caliber, some of the work was devoted to analyzing the philosophers of the past, some to deduc- ing an air-power philosophy from past campaigns, and some to prophesying the future of air power. Many of them have been cited in the present work, and they include in part works by John Boyd, Mark A. Clodfelter, Benjamin S. Lambeth, Phillip S. Meilinger, Karl P. Mueller, and John Warden.  Post World War IT Middle-East Conflicts, Terror, and the Modern Air War 355  These philosophers were faced with a far different and more receptive world than their predecessors in many respects, for their audience included an intelligent and well-read population of mili- tary leaders who accepted the concept of air power for the most part, and were willing to have its nuances examined. In biblical terms, if Douhet, Mitchell, and Trenchard were St. John the Baptist announc- ing a coming, the current air-p
Node: 15884, Score: -0.0163794158914217, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0003.txt, Content: hat the book be written, and Dr. Milburn Calhoun, of Pelican Publishing, who undertook to publish it. My fine agent, Jacques de Spoelberch, collaborated with these two men to work out the contractual details.  In the research and writing, I turned to many colleagues for infor- mation, analysis, and ideas. I am grateful for the many valuable sug- gestions made by Dr. William F. Trimble in his thorough review of the manuscript; he gamely endured my many writing gaffes with patience and good humor. Auburn University doctoral candidate Bert Frandsen also reviewed the entire manuscript and gave me many insightful tips. Dr. Phillip Meilinger sent me much valuable material, for which I am most grateful. Dr. W. David Lewis also pointed me to some excellent resources. Dr. William M. Leary was very helpful.  I sent many of the chapters to specialists in the field, and to authors and experts such as Gregory Alegi, August Blume, Warren Bodie, Peter Bowers, Donald Caldwell, Howard Fisher, George Mellinger, Stéphane Nicolaou, Lon Nordeen, Lee Payne, James Streckfuss, Guillaume de Syon, Spencer Tucker, George Watson, and Mark Witzel. All were most responsive, providing many excellent suggestions for correcting my sins of omission and commission. Philip Handleman took time from his busy schedule to review the manuscript; his insight, as always, was invaluable. Wally Meeks not only made his usual good suggestions, he also provided some of the most valuable research material. Richard de Angelis, Susan Fischer, and David Rezelman all contributed material via Air Warfare: An International Encyclopedia.  To everyone, my thanks; if I have forgotten anyone, please forgive me, and know that I am grateful, if forgetful.  a    Introduction  It was with no little trepidation that I chose to use a title so close- ly matching that of one of the most important military books of its time, Alfred Thayer Mahan’s Influence of Sea Power upon History, 1660- 1783. As the following pages will reveal, it
Node: 16250, Score: -0.011599940456786, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0369.txt, Content: orial and trade concessions that made it dependent on the Soviet Union. In March 1945, King Michael of Rumania was forced to appoint a Communist- controlled government under Petru Groza, the first step toward King Michael’s overthrow and the establishment of a completely Communist government. The following events then occurred:  June 28, 1945: A pro-Soviet government was established in Poland.  September 2, 1945: Trained and backed by the Soviet Union, Ho Chi Minh declared the independence of Vietnam from France.  November 10, 1945: Communist Enver Hoxha became the pre- mier of Albania.  November 18, 1945: A Communist-controlled government was installed in Bulgaria.  January 31, 1946: Yugoslavia adopted a Soviet-style constitution.  February 9, 1946: Stalin announced that Communism and capi- talism could not coexist.  March 5, 1946: Churchill made his “Iron Curtain” speech in Fulton, Missouri.  January 19, 1947: A manipulated election in Poland established a Communist majority.  May 31, 1947: Communists won a general election in Hungary.  February 25, 1948: A Communist coup in Czechoslovakia ended a democracy there.  April 1, 1948: The first elements of the Berlin Blockade were in place.  September 9, 1948: Communist Kim II Sung was placed in power in North Korea.  All this was but the start of a worldwide extension of Communism, in a seemingly unstoppable tide, at a time when the United States seemingly still possessed a decisive military advantage.  For the general public, the Cold War has come to be regarded as  288 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  beginning formally with Churchill’s inimitable March 5, 1946, speech in which he said, “From Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic, an iron curtain has descended across the Continent. Behind that line lie all the capitals of the ancient states of central and eastern Europe, Warsaw, Berlin, Prague, Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade, Bucharest and Sofia, all those famous cities and the popu- lations around th
Node: 16298, Score: -0.0092075364522199, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0417.txt, Content: state under his leadership.  One aspect of McNamara’s insurgency viewpoint was that the Viet Cong were to be considered a rebellious opposition party to the    The Cold War, 1963-73 323  South Vietnamese government, when in fact they were directed from Hanoi, and included a large number of North Vietnamese troops who were inserted into South Vietnam to terrorize rather than persuade. Because there were rebellions going on all over the world, McNamara saw the war in Vietnam as a laboratory, a learning experience. He believed that by using the methods of quantitative analysis that had given him a meteoric career at the Ford Motor Company he would be able to analyze the results of operations in Vietnam. This learning experience would presumably teach the United States how to handle future insurgencies elsewhere in the world. He ignored the human factor entirely, a grave mistake given the redoubtable fighting qualities of the North Vietnamese and their dedication to their mission.  The situation in Vietnam was in many ways parallel to that of Korea in 1950. Both Korea and Vietnam were bordered on the north by Communist China. Both had formerly been occupied by a foreign power. Both were divided in half with most of the limited industrial capacity in the North. In both instances, the northern portion of the country was militant, with an army well trained and well equipped by the Soviet Union, while the southern portion had an army that was poorly trained and poorly equipped by the United States. The militant North was ruled by a strong, determined Communist government, while the South was ruled by a weak and only theoretically democratic government. Both the Soviet Union and Red China subsidized North Vietnam, while the South looked to the United States for assistance.  There were also significant differences that affected the outcome of the conflict. This time, the United States was not operating under the umbrella of the United Nations. It was supported by some of its
Node: 16249, Score: -0.0085491241656303, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0368.txt, Content: Party leader Clement Attlee replaced the old warhorse Churchill as a result of a fit of post-war British ingratitude.  In all of the negotiations that took place at the three conferences, Stalin possessed immense advantages that he exploited later to the maximum extent possible. At Tehran, Roosevelt and Churchill were fully aware that Stalin’s forces were bearing the brunt of Hitler’s wrath, and that the greatest danger they faced was a separate peace between Germany and the Soviet Union. They had to make conces- sions to ensure that the Soviet Union remained in the war. By Yalta, things had changed radically. The Western Allies had at last made good their promises to invade Europe, but by February 1945, mas- sive Soviet armies, three hundred divisions strong, were successful everywhere and had swarmed to within forty miles of Berlin. At Potsdam in August 1945, the inner strength of the Western Allies was buoyed by the knowledge that the United States had successful- ly tested the atomic bomb, but Stalin’s three hundred powerful divi- sions were still an unanswerable argument.  Another advantage of Stalin’s was his intention to abandon any  The Cold War, 1945-62 287  agreements made at the conferences as soon as it suited him to do so. Notwithstanding this intention, and the massive Red Army, there were some good results from the series of meetings, including the establishment of the United Nations and agreement on how Germany was to be divided for its occupation.  It is worth recounting exactly how far and how quickly Stalin had moved to expand the influence of the Soviet Union. He had absorbed pieces of Finland and much of Poland in 1939, then swal- lowed up Estonia, Lithuania, and Latvia in 1940, along with parts of Rumania. In 1944, Finland again had to grant territorial and trade concessions that made it dependent on the Soviet Union. In March 1945, King Michael of Rumania was forced to appoint a Communist- controlled government under Petru Groza, the first ste
Node: 16301, Score: -0.0079578668070513, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0420.txt, Content: ile industry from which McNamara came, but was totally inappropriate for conducting a war against a formidable enemy. Ironically, the North Vietnamese leaders had incisive insight into American culture and psychology, and indeed, correctly believed that they would win their war, not by mili- tary force of arms (they were in fact continually defeated in the field) but by the waning of support by the American public.  Nonetheless, such was McNamara’s influence that he was able to persuade both Presidents Kennedy and Johnson to fight the war as an insurrection and thus abandon traditional military strategy. He agreed with General Maxwell Taylor that while the air war against North Vietnam was to be limited, an ever-increasing number of United States Army troops would be brought in to fight a land cam- paign. This, despite later innovations in the use of airmobile troops, was a “traditional war.”  When after seven years and thousands of casualties it became apparent to all that the war could not be won in the manner in which it was being fought, McNamara advocated abandoning South Vietnam to its own fate. He had his own personal “bug out” when he left the government on February 29, 1968, to head the World Bank. Years later his best-selling autobiography would reveal that he had believed all along that the war could not be won. (Struck by the cynicism of a man who would make money writing about losing a war for which he bore substantial responsibility, some suggested that profits from the book be given to organizations supporting Vietnam veterans. McNamara declined.)  The most bizarre aspect of the war being run by politicians was the way the bombing was conducted. At Tuesday afternoon meetings in the White House, the president and McNamara would decide on tar- gets and perhaps on the weight of bomb loads and the munitions to be used. The fact that they were twelve thousand miles from the scene of the action, and that their orders had to pass through numerous headquarter
Node: 16242, Score: -0.0079508446129404, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0361.txt, Content: . There was never any question in Truman’s mind that the bomb should be used if it would save American lives, but he wanted Japan to have an opportunity to surrender if possible before the bomb was dropped. An ultimatum was issued on July 26, 1945, at the Potsdam Conference calling for the Japanese to surrender and promising prompt and utter destruction if they did not. The new Japanese Prime Minister, Suzuki Kantaro, responded using the term mokusatsu, by which he meant to convey the Japanese equivalent of “no comment.” Interpreters, however, understood the word to be contemptuous rejection of the Potsdam Declaration—and the die was cast for dropping the atomic bomb.  Ultimate Air Power  The $2-billion American investment in the atomic bomb depend- ed entirely upon the $3-billion investment in the B-29, for there was then no other aircraft capable of delivering it. Specially picked Boeing B-29s built at the Martin factory in Omaha, Nebraska, were modified to carry the bomb, and a special unit, the 509th Composite Group, was selected to fly those B-29s. Commanded by Colonel Paul Tibbetts, a veteran of the Eighth Air Force, the men of the 509th were given extraordinary training without being told what their mission was until two days before the bomb was to be dropped—and even then they were not told that it was to be an atomic bomb.  A list of targets was drawn up, made up of the largest cities which had the least damage already done to them. These included Kyoto, Hiroshima, Niigata, and Kokura, but Kyoto was dropped from the list because of its cultural significance to the Japanese. Nagasaki was substituted for Kyoto, with fateful results.  Hiroshima’s population had been greatly reduced by mass    True Air Superiority, Then Absolute Air Supremacy, 1944-45 281  evacuations, but there were still many military installations, and like all Japanese cities, it was geared entirely to the war effort. It also had the positive feature that there were no Allied prisoner of wa
Node: 16304, Score: -0.0076632689570782, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0423.txt, Content: attacking, and landing at times of their own choosing. It was forbidden to attack shipping in Haiphong’s harbor, even though it made much more sense to sink a ship carrying three-hundred trucks with one mission rather than take a thousand missions to destroy the trucks one by one as they came down the infamous Ho Chi Minh Trail. There were many other rules, all conducive to enemy safety, all dan- gerous to American flyers; if these rules were broken, the United States military men were punished, sometimes by court-martial.  With the full use of air power forfeited, McNamara next saw to it that the United States was engaged instead in the type of conflict that almost all American military leaders condemned, a long land war in Southeast Asia in which more than 500,000 troops were even- tually employed and in which more than 58,000 casualties would be incurred. In doing so, McNamara followed the advice of General Maxwell Taylor, who was Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for President Kennedy. It must be noted that McNamara’s policies were exactly contrary to the advice of a man with combat experience in World War II, Korea, and the Cold War, the USAF Chief of Staff, General Curtis LeMay. LeMay, like most military leaders, had bit- terly opposed entering the conflict in Vietnam. Once entered, how- ever, LeMay advocated winning the war in 1965 with a massive con- ventional bombing campaign directed against ninety-four North Vietnamese targets. The attack was to begin with airfields, with petroleum manufacturing and storage facilities, the industrial sys- tem, and then the road and transportation network to follow.‘ Unfortunately, both McNamara and Kennedy regarded LeMay as a saber-rattling Neanderthal, whose hard-won experience in warfare was to be ignored. LeMay retired on January 31, 1965, being replaced by General John P. McConnell as Chief of Staff. The like- able McConnell lacked LeMay’s combat experience and did not have the personal wherewithal to challenge M
Node: 16116, Score: -0.0057347125321237, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0235.txt, Content: trumped-up border incident gave the Italians an excuse to invade Ethiopia on October 3, 1935. The citizens of France and England reacted in horror and disgust to the mismatch of a powerful European nation fighting Ethiopia, which, under Emperor Haile Selassie, was just beginning to emerge from its primitive past. However, the governments of the democratic nations took little or no action, for they hoped to secure Italian sup- port against Hitler. In time, they merely registered disapproval through the League of Nations by ordering some minor sanctions against Italy. These were not carried out effectively, and in fact enabled Mussolini to proclaim to his people that he was bravely defying France and England in Italy’s interest.  The situation was a joy for Hitler, who had kept Germany neutral throughout the war. The German leader stood to gain no matter what the outcome. If Mussolini became greatly involved in Africa, any objections Italy might make to German unification with Austria would be muted. On the other hand, if Mussolini won a decisive  186 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  victory, the opposition of France and Great Britain might force him into an alliance with Germany.  The Italians attacked with overwhelming force, marshaling some 100,000 troops against an ill-trained enemy whose air force consisted of a few non-combat-worthy planes. The Ethiopians, under the inspi- rational leadership of Haile Selassie, often fought well, and their guerilla tactics inflicted continuing losses upon the Italian forces.  In many ways the Italo-Ethiopian war was similar to the war of the United States against the al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan. The Italians were fighting hundreds of miles from home in a harsh environ- ment against tribal chiefs who knew their territory intimately. The Italian leaders were astute enough to capitalize effectively upon the differences among the tribes, which in Marshal Emilio de Bono’s estimate kept an additional 200,000 warrio
Node: 16300, Score: -0.0053626538948566, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0419.txt, Content: of the United States to fight tit-for-tat slogan warfare. He was seeking to elicit a Pavlovian response from a tough North Vietnamese government that was com- posed in large part of intellectual revolutionaries who had been suc- cessful in their thirty-year struggle against both the Japanese and the French. In the end, it would be the Vietnamese ringing the bell, with the United States salivating at the prospect of peace.  McNamara had erroneously assumed that North Vietnam was a mere pawn of Red China, and he sought to avoid the possibility of war with China by pretending to deal only with his fictional insur- rection in South Vietnam. War with China was a genuine concern for President Lyndon B. Johnson, as well. Unfortunately, neither man ever assessed the Red Chinese means or intentions; had they done so, they would have learned that war on behalf of Red China’s hated enemy, the Vietnamese, was unlikely in the extreme. Further, they completely missed the point that in his determination to unite Vietnam under his own regime, Ho Chi Minh would fight China as readily as he fought the French and the United States.  McNamara’s entire concept was based on an appalling ignorance of the quality of the North Vietnamese people and their battle-hard- ened leaders. Neither he nor any member of his staff was personal- ly familiar with the Vietnamese culture, and none had learned any- thing of the psychology of the enemy. Worst of all, safe in the con- fines of their air-conditioned Washington offices, none of them had any idea of the ruthless determination and the skill with which the North Vietnamese had fought and would fight. The concept of “teaching” the North Vietnamese was a snobbish, condescending  The Cold War, 1963-73 325  power play that might have worked in the automobile industry from which McNamara came, but was totally inappropriate for conducting a war against a formidable enemy. Ironically, the North Vietnamese leaders had incisive insight into American cultur
Node: 16262, Score: -0.004387483472473, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0381.txt, Content: en President Dwight D. Eisenhower replaced Truman in 1953. Eisenhower did not believe that the Soviet Union was in any  296 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  condition to take part in another war, and he instructed his Secretary of State, John Foster Dulles, to communicate to the Indian Premier, Jawaharlal Nehru, that he was prepared to use atomic weapons if an agreement on a peace treaty could not soon be reached at Panmunjom. The message was of course promptly relayed to North Korea, which then began serious negotiations resulting in the cease-fire agreement that became effective on July 27, 1953. Knowledge of Eisenhower’s wartime successes condi- tioned this decision; the Communists presumed that with his mili- tary experience, he was not averse to using nuclear weapons.  There was yet another critically important factor in all of the American military and political considerations, and that was the gradual but relentless increase in the Soviet Union’s capability to attack the United States with its own nuclear weapons. The announcement of the discovery that the Soviet Union had explod- ed an atomic bomb came as a stunning surprise on September 23, 1949. Unaware of the extent of Soviet espionage and the number of traitors in the United States’ nuclear program, loyal American sci- entists had estimated that it would be 1953 or later before the Soviet Union could explode a test atomic weapon. (By August 1953, the Soviets had successfully tested a hydrogen bomb.)  And, just as the Soviet atomic capability was revealed, the United States became increasingly aware that the Soviet Air Force had acquired the means to deliver the bomb, thanks to a directive from Stalin.  Joseph Stalin had meant many things to the development of Soviet air power. He had been a source of funds during the prewar years and had saved the entire industry by ordering its forced removal to beyond the Urals. He had intervened to accelerate pro- duction of the Shturmovik, and had graciously
Node: 16352, Score: -0.0031669708214434, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0471.txt, Content: d by the thought of them or their countrymen being destroyed, but in fact welcome death as martyrdom.  Brilliantly employed air power to date has been able to eject the Taliban from power and to hound the al-Qaeda from cave to cave, causing casualties and destroying supplies. It has not as yet been able to influence the nations that support the terrorists to cease that sup- port. It is possible that if air strikes like those conducted in Afghanistan were extended against countries supporting terrorism (for example Iraq, Iran, Syria, and Lebanon), such support might be diminished.    364 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  Unfortunately, this action is unlikely. While surgical air strikes can take out command and control centers, oil production facilities, and so forth, they cannot extinguish an international extremist Muslim con- spiracy that seems to support, actively or passively, the terrorist move- ment. The most obvious analogy is the Vietnam War, where technolo- gy was thrown against the myriad porters on the Ho Chi Minh Trail and failed. Against a Muslim terrorism that is now growing from Morocco on the Atlantic across the world to the Philippines and Indonesia, and is imbedded in Western countries as well, a purist, surgical technology intended to harm only practicing terrorists, simply cannot win.  The ideal solution would be a twofold miracle: the resolution of the Palestinian problem with a meaningful settlement among the Arabs and Israel, and a booming new economy that would lift Muslim nations from their fatal poverty toward a less violently con- frontational view of life. Either miracle is unlikely, and it may be assumed that two are impossible.  The greatest question is whether containment, which served in the half-century Cold War against Communism, will work against terror- ism. One would hope that the West, led by the United States in align- ment with the United Nations, will somehow muddle through perhaps decades of threats, of inconvenience,
Node: 16040, Score: -0.0019201024379972, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0159.txt, Content: H. 9 equipment available. He chose the second of the two alternatives available to him, to attack “as many large industrial cen- ters as it was possible to reach with the machines at my disposal.”* Trenchard believed that the moral effect of bombing was to the physical effects of bombing as twenty is to one, so that widespread bombing of many industrial centers would have the greatest cumu- lative effect from the equipment and weapons he had in hand.  When Trenchard looked to the future, he saw that it might be pos- sible to have aircraft capable of reaching long-distance targets in suffi- cient numbers to realize the first alternative. It was his belief, as it would be the belief of most air-power theorists, that the bombing could break the enemy’s will by striking industrial targets. He did not believe in the indiscriminate bombing of civilian targets, but he accepted that civil- ians would die accidentally when industrial targets were bombed. He also made a subtle distinction among civilian deaths, holding that killing a worker in an armaments factory was essentially no different from killing an enemy soldier, while killing someone not engaged in actual armament work was to be avoided if possible.  During his peacetime tenure as CAS, Trenchard retained his belief in the essential requirement to obtain air superiority. He also continued to believe that bombing did more to hurt morale than to damage industry, and for that reason, a strategic bombing campaign had to break the will of the enemy population to resist. His argu- ments would be accepted by RAF leaders philosophically and be incorporated into written doctrine. If all things had been equal, they  Growth of Air-Power Theory 131  would have been implemented during World War II. Unfortunately, his philosophy could not be executed for the Five Factors men- tioned above: reduced budgets, Great Britain’s perception of the threat to its security, advances in aviation technology, its political leaders, and a few o
Node: 16257, Score: -0.0016774145858426, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0376.txt, Content: assionate relief missions that have seen the USAF on the spot with relief supplies and remedial measures all over the world, whether the trouble is earthquake, fire, flood, civil war, famine, plague, or anything else. It is worth noting that the number of lives saved by these com- passionate missions, especially those that involve fighting insect-borne disease or fighting famine by enhancing agriculture, far exceeds the total number of lives lost to all hostile air action in history.  The peaceful resolution of the Berlin Blockade had a curious by- product. The battle-less Berlin airlift seemed to reduce Soviet inter- est in an open clash of arms with the United States. While it would continuously build up its forces and those of its satellite states, and thus present the continuous threat that Red armies might suddenly spill past the frontiers and race to the Channel coast, it directed more of its energies into a changed strategy. The Soviet Union now tried to expand Communism by supporting “freedom” movements around the world, particularly in countries that were shaking off their previous masters. The greatest success came in China, but there were active Communist cells fomenting revolution elsewhere in Asia, Africa, Central America, and South America. And wherever possible, the Soviet Union would seek to embroil the United States in wars with Soviet client states serving as proxies. This strategy would be only too successful.  The crisis in Europe seemed to be temporarily quelled. In the Far East, however, there were disquieting events. On October 1, 1949, Mao Zedong proclaimed the People’s Republic of China, with    The Cold War, 1945-62 293  America’s longtime ally, Chiang Kai-Shek, scuttling with his dwin- dling forces to Formosa (Taiwan). On January 14, 1950, Ho Chi Minh declared the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and was promptly recognized by the Soviet Union and Communist China. Then, on June 25, 1950, with the implicit backing of both Stalin and Mao Zedon
Node: 16315, Score: -0.001609779883169, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0434.txt, Content: king his first foreign trip as president, announced in a speech at Guam that “we will keep our treaty commitments” to Asian nations, but cautioned that “as far as the problems of internal security and mili- tary defense, except for a major power employing nuclear weapons, the United States . . . has a right to expect that this problem will be increasingly handled by . . . the Asian nations themselves.””  Nixon was moved to make this statement because after seven years of McNamara’s guidance, the war was irrevocably lost politi- cally no matter what happened in the field. The greatest evidence of this fact was the Tet Offensive, which was a crushing defeat for the Communist forces, who lost 45,000 killed of the 84,000 troops participating. Despite this terrible loss, media of the United States turned Tet from a crushing tactical defeat into a smashing strategic victory for the North Vietnamese. Just at the moment when the North Vietnamese were at their weakest and most vulnerable, they were gratuitously handed a propaganda victory that ultimately decided the outcome of the war.  The speech at Guam became known as the Nixon Doctrine and was interpreted, against protests to the contrary, that it meant that the United States was withdrawing support from Vietnam—which was indeed the case.  In two earlier statements, one by General Creighton Abrams in 1968, and another by Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird in the spring of 1969, the word “Vietnamization” was introduced. This became generally accepted as a code word for the training and reequipping of the South Vietnamese Army so that it could defend its homeland against North Vietnam without American forces, par- ticularly air power, taking part. It also meant many other things, including improving the South Vietnamese political system and cre- ating a viable economy."*  The United States continued engaging in both open and secret discussions with the North Vietnamese leaders. The American negotiating position was weakened
Node: 15892, Score: -0.0016057263276542, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0011.txt, Content: A curious phenomenon of this endless repetition on television is that when people can no longer stand the current rehash, they often turn to documentary channels to review the history of past achievements or past horrors.  This confluence of very diverse technologies—mass newspaper coverage, film, radio, and television—provided individual advocates of air power with the mechanisms needed to reach out to the gen- eral public, and they seized them early on. The new media bestowed a degree of prominence and influence upon these aviation propo- nents that was unavailable to their counterparts in the early days of naval and other military developments. While there were of course many famous military heroes throughout history who received wide- spread fame, the work of the comparatively few military philoso- phers was appreciated almost exclusively by professionals. They had little or no effect upon public opinion, and this may be said to be true of Mahan himself. As influential as he was in the services and even the governments of many nations, and despite the fact that his writings did appear in contemporary magazines and newspapers, he was not widely read or appreciated by the general public. In marked contrast, many of the most influential practitioners of air power had powerful personalities that resonated in the media, none more so than the United States’ famous brigadier general William (“Billy”) Mitchell, of whom much more will be discussed later.  Mahan’s book dealt with a relatively short 123-year period of naval warfare, one that was not characterized by great change in technology or tactics. The ships, as complex and difficult to handle as they were, remained wooden and wind-driven over the period, equipped with muzzle-loading cannons of much the same range and firepower. The tactics used by the Dutch fleet against the French and English at the battle of Southwold Bay on June 7, 1672, were not substantially different from those used by the Spanish against the
Node: 16296, Score: -0.0014161467485518, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0415.txt, Content: formal involvement in Vietnam. Then-President Kennedy authorized the establishment of a mobile control and reporting post at Tan Son Nhut Air Base near Saigon. It began operation on October 5, 1961, and was soon followed by a detachment with the code name Farm Gate. Consisting of 155 officers and airmen equipped with four Douglas RB-26s, four Douglas SC-47s, and eight North American T- 28s, the Farm Gate contingent began arriving at Bien Hoa Air Base on November 15. The official mission was to train the South Vietnamese Air Force, but the Farm Gate crews were soon flying combat missions. It was the thin edge of what would become a bloody eleven-year wedge.  Operation Mule Train followed Farm Gate in January 1962, to provide troop carrier and cargo capability in the form of sixteen Fairchild C-123 twin-engine transports. In the same month, the first detachment of Operation Ranch Hand would arrive. Ranch Hand used the C-123 to conduct the highly controversial Agent Orange defoliant operations that Secretary McNamara authorized on November 3, 1961.  This cautious escalation was not without its costs, for several aircraft were lost. The first of these was a Fairchild C-123 on a training mission that crashed on February 2, 1961, killing its crew of three. Thousands more aircraft would be lost in the course of the Vietnam War.    322 THE INFLUENCE OF AIR POWER UPON HISTORY  The tempo of air-power operations did not increase substantially until after the August 2, 1964, Gulf of Tonkin incident when North Vietnamese torpedo boats were reported to have attacked the destroyer USS Maddox. President Lyndon B. Johnson ordered retal- iatory raids on North Vietnamese bases by carrier aircraft, and the air war in Vietnam began to pick up speed. In Operation Pierce Arrow, sixty-four sorties were flown from the USS Ticonderoga and the USS Constellation on August 5, striking North Vietnamese petro- leum storage facilities and naval vessels.’  Side Effects of the Success in Cuba  Many
Node: 16340, Score: -0.0013031887219181, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0459.txt, Content: of air power for the most part, and were willing to have its nuances examined. In biblical terms, if Douhet, Mitchell, and Trenchard were St. John the Baptist announc- ing a coming, the current air-power philosophers are more in the mode of St. Augustine, preaching to a (not always receptive) choir.  In at least one instance, a philosopher of air power had the plea- sure of seeing the ideas he put forward as theory materialize as fact in actual combat. This philosopher was Colonel John Warden, who flew 226 combat missions in Vietnam as a forward air controller, and later commanded the 36th Tactical Fighter Wing at Bitburg Air Base, Germany.  Colonel Warden asserted in his 1988 book The Air Campaign: Planning for Combat that aerospace leaders should focus on translat- ing national political objectives and strategic military goals into the- ater campaign plans. As logical as this assertion sounds, it was rarely practiced in the past. Warden believed that air power could achieve those objectives and goals swiftly and at minimum costs. Just as Douhet, Mitchell, and Trenchard had emphasized “vital centers,” Warden emphasized striking at the enemy’s center of gravity (COG), i.e. attacking the enemy where he is most vulnerable, and where an attack will be decisive. (This is the opposite of the great nineteenth- century military philosopher Carl von Clausewitz’s concept of the center of gravity, which was always the center of greatest strength.)  Warden developed a model of five concentric rings. Each ring depicted individual COGs, ranging outward from leadership at the center to successive rings of organic essentials, infrastructures, pop- ulation, and fielded forces.*  Given today’s capabilities with stealth aircraft and precision- guided munitions, it was Warden’s belief that well-planned strikes could take out the leadership ring, not necessarily by killing every- one involved, but by cutting off their ability to control their forces and thus inducing a physical paraly
Node: 16247, Score: -0.000591866409879, Chunk File: boyne_influence/chunks/boyne_influence_0366.txt, Content: eved what its philosophers and prophets had so hope- fully claimed for it. The Cold War, which broke out so soon after the end of World War II, would reveal that air power had become captive to its new potential in a way that no one could have imagined.    Chapter Nine  The Cold War, 1945-62  Adolph Hitler began World War II with the intention of obtain- ing colonies in the east. Joseph Stalin ended World War II with the complete defeat of Germany, and the acquisition of a series of buffer states that became, if not Soviet colonies, at least compliant client states that were exploited ruthlessly.  In this turnabout of historical events, air power had been of enor- mous consequence. None of the air-power theorists nor even any of the air-power practitioners could ever have imagined that air power would reach the ultimate heights that it did in the summer of 1945— “ultimate” meaning the combination of air superiority, the atomic bomb, and a long-range delivery system, the B-29. Yet oddly enough, instead of becoming a major new factor in world politics, ultimate air power had, for the moment at least, become a non sequitur, unnec- essary in a world in which the aggressive national states of Germany and Japan had been defeated, and where there seemed to be at least the prospect of peace for the immediate future.  It is worthwhile to stop for a moment and consider what might have been the case with ultimate air power in 1945 if it had not been the sole possession of the United States, but instead that of Germany or Japan or the Soviet Union. And—not to put too fine a point on it—what it might have been even if it were in the pos- session of the United Kingdom, or France, or Italy. It is entirely possible that some other country, possessed of such limitless power, might have used it to settle old scores, retain its colonial empire, expand its territories, and in general become an interna- tional bully. The United States did none of these things. In fact, it did something