ect to targeting the bridges; he objected to doing so with the least-effi- cient aircraft available for the job-heavy bombers. Their use not only would divert them from POINTBLANK and CROSSBOW but also would produce high fig- ures of bomb tonnage versus bridge destruction, confirming Zuckerman's, Leigh-Mallory's, and Tedder's opinion that bridge breaking did not offer an effective alternative to transportation targets. Operations in Italy had shown the superior effectiveness of the fighter-bomber for the task. After the meeting of May 3, USSTAF attempted to reverse Leigh-Mallory's decision to allocate the bridges to heavy bombers. Thirty-five years later, Smith recalled that on May 4 he received a call from Fred Anderson requesting that he stay late in his office where a captain of the Horse Guards, the unit that guarded the Prime Minister, would pick up a copy of the bridge-bombing plan Smith had proposed at the May 3 meeting. The Guards officer duly arrived and, Smith believed, whisked the plan off to Churchill, who pressed Leigh-Mallory to reverse his stand.57 If Smith's memory and surmises were accurate, they give ample evidence that Spaatz's and Churchill's people, at least on this occasion, cooperated closely in trying to determine the details of preinvasion bombing operations. (See Map 12, Normandy Transport Network.) On May 6, at another target conference, Spaatz, Leigh-Mallory, Tedder, and many of their deputies once more reviewed the target priorities of their respec- tive organizations. After committing the Eighth Air Force to a limited program of airfield bombing, termed "preinvasion post-holing" because of the cratering of the runways caused by high-explosive bombs, Spaatz brought up the subject of bridges. He quoted a report from Italy on fighter-bomber effectiveness. Leigh-Mallory attempted to cut off discussion by announcing that "bridges were a difficult target and he did not want to see a waste of effort at this time.” Then the 21 Army Group Planni