ered groups for refitting in Germany. Their replacements at the front, also drawn from domestic air defense duties, fared little better. During the month of June 1944, the total fighter force avail- able for German home defense fell from 700 to 370.10 The diversion of the Eighth Air Force from the strategic bombing campaign to the immediate support of the invasion could not have been avoided. It was unlikely that Eisenhower, who had ultimate control of the heavy bombers and most of the other high-level Allied commanders, would ever have allowed the Combined Bomber Offensive to continue unabated while the Luftwaffe and the German Army rushed units toward the beachhead. Spaatz had accepted this fact from the day he learned of his appointment to USSTAF. In any case, the Luftwaffe was unable to use the temporary halt in POINTBLANK to any advantage. Instead, Hitler and Goering stripped the homeland of half of its defending air- craft to send them into the maelstrom over Normandy, where overwhelming Allied air power quickly dashed them to bits. When the Combined Bomber Offensive resumed, it found much less opposition. Operation CROSSBOW The first major diversion of the strategic bombing forces, after operations flown in direct support of OVERLORD, began within a few days of the invasion. On the night of June 12-13, the first V-1 robot bomb, designated by the Germans as Vergeltungswaffe eins (Reprisal Weapon No. 1) and called, among other names, "flying bomb," "buzz-bomb," or "doodlebug" by the Allies, struck England. In the next few days, the rate of the attack, directed mainly toward London, increased. In retrospect, this weapon caused much more alarm among the English people and their political leaders than was warranted. Nonetheless, at the time, the V-1, with its near-total unpredictability and unnerving buzzing sound that shut off just before impact, provoked extraordinary anxiety and led to extreme pressure on the Allies to reduce the threat. In all, between June 13