On May 23, less than two weeks before D-day, scheduled for June 5, he inaugurated a series of daily morning Allied Air Commanders' Conferences on projected operations and the allotment of tasks between the various forces involved.82 Tedder, Spaatz, Doolittle, Harris, and senior AEAF officers attended this initial session in the Battle Room of Advanced AEAF Headquarters in Uxbridge. Afterwards, in a gesture typical of his obtuseness, Leigh-Mallory com- plained that the American officers assigned to the Battle Room, from which he planned to conduct and monitor the daily combat activities of the Allied air forces over the beachhead, were not carrying out procedures "according to his ideas," and he asked Vandenberg that they be transferred elsewhere and replaced by British officers. Vandenberg acquiesced, but later called Spaatz and, charac- terizing Leigh-Mallory's actions as "outrageous," offered to "bring a very fine fight out in the open." After thinking it over, Spaatz instructed Vandenberg "to carry on at present, say nothing to upset relations." Once they got the troops ashore, said Spaatz, the whole question of command and use of the American air forces would have to be reexamined.83 Not surprisingly, sour relations between Leigh-Mallory and senior American air officers continued until the invasion and beyond. By the end of May, USSTAF had still not completed the details of its partic- ipation in the first day of the invasion. All agreed that its first bomber mission should drench the invasion beaches just before the assault forces landed. USSTAF and AEAF parted company, however, on the objectives for the second mission of the day. On June 1, Leigh-Mallory, Vandenberg, and his deputy, Brig. Gen. Frederic Smith, all rejected as operationally unsound USSTAF's pro- posal to strike enemy troop and road movement behind the front lines from an altitude of 15,000 feet. The bombers would be unable to locate German troops in the thickly wooded country of Normandy, and th