contributed somewhat more than Allied air in breaking up the German assault. Nonetheless, Eisenhower, Alexander, and Clark, Commander of the U.S. Fifth Army, which had operational control of the invasion, had nothing but praise for the air support given by the NAAF. Alexander wrote to Spaatz on September 17 that the air attacks had greatly aided the morale of the ground units and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. In addition, said Alexander, the air strikes "have seriously interfered with his movements, interrupted his com- munications and prevented his concentration of the necessary forces to launch large scale attacks. You have contributed immeasurably to the success of our operations." Alexander also passed on Clark's "acclaim of the close and contin- uous air support given his army." And Eisenhower told Lt. Gen. Joseph T. McNarney, U.S. Army Deputy Chief of Staff, on September 16, "I cannot say too much for our Air. . . . Our airmen hit what they are aiming at, and their effect in this campaign has been remarkable."7 Following this activity the U.S. air effort in the Mediterranean began to fall off, mainly because of weather and manpower problems. The wet fall and winter of 1943-1944 caused the cancellation of many missions, which, of course, reduced the effect of air power on land operations and on the interdiction of enemy supplies and communications. Fine flying weather in the summer con- tributed to the shortage of manpower by allowing aircraft to undertake almost daily missions; as a result, air crews completed their fifty-mission combat rota- tion more quickly than anticipated.* The ability to fly almost incessantly also * The number of required combat missions for air crews varied throughout the war depending on theater, type of aircraft, and intensity of combat. In the summer of 1943, heavy-bomber crews in the Mediterranean, where enemy opposition was light, had to fly fifty missions before returning home. At the same time, heavy-bomber crews in Brita