r to gain air supremacy over Europe and to divert the Luftwaffe from the Russian front, Arnold said, the United States and Britain would have to concentrate the greatest mass of aircraft as soon as possible in England. Because night bombing alone could not wear the Germans down in time for the cross-channel invasion, day- light bombing must resume. In its first stages, daylight bombing would necessi- tate a large force of fighter escorts to hold down losses from enemy fighters. Once the day bombers had gained greater defensive firepower and perfected for- mation flying, they would extend their attacks beyond the range of their fighter escorts.35 American pursuit units would have to have fields close to the French beaches and within escort range of their bombers. This new policy encountered British opposition. When Maj. Gen. James E. Chaney, head of the U.S. Observer Group in Britain, presented Arnold's new plan to the British on May 8, the head of Fighter Command, Air Chief Marshal Sholto Douglas, insisted that U.S. fighters become part of the British integrated air defense establishment, the Air Defense of Great Britain (ADGB).36 Chaney replied that his instructions were to limit the use of U.S. fighters to bomber escort and invasion support. The British appealed to the RAF Delegation in Washington to explain the British position to Arnold. It was not possible "to accept for operational training in the front line between 200 and 300 American fighters without V.H.F. [radios] or I.F.F. or any knowledge of routing and recog- nition or flying control or, in fact, of any procedure at all." In the event of an enemy raid, "the Americans could not cross their fingers and say they were not playing. They must take their share in the defence of what was in fact an Anglo- American air base." In a reply that the Air Ministry found most unsatisfactory, the RAF Dele- gation said, "You are up against a very strong determination on the part of Arnold, Spaatz, and others to concentr