ot add to his duties, because the Twelfth had virtually ceased to exist except on paper, but it did regularize his position in the formal War Department hierarchy. Spaatz also worked to increase the proficiency of the NAAF. Signal intelligence revealed that more than 80 percent of the Axis supplies (49,600 tons) dispatched to North Africa in February had arrived safely.2 The NAAF was thus compelled to improve its antishipping effort, which depended on the Northwest African Strategic Air Force (NASAF). On March 1, Spaatz, Tedder, and Doolittle inspected the Telergma area airfields assigned to the NASAF. Spaatz wanted the flow of "all intelligence data" and results of all photo reconnaissance, including Malta flights, promptly sent to Doolittle's com- mand. Evidently, he wanted to ensure that Doolittle received a full and timely share of ULTRA intercepts, some of which revealed the movement of Axis ship- ping between Italy and North Africa. To track this movement, the Allies rou- tinely used aerial reconnaissance. Aerial reconnaissance was the perfect cover. It verified the intercepts and kept their source a secret. Spaatz also wanted the lateral communication links with the Northwest African Tactical Air Force (NATAF) and the Northwest African Coastal Air Force (NACAF) strengthened, as well as a radio intercept station at NASAF HQ to intercept spotting reports from Malta and Coastal Air Force reconnaissance aircraft.3 From the NASAF fields around Telergma, Spaatz moved forward to the NATAF airfields around Bône in the north and Youks-les-Bains in the south. These visits played up the importance of one of the technological components of the new air-support doctrine-the need for radar coverage of the battlefield and beyond. Radar coverage allowed the air-support commander to form a quick and accurate picture of the position of his own and of the enemy's frontal aviation. Complete coverage enabled the air commander to divert or abort tactical bomber and reconnaissance f