an Kasserine attack. In an interview more than thirty years later, General Kuter still remembered the incident well-the B-17s used "anti-personnel bombs, hundreds of them all over, and killed a lot of people."58 Unfortunately, the base belonged to the RAF; the bombers had missed their intended target by a hundred miles. Prompt apologies and a thorough investigation by the NASAF mollified the British, who chalked up the incident to the fortunes of war.59 It was no wonder Spaatz did not send a special folder on this mission. Appropriately, when Spaatz quietly chose to join a limited number of com- bat missions, he flew on the heavies-on at least three occasions that can be ver- ified in his diary and probably two or three more times. On March 31, he rode in the nose of one of the 97th Bombardment Group's B-17s on a mission over Decimonannu airfield in Sardinia. Next, he flew with the 301st Bombard-ment Group on the April 13 Castelvetrano airfield raid. Two weeks later, on April 27, he observed the bombing of Villacidro airfield from one of the 97th Bombard- ment Group's fortresses.60 The Castelvetrano raid lost one airplane to antiaircraft fire. According to Eisenhower's personal naval aide, Capt. Harry Butcher, who knew Spaatz well and often participated in his late-night poker games, Spaatz told him, but not Eisenhower, that he had flown on a raid over Palermo on April 14 in which three planes were lost, two to fighters and one to flak. That trip "wasn't the first by any means."61 Given the information in Spaatz's papers and Butcher's diary, Spaatz apparently flew no fewer than four or five missions. It appears reasonable to conclude that he flew a strike with each of the heavy-bom- bardment groups in his command: the 2d, 97th, 99th, and 301st. Spaatz's flights demonstrated bravery, but did they demonstrate another quality essential to command-wisdom? If the casualty figures can be accepted, he personally witnessed one-sixth of all B-17 combat losses for the campaig