back Eaker and his theme, and I turned around com- pletely and withdrew all my opposition to the daylight bombing by the Fortresses."28 Eaker recalled that Churchill merely agreed to allow the AAF more time to prove its case.29 Eaker's recollection seems more probable. As Churchill had said ten days before the conference, he was not opposed to daylight bombing; he simply wished to encourage nighttime bombing as a reasonable alternative. What Spaatz, Andrews, and Eaker accomplished was to confirm the advice the Prime Minister had already obtained from the RAF Staff and the Secretary of State for Air. The Americans would not abandon daylight bombing until they were con- vinced it had failed-and they were willing to devote vast amounts of human and material resources to ensure success. And an attack on daylight bombing could not help alienating the AAF, jeopardizing British aircraft allocations, and slowing the bomber buildup in Britain. The Americans had bet enormous stakes on daylight bombing and the Prime Minister, who always felt that night bomb- ing would offer a quicker payoff, realized that they could not be asked to hedge their bet at this particular time. Having won the main point of the conference by keeping the Mediterranean front open (discomforting the U.S. Army and its Chief of Staff in the process), the British knew it would be folly to risk the good will of the AAF and create hard feelings over a matter that would prove itself one way or the other in a few months. On January 27, Eaker partially fulfilled his promise to the Prime Minister. He dispatched ninety-one heavy bombers against the Emden U-boat yards. Four more raids into Germany, none of which was carried out by more than ninety- three planes, followed in February.30 During his twenty-four-hour stay at Casablanca, Spaatz talked to both heads of government. He apparently left his meeting with Churchill and went directly to Roosevelt, with whom he met from 10:00 A.M. to 11:30 A.M. No official reco