nd General Staff School in 1937. In 1936 he completed the first transcontinental flight purely on instruments, flying the entire trip with a canvas hood over his cockpit. In 1932 the Army sent Eaker to the Journalism School at the University of Southern California; he earned a B.A. in journalism in September 1933. This education helped him to write three books with Arnold. The most significant was The Flying Game, published in 1936. By 1941, he had gained his full colonelcy and the command of the 20th Pursuit Group at Mitchel Field. Both Spaatz and Arnold trusted him completely. That trust, Eaker's skill in gaining the respect of others, and his undeniable skills as an air leader and pioneer made him Arnold's logical choice to arrange for the arrival of AAF combat forces in England in 1942. When Arnold chose Spaatz to lead the U.S. Eighth Air Force to Britain, both men mentally penciled in Eaker as second in command.94 By the end of 1938, Carl Spaatz had spent twenty-eight years in the United States Army, twenty-three of them as a flyer. From his days at West Point through his course at the Command and General Staff School he showed little appreciation of, if not disdain for, the academic side of the military profession. He had independently conceived no profound or original thoughts concerning his specialty-military aviation. His mind did not turn to systematic thinking but worked intuitively. He was not an intellectual leader, but he became, nonethe- less, an early convert to many of the advanced aviation ideas of his era. He formed close associations with men such as Mitchell, Andrews, and Arnold, and he absorbed their ideas as his own. Spaatz believed that U.S. military aviation ought to be independent, and he placed great faith in the doctrine of strategic daylight precision bombing. Similarly, he did not display great enthusiasm for the technical aspects of airframe and engine research and development. He served on numerous aircraft development boards and part