d earlier air bombardments. Bomber Command did not bomb directly ahead of the troops. Instead, it delivered large bombs, with their accompanying crater- ing effect, on both flanks of the assaulting Canadians in order to seal off lateral movement by German reinforcements. Also, the RAF, departing from its prac- tice in earlier close support missions, attacked at night, when the Canadians began their own assault, penetrating the first two German lines and gaining five kilometers. Ground mist in the morning delayed further attacks, which allowed the Germans to counterattack. Nevertheless, Lt. Gen. G. C. Simonds, Comman- der of the 2d Canadian Corps, committed two inexperienced armored divisions, the 4th Canadian and the 1st Polish, to exploit the attack.132 At 1:00 P.M. on August 8, the Eighth Air Force arrived to bomb its targets. Scouting planes had preceded it to check weather conditions and the state of the target areas, which were marked by smoke shells and flares. As planned, the bombers flew parallel to the lines of the attacking troops, a tactic forcing a long flight over enemy territory and, of course, magnifying the usual problems of operating in congested air space. After the troops had withdrawn only 1,500 yards the Canadians, like Bradley, apparently were willing to chance casual- ties rather than give up too much ground and momentum-the American heavy bombers delivered their attacks flying north to south. The bombardment struck its targets in turn, in the manner of a creeping barrage. The bombers flew straight and level down forty miles of the German lines and received intense heavy flak for the entire distance. The 681 attackers lost 7 bombers, wrote off 4 more as not repairable, and had 107 with major damage and 187 with minor damage. They dropped 1,275 tons of bombs. Two of their four aiming points were well covered. Clouds of dust prevented the bombing of one point and allowed only 30 percent of the bombers to drop on the other. 133 Two 12-plane forma