roblem of range extension. One scholar has stated, Literally hundreds of crewmen lost their lives because escort fighters of suit- able range were not ready when needed. The lack of escort fighters jeopardized the whole effort to prove the feasibility of strategic air power. What an irony that he who was to command the Eighth Air Force and suffer the brutal losses incurred in ramming home the Combined Bomber Offensive in 1943 and 1944 had it in his power in 1941 to provide the solution but did not.81 Although it is true that the Army Air Corps did not fully realize the possibil- ities of drop tanks, singling out Spaatz as the man responsible for this situation on the basis of one questionable document seems unfair. As the basis of his charge, the scholar cited a broadly written memorandum composed by Maj. Hoyt S. Vandenberg and signed by Spaatz. The scholar concentrated on the doc- trinal aspects of the memorandum, noting its opposition to the "carrying of bombs" and "provision of excessive range" (drop tanks), both of which "require additional and unnecessary [sic] weight and operational complexities that are incompatible with the mission of pursuit." Furthermore, bombs and additional range would “provide opportunities for improper tactical use of pursuit types."82 Despite its language, however, this memorandum addressed aircraft produc- tion more than doctrine. It disapproved production change no. 383 (the addition of both a 75-gallon auxiliary fuel tank and provisions for carrying either 300- pound or 600-pound bombs) for 623 P-39D aircraft. In a background memoran- dum to Spaatz, Vandenberg justified the refusal on the ground that all the pro- posed changes "would tend to slow up production and reduce the combat effec- tiveness of the airplane." Vandenberg also suggested that only essential changes be approved.84 Spaatz's Plans Division, faced with desperate aircraft shortages throughout its training and readiness programs, concentrated on pushing aircraft throu