nd medium bombers concentrated their attacks on Tunisian ports, causing disrup- tion, delays, and some damage. Because Tunisian dock workers refused to unload under the constant bombing,77 debarking troops had to spend a day at the docks unloading supplies before marching to the front—an irritating but not damaging loss of time. Allied air power had a measurable, but not an immedi- ately decisive, effect on Axis supplies. As the forward movement, but not the fighting, stopped in the Tunisian hills, Eisenhower struggled to set up an effective air organization.78 In doing so he turned not only to Spaatz, but also to Air Chief Marshal Arthur Tedder, the Air Officer Commanding, Middle East, and one of the premier airmen of the RAF. In May 1941, at the age of fifty-one, Tedder became Air Officer Command- ing in Chief, Middle East. He found himself in the midst of crises on several of the fronts he oversaw. Rommel swept all before him in the Western Desert; the Italians still held out in Abyssinia; dissident Arabs attacked RAF airfields in Iraq; daily air raids struck Malta; and the final stage of the Commonwealth evac- uation from Greece had begun. The disastrous battle of Crete and stern fighting in the Western Desert lay ahead. By December 1942, Tedder had already served more than two years fighting the Axis in the Mediterranean. He had learned the bitter lessons of Crete and Tobruk and supplied lessons of his own at El Alamein and during the Axis retreat to Tripoli. No American air commander at that stage of the war matched Tedder's combat experience and practical knowledge of con- ducting air operations in the face of the German and Italian air forces. Under his and his subordinates', particularly Air Vice-Marshal Arthur Coningham's, lead- ership, the RAF in the Middle East had become the Allies' most effective ground support air force. Tedder placed himself at Eisenhower's disposal—a dis- play of inter-Allied cooperation much appreciated by the American commander.79