slocate or depreciate the German submarine effort by destroying the five U-boat bases in southwestern France. 148 Failure to deliver on those promises would cost him in a coinage he could ill afford-cred- ibility. Arnold's pressure on subordinates to perform-as well as his penchant for counting raw numbers of aircraft in a theater instead of only those opera- tionally ready-stemmed directly from the practice of painting himself into cor- ners with promises. AWPD/42, issued September 9, was the AAF's official response to TORCH and to the Navy's demands in the Pacific. In its strategic intent AWPD/42 closely resembled AWPD/1, arguing that conducting simultaneous effective air offensives against both Germany and Japan was impossible with the resources available. Because the vital industrial areas of Japan were currently out of range of U.S. aircraft, Europe had to be the target for the one offensive that could be launched. The projected offensive would destroy the German war economy by com- bining a U.S. force of 2,225 operational bombers, based in Britain and deployed by January 1944, with RAF Bomber Command. The AAF would concentrate on the "systematic destruction of vital elements of the German military and indus- trial machine through precision bombing in daylight," whereas the RAF would specialize in "mass air attacks of industrial areas at night to break down morale."149 In addition, AWPD/42 called for priority production of large num- bers of aircraft, which clashed head on with the Navy's projected shipbuilding programs and the Army's anticipated heavy-equipment requirements.150 When the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff met to discuss the availability of the fif- teen groups (two of them heavy-bomber groups) promised by Marshall to King in mid-July 1942 and destined for the Pacific, Arnold used AWPD/42 as the basis for his argument in favor of delay. The Navy objected and the battle was joined, finally to be decided by the President. Roosevelt, in typical fashion, ga