nhower wired Marshall that he personally preferred and strongly recommended Eaker for the command of the Twelfth. He suggested Doolittle for the XII Bomber Command or command of the air supporting the Casablanca invasion force. The next day Eisenhower suggested to Marshall that Maj. Gen. Walter H. Frank, Command- ing General, VIII Air Service Command, was equally acceptable. Both Frank and Eaker had already gained invaluable experience establishing and preparing an air force for a major operation.13 Eisenhower's second message crossed with Marshall's reply to the first. Marshall gave Doolittle an exceptional recommendation: “Arnold and I both feel very strongly that Doolittle is a much more effective organizer and leader for the U.S. air force and Casablanca. He is a leader par excellence and both highly intelligent and strongly persistent in work of preparation.” Marshall had just fin- ished taking Doolittle on a trip to the West Coast and noted as a result that with "his combination of industry, intensity, technical knowledge and level headed bearing he greatly impressed me as probably the outstanding combat leader type in our Air Corps.”14 Marshall added that, despite what he had just said, the deci- sion was of course Eisenhower's to make. A few days later Marshall, in a hand- delivered note to Eisenhower, expressed his full confidence and approval of all but two actions-the appointment of Frank instead of Doolittle, which he termed a "tragic error" and the selection of Maj. Gen. Russell P. Hartle to command the Center (Oran) Task Force for TORCH. Marshall offered to send any of eight other generals.15 Eisenhower selected Maj. Gen. Lloyd R. Fredendall and retained Doolittle. On September 23, Doolittle officially assumed command of the Twelfth. It took Doolittle months of hard work to change Eisenhower's opinion. The Twelfth's top remaining leaders had little or no more combat and administrative experience than their commander. North Africa, in the winter of 1942