to allow the 1st British Airborne Division to conduct a drop just beyond Caen in order to surround the city and hasten its fall. In fact, Montgomery had just denounced Leigh-Mallory in a scathing letter to his own Chief of Staff, Maj. Gen. Francis (Freddie) de Guingand: The real point is that LM [Leigh-Mallory] sitting in his office cannot possibly know the local battle form over here; and therefore he must not refuse my demands unless he first comes over to see me; he could fly here in a Mosquito in ½ hour, talk for an hour, and be back in England in ½ hour. Obviously he is a gutless bugger, who refuses to take a chance and plays for safety on all occa- sions. I have no use for him.14 When Leigh-Mallory offered to employ the whole of Bomber Command, USSTAF, and the AEAF "to blast out the Eighth [2d] Army from in front of Caen," however, Montgomery readily agreed with his suggestion. 15 Leigh- Mallory returned to England, promising to send part of his staff to the beachhead the next day to firm up a plan with officers of the British 2d Army.16 Leigh-Mallory's blithe offer of the entire strength of Allied air power brought the frustration of Coningham and Spaatz to the fore. Early in the morning both men had heard of the proposal. Spaatz undoubtedly heard from Vandenberg, whose American second-in-command, Brig. Gen. Frederic H. Smith, Jr., had more or less forced his presence into Leigh-Mallory's conference with Montgomery. At 2:00 A.M. on June 15, Smith had roused Vandenberg to tell him of matters afoot. They agreed that such a “use contemplated was not proper.”17 Vandenberg directed Smith to keep the number of planes involved to a minimum. Coningham, who had left his headquarters for dinner on June 14, claimed that he had never been informed, but Leigh-Mallory indicated in his diary that he spoke to Coningham's deputy, Air Vice-Marshal Stephen Strafford and explained the plan to him in detail. 18 It seems unlikely that Coningham's deputy would have neglected to inf