y smooth functioning of its combined staff served as a model for later Allied organizations. Spaatz played no small role in the success of the NAAF. Perhaps his supreme ability as a commander was his willingness to delegate authority and responsibil- ity. He resolutely refused to interfere with the day-to-day operations of either Doolittle or Coningham. He trusted them to do the jobs they had trained for, while he served as a theater-level air spokesman. With Tedder, Spaatz kept Eisenhower aware of the needs and limitations of air power. On several occa- sions he served as Eisenhower's air troubleshooter. When the campaign was two weeks old, Eisenhower ordered him to North Africa to bring order to the chaotic air situation. When the campaign had only two weeks to go, Eisenhower sent him forward to solve Anderson's and Bradley's air support problems. The Americans, despite claims to the contrary, did not develop an air-ground team. Spaatz himself had to spend days at the front during the campaign's finale, tinkering with arrangements and dealing with Army complaints. Complaints con- tinued into the Sicilian campaign. Brig. Gen. Paul L. Williams, XII ASC's Commander and therefore the senior officer most closely connected to the ground forces, apparently identified with his mission of close air support rather than with air independence. In one of his reports he made the mistake of saying: “I am thor- oughly convinced that the organization of an Air Support Command based on the principles of FM 31-35, is sound, workable, and I strongly recommend that all such commands be organized in this manner with certain modifications as indi- cated herein." He added, "I and my principal staff officers lived and operated with the Corps Commanders during most of the period. This is absolutely essential."159 Not surprisingly at the end of the campaign Williams found himself trans- ferred from the XII ASC to a troop carrier wing where he could cooperate to his heart's content with Army