ean, he had spent more than two years in the pit of joint army-navy-air action. He had learned how to balance the conflicting demands of the services while maintaining his own and his service's integrity. He became, out of self-defense, an expert in unified command, acquiring a deep-seated belief in the necessity of joint service opera- tional planning and unity of command for air power under air leaders. After the war he said simply, Each of us-Land, Sea, and Air Commanders-had our [sic] own special war to fight, each of us had his own separate problems; but those separate problems were closely interlocked, and each of us had responsibilities one to the other. Given mutual understanding of that, you get mutual faith; and only with mutual faith will you get the three arms working together as one great war machine.81 Tedder had definite opinions on the North African command situation. A visit to Algiers in late November left him deeply disturbed. Eisenhower and his American staff had taken up quarters in a large hotel. The British had taken resi- dence in the naval commander's flagship because of its excellent communica- tions facilities. The two air forces had occupied headquarters miles from each other and from Eisenhower's AFHQ. On November 27, Tedder, after having observed that Doolittle refused to cooperate on a mission requested by the EAC, objected to the "almost crazy" existing air organization. The two separate air forces needed a single commander, preferably an American with a “first class" British deputy. Tedder obviously realized that the Americans, who furnished the majority of the aircraft, would not consent to an overall British air commander. He hoped to bolster the American head with a proven British backup.82 In late 1942, Tedder rendered more than advice to the Americans. When he returned to Cairo from North Africa on December 17, he took Brig. Gen. Howard A. Craig with him "for the purpose of furthering his education."83 In Cairo, Craig visited th