gic Air Forces operating under Leigh- Mallory."162 For the Americans the suggestion that they come under Leigh- Mallory's control was not just a function of their mistrust of the Commander of the AEAF. The shifting of their priorities to OVERLORD by March 1 would under- cut the strategic bombing campaign. Spaatz had originally assumed that March 1, which he had accepted as the date of USSTAF's beginning operations under OVERLORD, Would mark a period sixty days before an early May invasion, but the possible postponement of the invasion until June confronted him with a ninety- day delay in the strategic campaign if he remained committed to a March 1 date. As of February 15 USSTAF had not yet accomplished even its minimum strate- gic goals. To have the transportation plan proposed to USSTAF before the Luftwaffe's fighter force had been defeated or the destructive effects of bombing on the German economy proved was unacceptable. Already frustrated by the weather, which prevented his forces from going after the Germans, and pres- sured by Washington to push the Combined Bomber Offensive home, Spaatz naturally reacted sharply to another threat to the success of his strategic mission. Two days after the February 15 meeting, Eisenhower met with Spaatz. Eisenhower had already explained to Marshall that he intended to have his “Air Preparation" plan accepted as "doctrine" by everyone under his control, includ- ing Spaatz,163 whose previous complaints concerning Leigh-Mallory he found worrying. Eisenhower, quietly attempting to change Spaatz's mind, suggested that "proper credit had not been given to Leigh-Mallory's intelligence." Spaatz stood firm, indicating to Eisenhower that his views "had not and would not change."164 A draft press release from the Ninth Air Force that afternoon added fuel to the fire. The release described Leigh-Mallory as the "Air Commander in Chief.' Spaatz promptly complained to Tedder, who replied, reasonably enough, that the term had already been re