ir Force unless this situation is clarified.¹71 Spaatz objected to the bypassing of his authority by Wilson and Portal and to the bombing of political rather than economic targets in the Balkans. This stand placed Spaatz squarely in the U.S. military tradition, with its emphasis on the destruction of the enemy, as opposed to the British-European military tradition, which tended not to divorce war from politics and diplomacy. Arnold assured Spaatz that he would take action with the CCS to unsnarl command arrangements.172 He also reviewed his conception of USSTAF's place in the European war in a message to Portal and complained that the Fifteenth Air Force appeared to have been directed to help the battle in Italy rather than to support USSTAF's priorities. Arnold added, Over and above clarifying operational channels we are concerned that undue diversion from the primary mission of the Fifteenth US Strategic Air Force may result. Although we recognize that there are many attractive targets in the Balkans we desire that the higher priority of POINTBLANK targets in possible weather conditions be observed.173 Arnold followed up that message with a protest to Field Marshal John Dill, head of the British Military Delegation in Washington. Arnold expressed his, Marshall's, and King's concern about the bypassing of Spaatz.174 Portal replied on March 25, before he attended the transportation versus oil plan conference that day. He stated that he regretted any difficulties regarding command chan- nels, citing his objections at the Cairo Conference to the formation of USSTAF. At no time had he meant to give strategic direction to the Fifteenth through Wilson rather than Spaatz. He would correct the circumstances that led Spaatz to think otherwise. As for using the Fifteenth in the Balkans, Portal responded, “In my opinion and in that of the other British Chiefs of Staff, the situation in Rumania and Bulgaria now ranks as a strategic emergency though it is the Germans and not we