ings of the CCS at Malta and of Churchill-Stalin-Roosevelt at Yalta, Marshall told Eisenhower that he would resign rather than accept a British ground commander. Given the now dominant position of the Americans in the Anglo-American coalition, Marshall's opposi- tion decided the matter. At the subsequent Malta/Yalta meetings, however, the Americans did agree that Tedder and Alexander should exchange positions in mid-March. But by then the military situation had so changed that Churchill and Brooke accepted Eisenhower's decision to leave Tedder and Alexander in place.23 If Tedder had gone to the Mediterranean, Eisenhower wanted Spaatz as his air commander in chief.24 The Battle of the Bulge, an important chapter in the annals of U.S. ground forces, also had an important effect on the U.S. strategic bombing effort. First, as a result of the battle, the Germans suffered heavy losses of conventional pro- peller-driven fighters. In the first three weeks of the Ardennes counteroffensive, the Americans alone claimed more than 600 German aircraft destroyed.25 These losses, combined with a massive transfer of aircraft to the Eastern Front to oppose the Soviets' winter offensive, which began on January 12, relegated the Western Front to the status of a secondary air theater for the Luftwaffe. In addi- tion, the Luftwaffe imposed a strict conservation policy on its remaining planes, forbidding them to fly over enemy territory or to engage heavy bombers in any but the most favorable circumstances.26 Luftwaffe inactivity gave the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces even greater operational freedom. Second, the Battle of the Bulge diverted the Eighth Air Force from strategic operations. Between December 16, 1944, and January 8, 1945, the Eighth flew only one strategic mission on December 31, one-third of the force attacked oil targets deep in Germany. Fortunately, the Fifteenth Air Force picked up much of the slack; from December 17 through January 8, it made eleven attacks on German