es.11 The good flying days of the Russian high enabled the Eighth and Ninth Air Forces to bomb airfields, communication centers, supply dumps, and enemy troops so fiercely that the German attack lost much of its mobility. The lack of mobility would soon contribute to supply shortages among German front-line troops. Allied ground forces halted the Germans five miles short of the Meuse River on December 24, and by December 26 the Americans had relieved the surrounded U.S. 101st Airborne Division defending the key road junction at Bastogne. Allied bombing began to take an increasing toll; on December 27 a German unit reported that Allied heavy bombers had left the key crossroads of St. Vith impassable.12 In the meantime, on December 22, Patton's Third Army had begun a counterattack along the southern flank of the Bulge and made steady progress. Although much stubborn defensive fighting on the ground lay ahead as the Allies reduced the Bulge, the German attack had crested and had begun to recede. The crisis passed. The defenders on the ground stopped the offensive, but air eased their task by strangling the enemy's supply lines. The AAF official history put the claims of the Eighth and Ninth Air Forces for destruction in the period of the Bulge (December 16, 1944, through January 31, 1945) at 11,378 motor transport vehicles, 1,161 tanks and armored fighting vehicles, 507 locomotives, 6,266 railroad cars, 472 gun positions, 974 rail cuts, 421 road cuts, and 36 bridges.1 13 The British Government Code and Cypher School (GC and CS), which decrypted the German Enigma codes and supplied high-grade signal intelligence (ULTRA), provided information beyond price. The Allied leadership had continu- ous access to copious and immediate high-grade signal intelligence. Never before in the history of warfare have one side's moves been known so quickly and accurately to the other. In effect, Allied generals almost sat in their ene- mies' command posts. They knew the daily attack plans