e defenders was the determining factor in the failure of Pantelleria to put up a strong and prolonged resistance. The air assault not only hurt the enemy's ability to resist; it broke his will."67 The AAF's conclusions were literally true, but the extremely low morale of the garrison was not so much the product of air bom- bardment as of other factors. The air bombardment probably provided a face- saving excuse for an action the garrison would have taken in any case. A more resolute defending force, despite the damage inflicted by Allied air power, would certainly have made the landing a far bloodier affair. Preinvasion Planning and Air Preparations for Sicily At the Casablanca Conference in January 1943, the Anglo-American allies decided to continue their campaign in the Mediterranean by invading the island of Sicily after the fall of Tunisia. Planning for HUSKY, the code name for the operation, began in February 1943. The Allies did not complete the main ele- ments of the plan until May 13. Before that date they had intended to land on two widely separated points on the island. The Americans would land on the northwest near the key port of Palermo, and the British would land in the south- east near the port of Syracuse. However, thanks in part to the strenuous objec- tions of General Montgomery,68 Commander of the British 8th Army which would conduct the British portion of the landing, the final arrangements called for the Americans to land on the left flank of the British at Licata, Gela, and Scoglitti, with the immediate seizure of the large airfield complexes of Ponte Olivo, Biscari, and Comiso as their first objective. The British would land near the port of Syracuse and move inland. Spaatz's Northwest African Air Force would carry the brunt of the air responsibility for the invasion. The NAAF first had to destroy or neutralize Axis air power prior to the assault. Next, it had to provide close air support to the naval, ground, and air- borne assault forces. It