z landed in Goose Bay-two hours ahead of his staff. Despite more unfavorable weather reports, Spaatz wished to get a first-hand idea of the difficulties involved in the 776-mile flight to Bluie West I (B.W.I.) Field, Greenland, so he pushed on to Greenland on June 15. Once there, he received a wire from Arnold asking when the first contingent would start for Britain. Spaatz replied that the B-17s not needed for escorting fighters or for weather patrols would start at once; the 1st Pursuit Group could start in a week. On June 17, Spaatz's party flew the 779 miles to Reykjavik, Iceland. They completed the last leg (884 miles) to Prestwick on June 18.45 Spaatz alighted at Prestwick to the greetings of Brig. Gen. Ira Eaker, who had done a thorough job in preparing Britain for the initial presence of the AAF. Soon after his arrival on February 20, 1942, Eaker had set up the first AAF headquarters in Europe. He then proceeded to RAF Bomber Command Head- quarters, where he began studies of its staff procedures. Next, he drafted recom- mendations for training, equipment, and employment of U.S. units. He found time to examine British airfields intended for American use, to present a plan for reception and assignment of bombers, to prepare a scheme for supply and administration of such units, and to take appropriate steps toward close coordi- nation of effort with the RAF. On February 22, two days after Eaker arrived at Bomber Command, Air Chief Marshal Arthur T. Harris replaced Air Marshal Richard Peirse. On June 19, Spaatz and Eaker motored to London to pay a call on the U.S. theater commander, Maj. Gen. Chaney. (The next day Maj. Gen. Eisenhower relieved Chaney and assumed command of the European Theater of Operations [ETO].) The two airmen then called on the American ambassador, John G. Winant, a great air enthusiast who had been a Navy pilot in World War I. He wished to visit all of the Eighth's installations. Spaatz invited Winant to accom- pany him on his first inspect