errorizing into submission, by merely an increased concentra- tion of bombing, a people who have been subjected to intense bombing for four years is extremely remote." Finally, Doolittle appealed to Spaatz saying, "We will, in what may be one of our last and best remembered operations regardless of its effectiveness, violate the basic American principle of precision bombing of targets of strictly military significance for which our tactics were designed and our crews trained and indoctrinated." He recommended to Spaatz that that area bombing be left to the RAF and that the AAF confine itself to picking precision military targets to assure an effective mission with a minimum of loss.99 Doolittle felt that the raid definitely went over the line separating incidental damage caused by an attack on military targets and area bombing. Spaatz sent Doolittle a somewhat ambiguous reply. He did not even mention THUNDERCLAP; instead, he restated his target priorities. Visual attacks on syn- thetic oil plants, especially those in the Leipzig area, had first priority. He antici- pated that any bombing of Berlin would not be visual, but that city “at this time” had a priority second only to oil. In closing, Spaatz observed, "With that in mind, anticipate that you will hit Berlin whenever conditions do not repeat not [sic] indicate possibility of visual bombing of oil targets but do permit opera- tions to Berlin."100 On February 2, bad weather forced the Eighth to postpone the Berlin mis- sion by twenty-four hours. Weather forecasts indicated marginal weather with only a chance for a shallow penetration the next day. That evening Spaatz's headquarters called the Eighth and insisted on a Berlin mission. The Eighth's planners drew up two plans: Plan A, a raid by all bomb divisions on Berlin's industrial areas of Spandau, Tegel, and Seimenstadt; and Plan B, raids on oil and transportation targets in western and central Germany, if weather proved too inclement for a deep penetration. T