jected, and which our own air forces were at this stage unable to prevent."49 Here, the inexperience of Anderson's troops, their light scale of anti- aircraft armament, and their lack of ammunition proved nearly disastrous. The slow-flying dive-bomber was a terrifying weapon, especially against untried troops who lacked the firepower to keep it at a respectful altitude. In the first phase of the campaign, the Allies did not provide adequate close air support because they could not obtain air superiority and because no air- ground team existed. The EAC's Commander, Air Marshal Welsh, had appointed Air Commodore G. M. Lawson to operate the forward squadrons. Upon arrival at 1st Army Headquarters and later at 78th Division Headquarters, Lawson found communications chaotic. "Quite candidly," he acknowledged, "I am astonished at every point I have visited [by] the lack of knowledge of the operational setup and of the urgency of the drive in getting proper communications established.”50 Without communications, air-ground coordination ceased. Anderson complicated matters further by insisting on repeated attacks on Tunis, Bizerte, and Axis air- fields elsewhere, as well as defensive patrols, known as "air umbrellas,” over his own troops. These demands stretched the EAC far beyond its limited ability. Welsh did not help the situation by establishing his headquarters six miles outside Algiers, isolated not only from Anderson and Doolittle but also from Eisenhower and his headquarters, known as Allied Force Headquarters (AFHQ),51 On November 13, the day before Anderson began his advance toward Tunisia, Eisenhower telegraphed Spaatz: "I continue to look to you not only for control of the United States air in the United Kingdom but as my most trusted air advisor. . . . It may be best for us to confer immediately in light of what has so far transpired."52 Eisenhower referred to the Axis powers' prompt and vigor- ous decision to establish a bridgehead in Tunisia, surprising the Al