t attacks."45 At this time neither Bomber Command nor the German night fighter defenses had reached the high degree of effectiveness they achieved later in the war. Nor had the British begun their policy of city area bombing to destroy civilian hous- ing and demoralize the German work force. Instead, confronted with a situation even worse than the prewar “worst case" estimates, Bomber Command, since June 20, 1940, had targeted the German aircraft industry, but proved ineffective. Less than a month later the head of Bomber Command, Air Chief Marshal Charles A. Portal, ruefully confirmed Spaatz's observations: of the ten primary aircraft industry targets "only three can be found with any certainty in moonlight by average crews. Expert crews may be expected to find the remainder on clear nights with a full moon, and average crews will sometimes find them after a good deal of time has been spent in searching." In addition, Portal pointed out that the air industry targets were in sparsely inhabited sites so that bombs miss- ing the plants fell on empty ground. Because the vast majority of the bombs dropped missed, the raids had no disruptive effect on the German economy. Portal suggested bombing rail centers instead.46 Rail yards occupied the center of many German cities. Portal, who became Chief of the Air Staff in October 1940, would have the authority and opportunity to see that his suggestions were carried out until the end of the war. The RAF's ineffectiveness in hitting specific targets at night would eventually lead to the institution of the mass fire-raising attacks in which hundreds of four-engine heavy bombers would drench the cen- ter of a city, such as Hamburg or Dresden, with thousands of incendiary bombs. The performance of the RAF against the Luftwaffe persuaded Spaatz that the British could beat any German invasion attempt. On July 31, he informed Arnold that if the Germans did not launch their invasion in August, they would have to postpone it indefinite