ted to the self-defeating expedient of purposely derailing trains to clear the tracks. On January 19, the system embargoed all freight everywhere except- ing Wehrmacht and coal traffic. The resulting elimination of all piece-goods traffic sounded the death knell for any coordinated industrial effort.31 The paralysis of the transportation system spread quickly to the industrial network. The disruption caused by the Ardennes air attacks shut down three major power plants in the Ruhr for lack of coal. Transmission lines downed by air attacks broke the region into power islands, halting production at plants that lacked their own generating facilities. Delivery of iron ore to the Ruhr's smelters plummeted by 80 percent in December, raw iron production sagged by 71 per- cent the same month, raw steel slid by 66 percent in January, and rolling mill activity collapsed to 20 percent of the average during the third quarter of 1943. In central Germany the factories slowed. At the Krupp-Gruson Werke, shell and gun forgings shops closed from the lack of natural gas because the local utility company had no coal. Tank production declined from 114 in October to 65 in January for lack of parts. In December 1944, the ball-bearing industry collapsed, the victim of its own dispersion, which had made it extremely vulnerable to transportation disruption.32 Production of weapons tumbled. Thanks to the heavy issue of weapons to the Volkssturm, or people's militia, and to the units involved in the Ardennes offensive, which were not replaced by the factories and the rail lines, by January 1945 Wehrmacht stocks of K-98 rifles went from ten to three days' supply; stocks of Type 44 assault rifles dropped from four months' to three weeks' sup- ply; and stocks of the 88mm antitank gun declined from one month's to two weeks' supply. Supplies to combat units fell by 11 percent compared with December.33 The Allies, however, did not fully appreciate the magnitude of the disaster inflicted by their tr