vision under the Army reorganization of March 9, delivered yet another plan to Marshall emphasizing the need for a massive assault from England to France. Marshall, of course, needed no convincing. He and Secretary of War Stimson urged the President to approve the project. Instead, Roosevelt approved the idea of developing a plan and clearing it with London. Within two days of the President's decision, OPD produced a draft invasion plan, including an analysis of troop readiness and availability, supply requirements and shipping resources, and an AAF outline for attacks on either September 15, 1942, or April 1, 1943. Marshall and Stimson presented this latest design to Roosevelt, who approved it, authorizing Marshall and Harry Hopkins, FDR's chief aide, to travel to London to secure British agreement to a common strategy. The Presi- dent made clear to the British his support of the plan by sending Marshall not only as Chief of Staff but as an envoy or negotiator "in the name of the President."10 The U.S. delegation arrived in London on April 8. It included an air planner, Col. Howard A. Craig. The Americans repeated the arguments of Eisenhower's memoranda and stated that if all preparations went forward, a combined force of 5,800 aircraft and 48 divisions could begin the attack against northwestern Europe. The plan had three phases. The preparatory phase (code-named BOLERO) was to include development of a logistics base, movement of troops and equipment, establishment of a preliminary front using England to stage commando raids and to mount strategic air attacks against occupied Europe and Germany on an increasing scale, and contingency planning for a possible emer- gency offensive in 1942. The second phase (SLEDGEHAMMER) was the cross- channel invasion to seize beachheads in the Le Havre-Boulogne area. The third phase (ROUNDUP) was the expansion of the beachhead and breakout. The Americans promised to have 1 million men, 30 divisions, and 2,550 combat air- craft rea