#  HEAVY BOMBERS IN SUPPORT heavy bombardment, a situation we attempted to remedy."95 Before leaving Bradley's headquarters, Leigh-Mallory promised to check on the bombers' direction of attack. Leaving an incensed Bradley behind, Vandenberg flew back to England where he found a message to call an irate Spaatz. Spaatz demanded to know why the mission had not been set up for Tuesday, July 25, "when his weather people had given a much brighter forecast for that day than they had for Mon- day."96 Vandenberg replied that his forecasters had predicted no better weather for Tuesday than for Monday, and besides, he himself had observed that, as the Eighth's meteorologists had predicted, the weather had not broken that after- noon. Spaatz responded that if the COBRA mission was on for Tuesday and if there was any difference of opinion between the two groups of meteorologists, he should be informed at once. By 9:00 P.M. that evening Vandenberg informed Spaatz that all of the meteorologists had agreed on 10:00 A.M. for the next day's mission over St. Lô.97 What irked Spaatz was not the bombing short, but the waste of effort for 1,600 of his bombers. The late decision to cancel had cost him a day of visual bombing conditions over Berlin and central Germany.98 Vandenberg's busy evening continued. He talked to Eighth Air Force Headquarters and, after some argument, informed it of Leigh-Mallory's desire for bombing parallel to the road. Eighth Air Force Headquarters replied that as long as Bradley required that the bombers attack in as little time as possible, they could not fly parallel. Funneling more than 1,500 bombers through the short side of the target box would take 2½ hours, if it could be done at all. Soon afterward, Maj. Gen. Frederick L. Anderson of USSTAF called Vandenberg. He, too, emphasized that "the time factor" controlled their direction of attack. He suggested that Bradley might want to extend the time allowed. Before Vandenberg could pass this message on to Leig