y NATAF's comman- der requested] that such inaccurate and exaggerated reports should cease. XII ASC have been instructed to not allow their brilliant and conscientious support of Two Corps to be affected by this false cry of wolf.82 Coningham angrily complained at Tedder's headquarters that Patton's provo- cations were "particularly intense," consisting of "a solid 48 hours of sitreps, signals and telephone calls, three of them being to General Alexander.” In the meantime, "there were no communications to General Williams commanding American air, nor to my headquarters, but all the other addresses of my signal were included. They were all based on false information because General Patton is living 40 miles away from his airmen and does not know the air position."83 Because the Patton-Coningham fracas was potentially damaging to both air- ground and inter-Allied relations, Spaatz, Tedder, and Eisenhower reacted sharply. Tedder, in his memoirs, claimed that he corrected the situation himself. After receiving a copy of Coningham's message, Tedder phoned Eisenhower and explained that as Air Officer Commanding, Mediterranean Air Command, he had instructed Coningham to cancel his message and to accompany him to Gafsa to apologize to Patton in person. This meeting, Tedder claims, resolved the situation and converted Patton to a friend. Tedder added that his prompt han- dling of the problem prevented Eisenhower's resignation.84 Spaatz's command diary entries, recorded at the time of the event, contradict Tedder's account. Spaatz and, presumably, Tedder had received copies of Patton's original message as they were leaving a joint MAC-NAAF staff meet- ing that put the final touches on the "Dunkirk" plans. The "inaccuracy" and "unjustness" of the sitrep and its wide distribution had provoked "great con- "85 The next morning Spaatz and Tedder, in the midst of preparing to fly to the front, received Coningham's intemperate reply. They flew to Thelepte, met Kuter and Williams, an