mber of troops in New Caledonia to help the French. Because the British could not meet their strategic commitments to Australia and New Zealand, the Americans sent 61,000 troops and over 500,000 tons of cargo to help defend both countries. Troops sent to the Pacific required more shipping than troops sent to Britain because those units sailing to the Far East expected to enter combat soon after arrival. This meant that they had to carry all equipment required for combat with them which had to be combat loaded, i.e., completely assembled and packed on the ship in a manner that enabled the off loading of essential weapons, ammuni- tion, and supplies first. Loading for combat emphasized combat necessity, not efficient use of a ship's storage space. Hence, combat loading consumed more shipping tonnage.6 In contrast, troops going to Britain still had months of train- ing and preparation before them and did not have to travel combat loaded. The diversion of shipping to the Pacific war slowed AAF deployment to Britain. Roosevelt and Churchill further complicated matters by directing an inva- sion to be mounted against French North Africa known as SUPER-GYMNAST. The British, whose 8th Army had just relieved Tobruk and seemed to have defeated the Germans and Italians, had great interest in a North African invasion. The Americans, except for Roosevelt, had less enthusiasm. They had to find shipping to send a force across the Atlantic and were not about to allow the siren song of their ally to bring them to grief in the Mediterranean. This alternative kept more shipping tied up and unavailable for carrying men and matériel to the British Isles.7 An Axis resurgence in Libya undercut the planning to invade North Africa by bringing into question the attitude of the Vichy government, which gave every indication that it would support the Germans as long as they continued to win. On March 3, 1942, the Combined British and American Chiefs of Staff (CCS) dropped SUPER-GYMNAST as an op