aatz would strike at important economic targets pri- marily to force the Luftwaffe to defend them and only secondarily to damage German production. He apparently muted his own beliefs in the effectiveness of strategic bombing in order to present to Marshall and Stimson views more in keeping with the role of the Eighth Air Force as only one part of the U.S. forces to be employed against Germany. To concentrate on strategic bombing at the expense of tactical air operations in support of U.S. ground units would hardly have persuaded his listeners of the AAF's willingness to join the combined-arms team envisaged for Europe. Lack of cooperation may have cost Stimson's and Marshall's support for AAF logistics priorities. Or, practical as always, Spaatz may well have realized that the destruction of the Luftwaffe was a necessary preamble to the freeing of American air power to conduct both strategic and tac- tical operations at will. On May 21, Spaatz learned of the first of the diversions of strength that eventually hamstrung the Eighth's ability to engage in an effective strategic bombing campaign in 1942. Admiral Ernest J. King, Commander in Chief of the U.S. Fleet and Chief of Naval Operations (CNO), insisted that the Eighth divert four B-17Es to the defense of Alaska. Spaatz, unaware that King had foreknowl- edge (thanks to the breaking of Japanese naval codes) of the upcoming Midway Island campaign, viewed the action with a jaundiced eye. Such withdrawals, in his opinion, were merely the entering wedge of a whole series of possible diver- sions that could only hinder the creation of a stable air force.30 Spaatz com- plained about the diversion of the B-17s to Alaska; he strongly protested the dissipation of his force and the disruption of his movement to England. In the interest of safety, Spaatz said he could not allow the B-17s to shepherd more than four fighters each across the Atlantic. Arnold regretted the diversion of the B-17s but insisted that "certain pressu