###########  SPAATZ AND THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE Nine days after the Sicilian landings the AAF struck Rome in a raid that showed precision bombing at its best and helped to topple Mussolini's regime six days later." Naturally, Spaatz sent a special report to Arnold: It [the raid] should prove of particular interest to our air force supporters, but definitely has very little interest from an air force standpoint. It was too easy. Seven other raids are now under study and of these the one on NAPLES is cer- tain to hit them in the eyes, especially the "Sunday-morning quarterbacks."38 Arnold and Spaatz usually tried to stay a step ahead of any critics of air power. Shortly before their return to England, the Eighth's three groups, joined by the Ninth's two groups, executed a strategic mission against German fighter plants at Wiener Neustadt, Austria. On August 13, the groups left their bases around Benghazi, Tripoli, and flew more than 1,200 miles to their target. They achieved complete tactical surprise and inflicted severe damage on hangars and grounded aircraft and on the fighter construction and assembly plants of Wiener- Neustaedter Flugzeugwerke A.G.; for much of the remainder of the year, pro- duction at the plants slowed noticeably.39 This was the first time that Allied bombers based in the Mediterranean had attacked a target in Greater Germany. The attacks on Rome, Ploesti, and Wiener Neustadt strengthened Spaatz's conviction that bombers based in his command should participate in raids on Germany. A week after the Wiener Neustadt raid Spaatz wrote to Lovett, "I am increasingly convinced that Germany can be forced to her knees by aerial bom- bardment alone. The process can be accelerated by us if suitable bases are avail- able in the Mediterranean area as well as those now available in England."40 This statement reflected views that Spaatz had expressed for months. On June 24, he had written to Arnold that the fate of the air forces after the next two operations (