much political and diplomatic talent and knowledge to seriously consider any such plan. It revealed an abysmal ignorance of Spanish politics and demonstrated a cavalier disregard of the numerous logis- tical and geographical difficulties involved. Nonetheless, it reflected the impa- tience of some Americans in the higher military echelons toward the strategic direction of the war forced on them by the necessities of coalition warfare. On May 22, Spaatz flew to meet Eisenhower, Cunningham, Alexander, and Tedder. Among other matters they discussed preparations for the Pantelleria operation. Admiral Cunningham, with certain reservations, backed Eisenhower in approving them.21 Alexander, the top ground commander in the theater, had his doubts.22 The consequences of failure, such as raised Italian morale, worried him greatly. Spaatz replied that if the Allies could not accomplish the reduction of the island, "we might as well pack up and go home.”23 Later the same day Spaatz met with Clutterbuck and McGrigor to discuss operational specifics. At the end of the meeting, the three agreed to draw up a final plan and present it to Eisenhower. Spaatz went over its outlines with Eisenhower the next day and received his approval to go ahead with it.24 It fol- lowed the original recommendation that an increasing level of air bombardment culminate with a final intensive bombing attack on the five days prior to landing, scheduled for June 11. Apparently, Clutterbuck still had objections because Eisenhower noted in a letter to Marshall on May 25 that some of those responsi- ble for carrying out the invasion “are shaking their heads."25 In fact, Clutterbuck visited Eisenhower to tell him of his doubts about the attack and said that he "feared that he would have a great number of his men slaughtered.”26 On May 24, at his forward headquarters in La Kroub, Spaatz again met with McGrigor and Clutterbuck to conclude their plans for convoys and lines of com- munication. They also scheduled