nit would receive its orders from an air support control unit commanded by an airman and co-located at the command post of the supported unit. The overall air support commander retained the right to assign other air support missions to the "specifi- cally allocated" unit. The manual went on to state: Designation of an aviation unit for support of a subordinate ground unit does not imply subordination of that aviation unit to the supported ground unit, nor does it remove the combat aviation unit from the control of the air support com- mander. It does permit, however, direct cooperation and association between the supporting aviation unit and the supported ground unit and enables combat aviation to act with greater promptness in meeting the requirements of a rapidly changing situation. Aviation units may be attached [emphasis in original] to subordinate ground units. This is exceptional and should be resorted to only when circumstances are such that the air support commander cannot effectively control the combat aviation assigned to the air support command.³¹ The manual assumed that in most instances air control would be centralized at the theater level. FM 31-35 began its consideration of the method of employing air support aviation with the following obvious, but often ignored, homily: "The basis of effective air support of ground forces is teamwork. The air and ground units in such operations form a team. Each member of the team must have the technical skill and training to enable it to perform its part in the operation and a willing- ness to cooperate thoroughly."32 The first factor affecting employment was the establishment of local air superiority to ensure air support without excessive losses. Next came economy of force, defined as hitting the right target at the right time rather than using a few aircraft to hit widely scattered targets. Other factors included attention to time and space factors (distance from air bases, speed of communications, readiness sta