to the Germans and of closing the Baltic, while imposing upon the Germans the requirement to defend another large air sector. The proposal revealed not only a complete rejec- tion, if not a basic misunderstanding, of the whole ground strategy behind OVERLORD, but also an abysmal ignorance of international relations. The Swedes probably would not have declared war on Germany because of the Allied libera- tion of Norway, nor would the Soviets have regarded such an operation as the long-promised Second Front. This implausible scheme, apparently never seri- ously advocated by Spaatz, illustrates that he hoped to conquer Germany from the air and to avoid a large and costly land campaign in northwestern Europe. Spaatz also feared that the supremacy the AAF had gained in daylight might fade abruptly if the Germans introduced jet-propelled fighters. Spaatz even doubted the fighting capacity of U.S. ground forces. His North African experi- ence had "indicated the inability of American troops to cross areas heavily defended by land mines, and . . . the beaches of OVERLORD are certain to be more heavily mined than any area in Africa."143 Spaatz did not allow his doubts about the utility and feasibility of the cross- channel invasion to handicap him in the performance of his duties. His fears, though broad, were not often deep. It is a measure of his self-confidence and sense of duty that he did not allow his doubts either to unman him or to cause him to slacken his labors on behalf of the ultimate success of the invasion of France. Harris held views even less acceptable to Leigh-Mallory: (1) Bomber Command's operational limitations made it tactically incapable of hitting any night targets save those in the broad-based area bombing it already pursued, and (2) any switch from the current operational program would undo everything achieved to date, allowing Germany the time to harden and disperse its indus- tries and to use its production lines in an uninterrupted period just befo