North Africa. As he remarked in his memoirs, "During this month of July, when I was politically at my weakest and without a gleam of military success, I had to procure from the United States the decision which, for good or ill, dominated the next two years of the war." He had to ask the United States to abandon plans for a cross-channel invasion in 1942 to undertake the occupation of French North Africa in the autumn or win- ter by a large Anglo-American expedition. “I had made a careful study of the President's mind and its reaction for some time past," remarked Churchill, “and I was sure that he was powerfully attracted by the North African Plan." The time had come, Churchill believed, to shelve the cross-channel invasion, "which had been dead for some time."122 Roosevelt himself needed American troops in action against the Germans in 1942,123 if possible before the congressional election of November 1942. Although leaning toward the proposed North African operation, the President gave General George C. Marshall, the outstandingly talented U.S. Army Chief of Staff and one of the strongest supporters of the cross-channel invasion, one last chance to persuade the British Chiefs of Staff to carry it out in 1942.124 Marshall, Admiral Ernest J. King, Chief of Naval Operations, and Harry Hopkins, arrived in London on Saturday, July 18. They immediately closeted themselves with Eisenhower, Spaatz, and Admiral Harold R. Stark, chief American naval officer in the British Isles. Over the weekend, the Americans discussed a revision hurriedly thrown together by Eisenhower's staff, of the pre- vious cross-channel invasion plans. This revision called for the establishment of a secure foothold on the Cotentin Peninsula of Normandy. 125 Eisenhower, who had been recommended for command of the American forces in Britain by his mentor, Marshall, supported it, as did Spaatz. During the weekend Spaatz contended that a cross-channel invasion in 1942 had a better chance than one in 1943