he supported force be paramount."151 These provisions attempted to satisfy the ground commander's need to employ every available asset when necessary, against the airman's desire to conduct independent counterair and interdiction missions. The AGF was loath to abandon FM 1-5 for FM 100-20. Observations from North Africa must have confirmed this reluctance. The report of AGF personnel in North Africa revealed anything but the satisfaction Kuter and Spaatz reported back to Washington. Maj. Gen. Walton H. Walker, Commanding General, IV Armored Corps, arrived in Algiers on April 21 and left about May 8, a period when the Allies had almost complete control of the air. Just when Spaatz went forward to make last-minute inspections and adjust- ments Walker reported, "Air-ground cooperation as envisaged in training and maneuvers of ground force units in the United States appeared to be non-existent in the North African Theater."152 Both Patton and Bradley informed him that air support had been unsatisfactory, but Bradley did note recent improvement. Particularly criticized were the quantity and frequency of air photographic reconnaissance and the AAF's reliance on planned as opposed to on-call air strikes two areas of perennial ground force dissatisfaction that still defy agree- ment between air and ground. 153 When Spaatz observed that the ground commanders seemed dissatisfied because they could not get all the air support they wanted when they wanted it, he had hit the nail on the head. Both Coningham's and FM 31-35's cumbersome communication links, which required ground requests for air to go from the ground to an air headquarters and from there to an airfield, lent themselves to concentration and centralization of air command and control by airmen. By the same token, this communication system did not lend itself to speedy response to immediate ground requests for air support. Throughout the campaign, ground combat officers complained of the lack of on-call, or immediate-