lenges from the British and the U.S. Navy. All this required a perception of the AAF as a successful and aggressive weapon actively being used against the enemy. In the summer of 1942, the AAF's image needed bolstering. Navy air had won at Midway while the public still wondered about Army air's performance at Pearl Harbor and in the Philippines. Furthermore, Arnold knew that Roosevelt wanted to see results from the AAF which would justify the massive aircraft production program and shipping priorities slanted toward the projection of air power. On June 28, Spaatz received orders from Arnold to schedule a raid for Independence Day. Because his B-17s had not yet arrived and his 31st Fighter Group had just received its unfamiliar Spitfires, he chose a squadron of light bombers assigned to the VIII Air Support Command. The unit had landed in Britain months earlier as part of a token U.S. force. Spaatz and Eaker viewed the raid as a premature commitment. The results, from Spaatz's viewpoint, justified his counsel against forcing action too early. The morning of July 4 six American crews and six British crews, all in RAF Boston Bombers and all flying in a joint formation, with the Americans in relatively protected positions, attacked German airfields in Holland. Two of the planes with American crews were downed and two more failed to reach their target. The attacks inflicted little damage. From Arnold's point of view, however, the raid was successful. Not only had Americans been bloodied, but one of their pilots had heroically managed to bring home his severely damaged plane. Capt. Charles C. Kegelman was promptly promoted to major and awarded the first Distinguished Service Cross (DSC) earned by a member of the Eighth Air Force. British and American papers gave the story of the raid headline treatment. To complete the episode Spaatz personally pinned the DSC on Kegelman on July 11. His command diary sourly noted, "The cam- eramen and newspapermen finally got what they wa