eater. The IX Transport Command would supply theater air transport requirements and provide all airlift needed for U.S. airborne operations. (Under Allied agreements, IX Transport Command would provide a substantial portion of British combat airlift as well.) The chief function of the Ninth Air Force was to give air support to U.S. ground forces participating in the OVERLORD invasion. Thus Brereton was the American airman responsible to, not under the direct command of, Bradley, the overall U.S. ground force commander. Although the Ninth would have eight medium-bomber, three light-bomber, fourteen transport, and eighteen fighter groups by invasion day, in mid-January 1944 the Ninth had only five groups-four of medium bombers transferred from the Eighth Air Force and one of P-51 fighters. What confused Allied command arrangements was not the organization of the expeditionary force, but the role Spaatz's USSTAF and the large RAF metropolitan commands (Fighter, Coastal, and Bomber) would play in support- ing the invasion. It would take three months to arrive at a solution that was barely satisfactory. At the beginning of 1944, Leigh-Mallory assumed that these forces would to a great extent come under his control. This assumption met stiff resistance from the independent air leaders, in particular Spaatz and Air Officer Commanding, Bomber Command, Arthur Harris. In addition, the Ninth Air Force, more than twice the strength of the British 2d Tactical Air Force, served two masters: Leigh-Mallory had operational control, but Spaatz had administra- tive control. Because the two men had very different missions and irreconcilable conceptions about the correct employment of the Ninth, this dual control soon led to discord. At first glance Leigh-Mallory seemed a sound choice as Commander in Chief, Allied Expeditionary Air Force. He had specialized in army cooperation (that part of the RAF assigned to supporting the ground forces) and in the offensive use of fighter aircraft. I