-range escorts on deep-penetration sweeps and encouraging aggressive tactics and atti- tudes against the enemy in the air and on the ground-paid dividends in March and April 1944, as the Luftwaffe fighter force had an almost 100 percent turnover of aircraft and a 40 percent turnover of pilots.211 By the end of April, despite its own losses, USSTAF had defeated the Luftwaffe fighter force. In May, the Eighth lost 100 fewer bombers to enemy fighters than in April; in June it lost 200 fewer than in April. By the beginning of May Luftwaffe fighter forces could no longer mount continuous heavy opposition to the Allied strategic bombing campaign, nor did they retain the strength to interfere with the impend- ing cross-channel invasion. Spaatz contributed greatly to the defeat of the Luftwaffe. He put his whole authority behind the decision to employ aggressive, loose-escort tactics, which freed the fighters to seek out the enemy but left the bombers more vulnerable. The heavy losses his forces suffered did not cause him to flinch from his objec- tives. Years later, he recalled that after a mission with heavy losses Eisenhower asked him whether the air forces could continue to take such losses: I said, “What's that got to do with it?" [Eisenhower asked] "Are we getting control of the German Air Force?" I said, "If we have to take these losses to control them, then we have to. . . . You can't have a war and worry about that. What you have to worry about is whether you're winning or not."212 In addition, Spaatz drove his senior commanders to use their forces to the fullest. On March 2, Spaatz informed Doolittle and Twining: Our effort requiring the enemy to oppose us on our terms must be pushed relentlessly every day it is humanly possible to operate over Germany. Standard operational limitations which have been wisely used in the past will not be applicable to the present emergency situation. Greater risks are justified, and infinitely greater demands on personnel are manda