before the campaign began. Spaatz's fears that the Luftwaffe's relative inactivity in September and October, coupled with high fighter-plane production and the introduction of jet fighter aircraft, presaged a resurgence in its effectiveness, proved exaggerated. USSTAF bomber casualties decreased dramatically in the fourth quarter of the year, especially in view of the fact that the size of its total bomber force had more than doubled from January to December. (See Table 6, USSTAF Bomber Losses by Quarter, 1944–1945.) The table shows that during the latter half of the year German fighter aircraft effectiveness declined and Allied losses from antiaircraft fire increased. Both results were to some extent the fault of the oil offensive, which had reduced the fuel available to German fighters for training and operations while exposing USSTAF's bombers to extremely heavy concentrations of antiaircraft guns. The Leuna-Merseburg oil complex, for example, had heavier flak defenses than Berlin. 167 In addition, the table, to some extent, demonstrates the often unsung contributions of the Fifteenth Air Force. Throughout 1944 the Fifteenth Air Force had only half as many bombers assigned to it as the Eighth Air Force. Thus, its losses suffered in the last six months of 1944 stand out dramatically. In fact, during the period covered by this chapter, the Fifteenth was suffering almost twice the rate of casualties as the Eighth.168 The Fifteenth's lower-flying B-24s paid in blood for the range that enabled them to fly from Italy to the Reich's synthetic oil facilities. By mid-September 1944 U.S. air power in Europe far exceeded the strength envisaged for it in AAF prewar planning. Air War Plans Division/1 (AWPD/1) of July 1941 had called for 44 heavy-bombardment groups (2,992 aircraft), 10 medium-bombardment groups (850 planes), and 16 fighter groups (2,080 air- craft) to operate against Germany from Britain and the Near East. By August 31, 1944, the AAF in the European and Medite