essity of putting American crews through advanced operational training-not disagreement over tactics-had delayed the start of the joint air offensive. The opening of Park House, where Spaatz and most of his staff lived and took their meals, allowed him to entertain high-ranking RAF officers in comfort and privacy. Spaatz also visited them often at their offices or over a working lunch. On occasion, his diary recorded the subject of discussion. On August 8, for example, he and Air Chief Marshal Wilfred Freeman, Vice-Chief of the Air Staff, “conferred" on the transfer of the Eagle Squadrons-fighter squadrons composed of American citizens who had joined the RAF to fight the Nazis before Pearl Harbor-from the RAF to the AAF. (In September the three squadrons of combat-experienced pilots became part of the Eighth Air Force, forming the 4th Fighter Group.)64 Between August 11 and 21, Spaatz saw Air Vice-Marshal Norman H. Bottomley, Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Opera- tions), five times.65 Although some of their conversations must have centered on coordination for the first U.S. heavy-bomber raid on August 17, Bottomley was the officer, subject to Portal's and possibly Churchill's approval, who defined operations. If he accepted operational independence for the AAF, the goal was three-quarters gained. Bottomley and Spaatz had lunch on August 11 and dinner at Park House on August 13 for a preliminary round of negotiations. Five days later, probably after both sides had reviewed the original scheme, the two met again. The next day Spaatz sent Bottomley a letter, perhaps a draft proposal, and the two dined that evening at Park House.66 Although speculative, this scenario fits with sub- sequent events. On August 20, Spaatz forwarded to Eisenhower a draft proposal on Anglo- American operations. The same day, in light of the commencement of active U.S. operations on August 17, the Eighth Air Force and the Air Ministry together held the first of a series of weekly meetings t