er Group, which was operating from the same airfield under the com- mand of Col. William W. Momyer, and noted, "It is indicated that the colored pilot cannot stand up under [the] same pressure as [the] white pilot." Cannon, however, noted the mitigating fact that although Lt. Col. Benjamin O. Davis, Jr., the 99th's commanding officer, reported that he had been promised four replacement pilots per month when he went into action in May 1943, he had received a total of only four replacements by mid-August. As Spaatz and Cannon well knew, a shortage of replacement pilots meant that a unit had to work overtime to maintain its sortie rate. The 99th, operating under added strain for a continued period, was worn out compared with white units with more replacements. Spaatz personally requested "that no conclusion be drawn until further study and experience."14 Even as Spaatz warned Arnold, Time magazine began to prepare a story on the 99th. Both apparently had gotten advance warning of the story, which appeared in the September 20, 1943, issue. The story accurately stated that "unofficial reports" from the Mediterranean suggested that "the top air com- mand was not altogether satisfied with the 99th's performance" and was think- ing about transferring the unit to the Northwest African Coastal Air Force (NACAF), 15 On September 10, either in response to Spaatz's warning or to the impend- ing story in Time, Arnold requested the preparation of "as detailed a confidential report as the facts now in your possession warrant” on black pilots without delay. Arnold further noted, "We have received from many unofficial sources second hand tales of the fact that the Negro pilot tires very easily, and that he loses his will to fight after five or six missions." Arnold knew that Spaatz would realize "the urgency required for this information in view of the fact that we contemplate building additional Negro units at once."16 As ordered, Spaatz directed Cannon, despite his involvement in t