rance when weather permitted; and the French rail targets did not have political clearance. Leigh-Mallory dis- counted Hughes's assertions. His proposed directive would not place responsi- bility for bombing the targets on USSTAF. He would consider anything destroyed in the next month as a bonus before the plan went into effect (March 1). As for relief from CROSSBOW obligations and obtaining the political clear- ances to bomb France, he would arrange them.151 As Hughes realized, Spaatz did not object to attacking rail yards in Germany. Such targets might lure the Luftwaffe into coming up to fight and could serve as secondary targets of opportunity when weather conditions over the primary tar- gets made bombing impossible after the start of a major raid. Such a program did not represent a major diversion of strategic forces from POINTBLANK. In contrast, marshaling yards in northwest France yielded none of the advantages of German targets. They interfered with USSTAF's secondary priority of CROSSBOW and, because of their position inland, did not constitute acceptable targets of opportu- nity for CROSSBOW diversions. Nor would the Luftwaffe be inclined to contest the air over French targets in strength. Finally, bombing French targets would have detrimental political effects for the Allies. When some bombs missed the yards and fell into populated areas, as they surely would, the Germans would gain free grist for their propaganda mills, while the Allies might earn the opprobrium of an occupied people whose goodwill could greatly benefit the invasion. Meanwhile, Leigh-Mallory's use of the Ninth Air Force in aid of the strate- gic campaign and his oft-stated belief that the decisive battle for air supremacy would occur at the time of the invasion troubled Spaatz, who increasingly resisted placing his forces under the AEAF and a commander whose compe- tence he doubted and whose advocacy of the transportation plan he could not support. In a message he wrote, but did not sen