applied [together] as was done in the case of Pantelleria."127 Spaatz's remark on Tedder's mindset found an echo in the criticism of the air effort in official Royal Navy and U.S. Army histories. 128 Both point out shortcomings in Tedder's and Coningham's performances. The U.S. Army his- tory, in particular, takes Tedder to task for continuing to employ the heavy B-17 and B-24 bombers of the NASAF too far from crucial evacuation ports. Coningham contributed by releasing the heavy bombers from interdiction responsibility on August 11 and by overestimating the effectiveness of his own tactical forces. If Spaatz had had more responsibility for this phase of the opera- tion, he might have been more flexible in his use of heavy bombardment, which in any case would not have been the panacea that U.S. Army historians implied it might have been, because the Germans evacuated over open beaches, targets much less suitable to heavy bombers than the local ports at each end of the straits. During July and certainly by the beginning of August, Tedder supplanted Spaatz as Eisenhower's chief air adviser, although propinquity rather than ulte- rior purpose accounted for much of the change in Spaatz's status. By the nature of his job, Tedder stayed physically closer to Eisenhower and occupied a link in the chain of command between Spaatz and Eisenhower. As a result, Eisenhower, who based his entire command philosophy on Allied unity and teamwork, not only listened more often to Tedder, but went out of his way not to appear to seek Spaatz's views because they were American. Nor did Spaatz make Eisenhower's task easier. As Spaatz began to lose influence on Allied operations, he naturally began to concentrate more and more on a sphere over which he had greater con- trol-the administration and strategic policy of the AAF in the Mediterranean. Fortunately, Eisenhower, Tedder, and Spaatz liked and respected one another personally and professionally. This triangle, which could have produced