Bombers [emphasis added]. This was not followed in early operations, causing heavy losses in fighter units, particularly of P-38's."69 Upon his return to Washington, in February 1944, AAF Chief of Staff Maj. Gen. Barney Giles reported the tactical changes to the Air Staff, noting that Doolittle had instructed his fighters "to attack enemy fighter formations even though such formations are not pressing attacks on bomber formations."70 Doolittle's order freed the long-range escort fighters from the restrictions of close escort heretofore applied. Before that time, standard procedure had tied U.S. fighters to bomber formations, which they were forbidden to desert to pursue German fighters.71 Prewar and early wartime field manuals had reinforced the use of close escort. FM 1-5, "Employment of Aviation of the Army," in both its April 1940 and January 1943 incarnations, stated, A pursuit force may be employed to furnish close or immediate protection for a particular formation engaged in an important air operation. The only method by which pursuit forces are able to provide close protection for aircraft in flight is by accompanying those aircraft and by engaging any and all enemy aircraft which threaten the security of the formation.72 Here the use of the word "engaging" rather than "attacking" seems to imply sur- render of the initiative to the enemy's fighters. The manuals went on to state that the need for close support depended on the effectiveness of the enemy fighter forces and was required when the defensive fire power of the escorted aircraft was inadequate. Somewhat ambiguously the manuals noted, “All aircraft in flight possess a measure of inherent security, and most aircraft possess consider- able defensive power."73 That clause limited provision of close escort to essen- tial missions against developed air defenses. Even so, if a plane had sufficient defensive firepower, as the B-17 and B-24 in theory did, it might not ever need 359   ## p. 360 (#384) #########