s unnecessarily destroyed, and he expressed some doubt as to whether the batteries and other strong points listed by the British 2d Army were even in the target area. He sug- gested, in future, bombing closer to the troops or on the flanks of an attack and more careful planning.42 Tedder, examining Zuckerman's report a few days later, said he had "never read a more demoralizing document" and refused to cir- culate it.43 He probably feared that it might damage air-ground relations. Montgomery's next attack, Operation GOODWOOD, seemed to offer more toward a breaking through. Although cautious with subordinates, to whom he spoke merely of killing Germans and improving positions, Montgomery told Eisenhower that the operation might have "far reaching results." On July 14, he informed Tedder that the plan "promises to be decisive."44 This prospect delighted the airmen. Tedder, noting the agreement of the senior airmen, pro- claimed the operation "a brilliant stroke which will knock loose our present shackles. Every plane available will be ready for such a purpose. "45 Leigh- Mallory hoped that at long last his moment had come. After the affair of mid- June he had decided to sit tight for I felt quite sure that the plum would fall ripely into my hand. Now, as the result of my talks in France yesterday and the day before, I feel sure that it has. The policy of double-dealing, the effect of which has been to deny the Army what it wanted in the field, has failed.46 Leigh-Mallory and Montgomery agreed to cut out Coningham and to deal directly with each other. Leigh-Mallory intended to move his mobile headquar- ters caravan into Montgomery's 21 Army Group Headquarters and take charge of the tactical air battle. He gleefully recorded, "This means I am going to put Air Marshal Coningham where he ought to be, in charge of one branch of the General Air Forces, and I am going to take command of their dispositions myself. If he does not like the situation, he will have to clear out."