ium-bomber groups (570 planes), 10 fighter groups (800 planes), 10 photo reconnaissance/weather squadrons, and 2 transport groups (supply carriers) to attain "complete aerial supremacy" over Germany within a year. Spaatz's and Arnold's advocacy of a continued air buildup in England did not stem from a desire to prove their air power beliefs at the expense of the remaining U.S. war effort. As their correspondence shows, they both genuinely feared a complete German victory over the Soviet Union or a stalemate on the Eastern Front that would allow the Luftwaffe to recuperate and redeploy to the west in the winter of 1942-1943.143 Although convinced that unescorted deep- penetration bombing was feasible, they did not believe that it could then succeed against the entire Luftwaffe or even against serious German counterbombing over Britain. They also had justifiable concerns about the German summer offensive in the Soviet Union which had, by late August, progressed through Sevastapol, Voronezh, and Rostov; penetrated far into the Caucasus; and reached the Volga River a few miles above Stalingrad. Roosevelt's August 24 request for production requirements necessary "for complete air ascendancy over the enemy"144 gave Arnold a chance to open a sec- ond front of his own in the war to mount the European bomber offensive. Arnold assembled a team of air planning experts to produce a new document for the allo- cation of the nation's economic assets toward aircraft production, called Air War Plans Division plan for 1942 (AWPD/42). When he received the President's request, Arnold sent a priority cable to Spaatz ordering him to detail Brig. Gen. Haywood S. Hansell, one of the authors of the AAF's prewar planning blueprint, AWPD/1, to Washington for an important conference. Hansell woke Spaatz at midnight, August 26, to inform him of the message's contents, and Spaatz and his staff worked until six in the morning to gather background material.145 Spaatz and Eaker enthusiastically sup