dall, no doubt recalling the Axis dive-bombing against his troops in the recent attack on Maknassey, wanted full air cover for the first two days of his attack in order to protect his troops and artillery. Spaatz observed: "He wanted his men to see some bombs dropped on the position immediately in front of them, and if possi- ble, some dive bombers brought down in sight of his troops." Spaatz had practi- cally used up his medium-bomber and P-40 fighter groups in air support, and the replacement rate of both pilots and machines would not allow for continued wastage on such an extravagant scale. He preferred that the air force hit enemy airfields, tank parks, troop convoys, and motor transport concentrations while protecting Allied vulnerabilities such as supply lines. If he “maintained a con- stant 'umbrella' over one small section of the front, with only shallow penetra- tion by [his own] bombers and fighters, then [his] available force would be dissi- pated without any lasting effect." Spaatz insisted that the "hard core" of any army ought to have the ability to defend itself against dive-bombing. Fredendall granted the last point, but admonished that if he did not get forty-eight hours' air cover from the start, the offensive would fail.69 In any case, Eisenhower canceled the contemplated offensive, and the exact nature of air cover for the land forces was unresolved. This was not the first run-in between Spaatz and Fredendall. On January 17, Spaatz had flown to Tebessa, at Doolittle's urging, to straighten out air support matters. Doolittle had passed word that Craig, the Commander of the XII ASC, could not “adequately" handle the situation. Spaatz discovered that Craig would have brought the situation under control if it had not been for the interference of Fredendall who, among other things, willfully compromised the security of the highly secret radar on the night-fighting British Beaufighters. He had ordered them to patrol over Axis air space-an action contra