the Fifteenth Air Force. 12 The plan assumed that the destruction of only fourteen synthetic oil plants and thirteen refineries would account for more than 80 percent of production and 60 percent of readily usable refining capacity. These losses would reduce the total German supply of fuel by 50 percent, thereby cutting materially "German military capabilities through reducing tactical and strategical mobility and front- line delivery of supplies and industrial ability to produce weapons and supplies." Furthermore, the plan contended that the Germans, under fire, would immedi- ately reduce consumption of oil products in order to conserve their stocks.13 This postulate, although logical, could not be verified by intelligence before the attacks. USSTAF insisted that the immediate cut would have great effects in the battle for the beachhead, but the oil plan's critics countered by claiming that it did not guarantee a significant impact on German fighting ability before the invasion assault. Almost everyone agreed that the plan had long-range potential devastating to the Nazis. Nonetheless, factors that improved the chances of the imminent invasion appealed more to Eisenhower than schemes that promised important but delayed benefits. The oil industry's configuration added to its suitability as a target system. Ploesti, the enemy's major source of natural petroleum, was vulnerable to the increasing power of the Fifteenth Air Force. Once operations there ceased, the synthetic oil plants of Germany would become the enemy's chief source of sup- ply. These plants, most of which were well within bomber range of Britain, con- stituted a compact target system. Their destruction would produce dramatic results before the cross-channel attack and leave an adequate reserve of unused American force available for containing the aircraft industry or striking at other targets of opportunity. 14 The synthetic oil plants also presented a practical bombing problem, which was not as import