pport doctrine based on close air- ground planning and communications. The British North African contingent for TORCH ignored that example and instead produced a plan similar to that of the advanced air striking force that had accompanied the British Expeditionary Force to France in 1939.40 That plan had proved deficient because it did not pro- vide close enough cooperation between the RAF and the British army. The TORCH invasion plan in general suffered from the same defect. Nor were the British troops appreciably better trained in air-ground opera- tions than the Americans. The British 1st Army, under Lt. Gen. Kenneth A. N. Anderson, was a hastily assembled force that had never operated together as a whole. Nor were its troops of the highest quality; the British had skimmed their home country units (units stationed in metropolitan Britain) of their best man- power and starved them of modern equipment in order to maintain the British 8th Army in the desert war against Rommel. In particular, the home forces had been forced to divest themselves of almost all their organic light antiaircraft artillery to augment that of the desert forces. This deficiency was not corrected before British units embarked for the invasion.41 The shortage of antiaircraft weapons left the British 1st Army vulnerable to even light air attacks unless it received adequate protection from friendly fighter forces. The Eastern Air Command, the RAF force responsible for the 1st Army's air support, had also been created for the TORCH invasion. It had not worked or trained with the 1st Army. Its staff had come together at the last moment, with no opportunity to form a team. Its squadrons had worked together, but its admin- istrative and service troops were a hastily amalgamated hodge-podge of men with no training for field service or field conditions. They suffered severely in the North African countryside, where virtually no supplies could be obtained locally. The EAC had responsibilities beyond it