rd of the bombers lost in the Berlin raid, a much higher percentage than in the Schweinfurt raids, that reveals the decline in German fighter effectiveness. As to escort statistics for the three raids, in August 1943, VIII Fighter Command dispatched 240 short-range P-47s; they claimed nineteen kills, three probables, and four damaged. In October, 196 P-47s newly outfitted with small drop tanks, escorting their bombers as far as Aachen, claimed thirteen kills, one probable, and four damaged. In the Berlin raid, however, the P-47s, whose range had just reached its maximum in February 1944 with the employment of new, larger tanks, claimed thirty-six kills, seven probables, and twelve damaged. The P-38s, which had an ineffective day, claimed three kills and one damaged. The P-51s, which defended the bombers over the target and during deep stretches when desperate Luftwaffe pilots could no longer wait for them to depart and had to attack before they themselves ran out of fuel, claimed fourty-three destroyed, one probable, and twenty damaged. One hundred P-51s bore the brunt of the battle and, in losing only five of their number, achieved an 8-to-1 kill ratio.114 The claims of the American fighters were many times more accurate than those of the bombers. Each American fighter came equipped with gun cameras, which verified their scores by actually picturing bullet strikes on German aircraft. The war diary of the Luftwaffe I Fighter Corps, however, only acknowl- edged that eighteen of its fighters had been destroyed and thirty-nine had been more than 60 percent damaged. The I Fighter Corps claimed that ninety-five bombers and fifteen American fighters had been definitely destroyed and ten bombers probably destroyed.115 Obviously, aircraft combat claims were subjec- tive. The Germans had lost heavily enough that they offered no concentrated opposition over the return route, even though they had sufficient time to land, refuel, and rearm. Some of them managed to pick off seve