d eventually be dwarfed by the million Americans in Britain before the Normandy invasion) particularly raised the Prime Minister's ire. He returned to it time and again in the course of the debate. Nonetheless, Churchill had fixed his policy: We should, of course, continue to give the Americans every encouragement and help in the experiment which they ardently and obstinately wish to make, but we ought to try to persuade them to give as much aid as possible (a) to sea work and (b) to night bombing, and to revise their production, including instru- ments and training for the sake of these objects.18 Churchill's persistence in recommending antisubmarine work reflected the uncertain status of the Battle of the Atlantic in late 1942. The British were losing merchant shipping faster than they could replace it. British import tonnage, the life's blood of an economy not blessed with overwhelming native supplies of raw materials and agricultural resources, had fallen from a prewar annual aver- age of 50 million tons to 23 million tons in 1942. Even the most stringent ship- ping measures could not close the gap between imports and domestic require- ments, which forced the British to consume internal stocks, reducing them to the minimum needed to support the British war effort. In early November, the British came hat in hand to Washington to plead for an additional 7 million tons of U.S.-built shipping, a request Roosevelt granted without even consulting mili- tary leaders.19 But it would take months for American yards to deliver the ships. In the meantime, Churchill felt that a diversion of the U.S. bombing effort to sea work would pay greater dividends in saved shipping, while a reduction in U.S. forces stationed in Britain would conserve tonnage. * The British reduced this resentment to a single phrase: The Yanks were “overpaid, oversexed and over here!" At the end of August 1942, Eighth Air Force personnel in Britain numbered approxi- mately 30,000. By the end of November