uck Hamburg (in July 1943), two out of three buildings in a four-and-one-half square-mile area were ablaze. This quick buildup made fire fighting impossible. As flames broke through the roofs, a column of super-heated air shot up from the burning area to a height exceeding 13,000 feet and sucked in cooler air at its base, creating a street-level draft measured at thirty-three miles per hour. (To panicked individu- als at ground level this wind blowing directly toward the maelstrom would have seemed even fiercer.) The resultant gale carried burning material and sparks down the streets and heated all combustibles in the area to the ignition point. Thus, the fire spread toward its center and was, eventually, self-limiting. Seventy percent of the deaths in the fire storm came as a result of carbon- monoxide poisoning. The fire consumed the free oxygen in the area and replaced it with the products of combustion, one of which, carbon monoxide, seeped into basement bomb shelters killing the occupants painlessly and silently. To avoid death people had to leave their shelters before the fire became too intense, brave the fires along the streets, and face the bombs still coming down. This prospect made it difficult for the authorities to convince people of the dan- ger they risked if they stayed too long in the shelters. 126 By early morning on February 14, Ash Wednesday, a fire storm engulfed the middle of Dresden causing staggering loss of life. Estimates of the death toll range from a low of 35,000, now accepted as the best guess, to a high of 250,000. No one will ever know the exact figure with certainty, because Silesian refugees, evacuees from other bombed cities, slave laborers, and other displaced persons had jammed into the almost untouched city. Few of the city's residents and recent arrivals had ever experienced a major bombing. They had little idea of how to protect themselves. 127 The 311 American B-17s, which for this mission carried approximately the same perce