diterranean Theater. Butcher, Eisenhower's naval aide, described in his diary how Allied Force Headquarters viewed Spaatz's status: "This situation has resulted in Spaatz being virtually squeezed out of his job, yet the vast majority of all aircraft in operation are American. Ike is keenly aware that there may be American reactions against the current arrangement.”112 Later in the day Spaatz visited Eisenhower with a long message for Marshall which, after some discussion, Eisenhower sent. "After careful examination and test of the U.S. air organization in the Mediterranean, Spaatz and I,” wrote Eisenhower, "have concluded that the Ninth Air Force should be abolished as a separate entity and incorporated into the Twelfth." Eisenhower gave six consid- erations that influenced his decision. The first three concerned the advantages in having only one AAF headquarters with a single logistical and administrative organization. The last three addressed Spaatz's and the AAF's problems with the RAF. Eisenhower explained: Under the existing setup the entire air force is under the strategic control of the Air Chief Marshal [Tedder], yet his principal American assistant [Spaatz] has direct control over only part of the American force. In other words the American Air Force and principal American commander do not have that pres- tige that should be theirs. In his next point Eisenhower explained that recent operations had shown the need for the consolidation of Tedder's and Spaatz's headquarters, in order “to permit the constant and instant coordination of all air forces in the Mediterranean." Furthermore, in the heat of intensive fighting, tactical and strategic air force opera- tions merged into one problem that was virtually impossible to coordinate through more than one headquarters. Thus, if Spaatz had a secure position as commanding general of all AAF forces in the Mediterranean, the NAAF could disappear and Spaatz could serve as Tedder's deputy. This post would give Spaatz "