rcraft engines, Maj. Franklin O. Carroll. Gardner stayed in Britain until the beginning of the German offensive in the west in May 1940. He became convinced of the need to incorporate either existing British power-operated machine gun turrets, or if British designs could not be obtained, the development of American turrets, into the construction of all future American heavy bombers.20 Both American officers reflected conventional Air Corps opinions. Neither expected America to take an active part in the war. However, Gardner did suggest that in the event the Americans supplied the RAF with a number of B-17s, experienced reserve Air Corps officers proceed to Canada to serve as civilian instructors to British crews.21 Spaatz and Capt. Benjamin S. Kelsy were the second set of Military Air Observers sent to Britain. They received the same instructions as Gardner and Carroll.22 Two weeks before their arrival, the acting American military attaché in England, Col. Martin F. Scanlon, wrote the RAF Director of Intelligence, whose branch had responsibility for supervising and escorting foreign military visitors, to arrange inspections of RAF installations. Scanlon asked permission for Spaatz and Kelsey to observe the headquarters of RAF Fighter, Bomber, and Coastal Commands, to visit one station belonging to each command, and to inspect one of each type of training school.23 This itinerary matched Spaatz's expertise, as one of the chief Air Corps planning officers assigned to create and sustain an up-to-date and expanding Air Corps training program. The RAF's methods of coping with the rapid expansion of its force had a direct bearing on his own responsibilities. * Within the operations rooms, RAF air defense fighter squadrons plotted all incoming infor- mation (including radar bearings) on aircraft over Britain. † Lt. Col. Gardner's previous assignment had been in the Air Matériel Division as Chief, Armaments Laboratory, Experimental Engineering Section. For two years before