y for attack on secondary and last-resort targets: 1. No towns or cities in Germany will be attacked as secondary or last resort targets, targets of opportunity, or otherwise, unless such towns contain or have immediately adjacent to them, one (1) or more military objectives. Military objectives include railway lines; junctions; marshalling yards; railway or road bridges, or other communications networks; any industrial plant; and such obvious military objectives as oil storage tanks, military camps and bar- racks, troop concentrations, motor transport or AFV parks, ordnance or supply depots, ammunition depots; airfields; etc. 2. Combat crews will be briefed before each mission to insure that no tar- gets other than military objectives in Germany are attacked. 3. It has been determined that towns and cities large enough to produce an identifiable return on the H2X scope generally contain a large proportion of the military objectives listed above. These centers, therefore, may be attacked as secondary or last resort targets by through-the-overcast bombing technique. 98 Almost every city or town in Germany with a population exceeding 50,000 met the foregoing criteria. This policy made it open season for bombing Germany's major cities in any weather. Those cities fortunate enough not to show up on H2X could still be bombed by visual or visually assisted means. If the AAF did not actually abandoned its precision techniques for area and terror bombing in this memo, it came perilously close. On September 5, the Eighth began to inflict the death-of-a-thousand-cuts on the German transportation system (see Map 16, Greater German Transport Network) with a raid of 218 B-24s dropping, by visual means, 463 tons on the Karlsruhe marshaling yards. Escorting and sweeping fighters strafed transporta- tion targets and claimed 192 aircraft destroyed on the ground.99 In attacks mounted on October 14, 15, 17, and 18, the Eighth bombed Cologne, employing for the most part H2X radar and i