orable to that of Russia." Finally, the directive ordered the Allied bomber commanders to support the Allied armies when it came time for the cross-chan- nel invasion.36 Eaker had gained his chance to conduct the daylight bombing experiment. Unfortunately for him, the calls of other theaters for shipping and planes effec- tively reduced the Eighth Air Force to the lowest priority, starving him of res- ources and hamstringing him throughout his tenure in England. Operations, Personalities, and Teamwork The postponement of the Allied offensive in late December because of bad weather, exhaustion of front-line troops and aircraft, and the need to bring up reinforcements, most of them American, led to the formation of an overall U.S. ground command in Tunisia, the U.S. II Corps, which would occupy central Tunisia, taking a position to the right of the Allied line. The British 1st Army occupied the Allied left, while the under-equipped French XIX Corps occupied defensive positions in the relatively impassable center of the Allied lines. If all went well, Eisenhower hoped to have II Corps drive to the coast, separating the Germans in Tunisia from Rommel's forces retreating from Libya. Eisenhower exercised direct operational control over the U.S., British, and French national contingents. At the front no unified ground command existed. (For a view of the terrain in Tunisia, see Map 6.) The air organization paralleled the ground forces' division into national con- tingents. Spaatz ordered the EAC to support the British 1st Army and the Twelfth Air Force to support U.S. II Corps and all U.S. land forces in North Africa.37 The French had a small air force but depended on their Allies for air support. Neither the EAC's No. 242 Group nor the Twelfth's XII Air Support Command, the subordinate organizations charged with cooperating with the land forces, was assigned directly to the land forces they assisted.38 In fact, at no time during the campaign were AAF combat units, as oppos