te in coalition warfare. He has been described "as a man of driving egoism," with a habitually haughty manner63 and "an assertive temperament. "64 Even his apologists admit that he "was so typically English, [and] sometimes tactless, almost pompous in appearance and naive in character without any finesse, that it certainly was difficult for the Americans to assess his ability, and they did little to try to understand him."65 Once Leigh-Mallory absorbed an idea it became almost immutable.66 This characteristic proved a grave defect, not because he adopted impractical ideas but because he defended his own beliefs with an uncompromising ferocity and thus exasperated his opponents. During the Battle of Britain he engaged in a heated controversy with Air Vice-Marshal Keith Park, Commander, No. 11 Group, and Air Chief Marshal Hugh Dowding, Air Officer Commanding, Fighter Command, over the proper employment of fighters. Leigh-Mallory favored launching a large force, assem- bling it in the air, and using it all at once against the enemy. The problem was that by the time this "big wing" had assembled, the German raiders, as often as not, had delivered their bombs. Nonetheless, Leigh-Mallory stubbornly refused to change his tactics. In fact, Dowding had resolved to remove Leigh-Mallory, but before he could act, was removed by Churchill.67 Dowding's abrupt replace- ment by Sholto Douglas and Park's replacement by Leigh-Mallory offended many of Fighter Command's senior officers. Likewise, Leigh-Mallory's obdu- rate adherence to his own strong ideas about air preparations for OVERLORD would intensify his conflict with other air leaders. Leigh-Mallory had little gift for interpersonal relationships. Not only did his dispute with Dowding and Park worsen, but, after his elevation to the AEAF, he did not get along with his American deputies, Vandenberg and Brig. Gen. Frederic H. Smith,68 or with his subordinate air force commanders Air Marshal "Mary" Coningham and Maj. Gen. Lewis H.