ce. The Air Staff recommended no change in current strategic directives. USSTAF's comment on the British discontinuation of area bombing revealed the contradic- tions in its own policies: "The U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe have not at any time had a policy of making area bombing attacks upon German cities. Even our attacks against the Berlin area were always directed against military objec- tives." However, USSTAF acknowledged that "our Pathfinder [H2X] attacks against communications centers have often resulted in an area type of bombing because of the inaccuracy of this type of bombing."244 By the beginning of April, the question of continuing to engage in area bombing or, indeed, of even going on with the strategic bomber offensive had become moot. The Allied airmen could scarcely find a strategic target in the detritus of the Nazi state that justified the expense of attack. By April 5, USSTAF acknowledged that, except for U-boat yards, all targets "should now be regarded as tactical targets." Of the tactical targets, USSTAF accorded first priority to the Luftwaffe and second priority to communications centers in central and southern Germany.245 This change in emphasis did not affect the pace of operations: USSTAF heavy bombers flew on nineteen of the first twenty-five days of the month, dropping 46,628 tons of bombs mostly on marshaling yards (17,006 tons, less than 10 percent incendiaries), airfields (8,597 tons), and in ground support (10,885 tons).246 On April 10, Tedder, noting that the strategic air forces had agreed that their primary objective was now direct support of the land campaign, requested Spaatz to put full effort on enemy rail communications, especially those in cen- tral Germany.247 Apparently Tedder and Eisenhower hoped to prevent effective north-to-south as well as west-to-east transfers of German men and matériel. Spaatz ordered Doolittle to give enemy communications top priority and push airfield bombing back a notch. Spaatz added hope