icer, Billy Mitchell, during October and November 1925, in which Spaatz and Arnold loyally sup- ported Mitchell. Spaatz participated in the ensuing cause célèbre as one of the first defense witnesses, testifying about the current strength of the Air Service. In his judgment, 1,300 of the 1,800 planes available were obsolete and only 400 were "standard." Of those 400, more than half were of World War I vintage; fur- thermore, only 26 of them were bombers and only 39 were observation planes. Spaatz noted that the U.S. Air Service had only 59 modern planes fit for duty. "By dragging all administrative officers from their desks," Spaatz said that he could put 15 pursuit planes into the air, adding, “It is very disheartening to attempt to train or do work under such circumstances."71 In a key exchange, the defense counsel asked Spaatz if he thought the War Department was slowing the development of air power. The prosecutor objected that the question called for a conclusion on the part of the witness, but in the accompanying hubbub, Spaatz replied, "I do." The defense counsel pressed, "Would the recommendation made by Colonel Mitchell have improved the Air Service in the technical and other divisions?" The prosecutor objected, and Spaatz was forbidden to say whether flyers were sufficiently trained in gunnery to fight a war. Members of the court also ques- tioned Spaatz. One particularly sharp exchange took place between Spaatz and the president of the court, sixty-one-year-old Maj. Gen. Robert L. Howze. Howze, an old Indian fighter who had earned a Congressional Medal of Honor fighting the Sioux after Wounded Knee (the award of the medal was announced the day the court-martial opened) and had commanded a division in France, asked who was to blame for any shortcomings. Spaatz replied that, where gun- nery was involved, the squadron commanders were at fault. Howze continued, "Is there anybody higher up than the commander of this unit who is responsible for the gunnery work