g the friendly assault troops was to bomb so far behind the enemy front line that any direct advantage the troops might gain was elimi- nated. The next day Spaatz flew to the Continent. At Heston Airfield, just before taking off, he encountered Eisenhower, who had just come from Normandy to review the paratroops of the 82d and 101st Divisions. They discussed the use of heavy bombers in close support. After describing what he had learned so far, much of it based on an extensive report from Doolittle on operations of July 24 and 25, Spaatz incorrectly noted that most of the gross bombing errors were the result of enemy antiaircraft fire or the actions of enemy aircraft. Eisenhower suggested that Spaatz visit Montgomery, who, after the previous day's short bombing, had apparently developed misgivings about the employment of heavy bombers in close support. Before they parted Spaatz told Eisenhower that, in his opinion, "the only significant breakthrough obtained had been through the use of heavy bombardment [aircraft]."137 Once on the Continent, Spaatz visited, in order, Bradley, Patton, and Montgomery. The first two praised the cooperation of the tactical air forces, which had helped the speed and success of their advances. Spaatz found Montgomery singing a tune slightly different from the one Eisenhower had heard. Montgomery apparently told Spaatz that "the breakthrough of the Army was made possible by heavy bombardment," and that "to have attempted such a breakthrough without such preparation would have cost him 10,000 men."138 Montgomery had certainly not sworn off using heavy bombers. Five days later, on August 14, a daylight Bomber Command bombardment preceded another 1st Canadian Army lunge toward Falaise. This time the RAF dropped short, causing 400 Commonwealth casualties, including 65 killed and 91 missing, many blown to bits. A recent history of the RAF explained why: It appeared that someone had omitted to inform Bomber Command that the Army's standard color