a should be under one command," Churchill replied that a deci- sion on the matter could be deferred until after OVERLORD and that the current system worked well enough.77 The dispute was not resolved until after the Tehran Conference, which dealt mainly with inter-Allied relations and assur- ances to the Soviets of American and British intentions to open a second front against Germany in the spring of 1944. At the Second Cairo Conference, December 3-7, the Americans and the British settled their chief outstanding differences concerning strategy, strategic priorities, and operations. On December 6, Roosevelt announced his decision to appoint Dwight D. Eisenhower as Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Force (SCAEF), from which position he would direct the invasion of France. Marshall, who had wanted the command and had many reasons to think he would get it, was disappointed. He was to continue as Army Chief of Staff. The President told him, "I could not sleep at night with you out of the country." 78 It was the most important personnel decision of the war; Eisenhower achieved greatness in his new role as commander of the cross-channel invasion, while Marshall continued to perform admirably his taxing and equally important chores in Washington. At the Second Cairo Conference, the Americans abandoned their quest for an Allied Strategic Air Force and a supreme commander. The Allies did agree to institute the U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF). The British declined to interfere in what they regarded as an unwise, but purely American, decision.79 USSTAF would establish its headquarters in London and employ its strength primarily against POINTBLANK targets in accordance with directives issued by the CCS. In so doing it would continue to coordinate activities with RAF Bomber Command and ensure that in assignment of supplies and services between tacti- cal and strategic operations POINTBLANK had first priority. Arnold as Commanding General, U.S. Army Air Forces,