some means of opposing it better than they have now."49 After a slow start, the heavy bombers made their first raid beyond North Africa on February 7, 1943, when they hit a major airfield in Elmas, Sardinia. This raid, according to its planners, damaged a large percentage of the Axis anti- shipping capability stationed at Elmas, thereby enabling an Allied convoy to escape further losses.50 Two more raids in February struck port facilities in Cagliari, Sardinia, and Palermo, Sicily. These missions established the pattern for subsequent months; NASAF medium bombers (B-25s and B-26s) concen- trated on shipping, while heavy bombers (B-17s and B-24s) attacked the loading and unloading facilities at both ends of the Axis supply lines. Occasionally, the B-17s went after convoys or ships in harbor. Two raids produced dramatic results that helped enhance the AAF's faith in the destructiveness of its preferred weapon system. On April 10, B-17s sank the Italian heavy cruiser Trieste with 1,000-pound bombs dropped from 19,000 feet. The same raid damaged the Goriza, one of Italy's two remaining heavy cruisers. Dramatic before and after pictures received full circulation during the war, and even the postwar U.S. Army and Air Force official histories selected them for publication.51 Four days earlier, B-17s had blown up an ammunition ship in convoy to Tunisia; that pyrotechnic display also earned wide coverage. As usual, Arnold pressed Spaatz and his other combat commanders to pro- vide the public and the President with evidence of destruction by bombing. Spaatz's and Doolittle's unprecedented permission given to the glamorous Life magazine photojournalist Margaret Bourke-White to fly a B-17 combat mission over Tunisia and the resultant story failed to assuage Arnold,52 nor did Time magazine's cover story of March 22 on Spaatz.53 The AAF commander was concerned that an unsophisticated public would not understand why "our early units were not as well trained as units committed to c