on his visit to the U.S. 34th Infantry Division on April 8. This untried division, recently detached from II Corps and assigned to the British 9 Corps, had failed to reach its objective, partly because of confusion over a planned air attack. The 9 Corps canceled the air attack around midnight April 7–8 and so notified 34th Division. At 8:00 A.M. Maj. Gen. Ryder, 34th Division Commander, realizing that his infantry had not advanced so far or so quickly as planned, tried to reinstate the air attack for 8:30 A.M., but no planes appeared and at 9:30 A.M. the division called off the air attack once more. 100 In following up the lack of support for the 34th, Spaatz discovered that air-ground communications had failed. The 34th had not realized that it could call for air support directly to XII ASC through its own air support party. The XII ASC, assigned to support II Corps, had just moved seventy-five miles to the northeast (from Thelepte to LeSers), too far from both American II and British 9 Corps Headquarters. Nor had XII ASC been aware of its continuing responsibility for the 34th Division. To make mat- ters worse for the pride of the 34th Division, the British assault went well and at its end the British 9 Corps commander recommended the withdrawal of the 34th from combat and the retraining of its junior officers at the rear under British guidance, 101 Spaatz attributed the air-ground problem to the ground forces' own confu- sion about lines of authority: XII ASC could not effectively cooperate with two widely separated masters. Upon his return to Constantine, Spaatz suggested the formation of a new army headquarters to supervise both corps. This headquar- ters, sited alongside Williams's headquarters, would allow XII ASC to do its job effectively. "Any organization which had air forces available but could not get their machinery in motion to apply them was faulty," Spaatz wrote in his diary. Williams had had the forces to aid the 34th, but because of poor control co