ensive, he had THUNDERCLAP delivered to the Eighth Air Force. On January 25, he agreed with Tedder to have the plan ready for instant implementation. On January 30 and February 2, he insisted that Doolittle bomb the THUNDERCLAP targets. It is a reasonable surmise that Spaatz hoped that THUNDERCLAP might succeed. But Spaatz the air force commander with three years of combat experience differed greatly from Spaatz the Washington planning officer of 1941, who had approved of the morale bombing of Berlin in Air War Plan No. 1 (AWPD/1). By February 1945, airmen such as Harris had repeatedly had to backtrack from assurances about the effectiveness of bombing. If Spaatz were to espouse THUNDERCLAP publicly (it seems never to have been mentioned in the press accounts of the time), he and air power would lose prestige if the operation failed. Apparently, Spaatz judged the chances of the operation's success as low-too low for advance publicity, but high enough to risk the effort of one raid, which he was under pressure to fly in any case. To Spaatz, a man famous at the poker table for his affinity to drawing to an inside straight, the gamble seemed worth it. The Eighth struck Berlin with more than 1,000 B-17s. Of these, 932, employing mostly visual methods but hampered by the need for violent evasive action to avoid intense flak, dropped 2,279 tons of bombs (250 tons of them incendiaries), losing 23 of their number to flak and none to German fighters. The 1st Air Division, which led the attack, bombed visually. The following 3d Air Division bombed visually with H2X assisting. Post attack photo reconnais- sance showed severe damage to the Anhalter rail station and moderate damage to Tempelhof marshaling yard and the Schlesischer rail station (secondary aim- ing points on the THUNDERCLAP target list). In the center of the city, industrial and residential property suffered severe damage, while government offices along the Wilhelmstrasse, including the Air Ministry, Reich Chancel