laria. Morale, according to his staff, took a decided upturn.17 After completing his tour of the front, Spaatz inspected the rear echelons. He flew to Marrakech on March 6. There he decided to keep the airfield complex under the control of the NAAF rather than to transfer it to the Air Transport Service. Thus, control of the terminus of the transatlantic ferry route would stay in his hands. He also issued a standardized set of specifications for airfield con- struction. As a result of this action, plus aviation engineer reinforcements, the arrival of heavy construction equipment above the normal table of organization, and a decision to retain all aviation engineers under the control of the NAAF, the size and number of forward airfields greatly increased 18 and multiplied the force available to Coningham and Spaatz. By March 12, Spaatz returned to Algiers, where he learned of his promotion to lieutenant general. He appreciated the honor and the increased status it gave him. Coningham, as an air marshal, had, until then, technically outranked him, but as Spaatz noted in a letter on the total AAF personnel situation in North Africa, "I have been much less concerned about promotion for myself than ade- quate promotion for a number of officers who are doing a General's job without the rank."19 This remained a problem until June 1943, when Eisenhower, after repeated requests from Spaatz, promoted four AAF officers.20 The Air War Against Axis Supply Lines In the middle of March 1943, NAAF Headquarters moved from Algiers to Constantine. The move placed it closer to the front and enabled it, in Spaatz's words, "to control the Strategic and Tactical Air Forces during the Tunisian Battle."21 In Constantine, on March 17, Spaatz, Doolittle, and Allied air officers of the Coastal Air Force met to analyze the effectiveness of the antishipping campaign. From ULTRA sources they knew the daily unloading returns from Tunis and Bizerte.22 These confirmed that "the shipping strikes have