nary opportu- nity beckoned if only Bradley's forces could go forward, and the blow could not be long delayed. A more ominous signal, which indicated that the Germans might have begun to realize their vulnerability to Bradley's forces in this section of the beachhead, dated late July 22, decrypted 8:18 A.M. July 23, from the German Seventh Army Luftwaffe liaison, urgently requested reconnaissance of powerful new U.S. forces with tanks (Patton's Third Army) opposite the 17th SS Panzer Grenadier Division.102 (See Map 14, Operation COBRA Area, Night of July 24-25, 1944.) On the morning of July 25, at about 10:00 A.M., Eighth Air Force mission no. 494 began its bomb drop. In an effort equaling the previous day's, the Eighth dispatched 1,581 B-17s and B-24s. Unlike the day before, 1,503 of the heavies released their high-explosive cargo and sent it hurtling toward the front line. Over 3,300 tons of explosives plus 870 tons dropped by the medium bombers and fighter-bombers crashed into the greatly understrength German Panzer Lehr Division, killing 1,000 of its men, destroying three of its battalion command posts, knocking out all but a dozen of its armored fighting vehicles, and wiping out an attached parachute regiment.103 Lt. Gen. Fritz Bayerlein, the division's commander, described the Normandy scene in a postwar interrogation. “It was hell. . . . The planes kept coming overhead like a conveyor belt, and the bomb carpets came down. . . . My front lines looked like a landscape on the moon, and at least seventy percent of my personnel were out of action-dead, wounded, crazed or numb."104 At 10:00 A.M. Bayerlein reported to his superiors that the air bombardment heralded an American breakthrough attempt. He urgently requested the Luftwaffe's assistance. 105 Despite this punishing blow and the artillery barrage that followed it, the well-disciplined and -trained German survivors, in a last-gasp effort, managed to prevent the American breakthrough for one more day. By the n