ic mis- sion, as it was obligated to, while it carried out its own tactical responsibilities. This difficulty would not be easily overcome. Also, the assignment of early- and late-model P-51s between the two air forces' fighter groups, originally decided by General Eaker in 1943, was a matter of growing concern. Eaker had sent most of them to the Ninth Air Force because of their abilities as fighter-bombers. Early model P-51s were limited by their relatively short range. (The P-51 had fought in Africa as the A-36 and had formed fighter-bomber groups assigned to the Northwest African Tactical Air Force.) When drop tanks, improved internal fuel tanks, and other modifications vastly increased the later model's tactical radius of operations and combat ceiling, it became the strategic escort fighter par excellence of World War II. Spaatz thus believed that the late-model P-51s' newfound capabilities as escorts far outweighed their capabilities as ground-support fighters, and he felt justified in questioning the way the aircraft had been allocated between the Eighth and Ninth Air Forces. He had the authority, through enabling directives, to order the transfer of aircraft and personnel as he wished, but because the transfer of the P-51s to the Eighth Air Force would affect the operations of the Ninth, he was required to consult with Leigh-Mallory. On January 20, Spaatz discussed his decision to move the P-51s first with General Brereton, the Ninth's commander, who objected to it, and then at a meeting with Brereton, Tedder, Leigh-Mallory, Doolittle, and Kepner, Com- mander, VIII Fighter Command. Spaatz overrode Brereton's protests, declaring that the P-51s were "absolutely essential throughout all operations to cover the bombers in deep penetration."96 On January 24, the generals finally accepted Spaatz's compromise proposal; of the nine P-51 groups scheduled for the European Theater of Operations, the Eighth would get seven and the Ninth would retain two. Spaatz commented