ROPE craft during this phase be ready as quickly as possible." Eisenhower therefore requested that Tedder proceed to London at once and consult with Spaatz and others on the plan.85 Eisenhower assumed that the British would object to having their metropoli- tan air forces, particularly Bomber and Coastal Commands, placed under the operational control of the Supreme Commander of the Allied Expeditionary Air Force. Nevertheless, he intended to ensure the employment of every resource, including all air power in Britain, to achieve the ultimate success of his mission. After their Stateside meeting, Eisenhower knew he had Arnold's backing. Arnold confirmed that both USSTAF and Bomber Command should be placed directly under the Supreme Commander for the "impending operation." Arnold made clear his support, saying, "It is my desire to do all that is possible here to further the simultaneous transfer of these two strategic bombing organizations from their present status to your command when you feel this transfer should take place."86 Spaatz and Eisenhower agreed that USSTAF must come under the operational control of the Supreme Commander. In December, when they both had learned of their new appointments, Spaatz fully expected to be under Eisenhower's com- mand at least sixty days before the invasion. All subsequent disputes over prein- vasion preparations concerned the place and use of strategic bombers under Eisenhower, not the basic principle that the invasion required the support of heavy bombers to succeed. In fact, during the initial phases of organizing USSTAF, Spaatz told the Chief of Staff of the AAF in Washington, Maj. Gen. Barney Giles, that Eisenhower had learned through Marshall that USSTAF would not be under him operationally. Spaatz, believed that it should be under Eisenhower both administratively and operationally. Giles agreed that Spaatz and Eisenhower would be left to settle command arrangements between themselves.87 In the afternoon of Eisenhower's firs