nerr as his Deputy for Administration, assigning directorates subordinate to him for person- nel, supply, maintenance, and administration. 14 Maj. Gen. Frederick L. Anderson became Spaatz's deputy for operations over directorates for operations and intelligence. (See Chart 4, U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe, May 1944.) The official AAF history comments that this arrangement "integrated operations and logistics in one headquarters to a degree never before attained and repre- sented a triumph for the concept that logistics was of equal importance with operations."15 By elevating logistics to the same command level as operations Spaatz increased the status and morale of his logistics organizations. He placed his administrative control of the Ninth Air Force at the same level as his operational control over the Fifteenth Air Force. By tying the Eighth and Ninth together administratively, Spaatz made it harder for the Ninth to separate itself com- pletely from his headquarters. He also emphasized the separateness of the AAF from both the RAF and the U.S. ground forces. A few months later Spaatz wrote to Arnold, "The Maintenance and Supply functions of our Air Forces cannot be integrated into the British Maintenance and Supply system for obvious reasons. Therein we have a firm foundation upon which to build our effort to regain and retain complete control of all U.S. air units in all theaters." Not only did the new organization help to maintain independence from the British; it helped also to maintain institutional independence from the U.S. Army Service Forces (ASF). In the same letter he added, "We must always be alert that the A.S.F. does not extend its control of ground services to the Air Forces through lack of an organi- zation of our own capable of rendering all manner of base services to air units in the combat zone."16 In keeping with Spaatz's desire to avoid as much adminis- trative detail as possible, the reorganization reduced the number of people reportin