e Commander. This assumption, which soon proved illusory, did not endear him to either Spaatz or Harris, nor did their opposition to Leigh- Mallory's claims endear them to him. The chief architect of the AEAF's plan, Professor Solly Zuckerman, a personal friend of both Tedder and Spaatz, had returned to London in January 1944 from the Mediterranean, where he had com- pleted his studies of the bombing campaigns in Pantelleria and Sicily. There he reached his own judgments about the effectiveness of the campaigns and the ways to improve upon them. In London, Zuckerman read the preliminary plan, which he judged inadequate, and he agreed to work with Leigh-Mallory's staff to prepare a new one. By the end of January, he had produced a plan fully accepted by Leigh-Mallory.148 Zuckerman, like Spaatz, Leigh-Mallory, Tedder, Portal, and most other preinvasion planners, started from the assumption that air superiority over the beachhead was a sine qua non. Therefore, he recognized the necessity for the continuation of POINTBLANK to promote the attrition of the Luftwaffe's fighter force. Similarly, he accepted as a given the diversion of resources to CROSSBOW. The professor then divided the remainder of the preinvasion bombing plan into three target systems: airfields, coastal defenses, and German lines of communi- cation. The bombing of the airfields 130 miles or less distant from the beach- head would begin approximately twenty-four days prior to the invasion; the bombing of coastal defenses would begin immediately before the assault. The campaign against communication lines would begin on March 1, ninety days before the invasion. The bombing of the German transportation system was the most controversial element of Zuckerman's plan. His studies had convinced him of the necessity of an intensive attack on the Belgian and northern French rail- way system, directed in particular at rail marshaling yards and associated main- tenance facilities. This attritional attack on the rai