paatz's. He was more outgoing, articulate, and technologically interested in his trade. Eaker made an excellent coalition soldier, cooperating loyally with Wilson and Slessor in the Mediterranean. From November 1942 to December 1943, no one could have done better than, and few as well as, he did as commander of the Eighth Air Force. Eaker was almost as close to Arnold as Spaatz was. What he didn't have was Spaatz's luck. Eaker was the right man at the right place at the wrong time. He lacked the bombers and crews, long-range escort fighters, drop tanks, and H2X radar sets his successor had in abundance. Spaatz would have done no better and would have suffered the same inevitable defeat over Schweinfurt, but he probably would have outlasted Eaker, by virtue of his stronger relationship with Arnold, by about two months-long enough to get to Big Week and to stay in command for the rest of the war. Ira Eaker knew his business, but in some indefinable way he lacked Spaatz's "fire in the gut" and the ability to extract the last ounce of effort from his force or to stand up to Arnold. By the time the United States entered World War II, Spaatz had a set of fixed character traits, firm beliefs, and over three decades' experience as a mili- tary aviator, all of which greatly influenced his subsequent career. He was a drinker and gambler before and during the war. His personal correspondence is heavily laced with liquor bills and gambling checks. Like Churchill, he appar- ently had a large capacity for alcohol. There is no evidence whatsoever, how- ever, of errors in judgment or decorum attributable to indulgence in spirits. Nor were there any whispers of overindulgence, such as those that plagued Ulysses S. Grant before and after the Battle of Shiloh. Spaatz's gambling for relatively high stakes had no effect on the conduct of his command. (He seems to have broken even over the long term.) Spaatz had a quick mind and did not suffer fools gladly. He was taciturn and shy in pub