e bomber controller, and the fighter controller briefing Doolittle.103 Before he received press recommendations, Doolittle double-checked Spaatz's priorities, informing him via REDLINE that the uncertain weather might allow an attack on Berlin but bad weather at home bases might divert the whole force to the Continent on its return. Then he noted a bare chance of visual conditions over oil targets with an alternative shallow penetration on transportation if all else failed. Almost desperately he asked, "Is Berlin still open to air attack? Do you want prior- ity oil targets hit in preference to Berlin if they definitely become visual? Do you want center of city hit or definitely military targets, such as Spandau, on the Western outskirts?"104 Spaatz replied by phone annotating his copy of the mes- sage, "Told Doolittle to hit oil if visual assured; otherwise, Berlin-center of the city."105 Spaatz's answer clearly demonstrates his and the AAF's order of importance in targeting: vital military targets, such as oil, first. He and Doolittle apparently disagreed over what constituted a “definitely military target." From his position close to Eisenhower's headquarters and as chief American airman in Europe, Spaatz would naturally take a more expansive view of military targets than Doolittle, who concentrated solely on operations. To Spaatz, a demonstration of support for the Russians and the disruption of government and rail yards in Berlin were justifiable goals. Doolittle thought the raid would tarnish the AAF's reputation and expose his crews to too much danger for too little return. Spaatz thought it would show the ability of the AAF to cooperate at the highest levels of the alliance while remaining independent. In any case, the raid pushed the definition of military target to the limit, since Spaatz anticipated a nonvisual attack and therefore knew the raid would be wildly inaccurate. Nonetheless, it would seem that Spaatz hoped-albeit faintly—that a heavy raid on Ber