hitherto thought possible. 19 Arnold began cudgelling his own superior, Marshall, to support the oil plan. In a memo dated March 13, he explained, "In view of the recent progress made against the GAF, the ball-bearing industry and Berlin, and the imminence of OVERLORD, it is evident such a plan is required." After denigrating plans based "upon only cold, mathematical-like tables of performance data [the transporta- tion plan]," Arnold concluded, "The tremendous force available to us must not be permitted to waste its substance on any but potentially decisive operations."20 These pleas did not change Marshall's determination or that of the War Department to leave the major decisions concerning the military policy of the invasion to the invasion commander, Eisenhower. On March 16, the AAF Chief of Staff, Maj. Gen. Barney Giles, told Spaatz that because Portal, Harris, and, above all, Eisenhower had not committed themselves to the oil plan, the Joint Chiefs of Staff were unlikely to take action on it. He pointed out that the most recent CCS directive on strategic bombing already gave Spaatz the authority to start attacks against the systems he had selected. Then Giles asked for new ini- tiatives from Spaatz: What concerns us most here is whether or not you are going to be able to sell Eisenhower on the necessity for letting you go ahead with your Plan without insistence that you be diverted prematurely. I feel that if Eisenhower makes an issue of a system or of a date he will be backed up by the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff-so that places it right in your lap.21 In order to "sell" Eisenhower, Spaatz would have to "sell" Tedder, who had already told Portal, "I am frankly skeptical of the Oil Plan, partly because we have been led up the garden path before, partly because the targets are in diffi- cult areas . . . and partly because I am not sure of the real vulnerability of the new synthetic oil plants."22 On March 16 the Joint Bombing Committee met again. Tedder began the