chnical that they could not possibly explain it to an outsider. In a perpendicular approach, if a plane released bombs at the proper time, its forward momentum would be imparted to its bombs and would carry them beyond friendly lines, even if they veered off a straight course. A parallel approach did not have that advantage. Even if a heavy bomber released its bombs at the correct time, side-to-side error, which was much harder to calculate and compensate for than forward momentum, would almost certainly carry bombs into friendly forces. Furthermore, if bombers on a parallel approach entered the target zone at an angle different from the briefed approach, any under- or over-shooting of the tar- get could again put strings of bombs into friendly troops. In any attempt to send 1,500 bombers through a two-and-one-half-mile-wide parallel approach, conges- tion would invariably put many groups on the wrong approach angle. A parallel approach for COBRA would force the bombers to form a column two groups wide, extending all the way back to Holland, and take several hours to funnel over the target. Although lateral dispersion caused no attributable casualties, the AAF official history does note that for COBRA "spillage to the east and west of their targets" occurred for several of the formations, all of which flew from north to south.117 The Eighth's standard operating procedure added to the possibility of lateral dispersion. Although, by this stage in the war, most heavy bombers carried the improved Norden bombsight (M-9), capable of very high accuracy in well- trained hands, only the lead bombardier in each formation, usually the group or wing in 1944, used his bombsight to correct both for drift (side-to-side accuracy) and for range or rate (front-to-back accuracy). The remaining bombardiers in the formation corrected for range only and released their bombs when they saw the lead plane release its bombs. Most of the bombardiers in a formation did not cor- rect for drift.