s the application of aerial firepower in coordination with the movement and fire of friendly ground formations against hostile targets near ground com- bat operations. Successful close air support required attainment of air superiority over the field of ground combat operations. It also required the maintenance of a mutual spirit of cooperation between the ground elements and the air forces pro- viding support. During the early phases of the North African campaign, the Allied air and ground forces could achieve neither air superiority nor satisfac- tory teamwork. Consequently, from November 1942 through mid-February 1943, Allied close air support was ineffective. Interdiction proved far easier to solve. The complete dependence of the Axis powers on supplies transported to Africa from Italy, the few ports available to receive those supplies, the shortage of suitable shipping, the limited number and constricted nature of shipping lanes, and the paucity of protected air transport fields made the Axis extremely vulnerable to any logistical disruption. Allied breaking of Axis codes, which enabled precise tracking of supply convoys and routes, added immeasurably to the ease with which Allied air power could locate and attack the many weaknesses in the Axis logistical network. Any problem stemmed chiefly from the difficulty of obtaining sufficient striking power. By using his managerial, organizational, and, above all, operational skills, Spaatz played a vital role in Allied tactical air power's reversing the variables that prevented Allied attainment of air superiority. In the later stages of the cam- paign, Spaatz improved the team work between Allied air and ground elements, which had been noticeably lacking in both the American and British components of Operation TORCH's invasion force. As for interdiction, Spaatz was instrumen- tal in keeping the heavy bombers on interdiction tasks and in disrupting the Axis air transport system. Spaatz's treatment of air superiority,