- ated the impression that not he, but Spaatz and Tedder, wanted Eaker ousted. On Christmas day in Tunis Eisenhower told Spaatz that he would send a message to Marshall in which he would give Spaatz's views as his own. Spaatz again remarked in his diary, "General Eisenhower has [been] and is firm in [his] decisions and I consider him one of the finest men I know."121 In his “Eyes Only" cable to Marshall, Eisenhower gave assurances that he had studied the proposed personnel changes for some time and had a "completely objective" attitude in recommending them. Then Eisenhower justified the transfer by point- ing out Eaker's ability and noting the waste of talent involved in having him and Spaatz in the same theater. The only other air officer he would consider for the Mediterranean, Maj. Gen. Lewis H. Brereton, had just set up his Ninth Air Force in England to serve as the U.S. tactical air force in support of OVERLORD. Brereton's selection might disrupt that vital phase of the invasion. Noting Spaatz's intention to stay in the Mediterranean if Eaker stayed in London, Eisenhower implied that he needed Spaatz in London and that he accepted conditions concerning Eaker. Eisenhower emphasized to Marshall that in Spaatz he had one of the few senior officers experienced in air-ground sup- port, a practice "that is not repeat not widely understood and takes men of some vision and broad understanding to do... right. Otherwise a commander is for- ever fighting with those air officers who, regardless of the ground situation, want to send big bombers on missions that have nothing to do with the critical effort."122 Later in the day Eisenhower wrote to Eaker, stating of the new move that Arnold (with no mention of Spaatz) had proposed it during his stopover in Sicily and that he had agreed to it "because of the absolute necessity of finding an out- standing man for the post of Air CINC of the Mediterranean." He then added his own opinion that if Spaatz left for Britain, Eaker must