rps air support. Because he did not move his headquarters, the commanders of the XII ASC, who had co-located their head- quarters with Fredendall's, had no problem maintaining contact with him or set- ting up semipermanent communications facilities with their subordinate air units. And despite his refusal to help the French, Fredendall did not interfere unduly with the operations of the XII ASC. Col. Paul L. Williams, who led the XII ASC from late January to the end of the campaign, noted in an official report, "General FREDENDALL and General PATTON both stated in sub- stance, 'Don't wait for us to order air missions, you know what the situation is, just keep pounding them.”46 The lack of air-ground teamwork between II Corps and XII ASC was more the fault of XII ASC than of II Corps. Frequent changes of command, assign- ments, and stations robbed the XII ASC of the continuity of training and cooper- ation with familiar ground units necessary for ground support work. Doolittle had hastily formed the XII Air Support Command, under the command of Brig. Gen. John K. Cannon, even later than the rest of the Twelfth Air Force when the Casablanca invasion was added to TORCH. Once ashore in Casablanca, more than 1,000 miles from Tunis, the XII Air Support Command trained with Clark's Fifth Army. When II Corps entered Tunisia, XII ASC split in two, part going with II Corps and a small part, XII ASC Detachment, staying with Clark. Cannon took over XII Bomber Command, and Brig. Gen. Howard A. Craig left Spaatz's headquarters to take over XII ASC. This would seem to have been an inspired choice, because Craig had just received the tablets containing the com- mandments governing the application of close air support from the hands of Coningham, but Craig failed to gain Doolittle's confidence. In the midst of the German counterattack of January 18-25 (described later), Doolittle wrote to Spaatz that although Craig was a brilliant staff officer and one of the AAF's exceptional plann