gy, by Mitchell's new writings (free of the need to conciliate the powers that be), and by the theories of Giulio Douhet (the Italian air power enthusiast and theoretician), most of the Air Corps accepted bombardment avia- tion rather than pursuit aviation as the most important arm of the service. Mitchell and Douhet advocated a form of aerial warfare that went far beyond the mere support of ground armies. Air power, they argued, could strike directly at a nation's means of production, its lines of transportation, the morale of its popu- lation, and the will of its leadership.87 This aggressive and unofficial doctrine (official War Department doctrine focused on defending the continental United States) found a home in the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS), where the instructors, mostly junior officers, adopted it and taught it to their classes.88 The major tenets of the ACTS included the following: 1. The national objective in war is to break the enemy's will to resist and to force the enemy to submit to our will. 2. The accomplishment of the first goal requires an offensive type of war- fare. 3. Military missions are best carried through by cooperation between air, ground, and naval forces, although only air can contribute to all missions. 4. The special mission of the air arm is the attack of the whole of the enemy national structure to dislocate its military, political, economic, and social activities. 5. Modern warfare has placed such a premium on material factors that a nation's war effort may be defeated by the interruption of its industrial net- work, which is vulnerable only to the air arm. The disruption of the enemy 's industrial network is the real target, because such a disruption might produce a collapse in morale sufficient to induce surrender. 6. Future wars will begin by air action. Thus we must have an adequate standing air force to ensure our defense and to begin immediate offensive oper- ations. We must place ourselves in a position to begin bombar