the air, did not react quickly or forcefully enough to Bradley's offensive. On July 26, Collins's troops burst through the thin screen of Germans opposing them, and, thanks to the ingeniously simple idea of welding iron shears to the front of each tank, which gave them a tactical advantage over the road-bound Germans, the Americans plowed through the hedgerows into the clear terrain beyond. The race through France to the German border had begun. On the afternoon of July 25, however, the long-awaited breakthrough seemed as far away as ever. In addition to the surprisingly stout German defense, more short bombings had shaken the advancing troops. Although in retrospect it was evident that the air bombardment had accomplished its goal of wrecking the German defenses, Americans on the spot were naturally more inclined to dwell on their own losses. Once again, the 30th Infantry Division bore the brunt of friendly fire. A unit of the 9th Infantry Division also suffered heavily. Short bombs killed 111 Americans, including Lt. Gen. Leslie J. McNair, the highest- ranking Allied officer to die in the campaign, and wounded 490 more.108 Ironically, McNair, in his previous assignment as head of the Army Ground Forces, had been one of the harshest critics of the AAF's lack of training in close air support. Other GIs suffered from combat fatigue or, to use the more vivid World War I term, shell shock. As a direct result of the July 25 bombings, the 30th Infantry Division reported 164 cases of combat exhaustion.109 Eisenhower, who had come to Bradley's headquarters to observe the first day of the offensive, was more dismayed by the short bombing than Bradley and said of the heavy bombers' performance, "I don't believe they can be used in support of ground forces. That's a job for artillery. I gave them a green light this time. But I promise you it's the last."110 Bombs from between thirty-five and sixty heavy bombers and forty-two medium bombers fell within American lines,111 all a