uen-Sotteville railroad marshaling yards.94 The targeting officer of the Eighth Air Force, Col. Richard D'O. Hughes, selected the marshaling yards because they were far enough from the town to minimize killing French civilians and because they fell well within the range of escorting Spitfires.95 The attacking planes bombed with reasonable accuracy; approximately half of the 18.5 tons of bombs released fell in the general target area. They damaged ten of twenty-four lines of track, destroyed some rolling stock, and scored direct hits on two large transshipment sheds in the center of the yard. The attack may have temporarily disrupted service, but it caused no lasting injury to the Germans. Serious damage to such a target required the attack of a far larger number of bombers.96 An overjoyed Spaatz greeted Eaker as soon as the latter alighted from his aircraft. After the first raid Spaatz enthusiastically told Arnold, "It is my opinion and conviction that the B-17 is suitable as to speed, armament, armor, and bomb load. I would not exchange it for any British bomber in production." Arnold sent Spaatz's message directly to the President, adding, "The above more than vindi- cates our faith in the Flying Fortresses and precision bombing."97 As Arnold's letter to Spaatz on August 19, 1942, indicated, the news of the Rouen raid was the perfect tonic which Arnold couldn't wait to share with the "highest authorities." He told Spaatz: You can't blame me for being a little impatient, because I have been impatient all my life. . . . I was very glad to get the information covering the operation of the bombers over Rouen. That mission came just at the right time to act as a counter-irritant to the British report that our airplanes were no good, etc. etc. As a matter of fact, the President had me up to Hyde Park day before yester- day, asked me about that article, and told me he was much concerned. I assured him that there was no reason for being concerned. I hope we are right. *Th