lid yardstick would be the extent to which the action contributed to ending the war as quickly as possible with minimum loss of life. Placed in the context of the entire war against the European Axis, area bomb- ing caused more civilian casualties than any other type of warfare employed by the British and American Allies, but area bombing-the bombing of rail yards is an exception-did not decisively influence the war's outcome. Hence area bombing failed on both military and humanitarian grounds: it did not shorten the war and it took lives unnecessarily. For three years Spaatz commanded AAF units that were either destined for or serving in the war against the European Axis. From the start, on his assump- tion of command of the Eighth Air Force on May 10, 1942, almost until the German surrender in Berlin on May 9, 1945, his responsibilities grew. From the command of an incompletely trained force of five groups, his authority increased until he controlled, in one way or another, an armada of four air forces made up of 135 groups, including 61 heavy-bomber groups and 42 fighter groups. On February 1, 1945, Eisenhower rated Spaatz and Bradley equally as the two American general officers in the Combined European and Mediterranean Theaters of Operation who had rendered the most valuable service in the war against the Germans. Of Spaatz, he commented, "Experienced and able air leader; loyal and cooperative; modest and selfless; always reliable."17 Bradley prepared a similar list on December 1, 1944; he ranked Spaatz second, after Bedell Smith.18 Spaatz's subordinates appreciated him as well. Years after the war Doolittle observed, I suppose if it were possible for one man to love another man, I love Gen. Spaatz. I guess it's ... better... [to say] that I idolize Gen. Spaatz. He is per- haps the only man that I have ever been closely associated with whom I have never known to make a bad decision." According to Doolittle, it was soundness of judgment that earned Spaatz Eisen-