esented them with targets of opportunity, such as marshaling yards. Nonetheless, Spaatz had no qualms about any incidental damage that bombs falling short would cause among German civilians. Within days of the September 1 directive, Air Marshal Bottomley discussed new priorities with Spaatz and Tedder. By that time German defenses had visi- bly stiffened, taking the edge off some of the optimism in Allied command cir- cles. The day before they received the Quebec directive, September 13, 1944, the three agreed to a new scheme for new circumstances. In this scheme, Spaatz assented to a rearrangement of his just-issued priorities. Oil retained top priority. ULTRA intercepts continued to confirm the injury inflicted by the oil offensive. A September 7 decryption revealed an order calling for qualified volunteers from other branches of the Luftwaffe to join the fighter arm in order to conserve on training fuel. A September 11 decryption uncovered Goering's order of September 1 restricting flights to a bare minimum to ensure that every possible drop went to operational training.44 German rail and water transportation systems, particularly those located in the Ruhr and Saar and leading from those regions to the front, would be the tar- gets of the strategic air forces, which would carry out attacks progressively deeper into Germany. The tactical air forces would deal with transportation tar- gets closest to the battlefront. Motor transport, armored fighting vehicles, and ordnance plants and depots would have the same priority as transportation sys- tems. The Luftwaffe would receive any residual effort. This new schedule, which served as a basis for a more formal directive issued in accordance with the instructions from Quebec, meant that Tedder had succeeded in upgrading to second priority his own preferred target system, that of transportation.45 On September 25, Bottomley issued a "Directive for the Control of Strategic Bomber Forces in Europe," to Arthur Harris.46 Spaa