is knowledge invaluable as he assessed the British experience. He could immediately apply whatever he learned from the RAF to the Air Corps' programs. The position Spaatz occupied came about as a direct result of the interven- tion of President Roosevelt. In early 1940, the President and General Marshall visited an Air Corps display; afterward the President asked for the number of air attachés accredited to London. On learning that the embassy had two air attachés, he suggested doubling the figure.14 The Air Corps promptly asked the British for permission to send two specialist officers as assistant air attachés and requested the British to share the tactical and technical lessons in the war to date. These officers would have diplomatic status as attachés, but they were actually technical observers. Their official orders referred to them as "Military Air Observers." Although not explicitly stated, the Air Corps apparently intended to fill the two attaché positions with a series of technical and adminis- trative experts, on relatively short assignments, to obtain access to the most recent combat developments. Although the RAF Director of Plans, Air Commodore John Slessor, gave the suggestions qualified support, other sections of the Air Ministry greeted the propositions with suspicion. The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal Cyril Newall asked, "What guarantee have we that this information will not find its way back to our enemies?" He added, "I am not prepared to be rushed by the Americans, who, as always, wish to have the best of both worlds. They would like to be our allies, but without any obligations, and they are not blind naturally to the pecuniary advantages of such a state of affairs.”15 The Air Ministry's delay elicited a protest from the British embassy in Washington. The British ambassador, the Marquis of Lothian, noted the unfa- vorable impression created by the delay, especially in light of the President's interest. He emphasized the advantages to