ive mood, attributed the death of one of his classmates in an air accident in part to reflexes slowed by age. Thirty- three years old at the time, he himself had just had a close call and wondered whether his own skills were slipping.68 In one of the few personally revealing notes in his papers, he analyzed himself as follows: CHARACTER ANALYSIS CAUSES AND REMEDIES 1. Tendency to false illusion that nothing is worth-while except that done by myself. 2. Tendency to be opinionated without sufficient knowledge. 3. Mental laziness. . . resulting in ability to group quickly certain things but with no retentiveness, also resulting in inability to form definite conclusions and pursue consistent line of thought. 4. Tendency to assume everyone acts with right motives hence no effort to differentiate between men to separate those whose mental makeup prevent[s] their acting with right motives as in case of Farmer [the erring finance officer]. 5. Egotism which impels me to make authoritative statements on subjects or about things with which I am unfamiliar or only vaguely informed. 6. Tendency to trust instinct rather than make effort to employ reason. 7. Shyness induced by egotism (hating to admit lack of knowledge), mental laziness.69 This gloomy self-evaluation accurately highlighted several aspects of Spaatz's personality. He had a quick mind but he was not an air power intellectual or philosopher. He relied on instinct and intuition rather than on systematic thought. Nor did he have any illusions regarding his depth of knowledge on most subjects; throughout most of his career he displayed no great interest, knowledge, or sympathy with affairs other than those directly affecting aviation. Finally, he admitted his "shyness," which manifested itself in a painfully wooden manner in staff conferences or formal briefings requiring a rapid inter- change of ideas. Before graduating from the Tactical School in June 1925, Spaatz traveled to Washington, D.C., to attend the hearings o