nce and the Luftwaffe to fly. When the weather cleared, the Luftwaffe employed the last of its muscle to aid the ground troops and defend them from Allied air power. The surprise and confusion among American front-line troops was echoed at Allied Headquarters in Paris, where wild rumors concerning Germans in Allied uniforms circulated. Spaatz directed that all units under his control tighten secu- rity against sabotage. His Deputy for Administration, Maj. Gen. Hugh Knerr, even suggested that a restricted zone of blocked-off streets, sentry boxes, and pillboxes be set up around the USSTAF Headquarters complex in Paris.3 Apparently this scheme was not carried out. As Spaatz later admitted to Arnold, "The offensive undertaken by the Germans on December 16th undoubtedly caught us off balance."4 Spaatz responded decisively to the need of the Allied ground forces for addi- tional air support. He directed two of the Eighth's fighter groups to move imme- diately to the Continent, if they could find proper air fields, and place them- selves under Vandenberg's operational control. Spaatz also designated the Eighth's 2d Air Division, which had begun to specialize in Gee-H radar bomb- ing, to act as a fire brigade that Vandenberg could call directly, without first contacting USSTAF or SHAEF. Gee-H, with a range of 300 miles, employed an airborne transmitter and two ground beacons to fix a target's position; it had a bombing accuracy much superior to H2X alone.5 The remaining two-thirds of the heavy-bomber force would attack targets west of the Rhine, even if they obtained only temporary results, until the emergency ended.6 Despite vile weather, which included thick ground fog in England that made bomber takeoffs and landings extremely treacherous, the Eighth sent out mis- sions on December 18 and 19. On December 18, only 411 of 985 bombers bombed their targets; all used radar. The next day, 312 heavy bombers bombed tactical targets behind German lines; again, all of them employ