ve than it would have been if the bombers had not flown night after night and day after day. Strategic bombing also forced the Germans into an enormous defense and reconstruction effort, diverting their aircraft manufacture almost exclusively into fighter and interceptor production. The bombing of oil not only limited mobility but, as a side effect, also greatly reduced nitrogen production, hampering the manufacture of explosives and fertilizers. By 1944 Germany had two million soldiers, civilians, and prisoners of war engaged in ground antiaircraft defense, more than the total number of workers in its aircraft industry. An additional mil- lion workers were engaged in repair and rebuilding; the oil industry alone absorbed a quarter of a million. Speer estimated that 30 percent of total gun out- put and 20 percent of heavy ammunition output was intended for air defense, a significant loss to the ground forces of high velocity weapons suitable for anti- tank defense. Speer further estimated that 50 percent of electrotechnical produc- tion and one-third of the optical industry was devoted to radar and signals equipment for the antiaircraft effort, further starving the front lines of essential communications equipment. 12 The Allied strategic bombing effort could not reasonably have been expected to do more. It vindicated the treasure expended on it. If in the final analysis it accomplished its ends more by brute force than by elegant precision, the fault lay in the unrealistic assumptions of prewar doctrine as to wartime accuracy, European weather, and radar technology. The AAF was fortunate that the great mass of bombers that arrived in Europe in 1944 were accompanied by large numbers of long-range escort fighters. If production, shipping, and manpower had allowed those bombers to arrive six months earlier, they might well have been impaled on the German air defense system. Strategic bombing did not achieve the last task imposed by the Casablanca 590   ## p. 591 (#615