atteries during the end of the Tunisian campaign.4 The island's approximately 12,000 defenders were mostly overage and inexperienced; many had homes and families on the island.5 In addition, the island was effectively deprived of help from the mainland because Allied air superiority over the entire area prevented resupply and reinforcement. After the fall of Tunisia Operation CORKSCREW became the Allies' chief pri- ority. Allied planners in charge of the invasion of Sicily had begun to consider an assault on Pantelleria as early as February 1943.6 On May 9, Eisenhower started preliminary preparations. He ordered Tedder to make the full strength of Spaatz's NAAF available for action to remove Pantelleria as a bottleneck to Allied ambitions in the Mediterranean. He further directed Admiral Andrew Cunningham of the Royal Navy to provide naval striking force and protection for the movement of a division to the island.7 Finally, he set up a combined command consisting of Spaatz, Maj. Gen. Walter E. Clutterbuck, Commander of the British 1st Division, which would land on the island, and Rear Adm. R. R. McGrigor of the Royal Navy, commander of the naval forces in the assault, to oversee the operation. Eisenhower authorized his commanders to postpone the landing, but he reserved the right to abandon the project if losses or opposition grew too heavy.8 By virtue of his recent promotion, Spaatz outranked the British officers heading up the other sections of the combined operation. This fact, at least, made the air component primus inter pares. Two days later Eisenhower informed the U.S.-British Combined Chiefs of Staff (CCS) that he desired to take Pantelleria in order to use its airfield to sup- port the western portion of the invasion. In the same message he noted that he thought the Allies could "crack this place" because its garrison consisted entirely of Italians.9 Operations against Pantelleria presented an excellent opportunity to display 227   ## p. 228 (#252) ########