tead.40 Maj. Gen. Lloyd R. Fredendall, at age fifty-eight, had done well in the Army, despite his failure to complete West Point. His specialty was training, and he had previously commanded the II Corps before it went overseas. It was dur- ing his command of II Corps in May 1942 that the AAF had botched a large- scale air-ground exercise at Fort Benning. Marshall had recommended him for TORCH and Eisenhower had asked for him. He, like Patton, was senior to Eisenhower in service, but seniority never seemed to have been a serious prob- lem. The short, stocky Fredendall projected a gruff image every bit as rough as Patton's. He was outspoken and did not hesitate to criticize either his superiors or his subordinates. He formed judgments rapidly, often with insufficient or inaccurate information, but was impatient with the recommendations of his sub- ordinates. He had a habit of issuing bombastic, colorful, but imprecise messages. At a key point in the Kasserine engagements, for example, he told a subordinate, "I want you to go to Kasserine right away and pull a Stonewall Jackson. Take over up there." Although he did not lack personal courage, Fredendall, for rea- sons that are still obscure, ensconced himself in an elaborate dug-in headquarters established far behind the front, which he seldom left. The complex amazed and disgusted almost all outside observers.41 Soon after taking over on January 1, he developed extremely bad relations with Maj. Gen. Orlando P. Ward, the com- mander of his principal combat unit, the 1st Armored Division. He soon began to ignore Ward to deal directly with one of Ward's subordinates, Brig. Gen. Paul M. Robinett. Nor did Fredendall have any affection for the French or the British; he particularly disliked General Anderson.42 (See Chart 1, Allied Chain of Command, January 6, 1943.) Fredendall certainly appears to have been misjudged by Eisenhower given his failure in battle seven weeks later and his replacement by Patton. On December 10, Ei