e Eighth lost sixty-three heavy bombers over one of the Reich's most heavily defended targets, Berlin. In this raid, as in others, the heav- iest losses were taken by groups that failed to meet their escorts. 123 Brig. Gen. Orvil A. Anderson, the Eighth's operations officer, had an immediate first impression that the April 29 mission was "the poorest operation . . . I've seen during the year... I've been here." Calling the mission "poorly executed all the way through," Anderson said, "It can go down on the records as one of the dumbest ones we've done. From the point of execution it just didn't click- nothing clicked."124 The last major raid of the month had proved more costly and just as poorly managed as the first. The Eighth embarked on a more successful tack when it initiated the prac- tice of flying fighter sweeps in weather unsuitable for bombers. On April 5 and 16, hundreds of fighters attacked airfields in western and central Germany. Spaatz, reporting to Arnold on previous sweeps, said, “Eighth Air Force fighters inaugurated a series of sweeps against airdromes, transportation, and Flak tow- ers, which will be increased in scope and should prove very demoralizing to the Hun."125 A week later, Spaatz instructed the AAF Public Relations Office in Washington: In order to destroy the Luftwaffe it is essential that emphasis be given to the destruction of planes on the ground as well as in the air and that our pilots be encouraged in strafing operations by official and public credit for their accom- plishments. . . . Recommend that Public Relations policy in US be adjusted to support present need for emphasis on strafing." In an account of April 5, Spaatz emphasized to General Giles that properly con- ducted fighter sweeps inflicted real attrition on the Luftwaffe by destroying its aircraft on the ground and demoralizing personnel. Spaatz added, Inasmuch as the pilots are briefed to shoot up any moving target within Germany, [emphasis added] 750 or 1000 fighter a