ilots, mostly second and first lieutenants who had first entered combat five weeks before his arrival, by removing his major's insignia of rank and becoming one of them.22 When his first two weeks were up, he ignored his orders and stayed two more weeks.23 On September 16, 1918, despite the repeated jamming of his machine guns, Spaatz shot down his first German aircraft.24 Ten days later, he earned a Distinguished Service Cross in a stunt that made the New York Times: "Flying officer shoots down three planes-two German and his own."25 Spaatz had focused so intently on his dogfighting that he had neglected to check his fuel gauge, causing the loss of his own Spad. Fortunately, when he crash-landed his plane near the trenches, he fell into French hands. The friendly poilu started an alcoholic celebration, which Spaatz's compatriots continued upon his return to base. When Spaatz left for the United States, Mitchell told him, "I will be glad to have you command a group at any time under my command."26 Spaatz landed in New York City on October 13. He traveled to Washington, D.C., where he was assigned to the Aviation Service's Training Department as Inspector of Pursuit Training and met Col. Henry H. “Hap” Arnold for the first time. The two eventually became fast friends-to the lasting benefit of both their careers. Spaatz had already heard much about Arnold, who was very close to Spaatz's wife's family, the Harrisons. Next, Spaatz began an inspection tour of pursuit facilities. He boarded a train for Dayton, Ohio, where he tested vari- ous types of planes, presumably trainers. Just outside El Paso, on November 11, 1918, he learned that the war had ended. The next day he finished his tour in San Diego, California. He emerged from the war as a recognized expert on air train- ing and pursuit aviation.27 He also emerged convinced that Army air power deserved more autonomy. By the end of World War I, many air officers, such as Mitchell and Foulois, had become dissatisfied wi