i Minister of Armaments and War Production, spoke of USSTAF's work that day in his postwar memoirs: I shall never forget the day the technological war was decided. Until then we had managed to produce approximately as many weapons as the armed forces needed, in spite of their considerable losses. But, with the attack of nine hun- dred and thirty-five daylight bombers of the American Eighth Air Force upon several fuel plants in central and eastern Germany, a new era in the air war began. It meant the end of German armaments production."ยน A week later Speer reported to Hitler, "The enemy has struck us at one of our weakest points. If [he] persist[s] at it this time, we will soon no longer have any fuel production worth mentioning. Our one hope is that the other side has an air force General Staff as scatterbrained as ours!"12 Commitments to CROSSBOW and OVERLORD and the weather delayed the next oil mission until May 28, when 400 heavy bombers attacked plants at Ruhland and Magdeburg and restruck Merseburg-Leuna, Zeitz, and Lutzken- dorf. The next day the Eighth sent 224 B-24s to bomb the synthetic plant at Politz, while the rest of the force bombed aircraft industry targets deep in eastern Germany and Poland. A combined total of 66 bombers and 19 fighters were lost in the two raids. American escorts claimed 100 destroyed, 2 probably destroyed, and 11 damaged in the air and 21 destroyed and 22 damaged on the ground.13 Only the month's three raids on Berlin and the previous oil raid met opposition of similar intensity. These oil strikes proved two of Spaatz's contentions: First, the enemy would come up to resist them, but would not defend V-1 launch sites or marshaling yards. Second, the bombing of the German synthetic oil plants would have immediate and serious consequences for the German war economy. ULTRA intercepted an order, dated May 13, showing that the previous day's mission had greatly alarmed the Germans. This order, from the Luftwaffe Operations Staff in Berl