s; and the dispatch of only one 600-aircraft operation in the whole month of November. He said, "The failure to destroy targets was due directly to the failure to employ planes in sufficient numbers. A sufficient weight of bombs was not being dropped on the targets to destroy them, nor was the proper prior- ity of targets being followed."82 Arnold found that failure intolerable. The hostile tone in his memoirs describing his September inspection of the Eighth revealed a growing disen- chantment with Eaker's progress. He was very angry, for example, as he listened to radio reports during his flight to England of B-17s running out of fuel on the ferry route through Gander, Newfoundland, and Prestwick. Arnold had worked himself into a heart attack to get planes for the AAF and in Eaker's command they, with their needed crews, were lost before ever reaching combat. "I was not satisfied," he remarked.83 Also, while Arnold stayed in England, the Eighth suf- fered the misfortune of a large raid's misfiring over Stuttgart. Not a single one of 338 B-17s sent out reached its primary target. Arnold noted darkly, "Certain features of the operation never did find their way into reports sent up through channels."84 On December 2, 1943, Arnold had a talk with his staff-Kuter, Vandenberg, and Hansell. He expressed to them the same dissatisfaction he would show two days later to the Combined Chiefs.85 On December 7, Arnold met Wilson for the first time and lunched with Tedder. He discussed the new air arrangements with both and found that neither objected to them.86 On December 8, he flew to Sicily where he met the Presi- dent, Eisenhower, Bedell Smith, and Spaatz, all of whom had traveled on the same C-54 aircraft from North Africa to Sicily.87 Arnold consulted first with Eisenhower and Bedell Smith, who approved of his choice of Spaatz to com- mand the Strategic Air Force.88 Even though they were still puzzled as to the * The availability rate is the number of aircraft and crews o