British 1st Army. The Twelfth was assigned the tasks of conducting strategic heavy-bombing missions and providing close air support to the U.S. II Corps in Tunisia. The two existing organizations had by now solved many of the tough administrative and logistical problems facing them in North Africa and their dissolution might reopen Pandora's box. These new arrangements, which lasted until mid-February 1943, did not ease the Twelfth's basic logistics problem. Spaatz reported to Eisenhower on January 1 that lack of transport prevented any air buildup to support a ground offensive. Two days later, Spaatz repeated to Eisenhower that stockpiles of sup- plies and preparations were needed at the front. He also asked for a higher prior- ity in allocation of supplies sent forward. The day before his departure for Casablanca on January 19, Spaatz instructed his forces to take advantage of the lull in fighting to strengthen the buildup of repair and maintenance capability and to get replacement aircraft to the front as rapidly as possible. On January 20, he inspected Marrakech, the African terminus of the AAF South Atlantic air ferry route, to clarify the responsibilities of the rear area services of supply and training. All these actions helped to ensure maximum effort in the task of untan- gling the knotted logistics situation. 102 The Germans halted the Allied drive on Tunis twenty-five miles short of its goal, a margin of Allied defeat so narrow that a slight change in any of several factors might have brought a different outcome. The men on the spot could not hold back the rainy season, or overcome an overloaded transport system, or build hard-surface airfields in an instant, or correct badly loaded ships. For both air and ground forces, the first phase of the Tunisian campaign was a logistical nightmare. By the end of November, the forward airfields were so overloaded that Eisenhower's Assistant Chief of Staff for Air, Air Vice-Marshal A.P.M. Sanders, reported that it wa