d repeatedly placed him in positions, such as Air Corps Plans Section Chief, Special Observer to England, and Chief of the Air Staff, which challenged him and gave him the chance to prepare for the coming war as well as to advance his career. Without Arnold, Spaatz would not have been in the right place at the right time. Arnold deserves full credit for having the judgment and foresight to back Spaatz, but Spaatz deserves equal credit for the manner in which he fulfilled Arnold's expec- tations. One need only to look at the way Arnold treated his other favorite, Ira Eaker, to realize that he valued achievement over friendship. If Spaatz had failed to perform, Arnold would surely have put him aside, too. Spaatz, strengthened by Arnold's abiding friendship and support, was able to resist the demands of the British, the ground forces, transportation plan advo- cates, and others to divert his resources from daylight strategic bombing and autonomy for the AAF. Their relationship eased Spaatz's administrative tasks. Although Arnold on occasion might gibe at his handling of men and matériel, each had faith that the other was doing his utmost and was doing it competently. Spaatz was lucky to have Arnold's friendship and to return to Britain when sup- plies had begun to arrive in abundance. Good luck, however, was also the residue of skill. Without character and ability Spaatz could scarcely have per- formed so well in his climb to the heights. At the beginning of the war, Spaatz, as did many senior Army Air Force officers, espoused particular doctrines associated with daylight precision bomb- ing and advocated the creation of U.S. military aviation as an independent ser- vice equal to the Army and the Navy. These views, which did not change, colored most of his wartime decisions. His years of experience with mossbacked ground force and naval officers and his own ignorance of and antipathy toward ground matters gave him little appreciation of military problems other than tho