f May 1942, to discuss the reallocation of U.S. aircraft production with the British. While in Britain, Arnold apparently agreed to station the first two and the last U.S. fighter groups in the Huntingdon area and the second two in Northern Ireland. British sources state that he further agreed to the fitting of one fighter squadron into each active RAF Fighter Sector (to gain operational experience) and to the eventual takeover of the Northern Ireland and other group sectors.39 Given Arnold's subsequent instructions to Spaatz, which forbade the integration of U.S. fighters into British air defense schemes, either Arnold changed his mind or the British assumed agreement where there was none. While Arnold preceded him to London, Spaatz, with what must have been a sense of relief, left the round of conferences in Washington to supervise the overseas movement of his forces. On May 23, he flew to Fort Dix in New Jersey and inspected all units. From there he motored to Mitchel Field in New York City, and, on May 25, he flew into Grenier Field in New Hampshire. His com- mand's aircraft had already started to arrive-57 P-39s and 3 B-17s. By May 28, the total had risen to 76 P-39s and 17 B-17s, with an additional 78 P-38s at Dow Field in Bangor, Maine, and 31 transports at Westover Field in Massachusetts.40 The next three days were taken up by meetings with Maj. Gen. Harold L. George, the head of Ferry Command, who controlled the ferry route itself, not the planes traveling through it; Maj. Gen. Sherman Miles, the Army Corps Area Commander for New England; and Col. Howard A. Craig of the Air Staff. George agreed that Ferry Command had the responsibility for the proper func- tioning of the movement route and would establish communications and provide housing, supplies, and weather reports. General Miles agreed to provide ground security. Spaatz said that the Eighth could provide its own air defense.41 On June 1, Spaatz began his flight for Prestwick, Scotland, the first leg o