bility of not establishing Air supremacy until landing starts."77 Spaatz believed that delaying the battle for air supremacy until the invasion would be too late not only for the invasion but for the bomber offensive as well. Spaatz believed that the Luftwaffe had to be crushed as soon as possible. If Allied air forces had to fight for supremacy over the beaches, they could provide no support for the ground forces and might not be able to provide air cover for the invasion fleet; paratroop drops could not be guaranteed without air supremacy. In contrast, Leigh-Mallory's perspective came from his four years' experi- ence in successfully defending against Luftwaffe attacks. Since 1941, the Germans had refused to engage in daylight combat with Fighter Command, and Fighter Command, with its short-range defensive fighters, could not force the Germans to fight if they chose not to. Leigh-Mallory welcomed the thought that the Germans would once more have to fly into territory he defended. A few days later, Spaatz and OVERLORD's planners, including Leigh-Mallory and Lt. Gen. F. E. Morgan, the head of the Allied planning group that had drawn up the original plans for the invasion, clashed over command prerogatives. Morgan and Leigh-Mallory, who at this stage regarded himself as the commander in chief of all Allied air power necessary for the invasion, which included USSTAF,78 insisted that three American P-38 long-range fighter groups move from the Mediterranean to Britain to help provide air cover. Spaatz objected on the dual grounds that only he, and not the Allied planning staff, had the authority to order such a move, and that he would not strip the Fifteenth Air Force of its escorts and, in the process, weaken it and POINTBLANK for an unnecessary fight over the beachhead. Spaatz pointed out to Butler that the matter concerned neither Morgan nor Leigh-Mallory and that the decision rested entirely with him.79 Morgan appealed to Eisenhower in Washington. Eisenhower had not