ed the Allies air supremacy over Europe. With air supremacy came the freedom to bomb at will any target in Germany and the freedom invade France without Luftwaffe interference. The achievement of air supremacy over France and the invasion area and of air superiority over Germany before D-day was the decisive contribution of Spaatz and USSTAF to OVERLORD. Battling for control of the skies on the day of the invasion might have ruined Allied objectives. By forcing the Luftwaffe to concentrate its chief defensive effort over Germany, USSTAF left the Luftwaffe unable or unwilling to oppose the Allied interdiction air campaign in northern France. The Eighth's contribution to the transportation plan, although not nig- gardly, amounted to less than one-third of Bomber Command's-13,000 tons to 46,000 tons.97 For the first three months of 1944, 70 percent of the Eighth's bombs hit German soil.98 In April, the Eighth Air Force dropped 62.5 percent of its bombs on Germany; in May, 57 percent of its bombs fell on Germany.99 Given the increase in bombers available to Doolittle in April and May, actual tonnage on the Reich went up in both months. Thus, preinvasion bombing, although a diversion, did not greatly damage the Combined Bomber Offensive. For the first five months of 1944, CROSSBOW targets received more tonnage— 16,082 tons-than transportation targets. 100 This represented a dead loss to the Eighth's war effort, because CROSSBOW neither involved Luftwaffe fighter oppo- sition nor substantially delayed German deployment of V-1 pilotless jet pro- pelled bombers. Transportation bombing at least aided the invasion. Spaatz's bridge campaign may have been at least as important as the trans- portation plan. The bridge campaign consumed only 4,400 tons of bombs and for the first phase of the invasion greatly reduced the Germans' ability to shift heavy units rapidly to the invasion beachhead. The units eventually arrived but battered, piecemeal, and late, which gave the Allied gro