ion tactics and flew straight to their targets in order to provoke attrition. The primary reason the Eighth made the long, hard, costly trip to Berlin was not just to bomb Hitler's capital but to force the Luftwaffe into the air. At last, when their losses in machines and pilots forced the Germans to adopt a policy of conservation, Spaatz insisted, over the objections of Tedder and Portal and the resistance of Eisenhower, on launching the strategic attack on the German oil industry. The absolutely necessary defense of that target system exposed the Luftwaffe to further punishing attrition. Spaatz's championship of the oil plan exemplified his ability to fight for and gain his own goals while not irreparably damaging the teamwork and unity demanded by successful coalition warfare and interservice cooperation. Spaatz believed that if he could smash the oil industry, he could quickly and fatally weaken Germany. He would not allow anyone or anything to permanently divert him from that goal. First, he presented an alternative to the transportation plan. When that failed, he sought an opportunity to demonstrate the effectiveness of his policy. When the Germans showed signs of conserving their fighter force, Spaatz had the leverage he needed to obtain Eisenhower's approval of a limited trial of oil bombing. As Spaatz had opined, the actual bombing revealed the acute sensitivity of the Germans to threats to their oil. Spaatz did not simply advocate the oil plan. He took risks with his career by authorizing the clandestine bombing of the Ploesti refineries. Such a move, if unsuccessful, might have been difficult to explain and could have earned him a reprimand or worse. But again, by keeping that bombing sub rosa, he allowed the British to ignore it when they heard of it, which presumably they did soon after the raids. Spaatz used variations of this same subterfuge in his unsigned letters to Portal on morale and to Eisenhower on civilian casualties, and in obtaining per- mis