mber, Fighter, or Coastal Commands as a whole to the Supreme Commander and his Deputy." The three commands had other functions as well as those assigned by OVERLORD. In addition, Churchill felt that the CCS should retain the right to vary assignments to the invasion "should overriding circumstances render it necessary.”181 Upon reviewing these minutes, Eisenhower accepted Tedder's command role and responsibility for drafting an air plan, but balked at having anything less than total operational control of both strategic air forces. Further conversations with Churchill proved unfruitful. In the beginning of March, Eisenhower told Churchill that if Bomber Command did not come under his control, he "would simply have to go home."182 Eisenhower conceded that Coastal Command, which occupied a lesser place in the invasion plan, could remain under separate control, but he insisted that Bomber Command receive its direction through the headquarters of the Supreme Commander, as agreed by the Combined Chiefs of Staff at Cairo in December 1943. Portal, for his part, denied that the CCS had ever intended to place more than a portion of Bomber Command under Eisenhower. At this juncture, Churchill told Portal to negotiate an agreement with Eisenhower and indicated that he would accept whatever arrangement the two men agreed to.183 In the end, during April, the strategic air forces came under Eisenhower's control. By the end of February 1944, Spaatz had only partially solved the basic problems confronting his command. Two months of bad weather had reduced the opportunity for visual daylight bombing of Germany to a handful of days. To their credit, Spaatz, Fred Anderson, Doolittle, and their men had taken maxi- mum advantage of those days to damage key German aircraft assembly and pro- duction targets. Those strikes, in conjunction with bombing-through-overcast missions, had pushed the loss rate of the German fighter force to an unsustain- able level. The Luftwaffe lost to all cause