LEMATE mal training in ground support, and their machines rapidly succumbed to the massive air power the Allies applied to halt the attack. One of Germany's last hopes to protect its industry-a slim hope, given the poor performance of its pilots-went down in flames as the fighter arm dissipated itself in vain attempts to assist the German ground forces. During the Battle of the Bulge the Germans lost hundreds of fighters in air-to-air combat and hundreds more in ground attacks, including more than 200 on a spectacular but ineffective New Year's Day raid on Allied airfields. No full-scale Big Blow was ever launched; but the tactics and control tech- niques developed in case it was must have aided the Luftwaffe in fielding its three largest interceptions of the war. On November 2, 21, and 26 at least 500 German fighters arose to defend their Fatherland. These interceptions evoked both consternation and relief within USSTAF and the Eighth-consternation because such large forces could be marshaled and relief because they were inef- fective. In the entire month of November the AAF credited German fighters with the destruction of only 50 heavy bombers, a far cry from the 314 bombers shot down by enemy fighters in April.143 What is more, the Luftwaffe paid a heavy price. Even if the claims of the bomber gunners were invariably inflated, American fighters, most of whose kills were recorded by gunsight cameras, knocked down 102 enemy fighters on November 2, 68 on November 21, and 114 on November 26,144 Yet, the large-scale German interception on November 2 sent a shiver through USSTAF. Three days later Spaatz wrote a long letter to Arnold explain- ing his current thinking on the situation. "For some months we have been care- fully weighing the build up of the German fighter force," reported Spaatz. Showing that he had grasped at least the outline of Galland's Big Blow, Spaatz continued: It has been increasingly evident that the GAF was being processed to become a major threa