d deprive him of the much- needed services of five recently activated P-47 groups, some 300 to 375 aircraft which, thanks to a newly developed 150-gallon drop tank, had achieved an escort range of 475 miles in February. They were able for the first time to escort to objectives just beyond an arc drawn from Hamburg to Frankfurt. The relative shortage of P-51s plus new drop tanks made the P-47s the backbone of the Eighth's escort fighters for the winter of 1943-1944. In his reply to Leigh-Mallory, Spaatz pointed out that the former's instruc- tions violated previous agreements: It is my understanding that all three types of U.S. fighters are at the disposal of the Eighth Air Force to assist... in POINTBLANK operations. Further, inasmuch as I have been made responsible for the training of the Ninth Air Force, it will be my responsibility to determine how much diversion from POINTBLANK will be allowed for training. Spaatz did reaffirm, however, his commitment to release Ninth Air Force fighters to the AEAF "whenever possible." "54 Three days later, Spaatz protested again to Leigh-Mallory and appealed to Eisenhower. Spaatz agreed that the Ninth's medium bombers could fulfill their POINTBLANK obligation by timing their tactical strikes in conjunction with the Eighth's strategic missions. He then drew Leigh-Mallory's attention to the cur- rent operations directive of the Combined Chiefs of Staff, which unequivocally gave support of the strategic air forces as the present primary mission of the Ninth Air Force. To Eisenhower, Spaatz wrote one blunt paragraph: I think this is a matter of utmost importance in our operations. Unless the Eighth Air Force operating out of U.K. can be assured of the availability of all long-range fighters, including P-47's, their deep penetrations will result in greatly increased heavy bomber losses, and we will be losing many opportuni- ties to deal punishing blows to the German Air Force.55 The matter obviously required a decision from higher a