hineland. A particularly telling decryption on October 24 of a four-day-old message from Hitler's headquarters quoted a Speer report that destruction of traffic installations and lack of power had brought from thirty to thirty-five percent of all armament factories to a standstill.70 Lack of power meant lack of coal to fire generating plants, a sign of serious, if not catastrophic, rail disruption. This intercept can only have convinced the Allied air leaders both of the efficacy of transportation bombing and of the diminishing capacity of the Germans to absorb more of it. After a meeting on October 28 at SHAEF in Paris, at which the possible contributions both the strategic and the tactical air forces could make in assisting the ground forces were thoroughly analyzed, Spaatz and Bottomley issued a new directive, Strategic Directive No. 2. It deleted the military equipment targets not specifically requested by the ground forces. This deletion left only two target systems: the petroleum industry and lines of communication, the latter with sec- ond priority. Spaatz and the British Air Staff had maintained top priority for oil targets but had also seen the advantages of Tedder's campaign against commu- nications.71 Meanwhile, Harris had an escape clause as wide as an autobahn. Strategic Directive No. 2 authorized the bombing of "Important Industrial Areas"—that useful euphemism for area bombing—whenever weather or tactical conditions were unsuitable for the two main objectives. Bottomley modified the clause slightly by adding language requiring these alternative attacks to contribute, as far as possible, to the destruction of the oil and transport systems. He also wrote a cover letter to Harris emphasizing the importance of oil-to little avail. Harris believed in neither oil nor communication targets. He dryly annotated his copy of Bottomley's letter, "Here we go around the Mulberry bush."72 In November, however, Harris did increase petroleum strikes to 24.6 percent of