n" USSTAF came under Leigh- Mallory's control. "Leigh-Mallory's concern with what is in front of him,” said Spaatz "may hamper POINTBLANK Operations."98 Spaatz, supported by his Deputy for Operations, Maj. Gen. Frederick L. Anderson, continued to press for clarification of control over the Ninth Air Force during strategic missions. On February 4, Anderson, Brig. Gen. Earle E. Partridge (Deputy Commander, Eighth Air Force), and Maj. Gen. William E. Kepner (Commander, VIII Fighter Command) representing the Strategic Air Forces, met with Leigh-Mallory, his British deputy (Air Vice-Marshal Arthur Saunders), Maj. Gen. W. Butler (his American deputy from the AEAF), Maj. Gen. L. H. Brereton (Commander, Ninth Air Force), Brig. Gen. Elwood R. Quesada (Commander, IX Fighter Command), and Brig. Gen. Samuel E. Anderson (Commander, IX Bomber Command-Medium). Leigh-Mallory opened the meeting by observing that the AEAF had done all that USSTAF required. Anderson expressed USSTAF's view that "the Mediums were not pay- ing their way; that they should extend their operating range to the maximum which is, at present, 350 miles; that this should be done at least a couple of times beyond fighter escort, if necessary to ascertain the Hun reaction." This statement reflected both Anderson's and Spaatz's determination to bloody the Luftwaffe, whatever their own losses. Leigh-Mallory responded that sending a portion of the medium bombers against the Eighth's targets while reserving the remainder for CROSSBOW attacks might satisfy strategic require- ments. Anderson insisted that the Eighth's missions required maximum medium-bomber support and that experience had shown that CROSSBOW bomb- ing produced unsatisfactory diversionary raids. Although Leigh-Mallory indi- cated that he would ask Portal for a final determination, he compromised by issuing the medium bombers additional targets to support the Eighth's efforts. Anderson, in turn, reaffirmed the Eighth Air Force's commitment to CROSSBOW wh