e had the eastern- most hard-surface all-weather airfield available to the Allies for the bulk of the campaign. It served as the forward air base for the RAF Eastern Air Command. It also had unloading facilities for twenty-two ships-an important consideration when the relative ease of sea transport was compared with the difficulties encountered on the only two roads eastward from Algiers and the single-track railroad. It took trains four to six days to reach the advanced railhead at Souk el Arba (taken on November 16 by British paratroopers) from Algiers, and the line could sustain only six military trains a day with a daily capacity of only 2,000 tons.44 The rail line underwent a change in gauge just east of Constantine, which added the delay of transshipment and the threat of another bottleneck in the line of supply.45 General Anderson, despite the grandiose title of his command, had only the understrength British 78th Division to send overland from Algiers. Its main body started its advance from Algiers on November 14. Its spearheads reached Djebel Abiod, about 25 miles from Bizerte, on November 17. At that point the British ran into tough German paratroops advancing from Bizerte and halted to organize for a general attack. U.S. Twelfth Air Force units began to arrive at British forward fields by the third week of November. They placed themselves at the disposal of Air Marshal William L. Welsh, but not under his command. He could not order U.S. squadrons to specific objectives, and "the targets were decided on a day in advance after exhaustive discussion."46 A week later, reinforced by units from the U.S. 1st Armored Division, the British resumed their advance. Overcoming counterattacks supported by tanks and dive-bombers, the Allies advanced to the outskirts of Djedeida, twelve miles from Tunis, on November 28. Concentrated German dive- bombing attacks and newly arrived antitank guns halted them there. The next day the heaviest air attacks to date hit exposed Al