g capacity-without the support of facts. Similarly, in the operations before the Normandy breakout, he and the other air- men failed to understand fully the problems faced by the Army. Their criticisms and constant prodding for action did them little credit. Spaatz's suggestion to U.S. Ambassor to Britain John G. Winant, in February 1944, of a thrust through Norway and Sweden might have brought his heavy bombers closer to Germany, but it still left the ground forces a sea away. Spaatz's earlier suggestion to Hopkins, in November 1943, to seize northern Italy would have advanced the bombers but would have left the ground forces confronted with the difficulties of mounting a major campaign across the Alps. Although Spaatz could not view strategy broadly because of his ignorance of geopolitics and his dismissal of the ground forces' perspective, he could, because of his expertise, bring great insight to the selection of bombing targets. The issue of the transportation plan versus the oil plan was such a complex skein of conflicting priorities and personalities that it defied a simple answer. Spaatz was undoubtedly correct in his contentions that the heavy-bomber offensive would gain air superiority over western Europe by defeating the Luftwaffe over Germany and that the Luftwaffe would only fight to defend vital targets within Germany. It does not follow from those contentions, however, that an attack directed against German tactical mobility in France was unnecessary or required no assistance from the heavy bombers. The transportation plan in its original form, which required massive air strikes from both Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force, would probably have damaged the French railway system enough to seriously delay German reinforcements bound for Normandy. But the plan could not guarantee air superiority, and it implied that U.S. heavy bombers would serve under a British commander who did not sufficiently value strategic bom- bardment. Predictably, Spaatz rej