ch German aircraft aloft or on their fields. The Germans, who had complete radar coverage, avoided these sweeps. Their dive-bombers would merely land for five minutes or so until the Allied aircraft passed and then resume their deadly work. (2) By mid-January the command had already fought several of its units to exhaustion. Doolittle reported to Spaatz that the Twelfth's entire striking force consisted of nine groups with a total of 270 planes-only 48 percent of their full strength.49 Doolittle's figures included the Twelfth's heavy bombers. The XII ASC opera- tions report showed only twenty-six P-40s, nineteen P-39s, and thirty-eight A- 20s operational on January 13-numbers that rose to fifty-two P-40s, twenty- three P-39s, twenty-seven A-20s, and eight DB-7s by January 26.50 Under these circumstances the chances that II Corps and XII ASC could form an effective air-ground team in a few weeks were nil. The British half of Spaatz's Allied Air Force suffered from many of the same problems, but personalities played an even greater role in disrupting its operations. Lt. Gen. Kenneth A. N. Anderson, because of his wartime experi- ences, had simply never acquired an understanding of air operations. During the fall of France, he had served as a brigade commander in the British Expeditionary Force. Shortly before Dunkirk, he took over a decimated division and, for the next two and one-half years, he trained troops in England. His only memories of air were searing ones of the overwhelming ground-support effort of the Luftwaffe and the inadequate response of the RAF. His first experiences in North Africa confirmed these memories as his supply ships went down at Bougie, his forward lines were dive-bombed incessantly, and the Luftwaffe maintained air superiority over his front. Understandably, he tended to be defen- sive-minded as far as air was concerned. Nor did Anderson's personality facilitate cooperation. He was an unusually reserved and reticent Scot, stubborn in his op