, instead concentrating on the battle against the Luftwaffe. He claimed that German fighter and bomber production had declined by about 50 percent since January 1. He also touched on the transportation plan, informing his listeners that the Eighth Air Force had struck eighteen of its twenty-two assigned targets. In concluding, he repeated his favorite theme-the attrition of the Luftwaffe: "In addition to the destruction of the transportation and airdrome targets assigned the 8th Air Force prior to D-day, the 8th will con- tinue its operations into Germany with the primary objective of further depletion of the German Air Force in being."71 General Montgomery probably made the day's most impressive presenta- tion. Always the master of the set piece, be it a battle or a briefing, Montgomery strutted through the ground invasion plan. In the course of his talk he produced maps showing phase-lines of the anticipated advance, which indicated the cap- ture of Caen by D-day plus three or four days. Those present were all profes- sional military men who understood that Montgomery's maps represented only planning estimates. Nonetheless, the phase-lines and the tenor of his presenta- tion left the clear impression that he would obtain a large beachhead fairly rapidly.72 The size of the beachhead was a matter of particular concern to the British airmen of the 2d Tactical Air Force. Their short-range fighters and fighter- bombers would be launched from airfields in Britain averaging 130 miles from the Normandy beachhead. Thus their time directly over the beachhead itself would be severly restricted. Consequently, they deemed the establishment of landing strips and airfields in Normandy a matter of the first importance. The airfields had to be able to accommodate the storage and management of neces- sarily huge quantities of ordnance and fuel. A large initial beachhead would allow a greater proportion of the British tactical air force to move to advanced stations on the Continent.