that the airmen would prefer to approach the target box at a right angle to the front, flying from north to south, first crossing over the American lines and then dropping their bombs on the Germans to minimize exposure to antiaircraft fire. Bradley, however, wished the bombers to fly paral- lel to the front (along German lines) rather than perpendicular to it, in order to provide a greater security margin for his troops. The bombers could attack from east to west, during the morning, putting the sun in the eyes of the antiaircraft gunners, or reverse the course of attack in the afternoon.66 Bradley had picked the St. Lô-Périers road as the battle's start line because it was straight, paralleled the front immediately behind or on the German front line, and would serve as a clear and unmistakable aiming point for the air forces. The entire target box fell just to the south of the road.67 As Bradley stated in his 1951 memoirs, "Indeed it was the thought of saturation bombing that attracted me to the Périers road. Easily recognizable from the air, the road described a long straight line that would separate our position from that of the Germans. The bombers, I reasoned, could fly parallel to it without danger of mistaking our front" [emphasis added].68 Given the key role allotted to air power in the attack, it is puzzling why Bradley waited until July 19 to fully inform the Allied air commanders of his scheme and their place in it. He merely said that he did not approach them until he had finished his plans and obtained Montgomery's approval on July 18.69 On July 19, Bradley, flew from his headquarters in Normandy with his tactical air commander, Maj. Gen. Elwood R. (Pete) Quesada, Commander of the IX Tactical Air Command, to Leigh-Mallory's headquarters at Stanmore. There they found arrayed the full panoply of Allied air leadership-Tedder, Leigh- Mallory, and Spaatz-accompanied by Vandenberg, Brereton, Doolittle, Coningham, and lesser lights.70 In his memoirs Bradley g