U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey, November 1945 On January 1, 1944, Lt. Gen. Carl A. Spaatz officially assumed command of the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF). This new headquar- ters had operational control of two U.S. strategic air forces, the Eighth in Britain and the Fifteenth in Italy. Under the direction of the Chief of the Air Staff, RAF, who acted as an agent for the U.S.-British Combined Chiefs of Staff, Spaatz was responsible for directing the U.S. portion of the Combined Bomber Offensive- the U.S.-British strategic bombing campaign against the German war economy and military machine. At some unspecified future date, before the invasion of France from Britain (OVERLORD), Spaatz would come under the command of the Supreme Allied Commander of the invasion force. Once under Eisenhower's control, USSTAF would apply its forces to the preinvasion air campaign, to the assault, and to subsequent phases of the campaign. Spaatz would play a far stronger and more prominent role in the deliberations of the Allied high command and enjoy greater prestige and autonomy than his pre- decessor, Ira Eaker, because he was much friendlier with Eisenhower and Tedder, because he would oversee a much larger, more generously supplied, more effective, and more organizationally independent force, and because, in the last analysis, he would exercise a more forceful personality.2 In the beginning of 1944, the focus of Anglo-American operations shifted from the Mediterranean to northwest Europe, where the decisive ground operation to overthrow Germany would be launched. This fact magnified the importance of the commanders and their decisions. Spaatz faced two problems: he had to (1) get the maximum number of bombers over the target (which meant using escort fighters because not enough unescorted bombers would survive to reach their destinations) and (2) get the greatest possi- ble accuracy from bombs delivered. Spaatz was compelled to substitute sheer tonnage for prec