rred a slight modification of the current status of command rela- tions. He had completely turned Eisenhower, with whom he worked extremely well, against the reversion to Portal's control of the strategic air forces on Sep- tember 1.14 Neither saw any need for a change in arrangements. At Spaatz's urging, Eisenhower detailed their objections in messages to both Marshall and Arnold. Emphasizing that he "would regard any change as a seri- ous mistake," Eisenhower told Marshall that he needed to retain control of the strategic forces in order to concentrate the greatest possible strength for the "penetration" of Germany. So far, there had been no disputes between his head- quarters and the British Chiefs of Staff concerning the bombers. Moreover, strategic priorities and bombing missions needed to be carefully coordinated with the ground battle by planners in his own headquarters. To facilitate such coordination, Spaatz, on September 1, had moved his headquarters to the Continent, next to Eisenhower's. Air Chief Marshal Harris, head of Bomber Command, had sent his own liaison officers. Thus, Eisenhower urged, USSTAF should stay under his control. Reversion of Bomber Command to Portal's direc- tion would make it difficult to coordinate the two strategic commands-one under Portal and one under Spaatz.15 On September 3, Eisenhower told Arnold, "All of us are striving to keep the heavies on normal tasks but emergency use in battle must be assured by continu- ation of the command system."16 Arnold replied, With regard to the Strategic Air Force command situation, I agree wholeheart- edly [emphasis in original] with the view expressed in your recent cables that the control now vested in your headquarters should not be changed to revert to Chief of Air Staff but instead that all strategic air forces should be placed under your command. 17 At the Second Quebec Conference, September 12-17, 1944, Arnold, how- ever, "flopped over" on the issue of independence for the heavy bomber