ed to POINTBLANK. Fortunately, the weather would hardly ever be favorable over both Balkan and POINTBLANK targets at the same time. Balkan targets could, therefore, be bombed, provided careful supervision limited the diversions from OVERLORD and coordinated the bombing effort. Arnold concluded with a remonstrance: In order to get full effectiveness from the United States units and equipment Spaatz must be informed at all times of what is expected of his units. The USSTAF is building up an extremely powerful force of bombers and it must be used efficiently. I appreciate your assurances of maintaining the channel of command. 179 Portal agreed with Arnold on all points. He promised to work closely with Spaatz and not to authorize diversions "unless really important results can be expected."180 Thereupon, Portal added Balkan and Hungarian political targets to the Fif- teenth's strike list. His refusal to target Ploesti stemmed from the confrontation over the oil versus transportation plans going on in London at the same time the dispute over command channels erupted. Because Ploesti represented 25 percent of total Axis production, it was the single most lucrative target in any oil cam- paign. It made little sense for the Allies to damage Ploesti, forcing the Germans back on their synthetic production, and then ignore the remaining highly vulner- able plants in Germany proper. A successful raid on Ploesti would put a high trump in Spaatz's hand and might well allow him to gather enough support to carry the day for oil. Thus Spaatz adamantly pressed for a strike on Ploesti, and Portal just as adamantly resisted it. On April 2, the Fifteenth struck ball-bearing targets in Steyr, Austria. For the next two days it hit marshaling yards in Budapest and elsewhere in the Balkans. On April 5, it went after Ploesti's marshaling yards, but actually hit oil targets each refinery complex had its own commercial railway yard, and "sloppy" bombing of the yards inflicted damage on the oi