rmy Headquarters. There they found a joint air force-army planning session, consisting of part of Leigh- Mallory's AEAF staff and some of the 2d Army staff, in progress. Leigh- Mallory had sent his ubiquitous civilian scientific adviser, Professor Solly Zuckerman, who had concocted another of his mathematically based bombing schemes, this time involving close support of front-line troops by heavy bombers, and some of the AEAF military staff to draw up a bomb line with Dempsey and the 2d Army staff. Tedder, flanked by Coningham and Air Vice-Marshal Harry Broadhurst, marched into this cabal and broke it up. Tedder claimed in his memoirs that he did so because neither Spaatz nor Coningham was represented at the meeting.21 This disingenuous explanation does not accord with the facts. Coningham was aware of the meeting, having informed Tedder of it the night before,22 and could have sent representatives had he wished. Nor was Coningham's presence in Normandy a coincidence. Similarly Spaatz, although not formally represented, not only knew of the meeting from Vandenberg, but could count on accurate reports from the two American general officers present at the session, Brig. Gens. Frederic H. Smith and David M. Schlatter, Ninth Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, who would, he knew, voice their opposition to the “misuse" of American heavy bombers.23 Tedder stopped the meeting because Leigh-Mallory had violated military protocol in bypassing Coningham.24 When Tedder and Eisenhower caught up with Montgomery later in the day, they made clear to him that his counterpart in the air chain of command was Coningham, not Leigh-Mallory. Tedder also made it clear to Dempsey that Air Vice-Marshal Broadhurst was his opposite number.25 "Montgomery," stated Tedder, "seemed relieved to have this confir- mation."26 Given Montgomery's attitude toward Coningham, the extent of his "relief" is questionable. Tedder's efforts, however, did end this first attempt to divert the heavy bomb