#################  HEAVY BOMBERS IN SUPPORT after the assault phase of the invasion, had actually been given operational con- trol of the heavy bombers by Eisenhower in order to ensure their full integration into the vital air operations of that phase of the invasion. As a result, he may have assumed he would again receive such control in other times of crisis. The next link down the chain of command had more problems. Leigh- Mallory's AEAF Headquarters, supposedly a combined U.S.-British headquar- ters, was really a house divided between its British and American components. The AAF official history succinctly stated the American view of the AEAF by calling it "possibly the least successful venture of the entire war with a combined Anglo-American command."6 The British component in AEAF Headquarters outnumbered the American component two to one at the general officer's rank. Leigh-Mallory had annoyed the Americans by taking care that for each combined section of the headquarters the senior British officer outranked his American counterpart. On several occasions Spaatz had to restrain the strong-willed Deputy Com- mander of the AEAF, Maj. Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg, whom he had brought in to replace an ineffectual predecessor, from complaining too bitterly and vocifer- ously about Leigh-Mallory and his actions, one of which involved procedures in AEAF War/Operations Room actions.7 Leigh-Mallory disliked the combined operation of the AEAF War/Operations Room and ruled that it be run entirely by British personnel using British methods. On June 6, the AEAF War/Operations Room posted no information on the progress at the American beaches until long after 5:00 P.M. As Vandenberg recorded in his diary, "I asked for an explanation and pointed out quite forcibly that, in my opinion, the whole proceeding from an informational point of view was entirely inexcusable." Vandenberg pointed out that "all three British beaches had clearly defined information as to the approxi- mate pos