er Command began the American assault on Normandy with its airborne drop during the night of June 5-6. The VIII Fighter Command began patrolling the outer perimeter of the invasion area as the troop carriers and night bombers withdrew. The Eighth's fighters kept up their patrols until the troops landed, whereupon they moved to an area just outside the beach- head to patrol and to attack any legitimate targets. The IX Fighter Command and the RAF (with their shorter-endurance fighters) covered the beaches and pro- vided fighter-bomber support. Five groups of P-38s, one from the Ninth Air Force and four from the Eighth, maintained an all-day umbrella over the inva- sion convoys delivering the ground assault troops to the beaches. Just before H- hour* the bombers of the Eighth and Ninth attacked the beach defenses. Low clouds forced the heavy bombers to employ H2X. The medium bombers of the Ninth had to come in under the clouds to drop their payloads, exposing them- selves to heavy coastal antiaircraft fire. Weather interfered with the Eighth's second mission of the day, and only three groups, approximately 90 aircraft out of 528 bombers dispatched, released their bombs on road choke points outside the beachhead. Other Eighth Air Force missions bombed Caen and transporta- tion targets in a wide arc from Coutances in the west to Lisieux in the east. For the day, the Eighth and Ninth launched 8,722 sorties and lost 71 aircraft, mostly fighters, to flak.93 As for the Luftwaffe it could mount barely 100 sorties (70 by fighters) on the first day of the invasion, and only 175 more completely ineffectual sorties on the night of June 6-7. In all of France it possessed 815 aircraft, including 325 bombers, 170 single-engine fighters, 45 twin-engine fighters, and only 75 ground attack aircraft.94 As Spaatz stated in late June 1944, "The concentrated attacks on the Luftwaffe, production, and product, paid the dividends that we always envisioned, the dividend being beyond expectatio