ver or more than 80 percent with large local breaks in the clouds) doubled these numbers.164 The AAF could not justify a force of 2,000 bombers if it flew only once or twice a month. Hence, inaccurate radar missions went out as often as weather permitted safe takeoff, landing, and travel to the target. Spaatz took pride in the ability of his force to fly in foul weather. In mid-March, he noted proudly to both Arnold and Marshall that the Eighth had become an all-weather force. To Marshall he wrote, "It has been my constant aim to develop an all- weather air force capable of placing its impact on the enemy every day of the year. Progress in this field has developed at an outstanding rate and the crews fly- ing the missions have kept pace with the developments in admirable fashion.”165 Similarly, he informed Arnold, “Both fighters and bombers operate in weather which was never conceived to be suitable for combat operations, and, as a result, we have been able to maintain approximately five times the pressure on the enemy that would have been possible if we were restricted to visual bombing." "166 In its use of incendiary bombs, the Eighth Air Force again demonstrated a policy of greater harshness toward German cities than targets in occupied terri- tory. The standard American incendiary bomb from January 1944 on was the four-pound magnesium, thermite-filled, incendiary M50A1, dropped in 500- pound clusters. On ignition, it burned for six to eight minutes at a temperature of 2,300 degrees Fahrenheit. 167 These incendiary bombs had no blast or fragmenta- tion effects, consequently they were useless against personnel or hardened struc- tures, such as concrete fortifications. Nor could they significantly damage field fortifications, marshaling yards, or, in the opinion of the Eighth Air Force, major industrial facilities. The Eighth did not even employ fire bombs against oil tar- gets, which postwar studies indicate could well have suffered worse damage if a higher percen