ven called the jointly staffed Air Support Control Headquarters (ASCs) established at each corps and armored division headquarters "tentacles." Coningham had apparently gone Woodall one better by providing joint RAF-army staffing for the forward links in the system. The ASCs accompanied the 8th Army for Operation CRUSADER, which relieved Tobruk in late November 1941.90 In May 1942, the RAF joined the rest of the British forces in the retreat to El Alamein. Once there, the new system proved its worth during early September, in the defense of Alam Halfa, Montgomery's first battle as commander of the 8th Army. Before the battle, Montgomery, a firm believer in army-air coopera- tion, and Air Vice-Marshal Coningham had moved their headquarters to a com- mon site, which allowed the AACC to remain in close touch with both army and air staffs. By October 1942, the British 8th Army had virtually perfected the sys- tem and used it with decisive effect in the Battle of El Alamein and the pursuit of Rommel's defeated forces.91 By the end of the campaign in the desert, Coningham had modified Woodall's system, which had been originally designed to insulate the RAF from army command while providing the army with air support. In the desert the most difficult problem was not preventing the army's command of RAF units but, rather, coordinating the operations of the RAF units themselves. The control of the air and of aircraft in the air revolved around the fighter. As Coningham said, "The fighter governs the front."92 The fighter gained air superiority over the enemy's fighters, defended against the enemy's strikes, and escorted friendly bombers. As a result, Coningham created a fighter group with a headquarters and an air control center and placed it at a command level directly below the adjacent 8th Army/Western Desert Air Force Headquarters. The fighter group relieved Coningham's headquarters of the burden of detailed operational control, leaving WDAF Headquarters free to concentra