ansportation plan. Harris, too, gave the plan lukewarm support. He opposed the oil plan because he disagreed with the concept of designing a strategic bombing strategy around a single-target system. Choosing such a “panacea” diverted his forces from area bombing, which he thought was the most effective method of conducting the bomber offensive. In addition, British bomber operations in March demonstrated the night bomber's surprisingly high capability for the pre- cision bombing of marshaling yards while simultaneously revealing an alarming rise in the effectiveness of the German night-fighter force, which reached its apogee in the winter of 1943-1944 and inflicted "prohibitive” casualties.26 These two factors undercut Harris's original objections that he could not bomb precision targets and that city-busting raids offered a more decisive alternative. Spaatz, not to be outdone, took advantage of Eaker's visit to London-they visited each other's headquarters monthly and coordinated bombing operations and policy to use his friend's close ties with the British and his expertise to try to win converts to the oil plan. On the morning of March 25, Spaatz and Eaker, who had just stepped off his plane, went to lobby both Eisenhower and Tedder. After discussing air command arrangements in Britain and the proposed direc- tive for air support of OVERLORD, Eisenhower asked for Eaker's views on the oil versus transportation debate. Although he declined to comment on the oil plan because he had not studied it, Eaker told Eisenhower that the Luftwaffe must receive top priority and recommended that no attacks on communications lines south of the Rhine should occur before D-day. His experience in Italy, said Eaker, had shown him that communication attacks, unsupported by sustained friendly ground action to pressure the enemy and force him to consume supplies, had little effect. The two AAF generals then spent an hour with Tedder going over the same subjects,27 but they did not chang