907. Like Spaatz, he graduated in the lower half of his class academically and did not achieve cadet rank. Four years (and ten days of flight training) later he became one of the Army's first four licensed pilots and one of the first twenty-nine licensed pilots in the coun- try. Wilbur Wright even served as one of his instructors. Until slowed by a series of heart attacks at the height of his career in 1941, Arnold was an extremely energetic advocate of U.S. military aviation. He believed it should become an independent armed service, and he dedicated his life to seeing that it did. Although Arnold was highly intelligent, he was intellectually undisci- plined; thus he tended to endorse a variety of contradictory ideas in rushing to accomplish his goals. He was, on the one hand, astute enough to support the very long-range bomber, the B-29; he was, on the other, naive enough to see merit in what was derisively dubbed the "bats in the belfry" project to drop fire-bomb-carrying bats on Japanese cities. He had little patience with people who opposed his ideas but had an ability to get things done, especially when dealing with production and personnel. To his friends, Arnold demonstrated a charm, openness, and exuberance that helped earn him the sobriquet “Happy” or just plain "Hap.” To his oppo- nents he was "a real S.O.B." One of his great regrets was missing the chance to serve in a combat command during World War I. Instead he had become the Army's youngest full colonel at age thirty-one and had spent the war in Washington, D.C., serving on the War Department Staff, where he saw first- hand the difficulties of organizing an air force from the ground up. After the war, he stayed in the Air Service, rising to Assistant Chief of the Air Corps in 1935; upon the flying death of Maj. Gen. Oscar Westover in 1938, he became Chief of the Air Corps. Highlights along the way include tes- timony at Mitchell's court-martial, attendance at the Command and General Staff School in 1