vercome in wartime. During the campaign in northwest- ern Europe, for instance, overwhelming numbers of fighter-bombers and innovations such as two-way radios installed in the leading tank elements of attacking Allied armored units allowed Allied tactical air forces to supply mas- sive amounts of airborne firepower to the battlefield. FM 100-20 replaced FM 1-5, not FM 31-35. It left in place the clumsy, slow methods of air-ground communications found in FM 31-35, which stayed in effect until postwar revi- sions. In practice, however, the troops in the field appear to have ignored FM 31-35 in favor of local air-ground arrangements. The high-level centralization of "photo recon" tended to delay the timely dissemination of its products for use in fluid combat situations. Spaatz attempted, but only at the end of the North African campaign, to solve this problem by attaching XII ASC's photo reconnaissance squadron directly to II Corps.* The AGF's nonconcurrence gave the promulgation of FM 100-20 the aura of an AAF putsch. As Kuter remarked to Coningham, "More people were defeated in Tunisia than Germans and Italians."156 Why Marshall agreed to sign the manual remains a mystery. Perhaps he felt that this concession to the AAF would mute its increasingly public agitation for independence. Although he fully understood the new doctrine, Spaatz did not regard it as the last word in the Army versus the AAF. In summing up their relationship he said, "The situation is normal. If it was not for the disturbance which would ensue, I would probably announce the urgent necessity of a separate Air Force." Even the most understanding contacts and intentions at the high command level could not offset the ground-air difference, “which permeates the entire struc- ture." In Spaatz's opinion, the minor day-to-day problems, not the strategic or tactical application of forces, proved the stumbling block of interservice rela- tions. "I will emphasize," he told Arnold, "that air operating under