lved.34 At this time Portal and Eisenhower also stated their intention to put in place the air command arrangements on which they had previously agreed, subject to final approval by the Combined Chiefs of Staff.35 From that point on, Eisenhower, using Tedder as his executive for air, began to exercise de facto control of the strategic bomber forces.36 The decision that Tedder coordinate the execution of the transportation plan had the character of a compromise. Eisenhower accepted Leigh-Mallory's preinvasion plan but did not require that Spaatz, who questioned Leigh-Mallory's capabili- ties, place himself under the man. Thus concluded what a British official history termed "the historic occa- sion."37 Eisenhower chose the transportation plan over the oil plan, and the air command arrangements agreed on between Eisenhower and the British went into effect. Critics have disputed the wisdom of the Supreme Commander's choice ever since. Much ink and emotion have flowed over the benefits derived from the transportation plan. On tactical grounds its critics maintain that a cam- paign of bridge busting and bombing of supply dumps would have consumed less force with equal results.38 On strategic grounds critics bemoan the "national disaster"39 of the delay in the oil campaign, which, when executed, severely restricted Germany's ability to wage war. How did Spaatz react to this conference-an event Eisenhower biographer Stephen E. Ambrose described as "a crucial moment in his [Spaatz's] life"?40 Did he complain bitterly to everyone of the obtuseness of his plan's opponents? No, neither his character nor his thirty years' service as a Regular Army officer fitted him for the role of chronic malcontent. As in the Mitchell court-martial nineteen years earlier, he presented and defended a position in which he be- lieved passionately. Once Eisenhower had reached a decision, however, Spaatz supported it with grace and, in fact, left the meeting not displeased, but cheered that the co