ill in doubt between September and November 1942 as German submarines continued to sink Allied shipping as fast as it could be produced. Thus, the Eighth embarked on a campaign against German submarine bases in France, particu- larly those at Brest, St. Nazaire, L'Orient, Bordeaux, and La Pallice. Their sup- pression would ease the pressure on the Allied navies and increase the chances of safe passage for the TORCH convoys as they sailed for North Africa. After preliminary discussions beginning at least as early as September 25, Eisenhower, on October 13, ordered Spaatz to make the submarine pens and bases his top-priority targets and to estimate the size of the campaign to be mounted and the extent of British cooperation.155 The next afternoon, Spaatz met with Air Marshals Harris and Portal to dis- cuss Eisenhower's order. They agreed that RAF Bomber Command lacked the equipment to precision-bomb the submarine bases during the day and that night bombing would be ineffective. Therefore, the RAF would bomb submarine- manufacturing installations in Germany while the Eighth hit the submarine pens.156 At the time, this latter task seemed perfectly suited to the limited reach and punch of U.S. bomber forces. Spaatz, Eaker, and Arnold apparently expressed no objection to the new priority. The Luftwaffe would certainly defend its submarine bases, start the battle of attrition in earnest, and realize the AAF's desire to draw it into combat and destroy it. Only later did the AAF's lack of proper ordnance (it had no bombs heavy enough to penetrate the massive con- crete roofs of the submarine pens) and its concentrating on a limited and pre- dictable set of targets, become painfully obvious. In a letter to Spaatz dated September 3, Arnold first voiced a theme that he would sound well into 1943. As with so much else, TORCH was its inspiration. "Please understand," he wrote, "that the decision for undertaking the special operation is now completely out of my hands and it is upo