th round-the-clock bombing. This phase ignored landing beaches in the hope of maintaining tactical surprise. The third phase, after the invasion, would keep the Allied air forces continuing their counterair attacks while maintaining air superiority over the island.71 The AAF official history notes that "the air plan dealt for the most part with broad policies and it had not been integrated in detail with ground and naval plans. This was deliberate and the result of sound strategic and tactical consider- ations."72 Unlike the North African campaign, the Sicilian operation would ensure the air forces the maximum flexibility in their employment and prevent the immobilization of air resources caused by parceling air out to specific units or sectors. As the operation began, 4,900 operational Allied planes faced 990 German and 700 Italian air force operational aircraft.73 As the invasion approached, the photographic and signal intelligence section at Spaatz's headquarters in La Marsa put together the products of both sources of information on an hourly basis.74 Spaatz, as usual, paid special attention to ensuring rapid dissemination and use of the fruits of the intelligence effort. On June 18, he ordered a direct communications link set up between the NAAF War Room in La Marsa and the forward command posts of the Tactical, Strategic, and Coastal Air Forces. He also directed that each air force's forward command post have present for duty at all times an officer with the authority to make bind- ing decisions for that air force.75 These measures increased his control over sub- ordinates and helped to enable all elements of the NAAF to respond quickly to the latest German moves. Throughout the Sicilian campaign, the NAAF performed its many tasks suc- cessfully. Before the invasion, its heavy- and medium-bomber groups, aided by the bombers attached to the U.S. Ninth Air Force and by its own fighter- bombers, kept up their attacks on the Axis air forces. These attacks, which s