du- ated from the Air Corps Tactical School and the Command and General Staff School in the 1930s, and had led the First Air Force's Interceptor Command in 1941. His specialties, pursuit aviation and training, neatly complemented the responsibilities he faced in North Africa. Spaatz reported to Arnold that "my impressions at Casablanca were very favorable"; he noted excellent shop facilities, but added that Casablanca's turf-covered main aerodrome was muddy.56 That evening Spaatz returned to Gibraltar once again and spent the next day conferring with Eisenhower and his staff. These conversations resulted in an agreement on the single theater air force that Spaatz and Arnold had championed for months. Eisenhower informed both airmen that he "was going to put in a firm recommendation to that effect but would await, for the moment, the "out- come of the Tunisian fight."57 This caveat proved the undoing of the unified air plan. The fight in North Africa dragged on so long and absorbed so many re- sources that it required the creation of a new theater of operations, which made permanent the split in AAF European resources. The most concrete result of the November 21 meetings was Spaatz's transfer from England to North Africa as Eisenhower's chief air adviser. Spaatz returned to England on November 23. He designated Eaker to com- mand the Eighth Air Force, and shortly thereafter he informed Arnold that "plans are underway for a Theater Air Force Headquarters and integration of the Eighth and Twelfth under its command. . . . With a very small staff I rejoin Eisenhower."58 Arnold approved these moves and Spaatz flew back to Gibraltar on December 1. The same day the Germans, strongly supported by tanks and air, attacked-driving back the advance elements of the 1st Army. By December 3, the Germans had defeated the 78th Division and substantial portions of the U.S. 1st Armored Division operating under British control. The air superiority the Germans had established over the ba