the last quarter of 1943. Although nowhere nearly as accurate as precision bombing, radar bombing allowed more frequent operations, main- tained the pressure on German cities, and forced the Luftwaffe to intercept under adverse weather conditions. Its adoption of this policy marked the AAF's accep- tance of the reality that daylight precision bombing alone could not win the air war. The implications of this belated acknowledgment were little remarked on at the time. Yet, at this point the AAF, without ever publicly or privately admitting it, abandoned its unquestioning faith in prewar bombing doctrines. Once he assumed command, Spaatz wanted to go after the Luftwaffe imme- diately. The POINTBLANK directive under which he operated left the means for doing so up to him. Spaatz's approach differed significantly from that of his pre- decessor. Because of his lack of long-range escort fighters, Eaker had had no choice but to rely on a bomber-based strategy. The Eighth under Eaker's com- mand had attempted to ruin the Luftwaffe fighter force by bombing the German air industry. The Americans had hoped that attrition inflicted on all battle fronts and by short-range U.S. and RAF fighters out of Britain would destroy the dam- aged German air industry's ability to replace losses. Eaker may have focused too heavily on his bombers and their task. His fighters appear to have concentrated on their escort duties to the detriment of their possible employment in counterair and ground sweeps. This philosophy was made clear during an Eighth Air Force Commanders' meeting in September 1943, where the prevailing sentiment was that "fighters must escort the bombers whether they bring down any German fighters or not.”29 In any case, Eaker had few fighters to waste. Official doctrine supported Eaker's tactics. AAF Field Manual 1-15, "Tactics and Techniques of Air Fighting," of April 10, 1942, and AAF Field Manual 1-5, of January 18, 1943, emphasized pursuit's air defense and escort roles, w