ning for and maximum performance by his air crews led directly to the ultimate irony of the strategic campaign. Given the technology available to him, Spaatz helped to produce a nearly all-weather force. He used the most modern radar, employed electronic counter- measures, took full advantage of ULTRA, and pushed his commanders and their men and machines to their limits in order to exploit all the force available to him. Once he had created this available force, it had to be employed. Spaatz, who violently objected to the killing of French civilians, sanctioned the bombing of transportation centers in eastern Germany, the smashing of rail stations in Berlin, and the demolition of marshaling yards in numerous German cities. He did not relish destruction for destruction's sake; rather he faced the problem of how to wield an expanding force of limited accuracy against an opponent who had large reserves of manpower (slave labor, women, and domestic servants) and machine tools (most German industry worked single shifts for much of the war and had ample stocks of machine tools on hand) without causing excessive or unnecessary collateral damage. To Spaatz, to most of his fellow soldiers, to his government, and to the people his government represented it was better to err on the side of excessive force by pulverizing the Reich, than to leave it the strength to resist and to kill more Allied soldiers. In the merciless logic of total war, Spaatz decided correctly. Without Spaatz and his insistence on the oil plan and his devastating cam- paign against the Luftwaffe before the Normandy invasion, the Allies would still have defeated Nazi Germany. With Spaatz, the Allies defeated Hitler and his henchmen months earlier than they otherwise might have. Each day beyond May 8 would have seen the ovens of the Third Reich still operating and the combat- ants of both sides still suffering in battle lines throughout Europe. That the war in Europe ended when it did is reason enough to pla