f the courses to con- tain a meaningful appreciation of air power. This attitude earned him an unfa- vorable recommendation for any further training in general staff or high com- mand duty.83 The school had little influence on him and he apparently learned almost nothing of value there. Organization and Doctrine of the Prewar Air Corps Upon leaving Leavenworth in July 1936, Spaatz became Executive Officer, 2d Wing, of the recently created General Headquarters (GHQ) Air Force, Langley Field in Virginia. The three wings of GHQ Air Force were far larger than the units that had previously held that designation in the Air Corps. As a consequence, in going from a wing commander at March Field in 1933 to the new post in one of the three major combat units in the service, Spaatz assumed a position entirely in keeping with his seniority. The only operational squadron of B-17s in the Air Corps made up part of the 2d Wing's order of battle. The assignment to the big four-engine bombers showed how far Spaatz and Army air power had come since the Mitchell court-martial. Although the Air Corps Act of July 2, 1926, had changed the designation of the Army Air Service to the Army Air Corps and had authorized an expansion to 1,800 aircraft and 20,000 officers and men, extra funds had never come and the change of name had left the Air Corps' status unchanged; it remained one of the Army's combat branches. Over the next nine years, numerous bills on air reform were introduced in Congress, but not one received a favorable committee report. The failure to obtain independence had led many Air Corps officers, including Maj. Gen. Benjamin Foulois, to settle for something more obtainable. They pro- posed to divide Army aviation into two components: (1) observation planes nor- mally assigned the armies, corps, mobile units, and fixed harbor defenses; and (2) remaining tactical support and striking force units grouped under the GHQ Air Force. The GHQ Air Force would operate under the wartime A