rt." Spaatz ended on a cautionary note. The Eighth should take advantage of British experience, not British tactics. The B-17s and daytime operations must start under fighter escort and not count on their own firepower until they had to make penetrations beyond escort range.47 Spaatz's remarks about the defensive power of the B-17s demon- strated, at this point, more concern about lack of numbers, skill at formation fly- ing, and gunnery training than any lack of faith in the ability of the B-17s to conduct unescorted deep penetration missions. He would need his fighters for the early shallow penetrations and for supporting the upcoming invasion. For the next two weeks Spaatz threw himself into the task of preparing a logistics and base structure for his command capable of sustaining the Eighth for a prolonged campaign. (See Map 2, Eighth Air Force Installations, 1942.) He flew all over England and Ireland, laying the groundwork for large-scale air force repair and supply depots. These large facilities would serve as the back- bone of the Eighth's logistics efforts. They would be the first recipients of new planes and supplies from the United States and would condition them for dis- patch to the combat units. In addition, they would handle complex repairs and overhauls beyond the capacity of the forward depots assigned to the combat groups. Spaatz reported to Arnold that by January 1, 1943, he would have 3 mil- lion square feet of storage for air supplies, which would enable the depots to operate at full capacity. These main depots would require at least 25,000 addi- tional personnel. Spaatz also planned for 20 forward supply depots to serve the combat groups.48 Kay Summersby, Spaatz's British driver during the summer of 1942 and later General Eisenhower's driver and confidante, remembered Spaatz at this time as a "serious man, serious to the point of grimness, and certainly the hardest working man in the whole U.S. Army Air Force [sic]."49 83   ## p. 84 (#108) ####