AATZ AND THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE estimate of the "over-all production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies."78 When the President's request descended on the War Department General Staff, the War Plans Division (WPD), the staff's most prestigious sec- tion and its major military planning component, was already swamped. WPD's chief, Brig. Gen. Leonard T. Gerow, appointed Maj. Albert C. Wedemeyer to head the group preparing the estimate. Wedemeyer, in turn, expected Lt. Col. Clayton Bissell and other air personnel in the WPD to prepare an air annex. Bissell went to Col. Harold George of the newly formed Air War Plans Division (AWPD), part of Spaatz's new Air Staff. Bissell asked George to bring over a team to help out. George objected and went to Spaatz, his immediate superior. Both he and Spaatz realized that if the WPD prepared the air plan, Army ground officers would base their estimates on tactical close air support needs while shortchanging strategic air war needs. The two went to Arnold, who supported their position. Arnold suggested to Gerow that because WPD already had an overload of work, the Air Staff would help draw up the air requirements. Gerow acquiesced. He and Spaatz "discussed the over-all problem prior to the work being conducted."79 George and three other air officers, Lt. Col. Kenneth H. Walker, Maj. Laurence S. Kuter, and Maj. Haywood S. Hansell, prepared the air annex in one week, August 4-11, 1941. Because of its clear definition of the AAF's strategic aims and its call for a gigantic air arm to accomplish those aims, the Army Air Forces Annex, "Munitions Requirements of the AAF for the Defeat of Our Potential Enemies" (AWPD/1), proved to be a key document in the AAF's preparation for the war. It defined three AAF tasks in order of importance: (1) to wage a sus- tained air offensive against Germany; (2) to conduct strategically defensive operations in the Orient; and (3) to provide air actions essential to the defense of the contin