ettlement concerning the invasion decision, Marshall had allotted to Admiral King fifteen heavy- and medium-bomber groups for use in the Pacific. In addition, the U.S. Chiefs of Staff shifted heavy- and medium-bomber groups from the scheduled buildup in England to the North African operation. In November 1942, the Eighth would have to transfer four heavy-bomber and four fighter groups already in England to TORCH. North Africa, where the battle was against German and Italian ground units, would be a ground forces theater. The Pacific would be either a Navy show (in the central Pacific) or the ground Army's (in MacArthur's area of operations). In 1943, at least, the European Theater of Operations with its scheduled air offensive against the enemy's homeland, would be the theater that got the AAF its share of newsprint, but only if Arnold could get results. The press stories of disagreement between American and British airmen added to Arnold's desire for action. On August 15, Arnold felt compelled to call a press conference to defend the AAF. The conference, which the New York Times described as "perhaps the most active military press conference held in Washington since the war began," had extensive off-the-record portions. In reply to a question on the bombing of Germany he could only say it was "merely a question of getting the planes over there."88 The next day, in the Sunday Times of London, Peter Masefield, a well- regarded British aviation expert, roundly condemned the American heavy-bomber effort. Masefield echoed the view of the RAF Air Staff, which had concluded that the B-17 and the B-24 were unsuitable for day operations in Europe. In January, on the basis of its experience with twenty early model aircraft, the Air Staff had concluded that "unless the Fortress or the Liberator can be adapted for employment at night they are unlikely to achieve more than intermittent harass- ing operations in daylight in a European theatre and in the face of modern air defens