tler's aggressive, revanchist foreign policy of 1936-1939 and the outbreak of war in Europe led to the reexamination of U.S. Army air doctrine. On April 15, 1940, War Department Field Manual 1-5 (FM 1-5) superseded TR 440-15 of October 15, 1935. The authors of FM 1-5 intended it to be the com- prehensive rubric for the employment of all types of U.S. military aviation. As such, it defined the basic doctrines for strategic bombardment, antiaircraft defense, support of ground and naval forces, and air operations in lieu of naval forces. This manual was based on the recommendations of a War Department Air Board, appointed by Secretary of War Harry H. Woodring on March 23, 1939. Woodring designated Arnold president of the board, and its membership included Maj. Gen. Frank M. Andrews (recently appointed by Marshall to head G-3, Operations of the General Staff) and Brig. Gen. George V. Strong (head of the War Plans Division). After polling the components of the Army and the Air Corps, including GHQ Air Force, and the Air Corps Tactical School the board submitted its findings to the Chief of Staff on September 1, 1939. With only minor changes these findings became FM 1-5.24 Although the manual emphasized the role of air power in the defense of the United States and its possessions, it provided for a strategic air offensive to "decisively defeat important elements of the enemy armed forces" or to "deprive the enemy of essential war material.”25 In its discussion of air operations in sup- port of ground forces it laid down the following instructions: The hostile rear area is the normal zone of action of support aviation, since operations in this area permit the full utilization of striking power against con- centrated targets with the minimum of losses and the maximum of results. Support aviation is not employed against objectives which can be effectively engaged by available ground weapons within the time required. FM 1-5 also observed that "aviation is poorly suited for di