m one way or the other: Meanwhile I have never suggested that they should be "discouraged" by us, that is to say we should argue against their policy, but only that they should not be encouraged to persist obstinately and also that they should be actively urged to become capable of night bombing. What I am going to discourage actively, is the sending over of large quantities of these daylight bombers and their enor- mous ground staffs until the matter is settled one way or the other.22 Churchill had not decided against daylight precision bombing, but the time was obviously fast approaching when daylight precision bombing must begin to justify itself by deed rather than potential. Without results the Prime Minister could no longer accept the expenditure of resources devoted to the project. But his threat to halt the buildup of U.S. heavy-bomber groups could, in the end, jeopardize the entire experiment. The precision bombing concept, whatever its emphasis on bombing accuracy, included a large measure of attrition, for both friend and foe, in its formula for success. Without sufficient logistical backup, including large numbers of air crews and bombers, the U.S. effort could not suc- ceed. The Americans probably first learned officially of Churchill's attitude in an exchange of memorandums between the American and British Chiefs of Staff in late December and early January. Within these memos, which served as the basis of initial discussion at Casablanca, each staff expressed its view on the most advantageous strategy for the Allies to follow in 1943. The Americans wished to hold the North African and Pacific theaters to minimum commitments while mounting a large-scale invasion from England into France. The British favored a continued offensive in the Mediterranean and a more gradual buildup of ground forces in Britain.23 The clash between the Allies' positions consti- tuted the major story of the conference. The British, who had the majority of troops under arms, airc