tly used in his conversations with the committee members. Entitled "Separation and Efficiency," dated August 3, 1943, the ten-page draft, which may or may not have been personally written by Spaatz, presents an AAF insider's argument for the division of the U.S. armed forces into three equal branches for the purposes of combat and economic efficiency. "Why," asks the paper, "does the one major service that has demonstrated its powers remain a divided weapon, existing in many forms under several services but consolidated and coordinated nowhere?" After a lengthy examination of the differences in the handling of air power between the Army Air Forces and the Navy, in which the latter is found want- ing, the paper suggests a reform of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff which would grant to the air force an equal vote with the two other services and to the head of the Joint Chiefs the power and responsibility to make final decisions. The paper also recommends the establishment of theater commands on the same joint bases. The complete separation of the AAF Air Staff from the War Department General Staff would accompany reform.101 The select committee proved infer- tile soil for such proposals. As Spaatz probably realized, serious congressional consideration of the proper position of the AAF in the U.S. military hierarchy would have to wait until after the war. Upon its return to Washington in October 1943, the committee merely noted, "Close integration of our land, sea and air forces has been accomplished in most theaters and works extremely well. It points the way to a sound post-war military policy."102 Along with his desire for the eventual independence of a U.S. air force within the U.S. military structure, in the summer of 1943 Spaatz had a more immediate goal-independence from the Royal Air Force. The February 1943 reorganization of Allied air power in North Africa had set up the Northwest African Air Forces and had provided the NAAF with a combined U.S.-British staff f