s commanders with their staffs located alongside XII ASC's headquarters, he rec- ommended no change. Bradley's corps would have to continue under the current structure. Spaatz also informed Eisenhower that the heavy sortie rate of tactical aircraft demonstrated that 1st Army had used its available air resources to the maximum.114 The collapse of the bridgehead and its final surrender on May 13, 1943, ended the Tunisian campaign. This speedy finish obviated the need for further tinkering with the air-ground relationship. At the conclusion of the North African campaign, Tedder and Spaatz thought it necessary to formalize NAAF and MAC command arrangements. But the British and American staffs separately drew up complicated organizational charts, began bickering over respective rank and seniority, and insisted on insti- tuting procedures unique to their own service. Tedder's "back hairs began to bristle." At his morning meeting on May 12, disagreements came to a head. Spaatz complained that Mediterranean Air Command would usurp NAAF head- quarters' functions by going direct to NAAF's subordinate commands. This, Spaatz said, indicated improper organization. Tedder shot back, "If you want a divorce, you can have one here and now, repeat now!" Only a few moments later, reason returned, and the parties agreed to shelve their draft documents and to get on with fighting the war.115 This exchange undoubtedly influenced Spaatz's final judgment on headquar- ters' arrangements. On May 24, 1943, he wrote to Arnold that the organization had been made to work and had proved adequate for the job at hand, "but it is too dependent on personalities to be sound." Nonetheless, Spaatz believed that the Americans had learned much from the British, particularly the handling of administration, operations, and intelligence.116 Spaatz and Changes in AAF Air Support Doctrine The AAF emerged from the campaign in North Africa with a new and clearly defined doctrine of air support, much of which ste