tal sided with Tedder.49 The situation remained unresolved until after Operation GOODWOOD. On July 18, Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force provided direct support for the next British assault. At dawn Bomber Command dropped 6,000 half-ton bombs and 9,600 500-pound bombs on three target areas. At 7:00 A.M. medium bombers of the Ninth Air Force swept over the field, but many could not drop their bombs through the clouds of smoke and dirt left behind by Bomber Command. Then, at 8:30 A.M., the B-24s of the Eighth's 2d Bombard- ment Division, 570 strong, dropped almost 13,000 100-pound and 76,000 20- pound fragmentation bombs (1,410 tons in all) on a key tactical feature, Bourguebus Ridge. In all, 4,500 Allied aircraft beset the Germans. Once again, bombing did not completely clear the way for the ground forces. Bomber Command struck first in the remarkably clear morning, hitting most of its targets squarely. Even four months later a British Bombing Analysis Unit reported that one area "resembled the surface of the moon." It found the rusting remains of an entire Panzer company-fifteen tanks and twelve half-tracks—none of which had been hit with shells or mortars. Only a few of the B-24s' fragmenta- tion weapons fell on their targets; most scattered over the countryside. In the ensuing ground assault, Allied troops encountered particularly stiff resistance in the American target areas.50 Bomb bursts had cratered the terrain, hindering the advance of some units, and had failed to knock out all of the entrenched German tanks and antitank guns. Furthermore, the Germans, anticipating the attack, had prepared deep defenses, many of which had not come under fire. Operation GOODWOOD, like its predecessors, soon ground to a bloody halt.51 It was no fluke that the British heavy bombers were more accurate than the American heavy bombers. As illogical as it seemed, British night tactics pro- duced more precise bombing than American daylight tactics. The Americans flew compact f