ndonment of precision bombing. At first the Allies failed to react, but the firing of 300 buzz bombs on the night of June 15-16 necessitated some countermeasure. On June 18, Churchill visited Tedder and Eisenhower at the latter's headquarters at WIDEWINGS in the London suburb of Teddington. Churchill persuaded them to designate V-1 sites as the chief targets of the strategic air forces.13 Eisenhower passed the decision along to the airmen at the Daily Air Commanders' Meeting and emphasized to all present the seriousness with which he viewed the situation. He approved the use of USSTAF and Bomber Command and every other "means practicable for stopping the pilotless aircraft."14 At the end of the meeting, Eisenhower told Maj. Gen. Fred Anderson to carry the word to Spaatz that CROSSBOW Would "receive first priority over all other targets, either in France or Germany."15 Eisenhower followed up his message with a call to Spaatz that afternoon, and Spaatz promised to set aside a small force for exclusive use against V-1 sites. 16 Spaatz and Doolittle responded promptly. They had already resumed CROSSBOW strikes on June 16 and 18, and on June 19 they stepped up their effort by sending 703 heavy bombers out to hit V-1 launch sites. During six of the remaining eleven days of the month, the Eighth sent out CROSSBOW missions of at least 125 planes each. In addition to hitting the launch sites, the Eighth broad- ened its attack to include electrical switching and power stations that supplied the weapons as well as storage areas. Bomber Command took even stronger measures, and the Ninth also contributed 1,500 medium-bomber sorties starting on June 23. For the latter half of June, Allied air power dispatched 8,310 bomber sorties and dropped 23,431 tons of bombs. 17 As AAF official historians acknowl- edged, "CROSSBOW Operations during the second half of June indicated that the Germans had again created for the Allies a diversionary problem of the first magnitude."18 From the beg