he time came. He would not make any recommendations to the President, however, until he had decided on what other four-star promotions to send forward.227 The same day, Eisenhower told Kuter, "no one could tell him that Tooey Spaatz was not the best operational air man in the world." Kuter passed the assess- ment along to Arnold, saying that Eisenhower "then qualified his statement by saying Tooey was not a paper man, couldn't write what he wanted, and couldn't conduct himself adequately at a conference, but he had the utmost respect from everybody, ground and air, in the Theater." Kuter also reported Eisenhower's view that Spaatz's decisions were "sound and he knew exactly what he was doing."228 Eventually, Marshall sent his recommendations to Roosevelt. Shortly there- after, Congress approved them. Spaatz became the fourth most senior officer in the Army Air Forces. He ranked below Arnold, a five-star general, and two other four-star officers-Joseph T. McNarney, Deputy Supreme Commander in the Mediterranean, who had served as Marshall's deputy; and George C. Kenney, MacArthur's air commander. McNarney and Kenney achieved their four-star rank five days and two days, respectively, before Spaatz's elevation to full general. The Eighth operated bombers on twenty-six days in March, dispatching 1,000 or more bombers on twenty of them.229 On March 15, the Eighth flew a special mission at the request of the Manhattan Project, the code name for the American atomic bomb program. Intelligence available to the project indicated that the Germans were engaged in manufacturing thorium and uranium at Oranienburg, a town fifteen miles north of Berlin. Because this town was in the projected Soviet zone of occupation and would not therefore be open for exploitation by western scientists, the head of the Manhattan Project, Maj. Gen. Leslie R. Groves, asked Spaatz to bomb it. The Eighth sent 675 bombers with more than 1,400 tons of ordnance against it. Covering the true purpose of its