d the First Pursuit Group in the air every day that I have been here. Their work is extremely satisfactory." He added, “I don't think we could have a better Commanding Officer of the Group."57 During the course of these seignorial visits, Mitchell invariably expected Spaatz to procure a powerful motor car, usually from Rickenbacker Motor Corporation, for his personal use. On one occasion Mitchell shipped six of his own horses to Detroit, asking Spaatz to find a government veterinarian, forage, and men to fix up some stables.58 Within three days Spaatz had fulfilled the general's request.59 In the course of his many trips to Selfridge, Mitchell, one of the most ardent air power enthusiasts, took pains to imprint his views on Spaatz. Although Mitchell predicted that bombardment aviation would someday have its principal value in "hitting an enemy's great nerve centers," he gave primacy of place to pursuit aviation.60 Mitchell believed that gaining air superiority over the enemy air force was the first and the most necessary task of the air arm. Without free- dom to operate, air could not perform any of its other missions or deny enemy air the ability to conduct its own missions. Mitchell emphasized that friendly pursuit aircraft must locate the enemy, concentrate against him, and drive him from the sky. Only then could friendly air proceed with the bombardment of enemy forces and installations.61 In accordance with these theories and others developed from World War I experience, the Air Service organized three types of combat units: pursuit, bom- bardment, and attack. Pursuit had counterair and ground-strafing roles. Bombardment would attack naval vessels and enemy industrial centers and other key areas behind enemy lines and assist in attacks against field targets. Official manuals, which were approved by the ground officers who dominated the War Department General Staff, paid little attention to the planning or conduct of strategic bombing. Instead, they concentrated