as control of the air or our forces are improperly controlled or that essential equipment is lacking. The solution lies in an acceptance of the princi- ple that the first prerequisite to the support of the ground army or armies is the establishment of a fighter defense and offense, including RDF, GCI and other types of Radar equipment essential for the detection of enemy aircraft.5 The arrival of the radar-equipped U.S. 3d Air Defense Wing and additional British radar for XII ASC and No. 242 Group allowed the NAAF to establish a radar net covering the front by April.6 Continuing his inspection of tactical fields, Spaatz lunched with Colonel Williams and General Fredendall at Le Kouif, a field northeast of Youks-les- Bains, on March 3. He found the attitude of the soon-to-be-relieved Fredendall concerning air altered: "General Fredendall, in contradiction to the last visit . . . has considerably broadened in his viewpoint of air importance. He realizes the necessity of seizing and holding airdrome areas and high or dominating ground necessary for proper RDF coverage."7 Fredendall had learned, too late, the role of tactical air. In his after-action report he wrote: Ground forces should have it explained to them that it is not necessarily true that the air should furnish them with a visible "umbrella," but that air is being fur- nished in the average operation even when our planes are not visible from the ground. Also that this air support includes not only cover and reconnaissance over them, but also bombardment of enemy troops and airdromes. From Williams, Spaatz received a testimonial on the efficacy of air support parties—AAF liaison teams with the forward elements of the ground troops, each equipped with a VHF radio mounted on a 1½-ton truck. These units had supplied the higher commanders some of the quickest and most accurate infor- mation on combat situations. AAF formations had made it a habit to pass within range (fifteen miles) of the air support parties in o