poned any reconsid- eration of FM 31-35 pending further proof gained by combat. If anything, the board revealed a hardening of positions. The AAF insisted on change in the direction of RAF air support doctrines as tested in the Western Desert, whereas the AGF wished to decentralize air control to levels below division and to emphasize close-in, on-call missions which would expand the zone of friendly artillery fire. In view of the AAF-AGF failure to compromise, G-3 recom- mended the revision of FM 31-35 and other appropriate War Department publi- cations, 124 The Operations Plans Division (OPD), the Army's Washington command post, approved but, noting G-3's concentration on the air-ground view, addressed the larger question of overall command and employment of air units at the com- bat theater level. The OPD told Marshall that in its opinion the theater supreme commander should exercise his command through the senior officer of each ser- vice and, in all cases, the "direct" [emphasis in original] command of AAF forces must be exercised by the AAF commander. Nor should the supreme commander attach AAF units to units of the ground forces except when ground units were operating independently or were isolated by distance or lack of communica- tion. 125 OPD recommended a position far closer to the AAF's than the AGF's. The Training Division began informal work on doctrinal revision in early May. Despite the objections of AAF officers in the General Staff, 126 elements of the AGF were polled, and they denounced any change. Not only was FM 31-35 basically sound, but British air support methods, "particularly those of the Eighth Army" had been fully considered and their best features adopted in FM 31-35. Likewise, the U.S. air mission request system came from a study of the tentacle system. The AGF, reading between the revision's lines, raised the following objections: 1. Ground and air forces would be more widely separated. 2. There would be little or no air support withou