he two types of death are comparable in other respects, which they are not. The contradiction of American bombing was that although the target category "marshaling yards" served as a euphemism for area bombing, the bombardment of marshaling yards also broke the back of the German war economy. It was the bombing of the yards, not the paralysis of the inland waterway system or the destruction of rolling stock and locomotives, that disrupted the vital car plac- ings, severing the coal/transport nexus, shattering the geographic division of labor, and toppling the production edifice built by Speer, 187 Operations to the End of the War On February 21, 1945, Allied weather forecasters predicted clear skies over much of Germany for the next day, whereupon Allied air leaders, at the request of Eisenhower's headquarters, 188 scheduled Operation CLARION for execution on February 22. CLARION, a descendant of the HURRICANE plans of autumn 1944, called for attacks by all available Allied strategic and tactical air power on German rail and water communications in the hope of disrupting the Germans' economic life and front-line tactical situation. By attacking numerous unbombed targets near small cities and towns, the Allies also hoped to provide millions of Germans with proof of Allied air superiority. British and American fighters and bombers would spread out all over Germany blasting transport targets such as grade crossings, stations, barges, docks, signals, tracks, bridges, and marshaling yards. The plan purposely selected targets near small towns heretofore untouched by the war and therefore not likely to have strong antiaircraft defenses. To heighten their accuracy, the Eighth's and Fifteenth's heavy bombers came in at unusually low altitudes. Some of them bombed from 6,000 feet, while the Ninth's medium bombers buzzed up and down the rail lines destroying locomotives and disrupting traffic. More than 3,500 heavy bombers and 4,900 fighters took part. The bombers attacked 219