n."59 The final plan of attack on the German government went forward on August 17. The Joint Planning Staff, because of the wide dispersion of targets and doubts as to their exact location, did not predict that the scheme was "likely to achieve any worthwhile degree of success."60 The RAF Air Staff had additional concerns: The German government was not vulnerable; the selected small targets required visual bombing; and the RAF had insufficient intelligence. In addition, raids on complexes with concentration camps would produce casualties among the "internees."61 Churchill agreed that the plan was impractical. He suggested instead drawing up a short list of war crimi- nals, 50 to 100 high ranking Nazis, who would be executed if they fell into Allied hands. Publishing such a list, he speculated, would open a gap between those named and the people. He observed, "At the present moment, none of the German leaders has any interest but fighting to the last man, hoping he will be that last man. It is very important to show the German people that they are not on the same footing as Hitler, Goering, Himmler and other monsters who will infallibly be destroyed."62 Later in August, SHAEF Headquarters began to discuss THUNDERCLAP.63 On August 24, at the Allied Air Commanders' meeting, Harris suggested that the Allies threaten in an ultimatum to the Germans to destroy certain towns if any V-2 rockets were fired into London.64 The suggestion was referred to the RAF Air Staff which quietly buried it. Spaatz gave Eisenhower his opinion of THUNDERCLAP, "I am opposed to this operation as now planned. We are pre- pared to participate in an operation against Berlin, but in doing so will select targets for attack of military importance." Spaatz added, “U.S. Bombing Policy, as you know, has been directed against precision military objectives, and not morale."65 Eisenhower, in his endorsement of Spaatz's letter, noted that the operation would occur only under a limited set of conditions. He