the end of October, as a result of Allied bombing, Germany's three most important western waterways had ceased to function at the time of their highest use before the winter freeze drastically lowered their efficiency. The Reichsbahn had great reserves: rolling stock and locomotives looted from all of Europe; an abundance of trackage for alternate routes; and well- trained, relatively numerous repair crews. All this did not suffice. By the first week of November, 50,000 "workers" from Holland reinforced repair crews. By mid-November the Germans committed 161,000 workers, 95,000 of them in the Ruhr. Marshaling yards had top priority. On November 29, Hitler allowed Speer to send 150,000 laborers, taken from all sections of the country, including some engaged in fortification work, to the Ruhr. But enormous inputs of unskilled labor could not substitute for exhausted trained crews. Repairs to constantly bombed yards consumed spare parts, signals, switches, and rails. Bombs churned up the earth, making it unable to support the rails and flattened the switching humps, dramatically decreasing the yards' ability to marshal cars into proper trains, 102 Unable to use wrecked or unrepaired telecommunications equipment, Reichsbahn and German industrial managers made fatal recourse to their code machines. By November 1944 the British Government Code and Cypher School- the ULTRA organization-had broken two Reichsbahn Enigma keys (code- named BLUNDERBUSS and CULVERIN) for Germany and the west and some arma- ment industry Geheimschreiber settings (FISH).* A November 8 decryption called for more use of waterways. Other decryptions spoke of increased antiair- craft defenses for traffic installations, and a January 1 decryption stated that fighter-bomber attacks (from the Ninth Air Force) in the area between the Moselle and the Saarland had ruined weeks of repair work, eliminated telephone facili- ties, and made it impossible to reroute trains.103 This cumulative destruction of the y