e water with the hope of encountering Allied rescue parties. Moreover, recent evidence shows that the ULTRA Secret had become known at levels far lower than his. Because he was usually not the only one who knew about it on the missions that he flew,62 he probably did not jeopardize it unduly. On balance, Spaatz's combat missions seem to have been justified. He achieved a positive effect on his own and his men's morale and gained invaluable insight into the day-to-day workings of his command. As a commander he had a duty to lead by example in combat. He ful- filled that duty without indulging in it to the extent that he compromised his capacity to carry out higher responsibilities. Of course, if he actually had been lost, his flights could be condemned as ill-considered and foolish-such is fate. Spaatz, in this instance, had at least stacked the deck in his favor. Such experiences did not dampen his belief in precision bombing. In late May he summed up the performance of the heavy bombers this way: "In our day to day operations at the present time, we feel any area can be completely neu- tralized, even blown into oblivion, by high altitude attacks, without incurring any serious losses on our part." He went on to bemoan the loss of a year in mounting a massive strategic campaign against Germany-an attack that would have been decisive, in his view, had it been properly followed up.63 Ground Operations and Air Support As the NASAF tightened its grip on Axis supply lines, Allied ground forces, assisted by the newly formed NATAF, shattered enemy land forces in a nine- week-long assault on the Italian-German bridgehead. Under the able leadership of Coningham, the U.S. XII Air Support Command, the Western Desert Air Force, and No. 242 Group soon gained air superiority. Fighter-bombers and light bombers of the NATAF roamed the battlefield unhampered by the Luftwaffe. Coningham's appointment to head the NATAF improved the performance of the tactical forces but did not provide