orps Compared with the Army as a Whole 1922-1941.) From 1923 to 1935, the Air Corps had an average of less than 11 percent of its Regular Army officers in field grades. The remainder of the Army averaged a little less than 33 percent field-grade officers for the same period. This imbalance resulted in underrepresentation of the Air Corps' views and lack of understanding of the Air Corps' difficulties at the senior levels of the Army. But if the lack of field-grade officers hurt the Air Corps as an institution within the Army, in the long run it may have advanced the careers of officers within the Air Corps itself.36 The lack of rank within the Air Corps even within the field grades the great majority of officers were majors-meant that officers assumed responsibil- ity and gained experience at levels far above their actual rank. The 1930 Annual Report of the Chief of the Air Corps noted that Air Corps Tables of Organization called for a major to command each squadron. Yet, of 53 squadrons, majors led only 5, and 4 of those majors doubled as base commanders. One squadron was led by a second lieutenant of less than four years' service.37 From 1921 to 1938, if not beyond, the same 75 to 90 field-grade officers, many of whom became AAF generals in World War II, controlled the inner workings of the air arm. Spaatz, who served as a major for most of the period between 1921 and 1938, was always one of the 100 most senior officers in his branch. In an institution in which considerations of rank and seniority dominated personnel assignments, Spaatz's seniority kept him constantly in important command and staff posi- tions. If the Air Corps had a paucity of field grade officers, it had an overabundance of junior officers (captain and below), partly by design. In the early 1920s, Air Service thinking estimated a pilot's active flying career at eight years under wartime conditions and, at most, fourteen years under peacetime conditions.38 Because the air branch insisted on offic