command changes until later. Brereton may well have been "kicked upstairs”—at least, Bradley thought so.79 He said of Brereton, "Ike knew Brereton was not pulling his weight. I had told Ike he was hard to do business with. Brereton never seemed interested in the job, would never throw himself into it."80 Brereton had committed two of the worst sins possible for an air commander with a ground support mission. He had not established a good working relationship with nor set up his headquarters directly alongside his counterpart in the ground forces. Apparently, after he set up his own plush headquarters in Normandy, he hardly ever went to see Bradley in the field, only a mile away.81 Unlike Coningham, who also had a less-than- exemplary relationship with his counterpart in the ground forces, Brereton had neither the patina of past success nor the support of his superiors in the air chain of command. His aspirations for independence and his support of the transporta- tion plan had probably irritated Spaatz. In the somewhat feudal and definitely hierarchical nature of the military establishment there was no indication that Brereton was a “Spaatz man.” Conversely, Vandenberg had formed strong ties to the Arnold-Spaatz section of the Army Air Forces. As the American generals sorted out their new positions, the British air mar- shals engaged in a brouhaha of their own, revolving around their respective views of Montgomery. Coningham was still hostile toward him, Tedder, as discussed earlier, had taken up the warpath against him for his supposed lack of vigor and success and had continued the campaign for his relief. Leigh-Mallory, marching to his own drum, had alienated Portal, Tedder, and SHAEF Headquarters staff by literally moving in with Montgomery. In his Command Diary, on July 19, Tedder noted: Montgomery will not deal with Coningham, but only with L-M [Leigh- Mallory]. This entails Broadhurst, Coningham's subordinate, dealing direct with L-M.... L-M has even moved hi