absence of a major ground force emergency, I do not believe that the results from the tactical use of heavy bombers will constitute as much support to OVERLORD as the use of the same force against critical German targets." Spaatz explained that the "normal weather cycle" ensured enough unsuitable weather over Germany to provide a large proportion of the available heavy-bomber effort for employment against tactical objectives in Normandy.22 Although Eisenhower privately regarded the V-1 as "very much of a nui- sance,"23 his ranking of air priorities naturally differed from Spaatz's. In a memo to his chief of staff, Maj. Gen. Walter Bedell Smith, he observed that by Septem- ber 20 good flying weather over Europe would cease. Therefore, for the next sixty to ninety days he ranked “direct attacks against Germany" sixth in priority below normal close support of the ground army, disruption of communication lines, neutralization of CROSSBOW, airborne operations, and supply of troops by air. However, he allowed an escape clause: "In any event there will unquestionably be sufficient days, when other types of operations are impracticable, to continue the striking [air] assault upon Germany, and there will be days during the winter when this can likewise be carried out."24 When he received Spaatz's letter, June 29, Eisenhower appended it to a memo for Deputy Supreme Commander Tedder in which he issued a new bomb- ing directive giving CROSSBOW top priority with the proviso, “... when we have favorable conditions over Germany and when the entire Strategic Air Force can- not be used against CROSSBOW, we should attack-a. Aircraft industry; b. Oil; c. Ball bearings; d. Vehicular production." Spaatz's resentment of and resistance to the CROSSBOW diversion continued into July. When he received an allocation of targets giving the Eighth Air Force sixty-eight CROSSBOW targets as compared to thirty for Bomber Command and only six for the AEAF, he strongly protested to Eisenhower, "If we