ings. Among the more junior RAF officers, however, Spaatz made several friends, including Slessor, who became Chief of the Air Staff after World War II. In his memoirs Slessor recorded a lively picture of the American air observer, whom he described as "a man of few words but with a dry sense of humor that can reduce me to a state of schoolboy giggles quicker than anything I know." Spaatz was, Slessor continued, “a man of action rather than of speech, rather inarticu- late but with an uncommon flair for the really important issue and a passionate faith in the mission of air power."65 Spaatz's acquaintance with RAF leadership and methods, acceptability to the RAF, his optimistic reports that contradicted gloomy predictions from other sources, and offers of help in Britain's darkest hour had much to do with his selection a little over a year later to command U.S. air power in Britain. Spaatz's time in Britain did not turn him into an ardent Anglophile; even after his return to the States he continued to oppose sending aircraft to Britain at the expense of U.S. Air Corps requirements. Yet he had been exposed to the latest avi- ation technology and tactics available, and he had gained a better understanding of the RAF, the force most likely to be allied with the U.S. Air Corps after America's certain entry into the war. Spaatz's initiation of negotiations for Air Corps entry into the war, even though superseded, and his often-stated belief in the ultimate victory of the RAF earned him the respect of his British associates. More impor- tant, Spaatz's transmittal of his faith in the RAF to Arnold and to Donovan may have helped persuade the President to increase U.S. assistance to Britain and, as a result, made Spaatz a key contributor to the growing Anglo-American relation- ship. Spaatz's failure to draw correct conclusions from the German and British experiences about the survivability of daylight bomber aircraft also had impor- tant consequences. He did not realize that