with the 78th Division and with British 5th Corps, which took over the British front at the end of November. Both men had insuffi- cient rank for their task of cooperating with Army counterparts who outranked them by at least two grades. The formation of No. 242 Group, a headquarters unit commanding all British aircraft assigned to the support of the 1st Army, its placement under Lawson's command, and its co-location with 5 Corps improved the system slightly. However, EAC Headquarters failed to maintain close liaison with No. 242 Group. In addition Welsh, consumed by his other duties, made few planes available to No. 242 Group and when Lawson ordered his fighter squadrons out on ground strafing missions, Welsh stopped him. By January 4, 1943, Lawson had only a handful of fighter-bombers available to him.55 Neither the Americans nor the British had a fully functioning air-ground support team. By the middle of February this lack of air-ground cohesiveness would hamper the Allied response to the German counterattack at the Kasserine Pass. As II Corps came into the line during the first two weeks of January, the Allies planned to use it for a drive to the coast to separate the Axis forces in Tunisia from Rommel's retreating forces. Fredendall made preparations for that attack until mid-January, when logistical difficulties and an unexpectedly rapid approach by Rommel led Eisenhower to order him to assume a defensive stance. From January 18 to 25, a counterattack by the Axis forces in Tunisia on the cen- ter of the Allied line gained important mountain passes and alarmed the Allies before it was contained. Allied tactical air flew several useful missions in the course of this assault.56 A few days later, from January 30 to February 3, the sparring between Allied and Axis forces shifted to the south. Once again, the Axis gained key passes from the French, especially the Faid Pass, which could serve as a jumping-off point for attacks on II Corps' main supply depot at Tebes