ber 1940 national elections, was happy to agree. 38 After further delay, on July 20, Lord Lothian learned that Rear Adm. Robert L. Ghormley, Assistant Chief of Naval Operations, and Brig. Gen. George V. Strong, Assistant Chief of Staff (head of the War Plans Division), had been appointed members of a U.S. military delegation destined for London for talks with British military leaders. Lothian thereupon pressed for the inclusion of an air expert, which resulted in the addition of Maj. Gen. Delos C. Emmons, Commanding General, GHQ Air Force. The true purpose of their visit was covered by an announcement that they had come for a meeting of the Anglo-American Standardization of the Arms Committee. The combined military talks began in London on August 20.39 These higher level contacts superseded the initial Spaatz-McDonald-Slessor talks, and Spaatz returned to observing the war. On July 10, the first phase of the Battle of Britain began with Luftwaffe attacks on channel ports and shipping. Spaatz, who had requested and received permis- sion to stay beyond his sixty-day tour of duty,40 watched these events closely. A new British disclosure policy made his observations even more valuable. A request by Spaatz and the other American air attachés to spend three or four days at a British fighter or bomber station in order to get a thorough look into the operational use of the aircraft there had forced the Air Ministry's hand. The workings of the operations room and of radar could not be concealed without great embarrassment to all concerned. Therefore, the Air Intelligence section in charge of escorting foreign officers requested instructions.41 The situation had changed drastically since April 1940. The British no longer had allies outside the Commonwealth and, as Slessor pointed out, the Germans had probably gained more information on radar from the French than was likely to result from leakage from America. Furthermore, the Prime Minister had agreed to exchange almost any s