#####  THE LUFTWAFFE DEFEATED post as AAF Deputy Chief of the Air Staff, arrived in London on March 24, where he immediately saw Spaatz. With him came another AAF general, Brig. Gen. Frederic H. Smith, Jr., the son-in-law of Admiral Ernest J. King, Chief of Naval Operations. Smith's marital connections gave him greater influence and importance than his rank might suggest. He would serve as Vandenberg's deputy and Chief of AEAF Operations. At their initial meeting and at another three days later concerning the role and responsibilities of the Deputy Commander, Allied Expeditionary Air Force, Spaatz clarified his reasons for asking Eisenhower to appoint Vandenberg. Vandenberg pointed to the dual nature of his roles: (1) serving as a loyal subor- dinate to his commander, Leigh-Mallory, and (2) “guarding the operational use and fulfilling the administrative requirement of the American component." Spaatz responded that Vandenberg's top priority ought to be "safeguarding the interests of the American component” and gaining Eisenhower's concurrence in this matter. Spaatz added that with Eisenhower's agreement, he meant to route all matters of major policy concerning the Ninth Air Force through Vandenberg. Vandenberg would "inform" General Brereton to direct through him all matters requiring decisions by higher authority. The two generals then consulted with Eisenhower, who concurred in their decision, and with Tedder concerning the position of AEAF and the other air commands in England. Vandenberg finished his rounds by going off alone for dinner with Leigh-Mallory at AEAF Headquar- ters.50 By placing his own man in the deputy commander slot and making him the de facto commander of the entire U.S. contingent in the AEAF, Spaatz tightened his control over the nonstrategic AAF elements in Britain. He eliminated Butler, who, in addition to his other failings, had supported the transportation plan.51 He also subordinated Brereton, a congenital maverick who had visions of playi