ince the promulgation of AWPD/1 in September 1941. AWPD/1 had provided for a bomber force of very long-range B-29s (still on the drawing boards in 1941) operating against Germany from bases in the Suez region. Similarly, at the inception of the North African invasion, Arnold and Spaatz had persuaded Eisenhower as the European Theater Commander to agree tentatively to a single air force for Britain and North Africa, which would allow the strategic bombing of Germany from both areas. At the end of the Tunisian campaign, Eisenhower forwarded to Marshall a suggestion from Spaatz that "this theater would offer a very fine region from which to use some of the new B29s."27 Eisenhower also sent the Combined Chiefs of Staff his recommendations on the course of action to follow after the fall of Sicily. To this document (CCS No. 223) Tedder added a statement in which he pointed out the advantages of launching strategic bomber missions from Italy. These feelers went unnoticed by Marshall and the rest of the Combined Chiefs, who met in Washington, D.C., from May 12 to 25, 1943. There they accepted Eaker's plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive (CCS No. 217), which called for a rapid buildup of an Eighth Air Force powerful enough to defeat Luftwaffe fighter forces and bomb key German industries.28 At Arnold's insistence, however, the Combined Chiefs authorized a one- time-only, low-level B-24 raid against the Romanian oil fields and refinery com- plex at Ploesti, provided Eisenhower approved, which he did in early June. In addition to two B-24 groups (the 376th and 98th) from the Ninth Air Force, the CCS diverted one group (the 389th) scheduled to reinforce the Eighth and two of the Eighth's own groups (the 93d and 44th) to the Ploesti raid (code-named TIDALWAVE). These 177 bombers launched the first Mediterranean raid to partic- ipate in the Combined Bomber Offensive by attacking the Ploesti oil targets on August 1. They lost 54 aircraft and 532 crewmen and inflicted heavy, but