he sea coast, seventy-five miles away. By then, XII ASC's operational strength had risen to 116 Spitfires, 49 P- 39s, and 4 photographic reconnaissance planes.74 The Support Command's medium bombers had transferred to the Tactical Bomber Force, a centralized tactical bomber command directly under Coningham's control. Spitfires had short endurance and could not drop bombs. The P-39s served only as fast ground-attack planes because of their inability to compete in dogfights with superior Axis fighters in the theater. The XII ASC had two responsibilities for this phase of the battle: (1) to protect the forward move of II Corps and (2) to obtain and hold air superiority over opposing air forces to free the entire WDAF for the 8th Army attack on Rommel at the Mareth Line. The Tactical Bomber Force, composed of both British and American medium bombers, would supply striking power to XII ASC for hitting Axis airfields. Coningham also had the power to require Strategic Air Force missions on enemy fields during critical days of the offensive.75 Rain grounded portions of the NATAF and mired II Corps in mud, postpon- ing the offensive until March 29. For the next twelve days II Corps made little progress against heavy German resistance. A number of fruitless and costly attacks, which gained negligible results, made the period between March 28 and April 2 particularly frustrating for Patton. On the morning of April 1, a German air attack killed one of his personal aides, Capt. Richard N. Jenson, and landed a bomb within a few feet of Maj. Gen. Omar N. Bradley, deputy corps comman- der.76 Jenson's death upset Patton greatly;77 he manifested his grief, in part, against Allied air support, which he felt had abandoned him. This attitude represented a volte-face for Patton. Just before the attacks, Spaatz, on a trip to the front, had elicited from him on March 24 and from Maj. Gen. Terry Allen, Commander of the 1st Infantry Division (the "Big Red One") on March 25 expressions of app