lpless to counter the maneuvers of its enemies. Under Spaatz's leadership, in the autumn and winter of 1944–1945, the U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF) helped to bring the German war econ- omy to a halt by adding the transportation network to its target priorities. Spaatz's forces also participated in the most controversial bombing raid of the European war when they joined with British Bomber Command to level the cen- ter of Dresden on February 14, 1945. An exemplar of AAF bombing policy and operations, this raid carried a high proportion of incendiary bombs, was directed at a railroad marshaling yard, and was executed in nonvisual bombing condi- tions. It was not carried out to induce terror but was intended to give direct assistance to the Soviets' winter offensive by destroying a transportation center in eastern Germany. In contrast, the February 3, 1945, mission against Berlin was specifically ordered by Spaatz to shake the morale of the German High Command and government. In the middle of April 1945, Spaatz ended the strategic bombing campaign. Thereafter, the bombers devoted their efforts to aiding the ground forces and flying supplies to alleviate famine in Holland. Spaatz attended the German sur- renders to the Allies at Reims and Berlin on May 7 and May 9, 1945. This work is neither a full-scale biography of Carl A. Spaatz nor a compre- hensive history of the USAAF in action against the European Axis powers from 1942 to 1945. Instead it studies Spaatz as a military leader by examining his thoughts and actions within the context of his times. By hewing to Spaatz's per- spective I could not follow the entire course of the American strategic bomber offensive in Europe. Those readers looking for a description of the Eighth Air Force under Ira Eaker's leadership or of Spaatz's valuable contributions in the postwar era must look elsewhere. But a year-long trip to North Africa and the Mediterranean enabled me to take a close look at the birth pangs of m