ates which, in the autumn of 1942, could be attributed in large part to bad weather and training requirements. Before Spaatz could field all the bombers on hand, he had to finish training their crews, all of which arrived unready for combat. Weather played a far larger role than Arnold would acknowledge. An authoritative postwar study of weather as it affected heavy-bomber missions stated that weather reduced "the potential effort planned on a monthly basis by 45 percent."111 This figure included the summer months, which, of course, contained the best flying weather. Spaatz and Eaker, however, were encouraged by their progress. In a series of memos written for internal AAF use, Eaker gave his and Spaatz's views. After the first four missions, he confidently stated his conviction that "in the future, successful bombing missions can be conducted beyond the range of fighter pro- tection."112 Six weeks later, after suffering his initial losses from German fight- ers, Eaker reiterated his beliefs: Our bombing experience to date indicates that the B-17 with its twelve .50 cal- iber guns, can cope with the German day fighter. There will be losses, of course, but there is no evidence that the losses will be of such a high order as to make day bombing uneconomical. I think it is safe, now, to say that a large force of day bombers can operate without fighter cover against material objec- tives anywhere in Germany, without excessive losses. Such losses as did occur could be much reduced, Eaker thought, with the provision of a B-17 type convoy defender aircraft, already existing in prototype, “with extra ammunition supply and extra armor, flying on the flanks of the bomber formations." He requested the shipment of a group or squadron of such planes as soon as possible.113 Eaker seems not to have yet accepted the technical feasibility of a long-range escort fighter. He did not ask for more P-38s or for the development of an even longer-range fighter. In reply to Arnold's critici