n." Spaatz then "explored at length the issues at stake, especially the capabilities of the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces with respect to the number of targets involved. He then ordered the plan completed for prompt presentation to Portal and Eisenhower."15 In sending the plan to Eisenhower, Spaatz stated his own views: "I consider that the plan provides for the optimum use of Strategic Air Forces between now and the time for close support in the immediate tactical area. Our calculations of the possible results are considered to be conservative." He added that the plan's results were "pitched in terms of so lowering the German fighting efficiency on existing fronts that the German ability safely to move strategic reserves will be impaired; and in the months following D-Day, the capacity of the German ground armies effectively to continue resistance must inevitably be exhausted.”16 The oil plan offered a strategically based rebuttal of the transportation plan. Another plan, drawn up by the EOU, challenged the transportation plan on tacti- cal grounds. EOU's plan called for the bombing of french supply dumps and bridges rather than rail marshaling yards. Both plans provided rallying points for the critics of Zuckerman's plan. The counterattack mounted by these critics brought Tedder fully into the field in support of the transportation plan because he might lose face if the Allies rejected it. He believed that the plan offered a partial solution to the air command difficulties by providing a set of targets requiring the coordination and cooperation of the strategic and tactical air forces. Tedder wrote Portal that in order to derive full use of Allied air power, he needed a target system based "on one common object toward which all available air forces can be directed. . . . Concentration against one common system, by both day and night, is essential."17 Tedder's reasoning was, of course, apparent to the adherents of both plans. The oil plan allowed a non-centralize