s.1° These massive stores were scattered about at six locations. But only three were economically significant and of these two were of overwhelming importance.  Holding a third of Germany’s proven reserves, the Ruhr was the leader in German hard coal production.1! In the 1943/44 coal economy year, it accounted for 45 percent of the Reich’s hard coal area into an industrial giant in just a few decades in the mid-nineteenth century, and it was this factor that assured its predominance during World War II. Over a third of the region’s cut went to the ovens comprising fully 63 percent of Germany’s coke production.12  Approaching the Ruhr in terms of overall output was Upper Silesia. The eastern hard coal region had proven reserves of 114.5 billion tons, almost two thirds of Germany’s total.13 It contributed a third of total production amounting to 101,512,000 tons.14 But the lower quality of its coal meant that it provided only 13 percent of national coke supplies.45 It was this factor that put Upper Silesia in the second rank. As will be seen presently, its weakness in coking coal also determined the scale of its contribution in other forms of industrial production and the number of its dependencies.  Together, the Ruhr and Upper Silesia dominated the German hard coal market. Only one other region mattered, the Saar. Located in the southwest near the prewar Franco-German border, it held only OUllL UL 1S Pal lo CUUIN TAVE PIUCULCEU LTE VETUCIIULy, Lie UCCIOIVE LACLUL Wao All LIMO Y 6 LEELA Loti LU ULE MALLU Ss PLO VULUC ALLL SUULLE Ul CLICL EY CU al. £1. Ruhr hard coal had energy values ranging from 6,800 to 7,600 calories per kilogram. Upper Silesian hard coals were slightly less potent.£ Within this broad grouping were ranks, each with its own In the coal economy year 1943/44, Germany produced 278.1 million tons of hard coal and 53.3 million tons of coke.® Her total assured reserves amounted to 190.6 billion tons.1° These massive Holding a third of Germany’s proven re