maments shipments, a total of Throughout the events of 1944-1945, Speer and Kehr] fought to assist the Reichsbahn and to maintain a bare minimum of armaments production. In late November, Speer restricted the use of materials for transportation facility repair and the building of underground factories.186 Wholesale regional electricity cutoffs were implemented in hopes of conserving coal.182 But this only caused Planning expressed its fear that elasticity was about to be exhausted.12!Within a few days though, it proposed new ways to conserve raw materials and continue production.122 one day sooner was important.123  But Speer’s system buckled under the pressure. His very attempts to maintain control sparked opposition. On 30 January 1945 his own ministry began dispatching coal trains to relieve emergencies, thus sparking bitter opposition from the RWKS. This precipitated the final break between Schmidt and the syndicate and the RMfRuK. Vogler, of United Steel and the RVE, newly appointed as head of Speer’s own Ruhr Staff, strongly opposed Kehrl’s coal-transport space-allocation scheme and promised to ignore it on 22 December.124  The corrosive atmosphere of internal bureaucratic competition fostered by Hitler and the increase in the power of Martin Bormann, the head of his party chancellery, contributed to the further disintegration of Speer’s system. The Party launched vitriolic attacks on the Reichsbahn, which the railway forcefully rejected. The SS also singled out the beleaguered railway for criticism. Dorpmiiller took the extraordinary step of personally informing Kaltenbrunner of his refusal to countenance such attacks. Speer moved sharply to prohibit Gauleiters from confiscating coal from trains not in- tended for their region. But in January 1945 he arrogated the same powers to his own ministry.122  Sneer had ennnerated clacely with the Reichchahn cineca hic annnintment in 1949 Ha and Ganzanmiiller in nartienlar had davelaned a cardial nrnfaccinnal ralatinnc