wn after it. But the campaign that was waged was sufficient to achieve almost the same result. albeit more slowlv.  Page 128 of 282 46% economy tumbling down after it. But the campaign that was waged was sufficient to achieve almost the same result, albeit more slowly.  During the period from November 1944 to January 1945 the railway situation in the western pivot of the German economy, the Ruhr and RBD Essen, was chaotic. The disaster that befell the region spread like a black cancer to the areas dependent on it. Before briefly looking at events in those regions, it will be necessary to attempt to sort out the chaos that swept the Reich’s industrial heart. The air attacks on RBD Essen struck two sensitive nerves: bridges and viaducts, and marshalling yards. The result was a catastrophic fall in coal car and general freight car placings, the disruption of tele- communications, and the slamming shut of the Ruhr gateways to the outside.  The loss of bridges added a new headache for the repair crews working under RBD Essen chief Lammertz. Throughout November and December an average of sixteen bridges were out of service in the region every day28 Traffic was never halted as a result, but the necessarily circuitous bypass routes caused delays that the DR and industry could ill afford.  More harmful were the attacks on two of the magnificent viaducts that supported the three coal gateways leading east. Sixty kilometers east of the great Hamm marshalling yard, on the high-density four-track line leading to Hanover and Berlin, was the 350-meter-long double viaduct at Bielefeld. In the event of an interruption there, the Reichsbahn planned to reroute traffic northwest at Lohne to Osnabriick and Rheine or south to Kassel. The Eighth Air Force severed this vital link for nine days with an attack on 2 November. On 29 November it slashed the artery again for eleven days. Attacks on 26 November 1944 and 17 January 1945 failed. RBD Hanover took energetic measures to restore servic