o realize his dreams. But the door had also been opened for what he feared could be the greatest diversion of all. A crucial turning point had been reached. Fundamental decisions had to be made concerning how the strategic bombers would be used. In making these decisions, intelligence concerning the German economy would play a significant though far from decisive role.  The information available to the Allies concerning Germany’s economic war effort was abundant but of varying quality. The crucial factor in determining the exploitation of this intelligence was not its content but the preconceived notions brought to it by the analysts and the ability of intelligence organizations to function effectively in the highly competitive bureaucratic-political environ- ment surrounding the air decision makers.  Two basic types of information were available: overt and covert. Overt data were gleaned from publicly available sources such as professional and business journals, newspapers, product brochures,  a4 +4 to aod a soe oo dee a4 aoa a4 sata - : u  Page 66 of 282 24% a ee ee eee the Reich’s economy crashing to the ground. But his bombers were suffering increasing losses which culminated in the disaster over Nuremberg of 31 March.16In contrast, in the last week of February and the first week of March, the Eighth Air Force’s escort fighters had dealt the Luftwaffe a shattering defeat over Germany. The American bombers could now range over Germany and strike targets of telephone books, and railway schedules. Covert information was obtained by methods about which the enemy was unaware. The primary means of covert intelligence gathering were photo recon- naissance, interrogation of prisoners of war, and the interception of encoded and encrypted radio transmissions. Photo reconnaissance was the source of the most voluminous and in many ways the most reliable information.12 Black and white and infrared photography could depict the location of factories, give clues about their act