that Hitler and the likes of Saur and Bormann took it in earnest. The Emergencv Program opeers Own Kunr otal, strongly opposed Kenris coal-transport space-allocation scheme and promised to lgnore 1t on 22 December.== tended for their region. But in January 1945 he arrogated the same powers to his own ministry.122 incorporate it more fully into their bureaucratic domain. Kehr] negotiated with Dorpmiiller and Ganzenmiiller to create national and regional transport plenipotentiaries. On 5 December, in a letter to the war.22 It was a mad, hopeless scheme. How long Speer took it seriously cannot be determined. It is clear that Hitler and the likes of Saur and Bormann took it in earnest. The Emergency Program meant that the effort to resist would continue and justified the continued bombing of the Reich transportation net. The bombing of the Reichsbahn and the inland waterways, which had been going on since September 1944, had exerted a fatal effect on the Reich economy by the end of December 1944 and early January 1945. Coal stocks among manufacturing industries dwindled from about three weeks’ supply at the end of November to just a few days’ by January 1945, among those plants permitted to use coal.202 Gas plant stocks in many cases had been exhausted.2®3 Approximately 450,000 kilowatts of electrical generating capacity had been lost to coal shortages alone.2 Here too, coal stocks were down to just a few days inspite of the reduction in demand by a fifth.2°5 Gas output by the municipal works had fallen 20 percent below the previous year’s level in December. Cokery gas production was only half the 1944 level in January 1945206  The decline in energy supplies due to transportation bombing and the disruption of component deliveries, more vulnerable since the dispersal of the spring of 1944, caused a major decline in armaments production. The fall was uneven, delayed in some sectors by the characteristics of materials, energy use and stocks in different industries, and Spe