nd was being assumed by the Reichsbahn and Speer. Dorpmiiller assured him that nothing of the kind was contemplated. The aged railway chief then asked the industrial leaders for assistance in maintaining the flow of freight. He explained how plant and mine labor could be better utilized in repairing the Reichsbahn’s bomb-battered facilities because, if the marshalling yards remained closed, their products could not be delivered anyway. Sohl and Schmidt heartily agreed to do everything in their power to help the beleaguered Reichsbahn, including providing labor. They decided to christen their program “Spades Against Bombs.”58 None of this sufficed. On 19 January 1945, Dilli was forced to slash hundreds of trains from the schedule. He imposed a total embargo on all freight everywhere in the Reich. Only coal, the most necessary Wehrmacht shipments, and a few courier trains were retained. Even coal shipments were confined to areas adjacent to the mines.2 Despite the massive infusion of labor and a drastic reduc- tion both in traffic and demand, the Reichsbahn could no longer support the geographical division of labor. What had happened?  The first clue is the availability of the coal gateways. In the twenty-one days between 25 November and 15 December 1944, that is, before the Ardennes offensive, the Geisecke, Soest, and Vorhalle  wna nan ean ceenen alannd bn then.e Wn tenn a shind ALA abies TIAL Anes A nen eatin eran LD alin d fae aelee ates davis 2d Mili ntne fae neler then Danna can nt Tae vrnen Leen nnihla fae neler en Aner eet Lae Wuppertal, and Cologne.5Z On 10 November, the day before Lammertz assumed his new post, Dorpmiiller visited the Ruhr to smooth relations with heavy industry. At RBD Essen headquarters he met necessary Wehrmacht shipments, and a few courier trains were retained. Even coal shipments were confined to areas adjacent to the mines.52 Despite the massive infusion of labor and a drastic reduc- passages were closed to through traffic a third of th