elts to bring the raw coal to the furnaces.2° Synthetic fuel plants were located near brown coal pits for the same reason. Germany’s brown coal supplies were grouped in two main areas. The most important, with over 80 percent of total reserves, was in the central region near Magdeburg and Leipzig. For administrative convenience, it was divided into the Central German area lying west of the Elbe River and the East Elbian region. The other major producer, accounting for 12 percent of reserves was on the left bank of the Rhine near Cologne.2! The Central German area was dominant accounting for 45 percent of production in the coal economy year 1943/44. The East Elbian and Rhenish regions both contributed 27 percent of the total. The geographical distribution of briquetting operations was similar.22  Brown coal constituted a support for hard coal, but because its heat value was only a third as great and it was difficult to ship, it could never replace hard coal nor substitute for the loss of one of the major hard coal producing areas. However, it did enjoy the advantage of being preponderantly located far from Germany’s borders, so that mining and distributing it were less susceptible to external interference. In contrast, both of the major hard coal regions lay perilously near Germany’s frontiers.  As we have seen. one of the maior consumers of brown coal was the electricitv generating sector. It used brown coal along with hard coal and water to build a balanced. redundant. generating svstem.  Page 22 of 282 10% eee ee eee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee EE em EA RP EEE ME SALE AY PO, Se SEU AE BS ES SAV SESE WS EES SES ee Eee ing de As we have seen, one of the major consumers of brown coal was the electricity generating sector. It used brown coal along with hard coal and water to build a balanced, redundant, generating system. Hard coal was burned to generate almost half of Germany’s electricity brown coal generated a third, and hydro plants provided a fifth.23 L