Its plan reflected the optimism, almost euphoria that swept through the Allied command during July and August as the British and American armies raced across France. Portal repeatedly suggested that a massive blow be launched at the urban areas of Berlin to convince the population and the government to capitulate.84 Spaatz opposed these plans, but only because he thought that Germany was about to succumb to his oil offensive. On 1 September he issued a new priority list that called for an intensified attack on oil plants. In his introduction to the plan, clearly reflecting the influence of EOU, Spaatz claimed that the German economy was about to “collapse for lack of fuel.”85 Nothing could have been further from reality. Germany’s economy was not dependent on petroleum and there was no coal famine yet. It was of the utmost importance under these circumstances that Eisenhower relinquished control of the heavy bombers on 6 September. Arnold and Portal were again to act as the agents of the CCS with Air Marshal Sir Norman Bottomley, Deputy Chief of Staff, RAF, and Spaatz serving as their intermediaries. The future of the transportation offensive was imperiled. Portal canvassed a plan under which oil and popular morale would be the primary targets and transportation would be excluded. But Tedder had created a web of relationships that enabled him to dominate the air commanders’ conferences that met at SHAEF two to three times weekly to select targets. At the meeting of 12 September, Tedder won Harris’s and Doolittle’s approval for raids on marshalling yards in the Rhineland and Ruhr.82 This was the genesis of the special priority that was accorded transportation in the directive issued by the Octagon Conference at Quebec on 14 September.88 Oil continued to enjoy first priority. But transportation was raised to a special position, depending on weather conditions that effectively gave it second priority The agreement, informally reached at SHAEF on 13 September between Sp