ominal value of these stocks. Supplies from Upper Silesia continuously deteriorated in quality causing the jump in consumption.12! Actual electricity generation by BEWAG was 4 percent lower than the monthly average during the fourth quarter of 1943102  When viewed from the national perspective, it can be seen that the Reich inland waterway system was decisively weakened by the three raids in the west. The Reichsbahn, in spite of the efforts of the repair crews and GBL-East, had sustained crippling losses, and the armaments industry had continued to produce very large quantities of weapons by ruthlessly depleting its stocks. A few key in- dicators lend substance to this picture.  The Reichsbahn placed 20 percent fewer cars in freight trains during the period of special priority, 16 September to 31 October, than during the same time frame in 1943. More significantly, coal car placings were a staggering 39 percent lower in October. Brown coal car placings were 40 percent lower.103 The Main Car Office calculated in September, before the worst losses were sustained, that the DR satisfied only 5 6 percent of nominal demand for car space of all types. This was a third less than in September 1943.10 The backlog had mushroomed to an average of 1,155 trains per day during the last ten days of October.195 Put differently, this meant that 307,000 cars were caught in backlogged trains and were therefore unavailable. A further 62,000 were delayed in loading and unloading because freight car turnaround time was up to 12.7 days in October, a quarter more than during the previous year.1% The effort to repair freight cars was actually reduced because there was no freight car shortage.12Z In effect, the Reichsbahn had lost access to over a third of its entire freight car park simply through disorganization in marshalling. Nor was there a locomotive shortage. By the end of October the size of the DR locomotive park was 2 percent higher than at the beginning and the reserve was 39 perce