ich was responsible for decrypting all Enigma in the European theater.22 But many more were either not decrypted or decrypted only after a delay. The decisions about what places would be photographed, which prisoners would be questioned first, and what Enigma messages would have priority were made by the organizations that would use the information to be obtained.24 In this way, those in the best positions to know what was important were able to focus the Allies’ limited assets on obtaining the categories of data that they needed most. But there was a negative aspect to this arrangement. Organizations charged with evaluating information also frequently develop an interest in the way it will be used. They become loyal to a particular strategy, seek information that confirms their choice, and attempt to exclude or deprecate information that challenges their position. This bureaucratic egotism played a significant role in Allied air intelligence and decision making.  There was a superabundance of organizations charged with evaluating intelligence in the spring of 1944. A highly complex collection of ministries, offices, boards, and committees had developed. Competition among them was fierce, and mutually agreed appreciations of the German economy were frequently more the result of a form of bureaucratic scholasticism than reasoned analysis.  On the British side, the apex of the intelligence pyramid was the Joint Intelligence Sub-Committee (JIC) attached to the Chiefs of Staff. JIC was composed of the directors of the three military services’ intelligence sections and representatives of the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Economic Warfare. It had liaison with the American JIC. Formed on 15 May 1941, JIC guided British intelligence policy, supervised the administration of i interservice committees, coordinated, assessed, and disseminated strategic interpretations. It produced its reports using papers written by subordinate bodies and lines or by mail.12 However, the R