hat 307,000 cars were caught in backlogged trains and were therefore unavailable. A further 62,000 were delayed in loading and unloading because freight car turnaround time was up to 12.7 days in October, a quarter more than during the previous year.12 The effort to repair freight cars was actually reduced because there was no freight car shortage.10 In effect, the Reichsbahn had lost access to over a third of its entire freight car park simply through disorganization in marshalling. Nor was there a locomotive shortage. By the end of mere 7 percent of all coal shipments. Local sales accounted for 14 percent. Even in its weakened state the Reichsbahn still moved three-quarters of the nation’s coal traffic.112 The geographical division Speer and Kehrl managed to maintain output of selected weapons at a very high rate. The overall armaments production index declined by only 9 percent during the period of special priority111 By defeats of the summer of 1944, it is clear that transportation bombing was already exerting a direct if far from decisive influence on the actual conibat power of the Wehrmacht. By late October 1944 the bombing of marshalling yards and the cutting of the Ruhr waterways had caused a severe reduction in Germany’s coal supplies, substantially reduced iron and steel output, forced a slight contrac- tion of armaments production but not of key weapons, and gravely hindered the exchange of goods within the economy and the delivery of weapons to the Wehrmacht. It had also imposed extraor- dinary strain on Speer’s administrative apparatus, causing it and the Reichsbahn to begin to disintegrate. In Germany there were few people who fully understood what was actually happening to the Reich economy. The decline in the operations of the Reichsbahn and the barges was apparent to all, but the consequences were not. Only Ganzenmiiller, Speer, Kehrl, and a few others at the highest levels of the RMfRuK, the Transportation Ministry, and in industry clearly underst