ted a spurious report from Switzerland of an impending strike among Reichsbahn employees. At the same time, though, it placed an important piece of the puzzle. It noticed that a coal shortage had immobilized locomotives.2® SHAEF continued to elaborate its picture of the German economy until, on 22 January 1945, it was able to conclude that economic activity in Germany had declined severely due to the disruption of  beananactatinn Tha aallannn vf anal nvnnlian vari mntacials daliveneing and tha auahanan af ann an ante Lad La Alar dinlanntad nendvintinn tb vend annane DM OLIA TT annalesdAnd Ghat attanlen an anes eee ee a Oe See eee ee —e—eeEeEeEe—— eee eee eee eee ee eee govern appreciations. Since photo reconnaissance had played a predominant role in earlier intelligence assessments, its loss was especially important.2 duction could be anticipated in the near future. It discounted reports of a coal shortage and argued that the Reichbahn’s biggest problem was a lack of personnel.Z had occurred.12 Moreover, they asserted that the widespread disruption of transportation necessary to reduce significantly economic activity was unattainable.1! As late as mid-January 1945, the CSTC argued that “no evidence has appeared of substantial interference with economic traffic such as the reduction in certain types of coal movements.”!2 It also discounted the time factor. In doing so they did succeed in having him shunted off to Moscow on atrip lasting from 1 to 19 January.16 SHAEF G-2 labored in the wilderness. transportation. The collapse of coal supplies, raw materials deliveries, and the exchange of components had badly dislocated production. “It would appear,” SHAEF concluded, “that attacks on commu- nications may have caused more far-reaching dislocation of production in this manner than has hitherto been thought to be the case.”21 The slow process of coming to perceive the chaos reigning in Germany took an important step forward in February 1945. As part of the reevaluation o