tant to strengthen Speer’s hand and sought to increase his own authority, particularly over labor.  Another competitor of as yet uncertain strength was Heinrich Himmler, commander of the SS and German police. Based on his monopoly of the use of concentration camp labor, Himmler had created a small production apparatus to supply some of the needs of the SS military formations.72 During the spring of 1944, Himmler increased his effort to expand his empire and repeatedly collided with Speer.  Two opponents emerged during Speer’s illness during the spring of 1944. Xaver Dorsch, head of the Organisation Todt construction machine within the RMfRuK, raised severe criticisms of Speer’s policies and initiated a serious move to oust him. His drive was only narrowly turned aside. But the affair had poisoned the atmosphere within the ministry, and Dorsch had far from abandoned his plans.2 Simultaneously, Saur, while not explicitly assaulting Speer’s position, had increased his personal authority. His leadership of the Fighter Staff and its apparent production successes vastly enhanced his prestige. Of equal importance was the fact that during Speer’s illness Saur conducted the meetings with Hitler on armaments matters. With a self-confidence born of ignorance of the  eae - . sa 1 . aon , woe a _ ae steered a a c a vod  Page 11 of 282 T% Overall, the system Nad been greatly improved. Many abuses of the pre-rebruary 1442 era nad been eliminated. Kenri nad become one of the Most powerful administrators 1n Germany. but the very set.£5 He would not be so lucky in the future. increase in fighter production.£ The incentive of the attacks, combined with a smouldering dispute between Milch and Karl Saur of Speer’s Technical Office, led to the formation of the Fighter Staff (Jagerstab) under Saur on I March 1944. Speer and Milch had not desired Saur’s appointment, but Hitler, acting on impulse, named him during a discussion at his headquarters.&2 He immediately set to A third armaments e