ces against a limited number of target systems and objectives. In doing so they under- estimated what their forces could do. This fear of dispersal of effort, combined with their desire to win the war alone, heavily influenced the reaction of the Allied air commanders to suggestions that they devote their resources to hitting new target systems. The command structure created by the American and British Chiefs of Staff gave ample scope for the strategic air commanders to follow their own ideas. Nominally, both Bomber Command, under Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris, and USSTAF, under Gen. Carl Spaatz, were subordinated to Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Charles Portal, Chief of Air Staff, RAF, acting as agent for the Combined Chiefs of Staff.14 The Eighth Air Force was commanded by Maj. Gen. James H. Doolittle and the Fifteenth by Lt. Gen. Nathan F. Twining. This situation was due to change with the approach of the invasion of the continent, Operation Overlord. The Supreme Allied Commander, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, would be given command of all forces, including air units, participating in the assault. An Allied Expeditionary Air Force had been created under Air Chief Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory to support the invasion. Neither Spaatz nor Harris thought that the invasion would succeed and each hoped to win the war through air power alone. Therefore both felt the onset of the invasion as a goad to finish off the Germans. Both also struggled to avoid submitting to the authority of Leigh-Mal- lorv whom thev mistrusted as a man exverienced onlv in the use of fighters and who thev feared would therefore misuse their bombers. A Grossen Vaterldndischen Krieges der Sowjetunion, 6:60, by multiplying the monthly average by twelve; for Germany, RMfRuK, ‘Aussto&-Ubersicht 1940-44. Waffen, Gerate, Munition,” p. 1. lory whom they mistrusted as a man experienced only in the use of fighters and who they feared would therefore misuse their bombers. Acompromise was hamme