hipments of completed weapons, and upset the exchange of components with other regions. In addition, the Ruhr’s administrative apparatus was crumbling. Most importantly, the region’s key contribution to the operation of the geographical division of labor as energy supplier to central and southern Germany was rapidly waning. The incessant bombing was prying out of place the lynchpin of the Reich economy In the areas dependent on the Ruhr, the coal situation was deteriorating rapidly Many of the few trains that managed to leave the area were eventually lost in the morass in the marshalling yards. For example, of thirty trains dispatched by the RWKS between 13 and 28 September, ten were never heard from again. The result was that coal stocks dwindled to about four weeks in the Ruhr’s dependencies. In some cases production was already being cut back. Speer’s assistant, Liebel, toured the southwest to check the pulse of industry there in late October. He found conditions bordering on panic. Frantic plant managers implored him to intercede on their behalf to obtain coal, otherwise mass closings would ensue immediately.2 The causes of the emeigency were the problems in the Ruhr and the dislocation of rail operations in GBL-South. Telecommunications at the regional headquarters had collapsed on 4 October, forcing it to be transfered temporarily to Augsburg. The area’s key marshalling yards at Karlsruhe, Mannheim, and Stuttgart-Kornwestheim were either shut or operating at reduced capacity. Space for putting aside cars and trains in the yards was exhausted so one track on double tracked lines was used to hold trains that could not be marshalled. Locomotive coal supplies were dangerously low— twelve days by the end of October.?2 The waterways were unable to step into the breach. Coal arrivals at Mannheim collapsed after the Cologne-Miilheimer Bridge disaster halted navigation, thus causing an il percent fall in total receipts in October.22 The Reichsbahn attempted to compensa