hr. By mid-February it had accurately divined that armaments production in the Ruhr itself was declining and the region’s ability to support its tributaries was waning. A final offensive against the Reichsbahn’s network serving the region would end armaments production. SHAEF was in no doubt now about the root of the problem. A severe coal famine had erupted forcing the DR to burn brown coal in its locomotives. The bombing of marshalling yards before the loss of Upper Silesia had created a glut of freight cars forcing the Reichsbahn to derail them by the score.22 In the space of a few weeks SHAEF had rapidly apprehended the situation. The CSTC, using the golden bridge, followed suit.  + tana + wer on nm avowed a 1 rt nama atoomare coe soa waa ere ane “a saad 1 rr ey  Page 164 of 282 59% _—S eee os telecommunications system in the DR.18 It also discovered the Reichsbahn’s repair priorities based on agent and prisoner reports and photo reconnaissance. Line cuts were identified as having first Switzerland of an impending strike among Reichsbahn employees. At the same time, though, it placed an important piece of the puzzle. It noticed that a coal shortage had immobilized locomotives.22 of various war supplies.”22 Another, which had lain unused since October 1944, stated, “On 20 October, Reich Minister for Equipment and War Production reported that, on account of destruction of sharp decline: in armaments production.2° fully accepted Tedder’s strategy. It tolerated transportation attacks only in relation to what it considered an exceptional case—the Ruhr after the loss of Upper Silesia.28 In mid-February Lawrence, Wood, Bufton, and all the other members of the CSTC except the EOU representatives seized upon the loss of Upper Silesia as the crucial development that justified an air offensive to isolate the Rhenish-Westphalian industrial region.22 By the end of the month it had completely adopted the SHAEF position. Its meeting of 28 February was dominated by discussion o