tly increasing raw material consumption. With difficulty, he also shifted assets from consumer to military production. However, the most important reallocations were made within manufacturing industry. Political opposition and the need to provide for the thousands suffering from area bombing necessitated a comparatively high level of consumer output until 1944. Speer’s efficiency drive was made possible by his marriage of regional executive mechanisms to his central policy-making bureaucracy. Throughout, he used young engineers and businessmen to manage their own branches of the economy. While reaping enormous advantages in terms of expertise, the policy also permitted the most powerful of them, notably the iron- and coal-industry leaders, to retain a degree of independence that enabled them to wield massive if indirect influence over economic policy. Because neither the Party nor Speer could replace them, Speer was forced to harness them through self-governing mechanisms—the rings and committees culminating in Central Planning—to steer the economy The crucial link that enabled Speer to control the divergent elem-  ents of his system was the Planning Office under Hans Kehr. The other indispensable intermediary that physically united the entire system was the Deutsche Reichsbahn. It had matured with the economy both feeding upon and stimulating its growth. Aided by the inland waterway system, the Reichsbahn distributed the economy’s life blood—coal. The coal/transport nexus was the very core of the division of labor. As long as it functioned, the mechanism could continue to produce. If it were severed, then the economy would necessarily, though not immediately, crash to the ground. The Reichsbahn was also the conduit for the exchange of semifinished for finished goods, of manufactured articles for food, and for the transport of military formations. The DR was indeed ubiquitous and of transcendent importance.  The Reichsbahn had not expanded its capital base during th