t lacked a staff to prepare plans and gather information. It had no statutory power to enforce adherence to its decisions. It did no planning. Rather, it functioned as a board of appeal before which rival claimants argued their cases. This relatively unstructured format gave Speer free range for his sharp wit and ability to dominate personal encounters. Central Planning gained influence because of the bureaucratic power and dynamism of its de facto chair- man. It became Speer’s vehicle for imposing his priorities concerning the ordering of the economy on the other actors in the economic arena.  At the outset, Central Planning concentrated on reforming the chaotic method of steel allocation. This was perceived as a shortcut to reforming the entire war economy because steel was the basic commodity in armaments production. Controlling it would determine what weapons could be built and in what volume. It would also shape the distribution of other basic factors such as coal, iron ore, and transportation space. The old practice of parceling out steel according to demand was abandoned and replaced by distribution according to anticipated production levels on a quarterly basis.52  Raw materials not affected by steel allocations were apportioned by Speer’s ally at the Economics Ministry, Hans Kehrl.53 As head of Main Section II, Kehrl divided the commercial economy into “Steering Areas” (Lenkungsbereiche) corresponding to the ministry’s Economic Groups. He initiated procedures for the regular collection of statistical information and obtained the very able Dr. Rolf Wagenfiihr of the Institute for Research into Economic Trends to oversee the effort.54 Kehrl became a regular participant in Central Planning’s meetings. The result was that Speer gained powerful in- fluence over an area not officially within his purview and improved the coordination of economic affairs.  A weakness in both Todt’s organization and the Four Year Plan had been their reliance on others to gather info