ications were seriously disrupted and train movement was restricted to the nighttime. 32 The inevitable result  ee ee Pe Pee en Tee re ee ee Perera Saree ay eer re a Se oe ne Se a cc Foes ae Sc Scere ee ee eee ee en eee eee eee ar een eee ee i eee eee eee a ee eee eee ee ee eer ee eee ee ee See Ee We Rn OE Ens AEE ESAs CS SON SEES Be ES eee SE ee Sa ewees clamored for increased car space for iron ore. They did so primarily not because they faced an impending decline in output but because they refused to exhaust their stockpiles to support the Nazis.32 utilities or armaments works.24 sufficient locomotives, marshalling difficulties were badly snarling traffic. Telecommunications were seriously disrupted and train movement was restricted to the nighttime.22 The inevitable result was a coal shortage. At Ludwigshafen, for example, of eleven major plants monitored by the local Armaments Inspectorate, four suffered from declining coal stocks. These were directly dependent on supplies brought by rail from harbors on the Rhine.22 Mannheim harbor functioned with few interruptions throughout the summer, but moving the coal from the storage bins near the wharves was becoming increasingly difficult.34 A few slight problems arose obtaining components. The statistics concealed the strains under which plant managers struggled in order to find car space to get parts and ship their output.35 A feeling of impending catastrophe pervaded the area. Overall then, basic goods and armaments production in the west continued satisfactorily. But already reserves of raw materials, components, and expedients were being called upon just to keep pace. Only in the Saar had a disaster occurred. It was significant because of the speed with which it developed. It also bode ill for the Reich economy because it placed a heavier burden on the Ruhr steel and coke industries, which were already highly strained. In effect, the Saar had been eliminated and there was nothing that the Ruhr could do to compens