er. The third blow was landed on 14 October. The Eighth Air Force was unable to attack synthetic fuel targets in central Germany due to cloud cover so it chose to implement Hurricane I with a series of massive raids against railway facilities in the Cologne area. Two of the raids were made against the Cologne-Gereon marshalling yard on the left bank of the Rhine within walking distance to the north of the great cathedral. During one of the attacks, onlookers were shocked to see the massive Cologne-Miilheimer Bridge erupt in smoke and flame and then tumble into the Rhine, its roadway in one piece. The 14,808-ton, 69 5-meter-long bridge had been prepared for demolition in anticipation of the onrushing Allied armies. The triggers for the charges were in the Gereon marshalling yard. One of the raids had tripped them. Through a stroke of sheer luck, the bridge had been neatly dropped into the river, severing the vital coal artery to southern Germany. High priority was given to the repair  nfEnet Tha aearin an nnuntaend Aifhavlie in aAbtainina Lanes anrineant rohiah enn in chacet aunnler in Qnemanes and in anncnnchina tha atenatuen theauch tha hawk Lattnend chan aean seen dina  Page 102 of 282 37% alr forces.- olgnilicantly, 75 percent was dropped Dilnaly, using radar ihe oiennth Air rorce aione Contributed 1o6,o%% tons.= 1 ne cloudy weather caused the Hignith to put the einpinasis on trarnsporta- passages was reopened on 21 October. The loss of a month’s traffic and the restricted capacity of the waterway when it did reopen meant that hard coal traffic north and east, as measured at the Miin- Just when it seemed that the Ruhr link to central Germany would be restored, the Eighth Air Force cut the MLK at Minden on 26 October.42 The B-24S struck the waterway as it passed over the Weser effort. The crews encountered difficulty in obtaining heavy equipment, which was in short supply in Germany, and in approaching the structure through the bomb-battered urban area surrounding