ision Makers, especially Harris, spaatz, and ledder, their advisors access to them, the credibility that the intelligence agencies enjoyed with them, elected not to question this assumption.38 that Speer’s organization had superseded those of the Ministry of Economics and the OKW.42 R&A concluded, though, that it would be “impossible for the new organization to increase arms output.”44 put.45 In short, in relation to the crucial issues of stocks and the pipeline, both extremely important considerations in selecting bombing targets, MEW simply did not know what was happening. get. In its view, not unreasonably, it saw the Ruhr as the hub of the system and the marshalling yards as its most crucial components. It fully appreciated the importance of the inland waterway system and strongly recommended attacking it. COA developed a completely false picture of the DR. It considered locomotives to be the decisive factor determining a railroad’s capacity. It underestimated the share of freight carried by the railway, pegging it at half of all freight movements, and suggested that Germany could dispense with a third of current freight traffic. COA concluded that 17,500 loco- motives would have to be destroyed to harm the German economy, a task beyond the capacity of the air forces.42 With the approach of Overlord, USSTAF anticipated calls for bombing railways in Europe. General MacDonald asked Maj. W. F. R. Ballard of the intelligence section of the Mediterranean Allied Air Force (MAAF) to provide him with an appreciation based on experience gained during attacks on railways in Sicily and Italy. Ballard replied that transportation bombing could only help the ground advance, that it could not disrupt an economy because insufficient aircraft were available to conduct a comprehensive attack and because considerable industrial capacity in Germany was idle. He also thought that railways carried an insufficient share of freight in Germany to matter.52  EOU itself never studied tran