rman transportation system were bureaucratic in nature. Competition within the air intelligence apparatus and among the armed forces skewed appreciations. Almost as important was the understandable fear on the part of the air commanders of diverting their forces from what they considered to be more remunerative target systems and the lack of clarity concerning what bombers could actually accomplish. The Americans in particular had considerable difficulty understanding an economy that was very different from their own. It must also be kept in mind that the Allied air commanders had no historical precedents to turn to for guidance and such theories as had been developed before the war were not blueprints for success. Nevertheless, after bitter debate a workable compromise was achieved. It had to be constantly renewed. It was not elegant. It was less effective than it might have been. But optimum results in war can never be achieved.  When Allied air commanders confronted the problem of formulating a strategy for defeating Germany they were very conscious of the fact that what they were doing was wholly without precedent. Unlike army and navy commanders, they could not turn to historical examples for guidance. There were no theoretical guides based on experience to show them the way. What they had instead were the lessons that they themselves had learned during the current war and the speculations of afew writers who had addressed the problem during the interwar years. The most prominent of these w was  Page 57 of 282 21% weather the storm.122 The fate of coal supplies and with them Speer’s entire finely balanced industrial organism lay with the Allied bomber commanders. It is to them that we turn next. the lessons that they themselves had learned during the current war and the speculations of a few writers who had addressed the problem during the interwar years. The most prominent of these was the Italian Giulio Douhet whose work, The Command of the Air, was published