ad of RBD Essen, badgered Berlin to send him more empty cars,41 but they never came. It was not that the DR lacked cars. The reverse was the case: the Reichsbahn suffered from a glut of freight cars. For example, 6,400 oil tank cars were switched to carrying grain because they were surplus to the needs of the refineries, given the latter’s declining output.42 GBL-East was decide where to send delayed goods, especially coal and perishables.21Late in the month it designated six marshalling yards in RBDs Regensburg and Schwerin for the formation of unit trains to ship September, armaments shipments had first call on car space, followed by the harvest.34 By the middle of October, after the setback of the fourteenth, coal had moved into the spotlight with the ZVL Reichsbahn’s needs would be satisfied. Next the gas works supplying industrial regions, the Wehrmacht, electrical works, and armaments plants would be catered to, in that order.22 Emphasis was putting freight cars aside en masse—38,093 by the end of October.43 Yet the Ruhr could not ship coal in the quantity necessary. By the third week of October the Reichsbahn could carry only a quarter of its former daily average of 100,000 tons out of the region. The Reichsbahn itself claimed all but 2,000 tons of this.44 The problem was that sufficient cars could not be brought to where they were needed because of marshalling difficulties. The cars existed, but they simply could not be distributed properly because of the bombers. The RWKS felt the disruption immediately. But because of the paralysis of the waterway system it was actually forced to increase the share of its shipments moving by rail from two-thirds to three- quarters in October. Overall shipments were down substantially. In the Ruhr itself, stocks at the syndicate’s trading companies held steady But in regions dependent upon it, stocks dwindled to eight to ten days.4  Again the RVK arranged for the other syndicates to help the RWKS. It called for the Upper Si