h by confusion and by a lack of coal to propel the barges.128 During December, coal shipments on the river declined.122 Only a trickle by intervening directorates, causing congestion at marshalling yards far to the east.456 The Wustermark and Seddin yards in Berlin were bursting with immobilized trains refused by GBL-West.152 system of shifting the burden of marshalling to RBD Posen and elsewhere collapsed.152 The omnipresent telecommunications problem shrouded events in the west in a veil of rumor and specula- tion.162 GBL-East took energetic measures to maintain operations in RBD Halle, dispatching locomotives to it and transferring some of its marshalling responsibilities east. It took over sections of RBD Han-over.1 It also continued putting aside trains on a massive scale. Here as in the west, there was no car shortage. The problem was bringing cars to the places where they were needed. Nevertheless, by the end of December, 300 trains were in the GBL-East back-log.162 Bombing of marshalling yards in the west had weakened the Reichsbahn’s intricate marshalling and traffic control system throughout the Reich. RBDs Halle and Oppeln had suffered even though they had not been subjected to transportation bombing. Yet so long as they could operate at levels approaching normal, both the Reichsbahn and the German economy could continue to resist, though at hovelesslv inadeauate levels. The coun de grace that lead to the cessation of railwav and economic activitv was administered bv the Red Armv. On 16 Tlanuarv 1945. after reveatedlv painting the The number of freight trains passing through the region between the beginning of November and the end of January fell by 28.5 percent.122 By mid-January eighty-three trains were backed up in the tion.16° GBL-East took energetic measures to maintain operations in RBD Halle, dispatching locomotives to it and transferring some of its marshalling responsibilities east. It took over sections of RBD Han-over.1&! It also continued putt