ains were retained. Even coal shipments were confined to areas adjacent to the mines.52 Despite the massive infusion of labor and a drastic reduc- passages were closed to through traffic a third of the time. Hohenbudberg’s route was blocked for only six days and Miinster for only three. Passages at Hamm were impossible for only one day but here, as elsewhere, the capacity of the line was only about a third of normal. From the beginning of the Ardennes offensive on 16 December 1944 to the end of January 1945, Hohenbudberg was shut down for just four days. The Miinster route was always open, and the Hamm gateway was passable most of the time to through traffic but nonetheless operated at greatly reduced capacity Soest itself was closed just once but its route could be run only as far as Altenbecken. Geisecke was also closed only once. Vorhalle shut twice but its line was passable only as far as Siegen. Wedau was out of action for only five days; however, when it operated it confined itself almost entirely to slipping coal-laden unit trains to the Dynamit explosives plant at Troisdorf southeast of Cologne. Although the gateways were open on most days, hardly any coal was shipped to southern Germany®2 The lines leading from RBD Essen were open, yet traffic plummeted. A look at the plight of the RWKS provides additional evidence as to why. During December 1944 the overall amount of coal shipped by the Rhenish-Westphalian Coal Syndicate dropped 52 percent compared to September. Waterway dispatches fell by 68 percent and railway shipments by 47 percent. The decline in waterborne dispatches can be easily explained by pointing to the cuts on the DEK and MLK and the block at Cologne. But the sharp drop in railway movement. esveciallv since the gatewavs were freauentlv oven. cannot be clarified so simnlv In earlv November. instead of the usual 380 pairs of freight trains passing in and out of the Ruhr dailv. onlv Page 134 of 282 49% Reichsbahn also arranged the exchange of tra