LE PLCLALIU LL, LALULALIALIULL WAS OLIGLOM CLES, CELE VALIUM BLILILLES LLEOLYs DUE EELS LEOUULOM ULLLY 24d GELS PLALILE, 1IUE WUE OLIUELLIS, UL MUU A008L LIU 11d. DIELS LLCO Y Us LO PELLlUis AU LY West instituted by the Reichsbahn in September were finally mentioned in RRS and SHAEF appreciations in early November. They concurred that this meant a reduction in the DR’s overall capability.12 MEW, RRS, EOU, the Air Ministry, USSTAF, and SHAEF.121 Tedder immediately realized that the board was loaded in favor of oil.122 Consequently, much to the chagrin of the CSTC which bitterly resisted his move, Tedder compelled it to form a transportation working committee on 25 October.133 This gambit can be interpreted as an attempt by Tedder not only to balance the committee but also to en- amazed Speer and Ganzenmiiller, “I am not satisfied that. . . we are using our air power really effectively The various types of operations should fit into one comprehensive pattern, whereas I feel German war effort, from the political control down to the supply of troops in the front line is communications. ... In my opinion, our primary air objective should be the enemy’s communications.”135 attacks on trains.136 Unlike his opponents, he viewed the oil and transportation offensives as “complementary.”132 But the crucial distinguishing feature about transportation and the reason it was Tedder was successful. On 28 October, SHAEF adopted his plan and the combined chiefs ratified it.132 The new directive was issued on 1 November. It placed oil first and transportation second on the priority list with the same proviso concerning weather as under the special priority142 The CSTC was ordered to develop a comprehensive plan to meet Tedder s goals. It interpreted them as conclude by the end of 1944. Opportunities for visual attack would be limited. Synergistic effects from other types of attacks such as oil raids and Hurricane would be factored into the target list. Repeat attacks would be necessar