portunities for visual attack would be limited. Synergistic effects from other types of attacks such as oil raids and Hurricane would be factored into the target list. Repeat attacks would be necessary. Strikes on waterways would be coordinated with blows to marshalling yards. In selecting railway targets, centers combining marshalling and locomotive servicing would be given preference. Waterway targets would be chosen with an eye toward preventing long-distance haulage, thereby putting the maximum burden on the Reichsbahn. Germany was divided into nine transportation zones in descending order of importance. At the head of the list were the northeast approaches to the Ruhr followed by the Frankfurt-Mannheim area. Next came the Cologne- Koblenz region and then the Kassel area. These were followed by KarlsruheStuttgart, Magdeburg-Leipzig, Upper Silesia, Vienna, and Bavaria. If this plan can be criticized, it can be faulted for the low priority given to the Magdeburg-Leipzig region, where RBD Halle was already quaking under the strain, and to Upper Silesia, where RBD Oppeln was weakening. The failure to emphasize these two regions allowed the ZVL to continue to use GBL-East as a reservoir to sustain the west. But under the circumstances prevailing in the Allied command, especially with the desire to render immediate Page 120 of 282 44% ee Onan ne cen een ee eae ee en eee ne ee ae een ene ee ene eee eee nee ne anne ee ee eee meee en ee NE En eee eee en ene ene eT I gg en OO ee EE —E—E——E_Oeeee his move, Tedder compelled it to form a transportation working committee on 25 October.433 This gambit can be interpreted as an attempt by Tedder not only to balance the committee but also to en- that at present they are more like a patchwork quilt.”134 He then pinpointed the exposed nerve that Speer and Ganzenmiiller were frantically trying to shield: “The one common factor in the whole attacks on trains.126 Unlike his opponents, he viewed the oil and transportation offensives as