tees and rings increase in fighter production.£§ The incentive of the attacks, combined with a smouldering dispute between Milch and Karl Saur of Speer’s Technical Office, led to the formation of the Fighter Staff (Jagerstab) under Saur on I March 1944. Speer and Milch had not desired Saur’s appointment, but Hitler, acting on impulse, named him during a discussion at his headquarters.S2 He immediately set to which spread both fuselage and engine factories throughout the Reich and began ambitious projects to build underground and concrete protected plants.£8 Speer had resorted to the method used ence with Central Planning meetings taught him otherwise. As a result he bowed to the need to form a bureaucracy and turned to Hans Kehrl to hammer out the specifics. Equally important was Speer’s success in playing bureaucratic politics. He had vanquished Goring, Keitel, and Funk and overwhelmed Thomas. But in the hothouse environment of government in the Third Reich, functioning without the input of public opinion, the political competition flourishing within the bureaucracy immediately spawned new enemies. Some appeared outside the RMfRuK. Until the spring of 1944 the most troublesome was Fritz Sauckel. But Sauckel’s influence waned as his labor drives became less effective with the loss of the reservoir of foreign workers due to the re- treats of 1943 and 1944.  The uneasy coalition consisting of the Gauleiters, led by Martin Bormann, gained power and in the spring of 1944 intensified its opposition to Speer. Sometimes a member of this clique, sometimes cooperating with Speer, was the Reich minister of propaganda and Gauleiter of Berlin, Joseph Goebbels. He had repeatedly called for total mobilization of the economy to meet the heightened demands of the war.Z But he was reluctant to strengthen Speer’s hand and sought to increase his own authority, particularly over labor.  Another competitor of as yet uncertain strength was Heinrich Himmler, commander of the SS and German