so like to express my gratitude to Mrs. Carolyn Ocell and Dr. Richard J. Kopec of the Geography Department of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill who are responsible for the maps. Finally I would like to thank those who typed the various permutations of this study during its years of gestation. They include Ms. Gail Urbanek, Ms. Kathy Woods, Ms. Shelly Ackerman, and Mr. Paul Sherer. My special thanks go to Mrs. Sarah Sherer. Her wizardry with the word processor and intervention at a crucial moment are beyond all praise. I would like to thank Nancy Brown Brewer for her help. The errors that remain are the sole responsibility of the author. Page xii of 282 1% eee ee eee eee ee ee eee ene ee eee eee Oe eee eee eee Dee ee ee ee ee anne eee nnn eee oe ee eee eee eee ee ee ee eee eee ee eee eee ne nnn eee eee Ne FN NN OND BAO ON ONAN AD EDN DDD ND ND BLINN DILDO INNS Abbreviations  The following abbreviations are used in the text. For abbreviations used in the notes, see pages 199-200.  A-2 Intelligence Section on USAAF staffs  ACIU Allied Central Interpretation Unit  AEAF Allied Expeditionary Air Force  AWPD Air War Plans Division  Basa Bahnselbstanschlussanlage (railway automatic communications equipment) BBC Brown, Boveri et Cie.  BEWAG Berliner Kraft- und Licht (Berlin Power and Light) Bt Bahnhof (railway station)  BVL Bezirksverkehrsleitung (Regional Traffic Office) Bw Bahnbetriebswerk (Operating Works)  ccs Combined Chiefs of Staff  iret — ieee eee ~ pena Di ae | — ra researcher using s the Reichsbahn’ 's and the Speer ministry’s records at the Bundesarchiv in Koblenz can fail to be impressed by the sunny countenance and constant t readiness to help of Frau Meiburg. zu Kéln in Cologne. To the staff of the Public Record Office, Kew, go my thanks for their help. I am also grateful for the provision of literature by the Gesamtverband des deutschen Steinkohlenbergbaus. lee — pele  Bf Bahnhof (railway station)  COA Committee of Operations Analysts  CSTC Combi