The Soest gateway was struck twice at its source and twice at the Altenbecken Viaduct. The Geisecke gateway was bombed only once, at Kassel. An area raid disrupted operations at Vorhalle and Hagen, Glessen was pummeled three times, Frankfurt/Main twice, and Siegen once. The Hamm route was struck five times including twice at Hanover and twice at the Bielefeld Viaduct. Only seven raids were flown against the remaining gateway leading north through Miinster: two at the source, three against Osnabriick, and one each against Wanne-Eickel and Essen, both of which sent coal along the route. Overall 150 transportation attacks were conducted during the six weeks following the promulgation of the first transportation plan, but only 59 fell on the gateways. The intensity and focus of the attacks increased during the period of the Ardennes offensive. The Hohenbudberg flow was pounded eighteen times, the Wedau route eight times, Hamm twice, once at the great yard itself and once at Bielefeld. The Soest line was attacked only once, the Geisecke gateway twice, Miinster not at all and the southward-leading Vorhalle line seven times. A clear pattern emerged. Attacks were concentrated in the area from Cologne south to Karlsruhe. This was the result of Tedder’s desire simultaneously to weaken economic traffic and to support the armies. Given the predilections of the members of the CSTC, a slight but real preference was given to the second of Tedder’s aims. Of equal importance was the fact that the air forces as often as not ignored the CSTC  Page 127 of 282 46% armaments, and iron ore.’ But all of these improvisations were nullified by the continued attacks. Overall, the Ladbergen passage was closed from 4 November to 23 December 1944 and from 1 Jan- December.12 Then bad luck again played havoc on the Rhine. In late December the Autobahn Bridge and the South Bridge south of the ruins of the Cologne-Miilheimer Bridge sagged close to the water gateway leading north through Minster: two