as of crucial importance that the U.S. Army Air Corps was not an independent entity. Its formal subordination to what it perceived to be the staid land army would color its position on strategic issues throughout the war. Initially, Douhet’s ideas, along with the similar theories developed by William Mitchell, were incorporated unchanged into American air doctrine. But from 1935 the Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field, Alabama, modified their concepts into a doc- trine stressing “daylight precision” bombing of industrial objectives to defeat the enemy unaided. From the outset it was anticipated that the enemy would be Germany.2  All of this was extremely vague. No evidence of the effectiveness of bombs, no historical precedents could be marshalled to prove these theories. Air strategists in Britain and America reasoned from first principles and relied on expectations of what airplanes could do in situations that could be only hazily imagined. They assumed that economies would react to bombing in certain, favorable ways. In short, much of strategic bombing theory was based on faith. Adherence to that faith was deepened during the brutal struggle for existence that both the RAF and the USAAC fought during the  Page 59 of 282 21% eee es Se ee ee ee ee ee ee ne ee ee ee and ultimately lead to the collapse of the opposing state.4 after Germany’s fighting power had been reduced by blockade and bombing. This did not coincide with Douhet’s precepts. Nor did it agree with the prescriptions laid down by the organizational and trine stressing “daylight precision” bombing of industrial objectives to defeat the enemy unaided. From the outset it was anticipated that the enemy would be Germany.3 1920s and 1930s. Challenges to the theory of strategic bombing were rejected as being attacks on their very organizational existence, present or future. The leaders of the two air forces, especially the Americans, belonged to the first generation of aviators who were much more attun