n. Trailing far behind were mining and heavy industry.24 Gas performed a function similar to electricity. But its dependence on hard coal was far greater. It was produced in three basic forms32 and generally had a heat value of 4,300 calories per cubic meter.33 It was generated by two industry groups: municipal works and cokeries where it was obtained as a by-product. Total production in 1943 was a bit over twenty-nine billion cubic meters. The cokeries were the most important, providing over four-fifths of the total.34 All producers were united in a long-distance grid. The biggest consumer from the grid in the Ruhr area, for example, was heavy industry which took two-thirds of available supplies.35 Iron and chemical industries in the same area consumed three-quarters of the cokery gas produced there.36 The cokeries were located near their coal supplies. But the municipal works relied on transport, mostly rail, for their coal. Their consumption was enormous. Two typical systems, Duisburg and Berlin, consumed respectively 37,505  Page 23 of 282 10% — a SS Oe eee eee eee eee EEE eee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee lee  that, within certain limitations, allowed the exchange of supplies among regions.22 By far the heaviest consumer of electricity was industry which used almost nine-tenths of all that was generated.32 The branches with the biggest appetites were electrochemicals and electrometallurgy, which together consumed almost half of total production. Trailing far behind were mining and heavy industry.21 cokeries were the most important, providing over four-fifths of the total.24 All producers were united in a long-distance grid. The biggest consumer from the grid in the Ruhr area, for example, was heavy industry which took two-thirds of available supplies.25 Iron and chemical industries in the same area consumed three-quarters of the cokery gas produced there.36 The cokeries were located near tons and 76,736 tons of hard coal per month during early 1944