as closed for half of the period as well. The Geisecke gateway, struck at Frankfurt/Main, was closed for two- fifths of the period. The Hamm route received an extraordinary amount of attention: Hamm itself was battered, and Hanover and Bielefeld were also hit hard. The result was that this crucial gateway was unavailable for two-thirds of the period. The Miinster gateway to the north was bombed twelve times, on six occasions at its source. This sufficed to close it for a third of the period. Finally, the Vorhalle line was not attacked but because of congestion caused by raids elsewhere in the system, it operated at only half capacity. Using this crude accounting, it can be surmised that the Ruhr’s cru- cial coal gateways were available on average for only about half of the period of special priority.21  The consequences were severe. All coal traffic going south by rail from the Ruhr stopped from 14 to 18 October. Afterwards, instead of the one hundred coal trains for industrial consumers that ordinarily left the region daily only about twenty could find their way out.22 Central Planning considered this to be the greatest coal crisis since the beginning of the war.22 Meeting on 27 October to discuss armaments issues, Speer and Kehr] agreed that the bombing of the Reichsbahn was the most difficult problem confronting them.24 To meet the crisis they decided that it was essential to main- piece. The 14,808-ton, 695-meter-long bridge had been prepared for demolition in anticipation of the onrushing Allied armies. The triggers for the charges were in the Gereon marshalling yard. One of tain control of policy formation from the center and to allow local and regional authorities greater latitude in implementing it. Therefore they would extend their influence over the Reichsbahn. They recognized that there was a real possibility that Germany would disintegrate into a number of uncoordinated economic areas. But they were faced with the stark reality that there was little that