age 20 of 282 9% Explosives 21,775 24,232 34359 44009 (average tons per month) “Bericht tiber den Fortschritt der Arbeiten,” BA R25/vorl. 105-8; for rifles, munitions, and medium tanks see RMfRuK, ‘Aussto& Ubersicht 1940-44. Waffen, Gerate, Munition,” 20 February 1945, p. 1, BAR3/1729, f. 2. Trading patterns and regional specialization had developed according to functional and geographical factors resulting in a division of labor that enabled the aggregate to produce more than the mere of the two great coal storehouses—the Ruhr or Upper Silesia.  raw materials and grouped itself around its coal storehouses to cut costs. The first such relationship bloomed in the Ruhr.1 The pattern repeated itself elsewhere using different technologies and  everyday activity.  To the casual observer, coal is a mundane substance easily forgotten when considering gross national product or counting divisions. Its humble origins and ubiquity obscure its crucial importance and the sophisticated technology and distribution system necessary for its exploitation. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock formed by the combined action of pressure and temperature on plant deb- ris. Variations in the intensity of the formative forces and the length of time in which they act result in the creation of a wide variety of coals, each with its own energy content. Two basic families issue from this process—hard coal and brown coal. The most important are the hard coals, known to Americans as bituminous coals.4 They have the highest energy content and are the easiest to handle.  Ruhr hard coal had energy values ranging from 6,800 to 7,600 calories per kilogram. Upper Silesian hard coals were slightly less potent.4 Within this broad grouping were ranks, each with its own thermal value and burning characteristics. The industry mechanically shaped these ranks to fit the furnaces of their customers, thus offering optimum thermal qualities and reduced residues.£ These were marketed by coal traders as types. The c