cht but also to the German economy Attacks on rail centers in western Germany would contribute both to reducing the volume of military traffic flowing westward and to restricting and ultimately halting industrial activity in the Reich. Here was a breathtaking conception. Tedder sought to help the armies in the short run and paralyze the German war economy over the long run. He would fulfill his responsibilities for the invasion and simul- taneously realize the old dream of strategic bombing theorists of bringing down the enemy economy.&2  Tedder typified his idea as the “common denominator.” He and Zuckerman selected a target system that all types of aircraft could attack and that could achieve both short-term military and long- term economic results. His strategy called for a conceptually and geographically concentrated selective campaign using bombing tactics that required a moderate level of accuracy. He saw attacks on other systems, especially synthetic oil, as complementary. The key issue here would again be timing and allocation of bombing effort.  This conception was based in large measure on Zuckerman’s findings from a study of the bombing of the Sicilian and Italian railways that he had completed in December 1943.63 Using captured Italian railway records and impressions gained from his own inspection of yards, Zuckerman concluded that the most vulnerable components of a railway system were its centers of operation comprising repair shops, locomotive sheds, and control facilities. Destruction or incapacitation of such centers would gravely reduce a railway’s basic ability to generate traffic. He contended that since a railway was a complex organism composed of mutually interdependent parts, throwing these components out of equilibrium would generate shock waves that would reverberate throughout the system and lead to its paralysis. Zuckerman realized that pinpoint accuracy could not be achieved by bombers. Particular sections of yards could not be singled ou