ks were down to just a few days inspite of the reduction in demand by a fifth.225 Gas output by the municipal works had fallen 20 percent below the previous year’s level in December. Cokery gas production two-thirds to just three days in January 1945. In January, stocks of the 88mm antitank gun stood at just two weeks, a fall from the one-month stock held as recently as October 1944.22 Stocks of shells and powder were also extremely low. But as the army quartermaster general made clear on 26 December 1944, the army stocks were out of reach due to the chaos that had swept the Reichsbahn.212 Thousands of tons of powder waited at the factories to be taken to the Army Munitions Establishments.211 Even the procedure of shipping weapons and munitions directly from the factory to the com- 8 The Wheels Stop Rolling  War is not simply a clash of the material assets mustered by the contenders. It is also a contest waged on the psychological plane. In a campaign such as the strategic air assault on the German transportation system, the psychological and intellectual factors were pronounced. Unlike those of a direct military confrontation, results were difficult to determine because they appeared only after some delay and because information about them could be assessed in very different ways. The ambiguous nature of economic data under the best of circumstances makes even short-term prognostications difficult. But when the obiect of analvsis intentionallv conceals as much of this information as possible. when efforts to obtain it are hindered bv weather and bureaucratic  Page 158 of 282 57% But they could not be distributed because of transportation snags.202 of these commodities and of parts and components. Finally in January 1945, production collapsed. The armaments production index spiraled down to 227.298 This represented a 30 percent decline Thousands of tons of powder waited at the factories to be taken to the Army Munitions Establishments.214 Even the procedure of shipp