ons of Germany’s economic performance every six months, supplemented by summaries of current economic intelligence data twice a week. In April 1944 Enemy Branch was transferred to the Foreign Office and seemed to gain in prestige as a result.22 MEW had access to all overt and covert sources of information.  A constituent of MEW was the Railroad Research Service headed by C. E. R. Sherrington. RRS was created by the British railway industry at the outbreak of the war to provide advice to the Air  eetitin oe re a at ete et at re ee ee ee  Page 68 of 282 24% Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW) in London.2 Ultra was made available to combined headquarters, to the Army Air Forces commander Gen. Henry H. Arnold and his intelligence officers, to air Ministry.28 It too received all types of information and was instrumental in solving the Reichsbahn’s cipher. The intelligence structure serving the American air forces was newer and in many ways less developed. At the outbreak of the war, the Army Air Corps did not have an intelligence organization. It relied upon the army for data and profited from private study undertaken by the officers at the Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field, Alabama. When war began, the Americans hurriedly built an intelligence apparatus. But they relied on the British throughout the war both for facilities and for information. The haste with which the Americans formed their intelligence system dogged them until the end of the war. Arnold drew upon both his officer corps and civilians to form a number of ad hoc agencies to provide him with intelligence quickly while his regular organization was taking shape. Two of these, the Air War Plans Division (AWPD) and the Committee of Operations Analysts (COA), exerted an important if fleeting influence on U.S. intelligence appreciations. Of more lasting importance were three other bodies, one civilian, one military, and one composed of civilians in uniform. The civilian body was the Research and Analysis