facilities.124 The difficult problem of piecing together the complicated puzzle to form a reasonably accurate image of the German economy remained beyond most Allied intelligence agencies. Consequently they relied upon the ideas that they had developed during the preceding months. The influence of hard, current data upon this phase of the strategic: bombing debate was surprisingly slight.  The overwhelming factor shaping Allied strategic air planning during September and October 1944 was the notion that the war in Europe would be won in a few weeks. In September, EOU thought the war would end in October, USSTAF within three months, and MAAF sometime very soon.125 When the attempt to leap across the Rhine at Arnhem failed, the desire to end the war rapidly did not fade. On 19 October, General Arnold set I January 1945 as the target date to finish the conflict with Hitler and questioned current bombing priorities.126 Two days later, Gen. George C. Marshall, chairman of the American Joint Chiefs of Staff, asked the air forces to present a coordinated plan to end the war during 1944.127 At the Air Ministry, Air Commodore Bufton also pressed for an air strat- egy to end the war during 1944.128 A complicating factor was that not only Harris but Spaatz as well hoped to win the war alone in the immediate future through bombing.122  The search for the key that would rapidly end the war began with extraordinary intensity. Maj. Gen. Lawrence Kuter, Arnold’s assistant for planning, disappointed his chief in response to his query by arguing that it was too late for strategic bombing alone to end the war during 1944. He suggested that tactical and transportation targets just behind the front would be the most profitable objectives for the heavy bombers.122 This note of disappointment and the absence of new alternatives influenced the struggle over bombing strategy for the remainder of the war. The two most prominent alternatives were oil and transportation, and each had its advoc