industry cannot be increased as foreseen because of a shortage of coking coal, the war is lost.”2  The division of labor that shaped the German economy was based on coal. Distributing coal in sufficient quantity, reliably and in a timely fashion both to users in heavy industry near the mines and to consumers at the end of the production process far removed from them, depended upon the smooth functioning of the transportation system. A coal/transport nexus existed that bound the functionally diverse and geographically separate parts of the economic organism into a coherent whole. It was the foundation of all economic activity in Germany. Equally important was the transportation system’s role in the exchange of finished industrial goods among manufacturing centers and in the provision of food to the urban agglomerations where industry was concentrated.&  Page 32 of 282 13% STILE SLALLU IL ALI LIB IIL CUULUIIALIUT UL ILS SE PALALe Pal lo. £4 ROY LY ilo CLCIeril UPELALUL Wao LIE SLUMPS Ul IMU LL YY ALUMI CLE EWU SICA CU ai CETILELO, LAIR RULE ALI UP Pes olitolia. Le RULE PICUUIli~ Reichsbahn provided him with 22,000 more cars per day.3 As he had put it in May, “The coal situation can ... be considered as purely a transportation problem.”4 from October 1942 to March 1943.5 Blast furnaces in occupied France and Belgium and many rolling mills in Germany ran well below capacity due to a lack of fuel.6 On being informed of this Hitler With coal German industry could not function, and without adequate transportation it could not have coal. The dependence on transportation was multifaceted and self-reinforcing. It was the very heart of the Reich’s military might.  The transportation system consisted of two parts, the national railway (the Deutsche Reichsbahn) and the inland waterway network. Of the two, the Reichsbahn was by far more important. In 1943 it carried over three-quarters of all freight while the waterways bore only one-tenth.2 Moreover it moved 90 percent of all co