ising their successes in maintaining armaments production. He clearly depicted the irreparable losses suffered in coal and steel production due to transportation bombing. He pointed to major failures to reach his goals for tank and aircraft output. But unlike Saur, he did not call for a fanatical effort to continue armaments production. Instead he ambiguously called upon them to make a final sacrifice to preserve the nation’s basic economic structure so as to assure the continued existence of the German people.202 Just four days before, on 23 January 1945, he had issued his last and most desperate plan to sustain armaments production and continue the war. The “Emergency Program of the Fiihrer” provided for the completion of as many weapons as possible from existing stocks of parts, using the barest minimum of energy. Labor-intensive processes would be used whenever possible. Simple weapons such as rifles, machine pistols, hand grenades, and anti-tank rockets were granted highest priority. In addition, antiaircraft guns and the new ME-262 jet and ME-163 rocket-propelled fighters would be produced. These simple but effective weapons would be used by the most highly motivated men and the Volkssturm to stop the advance of the Red Army and the punishment dealt out by the Allied bombers. Once Upper Silesia and the Ruhr had been freed of their respective tormentors, in May and June 1945, anew program would be introduced. It would make the most efficient use of the Reich's reduced sources of raw materials to produce a new generation of highly effective combat vehicles, small arms, and aircraft. These would throw back Germany’s foes and permit a successful conclusion to the war.221 It was a mad. hopeless scheme. How long Speer took it seriouslv cannot be determined. It is clear that Hitler and the likes of Saur and Bormann took it in earnest. The Emergencv Program opeers Own Kunr otal, strongly opposed Kenris coal-transport space-allocation scheme and promised to lgnore 1t o