ship in the Nazi Party. But as a patriotic German, he cooperated with it in its economic and military ventures with the proviso that it not interfere in the internal matters of the railroad!  Dorpmiiller’s organization was well calculated to handle the rhythms of economic activity and, with sufficient notice, the brief military adventures contemplated by Hitler. It featured advance planning and provision for contingencies in its basic framework. The central organs formulated policy and oversaw daily operations. Regional and local bodies managed the system and actually ran the trains.  At the center, the Transportation Ministry was responsible for all forms of transportation except aviation. It was divided into six sections. The two most significant were for railways and inland waterways. Others dealt with ocean-going commerce, road transport, and general administrative matters.12 Within the Railway Section were ten sub-sections. For the management of traffic two matters of the railroad.11 were of overriding importance: E I, the Traffic and Tariff Section, and E II, the Operations Section. Assisting them was the Main Car Office (Hauptwagenamt, Hwa) established in the Central Office (Zentralamt, RZA) located in Berlin. Regional control was exerted by three General Operating Offices (Generalbetriebsleitungen, GBL). They were responsible for operational affairs within their areas with emphasis on the smooth and punctual flow of traffic. Because of their control of armaments traffic and close cooperation with the military, their existence was a closely guarded secret. They were headquartered in Berlin (GBL-East), Munich (GBL-South) and Essen (GBL-West) and provide a convenient means for observing the broad trends in the Reichsbahn’s operations. Associated with them were General Transportation Offices (Generalverkehrsleitungen, GVL) that coordinated waterway, street car, and road traffic with the Reichsbahn’s activities.13 The basic operational unit of the DR was the Reic