time secure in its own power base in the Party’s regional Gau structure.  A second group, the military was weakened by internal divisions. Each branch of the three services had its own weapons procurement office which set production targets and raw material requirements without reference to either of the others. Nominally above these bodies was the War Economics and Armaments Office (Wi-Rii Amt) of the Armed Forces High Command (Oberkom- mando der Wehrmacht, OKW) commanded by General Georg Thomas. Hitler’s policy of rapid rearmament, which eschewed the creation of reserves and avoided major reshaping of the economy, found no favor with Thomas.22 During the 1930s his shrill calls for thorough industrial preparations not only went unheeded but cost him political influence. In spite of his political isolation he did possess an asset of inestimable importance. Thomas had laboriously fashioned a local reporting organization consisting of military economics officers (Wehrwirtschafstoffiziere) and armaments officers (Riistungsoffiziere). Germany was divided into fifteen military regions (Wehrkreise) each of which was also subdivided into commands. A defense economics or armaments officer or both were Ihe economic history of Germany during Nazi rule may be divided into three periods [he first stretched Irom the seizure of power in January 19353 to September 1936. A dual policy of labor creation 1937 Goring decreed the formation of the gigantic Reichswerke Hermann Géring AG (RWHG), using forced loans and drafts of engineers from existing iron and steel companies to create a management staff overnight.5 The complex would exploit the low-quality iron ores located near Salzgitter in central Germany.£ Named to lead the new combine was Paul Pleiger, an energetic manager cum techno- promised only long-term benefits. He also set a drastically shortened timetable for the first appearance of significant quantities of synthetic gasoline.1! The whole scheme worked toward the realiza- i