hip Principle.”32 Dynamic individuals would master problems through the application of energy and would not only clear Germany’s strategic rear but also enhance its economic position.33 and permitted the growth of administrative empires that did not necessarily share the general system’s objectives. But it also gave scope to dynamic individuals who made indispensable contributions to the war effort.  The first such individual was Fritz Todt. He had made his reputation as head of the construction team bearing his own name which had rapidly and efficiently erected the first segments of the Autobahnen and the West Wall. He also held other governmental and professional posts. With his prestige, Todt was able to make recommendations for economic reorganization incorporating ideas of advanced control and technological rationality that promised to increase production while making few additional demands for resources. These ideas found favor with Hitler. Sensing this, Goring attempted to harness Todt’s rise for his own purposes by naming him General Inspector for the Special Tasks in the Four Year Plan on 23 February 1940. Todt: seized the opportunity to consolidate his position by arranging with Hitler to be named minister of armaments and munitions (Reichsminister fiir Bewaffnung und Munition, RMfBuM) on 17 March.35 Todt’s subsequent efforts won only a qualified success. He engineered a modest increase in arms production and enacted reforms that laid the groundwork for later improvements. But ultimately he failed because he stumbled badly in the jungle of bureaucratic politics.  The new minister’s greatest error was his decision not to create a supporting bureaucracy. Instead, he established committees composed of leading manufacturers and engineers who would steer production using the concept; of industrial self-responsibility. In its initial form, which combined some boards responsible for the production of certain weapons and some organized regionally, the structure wa