the performance of both the Reichsbahn and the inland waterway system. But the repair crews limited the spread of the paralysis. Sharpened measures to focus on final arms production were implemented and stocks were reduced. The most serious losses in the last area were in coal where winter supplies could not be accumulated and existing caches shrank. The output of selected arma- ments continued to rise, although the overall armaments production index sank.  Beginning on 1 November the First Transportation Plan caused further reductions in the performance of the transportation system. A major effort by the repair crews and poor target selection allowed the Reichsbahn to rebound during mid-November. But its energies were fatally sapped in the effort. Production continued to rise in certain areas but at an ever slower rate. Speer applied add-  Page 178 of 282 65% 2S eee ———E—EE—E—EE—~_—————E———————E—E ee SS eee eee ee ee ee rr er EE Se ee ee itional managerial palliatives and appointed special deputies to assist him, but the situation was fast slipping from his grasp. The destruction was too great and his own apparatus was disintegrating.  The culmination was reached in late December 1944 and early January 1945. The Ardennes offensive threw the Allies into despair, and Tedder’s influence waned. But they responded with an even more terrific pummeling of the Reichsbahn. The effort to support the offensive combined with the effects of three months of pounding from the air broke the DR’s back. Coal distribution, with the alternative of water transport denied by bombing, was paralyzed. Car placings spiraled downward ever more rapidly. The hoped-for turn in the military situation did not occur, and Speer’s gamble of relying on elasticity rebounded on Germany with a vengeance. Coal stocks were either exhausted or could not be redisposed. Components deliveries were hopelessly snarled. Finished goods could not be delivered. Telecommunications virtually collapsed, rendering cent