uacy. First was the increase in the average length of a trip from 183 kilometers in 1938 to 375 by the end of 1943. This was caused by the expansion of the geographical area served by the Reichsbahn as a consequence of Hitler’s territorial acquisitions and by the dispersal of industry to escape air attack. Much of the dispersal program was carried out in a haphazard fashion with little attention given by the companies involved to transportation requirements. A frantic rush developed in March 1944 when the aviation industry was scattered broadcast to escape the American air raids conducted against it in February. The result was a temporary respite for the factories and an increased burden on the marshalling yards which were given more destinations to serve. Longer runs to remote locations kept cars en route longer, requiring more cars to move a constant volume of freight.22  The decisive reason, however, was that the war had mushroomed far beyond the proportions originally contemplated by Hitler. Reichsbahn officials at the time and after the war, and many histor- ians as well, have concluded that the DR was not adequately prepared for war.22 They cite the greatly increased demand for transport that allegedly exceeded the Reichsbahn’s capacity as early as 1938. In fact, the DR was well prepared for the short wars of conquest envisioned by Hitler. It had untapped potential idled by the Depression and left unexploited by its own inefficiency. Its capacity had been increased through capital improvements carried out before the war. Governmental investment in transportation and especially in the Reichsbahn rose by 40 percent from 1937 to 1938.24 Exten- sive improvements were made to lines.25 Throughout the 1930s the Reichsbahn had fought to increase the speed of its passenger service between major urban areas such as Berlin, Hamburg, Cologne, Frankfurt, and Stuttgart, the very centers of economic activity. To accommodate the crack expresses, roadbeds and signals were impr