gh disorganization in marshalling. Nor was there a locomotive shortage. By the end of October the size of the DR locomotive park was 2 percent higher than at the beginning and the reserve was 39 percent greater.108  There was no vehicle shortage and the strafers were irrelevant. The problem was marshalling. Cars could not be brought to where they were needed because marshalling in the Ruhr and along the  Rhine was in chaos and in Halle and Oppeln it was tottering. The result was a major coal famine that did not spare the Reichsbahn itself. By the first of November its stocks of locomotive coal were dawm ta inet twrealwe dave AN nerrent helaurthe minimiim 109 Necnite thaca nrnhleme it wac the Reichchahn’e tack alane tn eunnly the eauntry urith eaal Rw late Aectoher the waterwave wera carrving a  Page 115 of 282 42% percent in October, compared to the average for the fourth quarter of 1943. Again the cause was confusion in marshalling for the number of locomotives in service increased.22 Hard coal production, it could be used. The Oberhiitten Gleiwitz complained as early as 27 September that it lacked car space to ship components graced with Hitler’s special “Panzerblitz” priority.%4 drop in supplies. Stocks fell by 9 percent. Consumption rose so that by the end of October stocks sufficed for one and a half months’ production.122 But a new factor limited the nominal value of these stocks. Supplies from Upper Silesia continuously deteriorated in quality causing the jump in consumption.12 Actual electricity generation by BEWAG was 4 percent lower than the monthly average placings were a staggering 39 percent lower in October. Brown coal car placings were 40 percent lower.19 The Main Car Office calculated in September, before the worst losses were sustained, that the DR satisfied only 5 6 percent of nominal demand for car space of all types. This was a third less than in September 1943.104 The backlog had mushroomed to an average of 1,155 trains per day during the last t