f the workers of Europe labored for the Third Reich unwillingly and therefore comparatively unproductively. During the war French output never attained its prewar level.2 What contributions were derived from these quarters, except Bohemia, were lost to Germany from August 1944.  A moderating factor was that about a fifth of the American war effort was directed against Japan. Furthermore, Germany was fighting on interior lines. With every step forward the enemy moved olr Arthur Marris, believed would result in Germany's defeat without a major land campaign.+ farther from its sources of supply while the German armed forces moved closer to their own. The more the enemy lost in maintaining long lines of communications, the more Germany gained, along with the ability to switch its military forces among the various fronts more easily. Moreover, the German army remained tactically superior to its opponents almost until the end.£ Nevertheless, even considering these moderating factors, Germany required every ton of steel, every airplane, and every tank that it could produce. Speer and Ganzenmiiller recognized this. Given the unquantifiability of the modifying factors, to say nothing of the quality of political and military leadership on the two sides, it is impossible to calculate with precision what reduction in production short of total col- lapse would have been decisive. A conservative estimate shows that in 1943 Germany was outnumbered 3:1 in tank production. Would a 4:1 ratio have made a difference? Would an advantage of 6:1 or 7:1 in aircraft instead of 5:1 have accelerated Allied victory?Z No one can say. But if strategic bombing could reduce arms output by a quarter or a third, not below targets but in real terms, then it could conceivably cause the finely balanced, highly strained German industrial-military system to topple. Therefore, as a rough guide, this measure, one-quarter to one-third reduction, will serve asa standard against which to measure the results o