oal. Yet they continued to fall until even the locomotives could not be satisfied, forcing additional reductions in traffic. The disease fed itself until the sufferer was completely debilitated. Traffic declined in RBD Oppeln due to the disruption of marshalling and the resultant coal shortage, not due to a shortage of cars, for here too they were being put aside by the thousands, and not due to a shortage of locomotives. As in RBD Essen, RBD Oppeln had more locomotives than at any time during the war and had a hefty reserve in the bargain.154 As in the west, the administrative structure in the east disintegrated. Companies looked only to their own interests. RBD Oppeln was deluged with requests for special allocations of car space. In mid-December it began simply to ignore them.155 GBL-East, so long the calm preserve used to sustain the west, began to dissolve in confusion. Even the most vital shipments to the Ruhr were refused by intervening directorates, causing congestion at marshalling yards far to the east.156 The Wustermark and Seddin yards in Berlin were bursting with immobilized trains refused by GBL-West.152 Individual carload shipments virtually ceased in early December.158 The effort to send empty cars to RBD Essen collapsed as the trains simply disappeared in the chaos reigning in the Rhineland. The  areata Af aLifbin ns thn Leeda Af nena Wins 4. DDN Nance 2H A AManeihaen 2nllannnd 160 TL Antenne A bal anne antinnn eal aw. shane dnd arenes te thn erent te 8 een AL ene 2d nen 1a  Page 147 of 282 54% rare and erratic. Some 7,991 tons of completed armaments clogged the warehouses and storage yards of the city’s factories.123 At the Giulini aluminum plant 4,700 tons of semifinished aluminum Gravenhorst obstacles.132 But the effort on the Elbe was stultified both by confusion and by a lack of coal to propel the barges.128 During December, coal shipments on the river declined.122 Only a trickle by intervening directorates, causing congestion at marshalling ya