lory to support the invasion. Neither Spaatz nor Harris thought that the invasion would succeed and each the Reich’s economy crashing to the ground. But his bombers were suffering increasing losses which culminated in the disaster over Nuremberg of 31 March.1 In contrast, in the last week of February a source of economic information of great value. But again, so long as the Reichsbahn could use its land lines, little could be gained from Rocket. A complementary source of signal intelligence was the MAGIC decrypts of the reports transmitted to Tokyo by the Japanese ambassador in Berlin. Occasionally these provided a glimpse of events in Germany. Their value was reduced by the diplomats’ lack of expertise in economic matters and because the Germans intentionally misled the military attachés. MAGIC was available to the American planning staffs in Washington and through them to the Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW) in London.2! Ultra was made available to combined headquarters, to the Army Air Forces commander Gen. Henry H. Arnold and his intelligence officers, to air force commanders and their intelligence officers, and to air division and even group commanders.22 A major problem confronting the Allied air command was the sheer volume of information available and the even greater demands for additional data, Hundreds of photo reconnaissance missions were flown monthly and a veritable horde of prisoners waited to be screened. But the number of aircraft available to photograph targets was limited, and prisoners and business travelers did not always come from the right area or have access to the types of information desired. So too with Ultra. During 1943 an average of 84,000 Enigma messages was decrypted monthly by the Government Code and Cypher School at Bletchley Park, which was responsible for decrypting all Enigma in the European theater.22 But many more were either not decrypted or decrypted only after a delay. The decisions about what places would be photographed,