e result of bureaucratic competition but in response to an air-raid emergency. It marked the first weakening of the system. The initial economic emergency caused by an air raid occurred in the summer and fall of 1943 as a result of the Eighth Air Force’s attacks on the ball-bearing plants concentrated at Schweinfurt. The response hit upon by Speer was the appointment of Philip Kessler as Plenipotentiary for Bail-Bearings. Kessler brilliantly mastered the problem and did not disturb the regular armaments organization. Speer had been fortunate because Kessler was an unusually selfless individual. But an ominous precedent had been set.65 He would not be so lucky in the future.  The second armaments emergency caused by air raids erupted in the week of 19 to 25 February 1944. The American Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces, using escort fighters to protect their bombers, conducted a series of violent attacks against airframe plants in Germany and Austria. Speer, supported by Gen. Adolf Galland, Inspector of Fighters in the Luftwaffe, had long been clamoring for an increase in fighter production.££ The incentive of the attacks, combined with a smouldering dispute between Milch and Karl Saur of Speer’s Technical Office, led to the formation of the Fighter Staff (Jagerstab) under Saur on I March 1944. Speer and Milch had not desired Saur’s appointment, but Hitler, acting on impulse, named him during a discussion at his headquarters.£2 He immediately set to work with ruthless energy and within weeks had not only made good the losses suffered from the bombing but even doubled fighter production: He also hastily initiated a program of plant dispersal, which spread both fuselage and engine factories throughout the Reich and began ambitious projects to build underground and concrete protected plants.®8 Speer had resorted to the method used before to solve this second armaments emergency. The result was organizational chaos and the emergence of a powerful if clumsy competitor from w