industrial efficiency that enabled Germany vastly to increase its armaments production after February 1942. The ideological and political obstacles confronting Speer were more complex than has frequently been recognized. They did not consist of a set of coherent plans characterized as “Blitzkrieg economics,” as has recently been made clear.2 The Nazis did indeed divert a considerable proportion of national resources to rearmament.  Page ix of 282 1% German economy during World War II.4 Moreover, only one study deals with the Deutsche Reichsbahn.2 At the same time, there is a dearth of serious works that examine the impact of strategic bomb- consist of a set of coherent plans characterized as “Blitzkrieg economics,” as has recently been made clear.Z The Nazis did indeed divert a considerable proportion of national resources to rearmament. But two crucial factors prevented them from reaping the full return on their investment. First, their efforts were hamstrung by their own gross inefficiency born of haste and internally contradictory ideological imperatives. Secondly, their buildup did not correspond with the foreseeable ultimate proportions of the war that they hoped to ignite. There can be no doubt that the Nazis sought to adapt then current ideas of mechanized warfare to the Moltkean strategic tradition of quick victory. They hoped to avoid another prolonged attritional contest similar to World War I. They sought short though not necessarily small wars. This is an important consideration when weighing Nazi economic mobilization and the Reichsbahn’s place in it. The scale of measurement must be the effort made by Germany during World War I, not current standards. Speer and his cohorts in his ministry and the Reichsbahn worked in that intellectual environment, not our late twentieth-century one. Fie articulated a response that was uniquely suited to it. The keys to Speer’s reforms were the improvement of production practices through his revitalization of the networ