d been severed. Practically the en- tire burden of keeping Germany’s industrial body intact now rested on the Reichsbahn.  But the Reichsbahn itself was reeling under the relentless pounding from the air. Nowhere was the situation worse than in the Rhineland and the Ruhr itself. The Eighth Air Force followed up its 14 October success at Cologne by blasting the city’s marshalling yards on eight further occasions during the next four days. Other attacks focused on GBL-West and the western reaches of GBL-South. All the vital coal gateways were struck either at their sources or along their tributaries. The Hohenbudberg route was bombed on twenty-four occasions, largely because it was on the left bank of the Rhine and closest to the area of ground combat. Therefore it enjoyed the combined attentions of both the strategic and tactical air forces. It was out of service throughout the period of special priority.  Page 103 of 282 37% our own powers of resistance.”§ Three sharp blows, one of which was a lucky break, sufficed to sever all of the Ruhr waterway outlets. On the night of 22-23 September, Bomber Command attacked the bombing now made themselves felt. The 2 October attack on the marshalling yard at Hamm destroyed fifteen carloads of repair tools destined for the DEK. Other raids on Miinster and Osnabriick Just when it seemed that the Ruhr link to central Germany would be restored, the Eighth Air Force cut the MLK at Minden on 26 October.12 The B-24S struck the waterway as it passed over the Weser Wedau was bombed twice, and yards along its route eight times. The RWKS maintained a temperature chart of the gateways between 16 September and 18 October, that is, for thirty-three days. The Wedau gateway was closed for two-fifths of this period. Soest, which was bombed once, was closed for half of the period as well. The Geisecke gateway, struck at Frankfurt/Main, was closed for two- fifths of the period. The Hamm route received an extraordinary amount of attention: Hamm i