iation. The forerunner of the new interest group was the Reichsvereinigung Kohle (Reich Coal Association, RVK) created on 3 March 1941. The RVK was a reaction to Todt’s and Goring’s initiatives in the energy sector. In a shrewd move, the companies obtained as the organization’s head Paul Pleiger of the Reichswerke Hermann Goring. As chief of the RWHG, Pleiger had been a nettle-some opponent of the established coal interests. But he had also won their respect. The RVK was empowered to take all measures necessary to increase production, improve labor conditions for the miners, control sales and relations among the coal syndicates and their members, organize the regional distribution of coal, gather and evaluate statistics, and plan transportation measures.3& The Reichsvereinigung Eisen (Reich Iron Association, RVE) followed this model. Its goal was to eliminate the confusion arising from the competition among the twelve entities that then had a hand in allocating iron by superseding them. It would present a united front for both the iron and the steel industries to Central Planning. As time would show, it would also become a serious opponent of the RVK and the Reichsbahn. To head the new organization, formed on 29 May 1942, Speer called upon the maverick Hermann Rochling, owner of the Réchling’sche Stahlwerke, Vélklingen, Saar.22 As vice chairmen Speer named Alfred Krupp and, the man who became its de facto head, Walter Rohland of United Steel (Vereinigte Stahlwerke A.G., VSt) and leader of the Main Committee for Panzer Construction. On 20 March, Speer created the best known of his managerial organizations, the Committees (Ausschiisse) and Rings (Ringe).£8 The committees were placed under Karl Saur, head of the Technical Office in the Speer ministry while the rings were entrusted to Walter Schieber, head of the Armaments Supply Office (Riistungslieferungsamt). The committees controlled final production of particular types of weapons while the rings organized the produ