, however, that dispersal had increased the vulnerability of the economy to disruption of transportation.22 MEW’s appraisal was basically accurate but because of its many qualifications, it was hardly useful in the bureaucratic struggle where shrewdness, bolder assertions, and more specific information would prove decisive. EOU attempted again to land the first blow by sending Kindleberger to France to gather data on the effects of the Overlord transportation campaign. On 19 June he reported to Twenty-first Army Group and EOU that none of the evidence that he had obtained showed that the Germans had been handicapped by raids on railway centers. Instead, cutting bridges had exerted a noticeable influence on traffic.276  A bit over a month lacer, on 25 August, Solly Zuckerman received an urgent telephone call from Maj. Derek Ezra. Zuckerman had followed Tedder to the continent and was then in Paris directing the search for information on the impact of the transportation plan on the French and Belgian railways. Ezra had been seconded to Zuckerman’s Bombing Analysis Unit (BAU) from SHAEF G-2. He was a vociferous opponent of Zuckerman’s plan. He asked the scientist to come to his office immediately. There Ezra showed him two long rolls of what appeared at first glance to be wallpaper. They were actually the traffic flow charts of the French National Railway (Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer Francais, SNCF) from 1940 to the end of May 1944. Zuckerman snatched them and raced to Tedder’s office. He and the Deputy Supreme Commander sprawled on the floor in the antechamber and pored over them. They showed clearly that French railway traffic had declined precipitately soon after the bombing began. The most striking feature of the charts was the unmistakable, catastrophic drop in coal shipments.22 Subsequent investigation showed that a brutal coal famine had swept the country. Coke traffic disappeared and minette shipments to the Saar and the Ruhr were reduced to a trickle.