. The Food and Agriculture Ministry warned that delays could cause most of the crop to spoil. On 6 September, Speer and Ganzenmiiller decided to give food ship- ments from the east first priority for the next two weeks.15  Similar problems faced coal shippers. Despite Ganzenmiiller’s call, the volume of car space available for coal continued to decline, preventing factories from accumulating stocks for the winter. What the head of the DR had warned against had happened. Attempts were made to restructure traffic to increase the movement of coal. The RWKS reluctantly agreed to make greater use of unit trains and to form them at the mines as was being done in Upper Silesia.16  The issue of iron ore shipments exploded during the summer. The RVE claimed that it was being shortchanged in the allocation of car space and that any reduction in ore supplies would mean a decline in iron and steel outovut. During Tulv. ore receivts from Sweden drovved as a result of Stockholm’s decision. taken under intense pressure from the Allies. to cut off suvvlies to the Reich. The RVM  Page 84 of 282 30% OL, TESULICLIOIS WELE PldACOO O11 LLIE CAVEHMOILULS OF ALIIIIUTIIIOLL= 1 ills WEARTIE SS TE allt Lila Lie LSSUE Ith LIE LL ALISVOLLALIOI SECLOL LESUIVEU ILSEdt LILO ad LACE VELWECT LIE VOLTIVELS AUIILY LO 1ililiet Udill~ every chance, every potential avenue had to be seized. Ganzenmiil1er ordered that military shipments to front line units should enjoy first priority. Next, coal would be moved. Then would come the Liebel underscored Ganzenmiiller’s warning that the Reich faced a dire emergency and warned that it could be overcome only with the assistance of the Reichsbahn.13 decline in iron and steel output. During July, ore receipts from Sweden dropped as a result of Stockholm’s decision, taken under intense pressure from the Allies, to cut off supplies to the Reich. The RVM and Rochling agreed to compensate by increasing shipments of minette.12 But during August, overall ore movements f