as vetoed. Instead a member of the Party’s old guard, Fritz Sauckel, Gauleiter of Thuringia, who enjoyed the support of Martin Bormann, was given the post. Worse yet, he was not subordinated to Speer.52 This failure proved a constant source of difficulty in the future as Sauckel refused to coordinate his labor drives with Speer’s industrial policies.  empowered to resolve disputes arising among the services. But the heads of the three branches of the armed forces were left responsible for the direction of their own programs.*! Allocation of labor On 8 February 1942, under circumstances that have not been fully clarified, Todt died in an airplane crash while leaving Hitler’s headquarters at Rastenburg.42 Viewed solely in relation to the Year Plan.48 He also instituted a regular series of meetings with Hitler to resolve armaments production issues. Realizing that Hit-1er had the dilettante’s penchant for absorbing the technical details hanced his own prestige and stayed close to the Fiihrer, a crucial consideration in the byzantine politics of Nazi Germany Speer’s first centralization measure was realized after complicated negotiations with the formation of Central Planning (Zentrale Planung) on 22 April 1942.51 The new control organ consisted of Speer, Paul Kérner, and Erhard Milch. Korner was Géring’s representative from the Four Year Plan. He was the weakest of the three in terms of both political power and strength of personality. Milch was state secretary of the Air Ministry and responsible for air armaments production (Generalluftzeugmeister). An aggressive individual, Milch worked well with Speer, and his presence assured consideration of the Luftwaffe’s needs. Nominally, Central Planning was intended to set long-term priorities. But the name belied its function. It lacked a staff to prepare plans and gather information. It had no statutory power to enforce adherence to its decisions. It did no planning. Rather, it functioned as a board of appeal before which r