nother review of Allied air strategy. On 8 January 1945, General Arnold asked his staff to reevaluate the strategic bombing campaign, take a critical look at priorities and prepare a new set of proposals. Kuter responded for the air staff by admitting that severe mistakes had been made. But he could offer nothing radically new. He simply suggested focusing on short term goals and coordinating the transportation and oil offensives more effectively. He specifically rejected Zuckerman’s concept of transportation bombing as too time-consuming, as if all the bombs that had fallen on marshalling yards and canals over the previous four months had never been dropped.2  Given what we know was happening in Germany while Kuter wrote his report, it might seem incredible that such mistakes could have been made. But Kuter and his colleagues in Washington and in London at the Air Ministry had fallen victim to the expansive claims made for air power and so expected results in an unreasonably short time. They believed their own myths and so were unable to see  victarw urhen it heckaned Althaioch accurate annraicale af the Raich’s aennamie etrictire ware availahle thew were ionared hv mact air ctratacicts acnarially amano the Americance It nraved diffierlt victory when it beckoned. Although accurate appraisals of the Reich’s economic structure were available, they were ignored by most air strategists, especially among the Americans. It proved difficult for them to learn while engaged in operations. In this matter they reacted as most bureaucrats do. The responses that had been ingrained before the crisis and that had ensured promotion were difficult to cast off when they proved ineffective. This was especially difficult when the proliferation of intelligence agencies fostered bureaucratic egotism. These factors working against an accurate appreci- ation were reinforced by a serious lack of hard information. The gravest void stemmed from the dearth of photo intelligence. ACIU was bese