Krupp-Gruson 145,000 tons of bauxite per annum, or about a fifth of total German capacity.®5 In 1943 it obtained 303,808 tons of bauxite, all by rail and all from regions outside of Germany, enabling it to accumulate Brown Coal Syndicate (Rheinisches Braunkohlensyndikat, RBS) which arrived both by rail and by barge.66 The company operated its own coal-fired electricity generating plant to support its voracious The Ruhr’s tributaries stretched across western and southern Germany encompassing the bulk of the nation’s most important enterprises. All were united in their dependency on the region for energy and to varying degrees by reliance on it for semifinished goods. Together they formed a coherent production unit capable of providing Germany with the preponderance of her war material. The tempo of the unit’s activity was set by the coal industry at its heart.  Upper Silesia presided over a similar but smaller system. In 1943 it produced 1.1 million tons of raw iron, just over 5 percent of the national total and 2,350,000 tons or 9 percent of Germany’s steel output.s2  The eastern coal region’s major dependency was Berlin. The national capital was the home of major automotive, railroad, aviation, electrical engineering, and armaments plants. A good illustration of the area’s energy position was the Berlin Electricity Works (Berliner Elektrizitatswerke, BEWAG, also known as Berliner Kraft- und Licht). BEWAG served all the city’s manufacturers and like them was dependent upon the shipment of coal from distant sources. BEWAG operated nine plants in and around the metropolitan area that generated 2.1 billion kilowatt hours of electricity in 1943, or about 179 million KWH per month. It received an average of 129,000 tons of coal each month by rail and water with Upper Silesia contributing 85 percent. The remainder came from the RWKS. Stocks averaged seven weeks’ consumption.£8 The utility’s head was Dr. Richard Fischer, who was also the Reich Load Distributor.  These firm