in coal shipments.22 Subsequent investigation showed that a brutal coal famine had swept the country. Coke traffic disappeared and minette shipments to the Saar and the Ruhr were reduced to a trickle. Inspection of yards hit by the bombers made clear that the decisive factor was the disruption of marshalling. Analysis of other SNCF records demonstrated that by 26 May, that is, before the attacks on the Seine bridges, the volume of rail traffic in France had fallen to just over half of the January 1944 level. By D-Day it was 70 percent lower and by the end of July a staggering 90 percent lower.28 There had never been a car shortage. Nor had there been a lack of locomotives. The vehicles available, and the Reichsbahn had constantly fed more into the system from Germany, could not be used because marshalling was in disarray.22 Captured documents proved that even military movement had been badly delayed. The First SS Panzer Division had required seven days to travel from Louvain to Paris, a distance of only 300 kilometers.82 Of the 100 supply trains from Germany needed by the armies in France each day, by May an average of only thirty-two actually arrived.81 Tedder’s plan had accomplished its purpose of slowing and reducing the scale of logistical support and reinforcement 12 September.2! Speer had decided to have the German economy live solely for the present in the realization that failure to survive the present would mean the end to all hopes for the future. movements had not been spared. At the same time, GC and CS solved the cipher used by the German police.?2 With the deterioration in telephone service, coal, steel, and chemical companies increas- on traffic.26 the bombing began. The most striking feature of the charts was the unmistakable, catastrophic drop in coal shipments. Subsequent investigation showed that a brutal coal famine had swept the 1944 level. By D-Day it was 70 percent lower and by the end of July a staggering 90 percent lower.78 There had never b