nst the German transportation system. The main difficulty lay in the faulty assessments of the overall performance of the German economy. The reasoning was that if the German economy still had control over vast reserves of unused capacity, then transportation bombing would take too long to pay dividends. Coupled with this was the mistaken conclusion that the Reichsbahn also had surplus potential. Equally important was the superheated atmosphere of bureaucratic competition that prevailed in Allied air headquarters.  ——— eee eee oe ee ee “—_eCmClmlm Uh  The temperature rose to fever pitch when the two newcomers, Tedder and Zuckerman, appeared around the end of 1943 and proceeded to advocate a target system that was anathema to both Harris and Spaatz. Tedder and Zuckerman were the main protagonists of transportation bombing during the months to come. Tedder engaged in a duel with Speer over the fate of the German war economy. While waging the contest, both the Deputy Supreme Commander and the Armaments Minister had to fend off difficult bureaucratic opposition in their own camps.  Tedder and Zuckerman did not conform to the image of air strategists. Tedder, although a career RAF officer, was a taciturn intellectual, not given to the bluster of the cockpit types. He disdained formalities and loathed the process of decision by committee and the creation of intelligence appreciation by scholastic compromise that dominated the Allied command. Zuckerman was a civilian whom Tedder retained personally to assist him in planning. He had been born in n South Africa and educated i in zoology at Oxford where he later taught the subject. Zuckerman looked at problems a as part of a railway. He especially underscored the importance of those in the Ruhr.26 In another report prepared at the same time, he deprecated attacking locomotives, even bombing their servicing whom Tedder retained personally to assist him in planning. He had been born in South Africa and educated in zoology at Ox