ber and October. The new wave of attacks that followed virtually eliminated it as a useful economic resource. The bombers were assisted by the onset of ice toward the end of December.  The Dortmund-Ems Canal at Ladbergen was attacked three times by Bomber Command. On 4 November the waterway was drained again along thirty-eight kilometers of its length and 299 vessels were backed up. The second raid, on 21 November, inflicted heavy damage just as it was about to be reopened. Ten kilometers of the canal were drained again. Finally, the Lancasters shut the waterway again on 1 January 1945. Vessels had been hurried through at night since 23 December and the canal drained during the day to fox Allied air intelligence. But ACIU saw through the ploy and the raid  etannad all marramant 6 transportation DOmMbDINs Nad disrupted the German economy. ihe key question now was wiiether the Aled alr comMmimanaers couid agree among themseives to continue the DombpInNs ana force 1ts COl- accounted for 55 percent of the total.5 stopped all movement.& Repairs were pressed with vigor. After the 4 November raid, the Reich Tugging Service attempted to coordinate countermeasures itself. But the disruption of telephone service caused by the attack prevented it from doing so. On the tenth, Speer burst onto the scene and took matters into his own hands by raising the priority for repair of the waterways to the same level as that of the Reichsbahn. He ordered a special draft of young waterway-construction specialists withdrawn from the OT to be thrown into the effort. He also ordered Pleiger personally to see to it that miners were sent to the scene as rapidly as possible to accelerate the work. The response to the 21 November raid was faster. Work began as soon as the bombs stopped falling. Over 1,000 OT laborers were committed. Pleiger brought in 3,000 miners. But cold that delayed the setting of concrete and lack of heavy earth-moving equipment delayed the work.Z The Inland Waterway Section