atedly put him off. In mid-March the young minister, reluctantly admitting that his accomplishments had been for naught and his organization shattered, collided with Hitler, who sought a last nihilistic wave of destruction. On 15 March 1945, Speer submitted a memorandum to Hitler that described the Reich’s economic plight without reservations. Further resistance was hopeless, the people had done their duty. Now, he pleaded, the fighting should be stopped to preserve the bare existence of the German people. Three days later Hitler rejected Speer’s appeal and ordered that Germany be laid waste before its enemies. This marked the final break between Speer and Hitler and the end of resistance by the most stubborn and capable of the economic elite. Speer persisted in subverting the scorched-earth order and in protecting the Reichsbahn from the order for its destruction issued on 29 March.22  By the end of March the British and the Americans had vaulted across the Rhine, and on 1 April their pincers snapped shut around the Ruhr. Three weeks later the Soviets encircled Berlin. After years of bombing, the physical occupation of much of Germany, and the crushing of its armed forces, resistance finally ended only after Hitler committed suicide on 29 April. The Americans had occupied the offices of the RWKS at Kettwig in early April. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS) immediately began sifting the syndicate’s documents for information. Dorpmiiller had fled to Malente in Schleswig-Holstein, where segments of the Reich ministries had moved to administer the northern part of the country. Ganzenmiiller went to Bavaria to oversee operations in the south. Both were taken into custody by the Americans and questioned by the USSBS in May.  Speer and Kehrl had agreed to separate. Speer would move south with the majority of the government and Kehrl would go north to supervise production there. But Speer hoped to be named economics minister in Dénitz’s successor regime and