cht 1940-44. Waffen, Gerate, Munition,” p. 1. lory whom they mistrusted as a man experienced only in the use of fighters and who they feared would therefore misuse their bombers. Acompromise was hammered out to satisfy Harris and Spaatz. On 29 February, Churchill ordered that Eisenhower’s deputy, Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder would have authority over all three air commanders and would prepare a plan for using both the strategic and tactical air forces to support the invasion. The strategic air forces would come under Tedder’s authority only when the air plan for their use was agreed.15 Consequently, Spaatz and Harris were given the power to block or at least delay any employment of their forces with which they disagreed.  The pressures bearing upon the two stratetic air force commanders in March 1944 were immense. Both saw Overlord as a threat to their organizational freedom and to their dream of victory through air power. With every day that passed, as Overlord loomed closer, their fears increased. Harris had been pummeling Germany’s cities since 1942. He pleaded that just a few more blows would bring the Reich’s economy crashing to the ground. But his bombers were suffering increasing losses which culminated in the disaster over Nuremberg of 31 March.16 In contrast, in the last week of February and the first week of March, the Eighth Air Force's escort fighters had dealt the Luftwaffe a shattering defeat over Germany. The American bombers could now range over Germany and strike targets of their commanders’ choosing without fear of crippling losses. Winning air superiority over Germany created the preconditions both for a concerted strategic air offensive against economic targets and for the invasion. Spaatz, therefore, thought that he had a golden opportunity to realize his dreams. But the door had also been opened for what he feared could be the greatest diversion of all. A crucial turning point had been reached. Fundamental decisions had to be made concer