opulation. He speculated that the psychological impact of this offensive would exceed its physical effects and ultimately lead to the collapse of the opposing state.1  MLA aLinin a eiaian 2f 4 aeetale 44 A454: The shining vision of a quick and decisive air offensive that would prevent the agony of the trenches from recurring proved extremely seductive. Two states embraced it. In 1918 Britain created an independent air force, the Royal Air Force, largely to prosecute a “strategic,” or independent air offensive against Germany. When rearmament began in 1936, the RAF, and especially its strategic offensive arm, Bomber Command, received the highest priority in resource and financial allocations. British strategists reasoned that the small island country could not liberate the continent until after Germany’s fighting power had been reduced by blockade and bombing. This did not coincide with Douhet'’s precepts. Nor did it agree with the prescriptions laid down by the organizational and intellectual father of the RAF, Hugh Lord Trenchard. But it did open the door for a powerful air offensive against German urban areas, which the commander of Bomber Command from February 1942, Sir Arthur Harris, believed would result in Germany’s defeat without a major land campaign.2 One other prerequisite for victory set by Britain’s strategists was the formation of a great coalition against Germany. The key member would be the United States. In America the concept of victory through strategic bombing had also been adopted by the U.S. Army Air Corps (U.S. Army Air Forces after 20 June 1941). Here the attractions were its technological nature, its appropriateness for attack- ing a modern, complex economy, and the dynamic that it would initiate for the creation of an independent air force. It was of crucial importance that the U.S. Army Air Corps was not an independent entity. Its formal subordination to what it perceived to be the staid land army would color its position on strategic issue