-mining sector was especially vulnerable to disruption from indirect causes such as transportation snarls.55 The RRS produced a number of accurate portrayals of the Reichsbahn and its economic part of a railway. He especially underscored the importance of those in the Ruhr.56 In another report prepared at the same time, he deprecated attacking locomotives, even bombing their servicing sheds and facilities, unless the assault were part of an offensive against marshalling yards.5Z In March 1941 Sherrington completed another paper that was distributed both to Bomber Command and the primary carrier of Ruhr coal, it was the most important single element in the German economy.®8 Sherrington’s reports were concise and generally accurate. They can be faulted only for not noting interpreted the role of the ZVL. In its view trucks were unimportant and the canals were being used to try to relieve the railway. It suggested a series of attacks to isolate the Ruhr and Upper Silesia but paradoxically emphasized bridge targets and line cuts.£2 In an appreciation of the Reichsbahn’s political position, it argued the the DR was not heavily nazified, but that it was fundamentally politically conservative and would be a reliable, patriotic supporter of the regime.S1  In sum, no single report by any of these agencies presented a completely accurate image of the Reichsbahn or the division of labor. But many made good approximations. As a group they offered almost all the components for a useable assessment. During the war the basic division of labor in Germany had not changed. Only the nuances were new. Therefore these reports based on pre-war information, lacking accurate, detailed, current statistics, could nevertheless have formed the intellectual basis for an effective air offensive against the German transportation system. The main difficulty lay in the faulty assessments of the overall performance of the German economy. The reasoning was that if the German economy still had control