f manufactured articles for food, and for the transport of military formations. The DR was indeed ubiquitous and of transcendent importance.  The Reichsbahn had not expanded its capital base during the 1930s. However a number of technical improvements, when added to its already sound management system, meant that when war erunted it was fullv un to its task. Onlv when the short-war strateev failed was it overburdened. Then it too henefited from Sneer’s emphasis on efficiencv. Albert Ganzenmiiller brought fresh blood  Page 175 of 282 64% ents of his system was the Planning Office under Hans Kehrl. erupted it was fully up to its task. Only when the short-war strategy failed was it overburdened. Then it too benefited from Speer’s emphasis on efficiency. Albert Ganzenmiiller brought fresh blood to the upper levels of management, and it mastered the new challenge. Unused reserves of strength were tapped and because movement of bulk commodities did not increase, the crucial marshalling yards were able to distribute successfully the mushrooming output of the armaments factories. The dispersal program, though ill planned and hurriedly carried out, brought the marshalling yards to the limit of their potential. Thus by the spring of 1944 Speer had engineered armaments booms in 1942 and the first half of 1944 while staying within the psychological and technological parameters of the administrative and industrial systems. The organism was very finely balanced, with industry and the Reichsbahn both operating at or near maximum attainable efficiency Speer and his cohorts had used their limited re- sources to adapt to an unexpected situation very well indeed.  The same cannot be said of the Allied air forces that sought to dismember Speer’s system. Most importantly, with a few crucial exceptions and until it was quite late, they misunderstood the nature of the task facing them. Those segments of the Allied apparatus that did approach an accurate understanding were obstructed in tr