was apparent to all, but the consequences were not. Only Ganzenmiiller, Speer, Kehrl, and a few others at the highest levels of the RMfRuK, the Transportation Ministry, and in industry clearly understood how the fragile division of labor was being ripped apart. It is not surprising then, that Allied intelligence, lacking the information available to Speer and the others, encountered extraordinary difficulty in deciphering what was happening in Germany They also engaged in bureaucratic infighting that reduced their ability to interpret accurately such information as they did uncover. The strengths and weaknesses of intelligence organization among the democratic western Allies were highlighted during this period. The multiplicity of bodies ensured a lively debate that might have resulted in a balanced interpretation. Information was shared among the various entities freely. But this resulted only in acceptance, not questioning of dubious assertions. Mere frequency of repetition added to their credibility. Indeed, the debate actually led to the suppression of evidence. All of the Allied air intelligence agencies agreed that photoreconnaissance provided insufficient information to evaluate the transportation offensive.112 The very clouds that intensified the attack concealed its results. They were also unanimous in pinpointing the lack of reliable ground sources.18 The Special Measures West instituted by the Reichsbahn in September were finally mentioned in RRS and SHAEF appreciations in early November. They concurred that this meant a reduction in the DR’s overall capability.112  Page 116 of 282 42% Speer and Kehrl managed to maintain output of selected weapons at a very high rate. The overall armaments production index declined by only 9 percent during the period of special priority11! By comparison, national hard coal production tumbled by 31 percent.1!2 The difference is explained by the consumption of stocks of coal and components. In this way assault gun output, e