ted the flow from Duisburg, Oberhausen, and Essen southward along the right bank of the Rhine to Diisseldorf and its Derendorf yard and ultimately to Mannheim. North of Wedau on the left bank of the Rhine in RBD Cologne was Hohenbudberg. It could manage about 6,000 cars per day and manipulated the traffic moving down the left bank of the Rhine to Cologne. Finally, in the directorate of the same name, was Miinster which, though capable of processing only 2,000 cars per day, regulated the northward flow to the North Sea ports from the massive freight and coal yard at Wanne-Eickel.22 There was also a significant reverse traffic in manufactured goods, food, and iron ore. O GEISECKE Finally, in the directorate of the same name, was Minster which, though capable of processing only 2,000 cars per day, regulated the northward flow to the North Sea ports from the massive freight [he second coal pivot, Upper Silesia, was served by RBD Oppeln. Traffic here was much simpler, generally flowing out of the region westward over the so-called Coal Railway to Berlin and Saxony. Almost as important was the traffic passing northward on the Magistrale line to Gdynia on the Baltic. Coal was dispatched from there to the North Sea ports and Scandinavia. The Magistrale carried 60,000 of Upper Silesia’s daily export of 160,000 tons of hard coal.21 RBD Oppeln’s most important yard was at Gleiwitz in the midst of the coal field. It could marshal 6,800 cars per day. Overall RBD Oppeln accounted for 12 percent of general freight car traffic and originated a third of hard coal movements.22 Acting as an intermediary between the two major coal regions and the industrial groupings to the west, north, and east was RBD Halle. It accounted for 7.5 percent of freight car traffic and originated 45 percent of all brown coal shipments.2 Its importance is belied by its overall freight car placing share since its operations were highly complex and were executed under extreme time pressure so as not to disrup