43 monthly average. Coke stocks at the same time were an astronomical 974.3 percent above normal. As a direct result, gas production sank, enabling the works to satisfy only one-sixth of demand.16&4  Coal movements on the Oder in November and December were slightly below normal. But problems developed during December. Coordination between the mines, which worked irregular shifts, and the DR and barge operators was poor, causing cars and vessels to arrive for loading when the pits were closed. In January 1945 the Reichsbahn was unable to provide enough cars to transfer coal from the mines to the harbor at Gleiwitz. It cancelled passenger trains in an attempt to free locomotives and save fuel to support this traffic. But this prevented the already overworked stevedores from going to work. Finally, ice appeared on the Oder in early December and severely restricted traffic in January.16° Han-over.16 It also continued putting aside trains on a massive scale. Here as in the west, there was no car shortage. The problem was bringing cars to the places where they were needed. Nevertheless, was still operating, would grind to a halt 162 However, even this was a problem for the future. Hitler was fighting the war with the barest economic expedients and he ignored Speer. sank, enabling the works to satisfy only one-sixth of demand.164 going to work. Finally, ice appeared on the Oder in early December and severely restricted traffic in January.16 The impact of these difficulties was felt in Berlin. Arrivals of coal-bearing barges from the Ruhr had virtually ceased. But into December, vessels appeared steadily from Upper Silesia.16 Coal receipts by waterway were a fifth below target in November, entirely as a result of the DEK and MLK obstacles.182 At the end of December, arrivals fell markedly and stopped on Christmas because of ice on the Oder.168 Overall coal deliveries to Berlin in December were a third below normal.1£2 As a result coal supplies at the city’s gas works droppe