y under Albert Speer and their struggle against Allied bombing suggest a few observations of enduring significance. At the most basic level they make clear the importance of transportation to the operation of any modern industrial economy. More particularly, the Reichsbahn’s experience illustrates how a sound organization that has prepared for difficulties in advance can resist massive external pressure for a prolonged period if its leaders do not tamper with it during a crisis. To the end, the Reichsbahn was inventive, flexible, and persistent in attempting to perform its economic tasks. It represented the best of traditional German civil service practice in that it loyally and efficiently made an unstinting effort to serve the state. It also embodied the worst of the old ideal of unquestioning submission to superior authority whatever its ends. The crucial importance of mastering the flow of data is well illustrated by Speer’s system. The improved exploitation of raw materials and labor and the better use of the Reichsbahn would have been impossible without the creation of the ZVL and the Planning Office. Speer’s production success also demonstrates how enhanced efficiency can achieve rapid increases in industrial output. Germany’s  Page 182 of 282 66% ce a ee eee ee ee ee ee oe ee ee eee a ee) eee ee eee ee et ne eee ee) Se SOLES Fe ES Se pe ee SES RES SERS UE SS ee Oe Oe ee ee eee long resistance in the face of heavy odds demonstrates that complex modern industrial economies frequently possess unknown reserves of strength that can be tapped by creative managers acting energetically in peace or war. The greatest obstacles to their doing so are the political definitions of what is economically feasible and desirable. Moreover, this account clearly reinforces the notion that business may not subordinate the profit motive to the national interest even in times of direst crisis and that Nazism and big capitalism were only allies of convenience.  Looked at from the mi