onsidered supplies of iron, steel, and coal to be satisfactory for the moment. After the change in its position in 1943 it presented a very confusing picture, underestimating available stocks but suggesting that no shortages would arise that would inhibit arms out- put.43 In short, in relation to the crucial issues of stocks and the pipeline, both extremely important considerations in selecting bombing targets, MEW simply did not know what was happening.  MEW estimates of specific types of output were only slightly better. It badly misjudged the number of machine tools available to the German economy and the number of workers using them.4& Consequently it was in no position to estimate the efficiency of industry in the Reich and therefore could not appreciate Speer’s measures. Admittedly a correct judgment would have been very difficult to formulate. But simply projecting British practices onto German industry caused MEW to misinterpret the clues that were available from captured documents. MEW also vastly overestimated German aircraft output until the last half of 1942 and then after the last half of 1943 underestimated fighter production by 58 percent and total output by a third.47 It had greater success judging tank output. During 1940, it overestimated it by 39 percent. But by June 1944 it was underestimating it by only about 7 percent.48  MEW estimates of overall German economic performance and war production were used by both the British and Americans. The two Allies developed a wide variety of interpretations of the geographical division of labor prevailing in Germany and transportation’s role in it. Among the Americans, AWPD considered the Reichsbahn to be operating at near capacity and to be an inviting tar- Allied strategic air forces were the views of the decision Makers, especially Harris, spaatz, and ledder, their advisors access to them, the credibility that the intelligence agencies enjoyed with them, elected not to question this assumption.38 that Sp