S ee ee ee Se Fe Oe ee ES Ne a eee ee ee ee See ek ee accounted for 55 percent of the total. here resumed on 9 November. The Eighth tried again on 6 December and failed.1! Traffic east of Minden flowed freely until it was strangled by attacks at Giavenhorst near the junction with the DEK Elbe as a substitute, hoping to employ the Reichsbahn to bring coal to the river and then to move it eastward by barge.44 But the effort collapsed in confusion.12 It continued to use the long detour over the Coastal Canal and the Weser. But over half of the vessels departing on this route never arrived at Minden. Some were lost to strafers, some had their loads confiscated, others were caught on the DEK. Ice on the eastern part of the MLK halted even this pitiful expedient in mid-December.1& The Ruhr’s other waterway outlet, the Rhine, was also blocked for most of the period. Clearance work at the Cologne-Miilheimer Bridge continued but made little progress. During early November the autumn rains raised the river level, permitting barges to pass over the wreckage with reduced loads. But the combination of ice and the lowering of the river almost completely stopped this by 26 December.12Z Then bad luck again played havoc on the Rhine. In late December the Autobahn Bridge and the South Bridge south of the ruins of the Cologne-Miilheimer Bridge sagged close to the water due to air raid damage.18 The result was an excruciating situation for the bargemen. When the water was high enough to pass over the Miilheimer Bridge it was too high to allow movement under the South and Autobahn bridges. When it was low enough there, it was too low at Miilheim. Then on 16 January 1945 the road bridge at Neuwied tumbled into the Rhine after an attack by the Ninth Air Force. All traffic ceased.12  As on the canals, attempts were made to bypass the Rhine bridge barriers using the Reichsbahn.22 But by the end of December the RWKS was again distributing coal locally.21 From 14 October to 31 December only 5