ssive bombing capacity would be devoted to each. One can sympathize with Spaatz’s staff, beleaguered as it was with requests for support from the army, attacks on V-Weapon sites, and submarine pens. But it was their business to form an accurate appraisal. In this instance that meant seeing that attacks on oil and transportation, as Ted-  dav had mada olaar arava cnamnlamantard nat cantradintariy av camnatine oteataciag  Page 97 of 282 35% meant for the future. It was certain, however, that dispersal had increased the vulnerability of the economy to disruption of transportation. MEW’s appraisal was basically accurate but because of its the bombing began. The most striking feature of the charts was the unmistakable, catastrophic drop in coal shipments.Z2 Subsequent investigation showed that a brutal coal famine had swept the 1944 level. By D-Day it was 70 percent lower and by the end of July a staggering 90 percent lower.28 There had never been a car shortage. Nor had there been a lack of locomotives. The vehicles available, and the Reichsbahn had constantly fed more into the system from Germany, could not be used because marshalling was in disarray.22 Captured documents proved that even military movement had armies in France each day, by May an average of only thirty-two actually arrived.8! Tedder’s plan had accomplished its purpose of slowing and reducing the scale of logistical support and reinforcement der had made clear, were complementary, not contradictory or competing strategies. EOU resorted to its usual gambit of attempting to preempt the opposition by submitting a new bombing proposal in July. Its primary purpose was to assist the ground forces in what it considered to be the last offensive of the war. Again it tapped oil as the most important target system.83 Its plan reflected the optimism, almost euphoria that swept through the Allied command during July and August as the British and American armies raced across France. Portal repeatedly suggested that a