ort since October.$4 The OKW complained that instead of the forty-nine trains that it usually received each day carrying munitions, in February only eight or nine arrived per day.£° Stocks of the Type 44 machine pistol and the K98 rifle dwindled to just three days, light field howitzers to two days, Panther tanks to one. Supplies of rifle bullets, 88mm antitank ammunition, and heavy field howitzer shells sank to just two weeks.S6 These stocks could and had little ammunition.8 Elasticity had been exhausted by months of transportation bombing. When the western Allies began their offensive across the Rhine in March and the Soviets steamrolled space. Members of the staff were to be named in agreement with the RVM.22 At the moment of collapse Speer nearly absorbed one of the few entities in the economic sphere that had retained its in a message to the remaining directorates, Dilli admitted that the Reichsbahn could no longer fulfill its responsibilities. He would attempt new palliatives to maintain a crude minimum of traffic to support the populace. But he had no faith in them. The game was up.24 On 7 March, Pleiger also admitted defeat. In a letter to Speer, he stated that the Ruhr had been isolated since 23 February. The combination of the isolation of the Ruhr and the loss of Upper Silesia meant the end of the coal economy. Coal could not be delivered to anyone, even the most important consumers. Collapse was un-avoidable.22  Riidiger Schmidt and the RWKS drew the same conclusion. For weeks, Schmidt had observed with horrible fascination the decline of RBD Essen and the starvation of the syndicate’s dependents. At the board meeting of 28 March 1945 he painted the blackest picture to the syndicate’s members. He also reported to them Gauleiter Terboven’s order to shift the syndicate’s operations east to Detmold. Terboven was one of the fanatics who harbored hopes for a change in fortune and who wanted to destroy all economic assets and evacuate the population before the