to be exchanged among economic regions. The transportation system itself relied on coal for energy, and the prime mover of coal was ing on the Nazi economy. Most focus on the struggle for air supremacy which was only a preliminary to the actual offensive. No attempt will be made to list the superfluity of works on the subject.3 and the reports of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey.4 A few other works have examined the fate of certain industries under the bombing. To help fill this gap, new documentary sources that arose at the time and have persisted to the present concerning the nature of the German war effort and how the disruption of its transportation sector by bombing contributed to its collapse.6 A the system’s largest component, the national railroad, the Deutsche Reichsbahn. The Reichsbahn was an extensive network that connected the raw material base of the German industrial pyramid to the administrative pinnacle, the military consumer of armaments, and every intermediary level. The marshalling yard was its heart. Here the division of labor found physical expression. Here the Reichsbahn gathered its strength. Here movement on the entire rail net was controlled. But the marshalling yard was also its Achilles heel. These yards were vulnerable to a host of forms of delay and disruption, which would rapidly reverberate throughout the railroad and the economy if unchecked. Moreover, a few marshalling yards closely associated with the division of labor set the pace for the entire mechanism. They were of overriding importance and the Reichsbahn made extensive provision to shield them from the vicissitudes of war. The second leading idea is that working within the constraints set by the division of labor and Nazi economic ideas, Albert Speer imposed a system of industrial efficiency that enabled Germany vastly to increase its armaments production after February 1942. The ideological and political obstacles confronting Speer were more complex than has frequen