1,000 OT laborers were committed. Pleiger brought in 3,000 miners. But cold that delayed the setting of concrete and lack of heavy earth-moving equipment delayed the work.Z The Inland Waterway Section in Berlin, along with Speer, also weighed in. Speer ordered that barge operators sail at night to avoid strafers. The Inland Waterway Section attempted to transfer boatmen from the Ruhr to the MLK east of Minden where they could help increase traffic on the Elbe. But the Reichsbahn could not carry them there, and the order to march the distance was not well received. Boatmen were also withdrawn from the army and sent back to their ships. But the military obstructed this initiative. Arrangements were made to use rail lines to shuttle coal from barges caught on one side of the break to vessels waiting on the other. On 19 December the RVM established new priorities for freight carriage on the waterways. Coal was given first place followed by food, armaments, and iron ore.8 But all of these improvisations were nullified by the continued attacks. Overall, the Ladbergen passage was closed from 4 November to 23 December 1944 and from 1 Jan- uary to 8 February 1945.  Aside from these setbacks, bad luck continued to dog the bargemen. On 20 November the Eighth Air Force struck a synthetic fuel plant at Gelsenkirchen. Some stray bombs dropped a nearby bridge into the Rhine-Herne Canal, blocking it and thereby severing access to the DEK from the Ruhr. Forty barges were trapped west of the cut. Incredibly, on 23 November during a similar raid, another  Page 125 of 282 45% —_—seo — ee ee ———e Transportation raids could be flown under overcast conditions, using radar2 3 stopped all movement.£ brought in 3,000 miners. But cold that delayed the setting of concrete and lack of heavy earth-moving equipment delayed the work.2 bridge at Nordstern fell into the RHK blocking it again.2 It took over a week to clear the wreckage of the two structures. The result of these five attacks on the DE