romised only long-term benefits. He also set a drastically shortened timetable for the first appearance of significant quantities of synthetic gasoline.1! The whole scheme worked toward the realiza- industry was not altered.18 Advanced production methods were not employed and the demands made on both capital and labor, with a few critical exceptions, were modest compared to Hitler's assigned to all of these areas.21 They were responsible for the allocation of contracts and raw materials, and for preparing quarterly reports that were submitted to headquarters in Berlin.22 Thomas, Approaching the Wi-Rii Amt in organizational development and matching it in political impotence after 1937 was the Reich Ministry of Economics (Reichswirtschaftsministerium, RWM). The RWM attempted to influence economic affairs through its ministerial offices and a complicated series of compulsory organizations that grouped all economic activities geographically and functionally. The ministerial apparatus was the simplest. It consisted of seven main sections in Berlin supported by regional State Economic Offices (Landeswirtschaftsamter). In addition, the ministry also operated Reich Offices (Reichsstellen) that attempted to ration selected raw materials. Atop the geographical organization was the Reich Economic Chamber (Reichswirtschaftskammer). Its subordinate branches were composed of regional Economic Chambers (Wirtschaftskammern) and local Chambers of Industry and Commerce (Industrie- und Handelskammern). The functional structure was composed of National Groups (Reichsgruppen), of which there were seven in 1938, regional Economic Groups (Wirtschaftsgruppen), and the Specialty Groups (Fachgruppen).23 The middle and lower levels of the functional structure as well as the entire geographical edifice had been co-opted by big business, especially heavy industry, to serve its own purposes. The interest groups and cartels sim- ply used the chambers and groups as cloaks behind which they pursued