sehe Reichsbahn (DR), addressed an inspirational message to his subordinates. He praised their efforts during the preceding twelve months and promised them that they would be rewarded with success for German arms during the coming year. But nothing that Ganzenmiiller could write could conceal the rapid decline that his railway had suffered during the preceding three and a half months. Because of merciless Allied air attacks, the Reichsbahn was reeling and could no longer perform its economic role. The Reich economy was spiralling downward toward the abyss in spite of Ganzenmiiller’s and his friend Albert Speer’s efforts. Ganzenmiiller and Speer had assumed office during a similar though less severe emergency three years before. Speer had instituted a series of economic reforms that encompassed the Reichsbahn and enabled Germany to increase its armaments output spectacularly. To understand the crisis facing Ganzenmiiller and the Reichsbahn in January 1945, we must trace the course of Speer’s reforms and see how they fit into the history of the German economy under Hitler.  The economic history of Germany during Nazi rule may be divided into three periods The first stretched from the seizure of power in January 1933 to September 1936. A dual policy of labor creation and expansion of armaments production was followed. It was predicated on Hitler’s fears of domestic political unrest stemming from high unemployment and from his need for a measure of military power to back his diplomatic intentions. Unemployment was reduced to pre-Depression levels, the GNP neared that of 1929, and government expenditure was shifted decisively toward armaments.2  Page xix of 282 3% message to his subordinates.1 He praised their efforts during the preceding twelve months and promised them that they would be rewarded with success for German arms during the coming year. The second period began in September 1936. In response to a foreign exchange shortage and the opposition of the minister of