lin.£5 Clearly, Speer had realized that the practice of naming special commissioners with extraordinary powers was counterproductive. ground.s® Kammler seized men and resources without consulting Speer, spreading confusion and consternation. he ordered that plants should work to the maximum of their capacity until the last possible moment before they were lost.62 cient coal be given to private homes in the Ruhr to satisfy all their needs. This was justified in his view because the coal could not be shipped to industries outside of the Ruhr in any case.S& situation. The Wehrmacht was badly in need of large quantities of new equipment to replace the staggering losses that it had sustained during the summer. At the same time, because of the bombing of marshalling yards and the implications of these attacks for the future, the economy’s ability to satisfy these needs was diminishing. So Speer gambled He gambled that the new and refurbished divisions equipped with the weapons his system produced would stop the onrushing British, American, and Soviet armies. He gambled that General of Fighters Adolf Galland’s plan to stop the Ameri- can daylight bombing would succeed or that the Allied air commanders would fail to press home their advantage as they always had in the past. But these risks were wildly unrealistic. The size of the enemy armies and air forces and the industries standing behind them was overwhelming. The German people had already suffered terrible losses and the economy was strained to the breaking point. Now, due to the bombing of transportation, the fragile edifice that Speer had created to guide armaments production was cracking. Not only had output in a few areas, and the performance of the Reichsbahn, begun to slip. But the political tensions fostered by the Nazi regime were beginning to rip the system apart from within. Cooperation was becoming increasingly difficult, centralized con- trol less feasible. An unexpected side effect of the transportation bo