ile understanding would threaten to collapse. Tedder would be hard pressed to preserve it. Throughout, in contrast to his opposition, he emphasized cooperation and the mutually reinforcing nature of transportation and oil raids in both the strategic and tactical spheres. Speer had cobbled together a scheme to meet Tedder’s threat. His worst fears were about to be realized, but by a margin so thin that he would have been astonished had he known.  6 Debilitation  The special priority given to transportation targets, combined with the bad weather that prevailed over Germany during most of September and October 1944, resulted in a deluge of explosives falling on the Reichsbahn. A new dimension was the assault on the waterway system. In October, 35,000 tons of bombs were dropped on transportation targets by the strategic air forces.1 Significantly, 95 percent was dropped blindly, using radar.2 The Eighth Air Force alone contributed 18,844 tons.3 The cloudy weather caused the Eighth to put the emphasis on transporta- tion targets in October, dropping the preponderance of its bombs on such targets. Oil targets received only one-third the tonnage. The Fifteenth Air Force dropped 4,657 tons of bombs on railway targets in southern Germany during October.4 Bomber Command resumed its offensive against urban areas in September but with a critical difference: it shifted its aiming points in urban raids from city centers to marshalling yards. Simultaneously, using the superior carrying capacity of its Lancasters, it attacked the canal system. Impetus was added to this by an operational order issued by Bottomley on 13 October 1944.5 It set in motion Operation Hurricane I. As with every bombing directive, this one also was a compromise. But it was a compromise with an important new feature: it confirmed the existing target priorities but ordered greater concentration of effort both geographically and in time. All air forces were to focus the heaviest possible attack on the Ruhr in o