The latter was his greatest fear. While fending off these blows, he faced the urgent task of reequipping the Wehrmacht streaming back to Germany from France and Poland. To do so, like Ganzenmiiller and the Reichsbahn, he used methods that had proven themselves over the preceding two and a half years. On 1 August Speer abolished the highly successful Fighter Staff and reconstituted it as the Armaments Staff.S2 He hoped to tap the energy of its dynamic chief, Karl Saur, for the benefit of the entire armaments industry. Unfortunately, Speer’s method of creating special commissioners and staffs had outlived its value. Saur’s crude methods soon increased confusion and alienated factory owners. Moreover, Saur harbored growing ambitions to supersede Speer. The armaments minister’s bureaucratic and political position also came increasingly under attack from other quarters. The SS resented his disdain for Nazi ideology. The Party, especially the Gauleiters and Bormann, was jealous of the power that he wielded over factory labor and criticized his close ties to the old business elites. Never- theless, on 1 August, Speer created Armaments Sub-Commissions to coordinate the actions of the Gauleiters, who had an interest in economic matters as Reich Defense Commissioners, and his Defense Economics Officers. At a speech in Posen announcing these measures, Speer stressed the need for improvisation and cited production statistics to demonstrate that only his system of industrial self- responsibility could win Germany the production increases that it so desperately needed. But Bormann and the Gauleiters were unimpressed. In a note to the Gauleiters, attached to Speer’s decree creating the Sub-Commissions, Bormann stressed that in the event of disputes with Speer’s armaments officers, they should turn to him alone for a final decision. The Party saw Speer’s initiative as an annoartinity ta infiltrate hie annaratie In the urala nf tha 9N tilw aceaccinatian attamnt an Hit-1ar and Gashha