alist in freight train scheduling and had served in the Ruhr, in the occupied territories, and at GBL-West.32  The most important of Speer’s appointments was the new state secretary and assistant general director of the Reichsbahn, the energetic Dr. Albert Ganzenmiiller. At the age of thirty-seven, Ganzenmiiller typified the sort of young, committed, and dynamic administrator that Speer prized. He had an electrical-engineering background and had served with distinction in the occupied West. He had volunteered for service in the East and had established his reputation in the Ukraine by mastering the all-embracing winter traffic emergency. Moreover, he was a staunch National Socialist who had participated in the Beer Hall Putsch of November 1923 and had joined the NSDAP in April 1931. He was active in Party affairs and had captured some of its athletic awards.38 He shunned bureau- cratic routine, refusing, for example, to sign memoranda longer than four pages. He was convinced that the Reichsbahn’s difficulties stemmed from poor management, not from a lack of vehicles.  Ganzenmiiller along with Schelp and Dilli were charged by Speer with infusing the Reichsbahn’s fundamentally sound system with new energy. They were to abandon the old conservative, REE EEE EEE EE EE C—O FF a 0 a Oe ee war neared its conclusion. As fears increased concerning the security of its other channels and as land lines were cut by bombing, the DR relied more heavily upon its supposedly unbreakable cipher.28 25 nal and switching towers were prepared to enable yards to continue operations until permanent repairs could be completed.21 industrial efficiency.2&  rt we ee consumer-oriented practices in order to stress speed and efficiency and thus to enable an increase in performance without major additions to capital. Speer did make provision for heightened output of simplified locomotives, but no substantial construction of stations or right-of-way was planned.32 Accompanying these personnel change