e same time, he deprecated attacking locomotives, even bombing their servicing whom Tedder retained personally to assist him in planning. He had been born in South Africa and educated in zoology at Oxford where he later taught the subject. Zuckerman looked at problems as wholes and considered their individual components as parts of a complete organism. He was a difficult man, convinced of his intellectual prowess and accustomed to the cut and thrust of debate. This team of the unconventional flyer and the feisty academic confronted the entrenched air intelligence agencies in Britain with a scheme that the latter found difficult to grasp and almost impossible to accept. When Zuckerman arrived in England, he was confronted by a plan prepared by the SHAEF Joint Planning Staff that called for the bombing of twenty railway targets fifty to sixty miles behind the landing beaches. He immediately recognized that it was inadequate. After studying the information available concerning the German defences in western Europe, Zuckerman evolved a plan calling for a concerted attack on seventy-six “railway centers” in France, Belgium, and Western Germany. The immediate goal was to cut the overall potential to generate traffic of the railways serving the invasion area. By reducing the efficiency of railway centers, he hoped to decrease the volume of traffic and canalize it. Then it could be lowered further by bombing bridges, cutting lines, and strafing locomotives at the appropriate moment shortly before the landing. Although some rail movement would continue, the Wehrmacht would be prevented from rapidly moving reinforcements on a large scale into the region behind the beachhead. But that was not all. Tedder and Zuckerman understood that rail transport was vital not only to the Wehrmacht but also to the German economy Attacks on rail centers in western Germany would contribute both to reducing the volume of military traffic flowing westward and to restricting and ultimately haltin