edder was among the greatest losers from the Ardennes surprise. His strategy seemed to have been decisively refuted by the panzer divisions. He had also come into conflict with some of the Allied ground commanders. A serious campaign was being waged for his ouster. Although his opponents lacked the power to achieve their highest aims, they did succeed in having him shunted off to Moscow on a trip lasting from 1 to 19 January.16 SHAEF G-2 labored in the wilderness.  Nevertheless, SHAEF unwaveringly held to its position that attacks on marshalling yards supplemented by the canal raids were having serious and immediate economic consequences for Germany.12 It gradually clarified the details of the situation in Germany. In early November it relied on prisoner of war reports indicating that the DR was satisfying only the bare minimum of economic demand. It suggested that the Reichsbahn still enjoyed a strong repair service that enabled it to overcome damage rapidly. It also credited the DR with being able to reroute traffic easily and to make more intense use of its locomotives. Nor did the Reichsbahn suffer from sabotage. But SHAEF went astray when it also perceived a sufficiency of locomotive coal and a smoothly functioning telecommunications system in the DR.48 It also discovered the Reichsbahn’s repair priorities based on agent and prisoner reports and photo reconnaissance. Line cuts were identified as having first priority. Marshalling yards came second, then passenger stations, freight loading areas, and finally locomotive sheds.12 SHAEF did not draw the conclusion that the disruption of marshalling was much more important than damage to locomotive-servicing facilities. Instead it steadfastly insisted that there was a locomotive shortage. At the end of November it accepted a spurious report from Switzerland of an impending strike among Reichsbahn employees. At the same time, though, it placed an important piece of the puzzle. It noticed that a coal shortage had immo