to sustain the Reich economy during the Ruhr's decline. The Reichsbahn and the Speer ministry alike used this ploy. The situation of GBL-East was far better than that of the two other GBLs. But it deteriorated during the period of special priority nonetheless. There were two causes. One was the spread eastward of the chaos reigning along the Rhine. Directorates in the west refused trains steaming from the east, causing backups to reverberate through RBDs Hanover and Regensburg into the region. The intimate interdependence of the components of a railway system cannot be better demonstrated than by these events. The second reason was the disruption caused by air attacks falling in the area itself. They were not directed against marshalling yards in GBL-East as such but against synthetic fuel plants near Leipzig and Gleiwitz. They had the unanticipated result of disrupting marshalling at the nearby yards at Halle and Gleiwitz. Moreover, the region was also affected by the universal telephone problem. GBL-East countered by sending locomotives to RBD Halle, transferring marshalling to quiet areas such as Posen from Halle, and expediting coal shipments to the west.83 The region was used as a holding area for trains that could not move westward and as a reservoir for cars and locomotives to be fed to the ailing directorates along the Rhine.84 The penalty was a decline in performance in the region. The backlog of trains more than doubled to 256 during the last week of October.£5 In RBD Halle, freight car placings held steady but brown coal car placings, crucial if losses suffered by the RWKS were to be countered, actually fell by 7.5 percent during October compared to the monthly average for the fourth quarter of 1943.86 This was due en- tirely to the disruption of marshalling because the supply of locomotives simultaneously increased.82  The coal situation in the region was unstable. Brown coal production was steady in the East Elbian area farthest from the bombing, but in