and an tha Carman ave that dnhilitatina atteitian urhinh ume tha indienananhla aneallacrr ta tha  Page 180 of 282 65% bomber offensive as measured by tonnage and the overriding source of Germany’s economic difficulties, far outweighing the loss of the occupied territories. The transportation offensive severely or even superseded transportation bombing in influence on the final outcome. The Red Army imposed on the German army that debilitating attrition which was the indispensable corollary to the dismemberment by transportation bombing of Germany’s industrial organization from within. Of yet greater importance was the armies’ occupation of territory. The loss of Upper Silesia was of inestimable economic significance, especially in conjunction with the isolation of the Saar. In contrast, direct damage to factories made little difference so long as Germany could redistribute resources to repair them and compensate for their temporary reduction in output. With the paralysis of the transportation system such substitution was no longer possible. But ultimately the decisive factor was psychological. The transportation offensive, coming hard on the heels of the devastating blows to the hydrogénation plants and at the same time as the Allied armies closed in on the Reich’s borders, gravely weakened the morale of Germany’s economic leaders. They continued to resist at lower levels of commitment because of a sense of patriotic duty and their inability to counter the last fanatical outpouring of Nazi hysteria. Only when Germany was overrun and when Hitler died did the will to resist finally flicker out. It was this combination of mutually reinforcing pressures that encompassed the demise of the Third Reich on 8 May 1945. The history of the Deutsche Reichsbahn and the German economy under Albert Speer and their struggle against Allied bombing suggest a few observations of enduring significance. At the most basic level they make clear the importance of transportation to the oper