rate. Speer would move south with the majority of the government and Kehrl would go north to supervise production there. But Speer hoped to be named economics minister in Dénitz’s successor regime and to be allowed by the Allies to rebuild the German economy, so he too went north. On 23 May he was captured at Flensburg by the USSBS and interrogated extensively. His dreams proved unrealistic and he was imprisoned for twenty years by the Nuremberg Tribunal in 1946. Kehrl had reached Hamburg with a small band of associates. Once there he realized that the end was at hand and relieved his men of their responsibilities. He retired with his wife to a house on the Liineburg Heath where he was found by John Kenneth Galbraith in June. It was fitting that the great adversary of Ganzenmiiller and Speer, Sir Arthur Tedder, represented General Eisenhower at the formal surrender ceremony held in Berlin on 8 May 1945.82  Page 173 of 282 63% allocation of transport space after establishing the transportation staff in February, he accorded Wehrmacht movements highest priority. Significantly however, he placed food second.2£ On 1 March he ordered a new, frantic effort; to repair marshalling yards to maintain traffic; 800,000 people were to be thrown into the struggle.76 Prisoners of war, concentration camp inmates, idled factory workers, category. Food and repair materials for the Reichsbahn received next priority. Among bulk commodities food received highest priority, higher even than coal.78 The Reichsbahn was given complete au- 9 Conclusions  BEERS VSO ESE 2 AEE UE GOLLY FACS Ise SES ECE PES ESM LN) AEA UAL EES AGRE AE SEEM LE OLOCAS EE GLEE SSALACE SECS RACES OU I PU SEEE SEES UV OU SMES EAE MUN LEWIEEE WALA AAAs DEL SEES WLS AE LE allocation of transport space after establishing the transportation staff in February, he accorded Wehrmacht movements highest priority. Significantly however, he placed food second.23 On 1 March he category. Food and repair materials for the Reichsbah