COMSUTIPUOT LOL CaCih MOT, SLOCKS ACLUALLY LOSE. itl OEPLenllDE?r LIICY SUILICEC LOL 9. / MOTUS, UIUClLODET LOL &.6 TOTTI, 11) Part Ulle UlsClepaliCy Call VE AllliVDUled LO CallldEe lO PLOGUucriOl Laciucies itl- engaged in making heads for 80mm mortar shells was unable to ship any of the 30,000 that clogged its warehouse and grounds.”2 In short, transportation bombing—attacks on marshalling yards and on panic. Frantic plant managers implored him to intercede on their behalf to obtain coal, otherwise mass closings would ensue immediately. an il percent fall in total receipts in October.23 The Reichsbahn attempted to compensate by accelerating the movement of coal stored at the port but the lack of car space stymied this gambit.74 The would be used to supply the Mannheim area.25 But by 14 October, a week later, the Reichsbahn had to reduce its help to seven trains daily with the proviso that it determine their destinations.26 This sufficiently available to avoid major production losses.278 were confiscated and production losses were appearing even among armaments plants.72 At the Reichswerke Hermann Géring coal supplies were at the eight to ten day level by the end of October. Consequently, operation of the cokeries was reduced by up to two-thirds.22 Yet, reflecting the government’s direct control of this facility, production of iron increased 24.2 percent and that of finished of its own increased energy demands, the complex cut sales of electricity to outside consumers by a third.81 The end result was that the attempt to use central Germany to compensate for the losses sustained in the Ruhr only partially succeeded. Pig iron output actually rose slightly.82 But it was far from enough to offset the setback suffered by the giant in the west.  Eastern Germany was also used to sustain the Reich economy during the Ruhr's decline. The Reichsbahn and the Speer ministry alike used this ploy. The situation of GBL-East was far better than that of the two other GBLs. But it det