best known of his managerial organizations, the Committees (Ausschtisse) and Rings (Ringe).58 The committees were placed under Karl Saur, head of the Technical industrial self-responsibility in hopes of unlocking the energy and creativity of industry and harnessing it to the war effort. Along with the ministry’s offices in Berlin on the Pariserplatz, they were the arenas where the young technicians and engineers who had hankered for opportunities to restructure the economy worked to realize their dreams.52 It was for this reason that the Party objected to them. They gave the technocrats altogether too much freedom. Those sections of the Party that still harbored corporatist, anticapitalist, and antimodernist ideas, which coalesced around the Gauleiter, became tireless opponents of both Speer and his creations. On 20 April 1942 the Committee and Ring system went into operation. Industry had largely shaken off the fetters of the Economics Ministry and the Four Year Plan. In return for greater freedom it had taken upon itself a share of the burden of seeing the war effort to a successful conclusion. But as the new system began to function, the old tendencies of bureaucratic proliferation and competition re-emerged. As of 1 June 1942 there were 178 Special Rings and Committees subordinated to an ever-changing number of Main Rings and Committees. Many factories were uncertain which committee or ring they were responsible to, and many committees and rings were unclear as to the extent of their membership. The flow of production information was snarled and new rivalries and disputes over authority arose. Central Planning itself frequently became bogged down in detailed discussion and ignored the broad issues it had been created to resolve. Civilian production was not reduced, as Speer failed to overcome the opposition of the Gauleiters.62  The only solution that Speer could see to the problem was to press forward with his policy of expansion and centralization. First, afte