spring of 1944, caused a major decline in armaments production. The fall was uneven, delayed in some sectors by the characteristics of materials, energy use and stocks in different industries, and Speer’s system of priorities. But by January 1945, production, including that of the most important armaments, was on the retreat in every area. That favorite of early Allied strategic air planners, the ball-bearing industry, collapsed in December 1944 due to the failure of components deliveries. Despite the bombing of Germany’s synthetic petroleum industry, stocks of lubricants remained at the required seven-day level in early January 1945. But they could not be distributed because of transportation snags.202  The bombers had worked their way down the pipeline during September and October, causing coal and raw materials shortages. In November and December, German industry consumed its stocks  Page 155 of 282 56% TETUCO LOL CELT TESOL. DUL Ith Jallualy Lato IE ALLUBALEU LIE Salll€ POWETS LU Ills OWL Tilitioth Y= The RVK also began to fall apart. Pleiger reorganized its board on 30 December and hoped thus to streamline it and reduce the influence of the SS. Many subordinate offices were also abolished.198 to the war.201 It was a mad, hopeless scheme. How long Speer took it seriously cannot be determined. It is clear that Hitler and the likes of Saur and Bormann took it in earnest. The Emergency Program But they could not be distributed because of transportation snags.222 of these commodities and of parts and components. Finally in January 1945, production collapsed. The armaments production index spiraled down to 227.208 This represented a 30 percent decline from the high point in July 1944. Arms output was depressed to the level of August 1943. The entire second armaments boom had been nullified. The standard laid down earlier in this account had been achieved. A one-third reduction in armaments production had occurred soon after similar or even greater losses had been sus