er that “each ton of ore or scrap not shipped means an effective drop in production.”55 The ZVL attempted to meet the industry’s demands by organizing special runs to bring domestic ore to the region and raising the priority for ore space.56 But the bombers vetoed this plan. Between Speer ministry weighed in by cancelling 204,700 tons of old iron plate orders.£° The effort to relieve the burden on the steel industry and satisfy its needs, however, slowed and eventually came to a mills by air raids, a decline in ore supplies, and the reluctance of the iron and steel company owners to exert themselves for the Nazi regime.® In the latter regard, Rohland cynically exploited his close relationship with Speer and the businessmen and technocrats who manned his ministry to attempt to gain favors for his company and its allies. A brief look at the resource situation in the industry demonstrates this. Ruhr iron and steel production in October 1944 were 36 percent and 28 percent lower respectively than during 1943.66 Ore stocks in the industry were 35 percent lower.®2 So real losses had been sustained. But to exclude fluctuations in these indices that occurred during 1943, figures for September and October 1944 can be compared. In October, iron ore arrivals were 46 percent lower than in September. But stocks were not drawn down correspondingly to compensate. By the end of October they had declined by only 15 percent. The key was that consumption was reduced by 34 percent. This husbanding of reserves caused a 39 percent drop in both iron and steel production.£8 The production loss did not correspond to the fall in ore supplies. Indeed, based on the rates of consumption for each month, stocks actually rose. In September they sufficed for 3.7 months, in October for 4.8 months. In part the discrepancy can be attributed to damage to production facilities in- flicted by bombing. But much of it must be ascribed to the iron and steel masters’ withdrawal of support from the Hitler regi