osedly unbreakable cipher.22  The care taken to mask its inner workings and to ensure the flow of information despite external interference was matched by the Reichsbahn’s preparations to maintain the movement of traffic. Like all public organizations in the Third Reich, the DR created a chapter of the Reich Air Defense League (Reichsluftschutzbund), dubbed the Railway Air Protection Service (Eisenbahn Luftschutzdi- enst). It monitored the air situation based on information obtained from the Luftwaffe and its own offices and issued air-raid warnings. When attack appeared imminent, trains halted in tunnels and wooded areas and the crews disembarked. No train could enter or leave a yard during an attack. Yards ceased operations during raids but worked until the last possible moment. Then crews took to shrapnel shelters and small concrete bunkers erected near their work places. Occasionally they used the heavier bunkers built to protect the traveling public.2&  In February 1944 the increased weight of air attack on German industry prompted the DR to establish a central Air Raid Control Office (Luftschutzbefehlstelle) in the Transportation Ministry. It was responsible for allocating manpower and materials to regions struck by air raids.22 Prior to the war, repair columns had been formed consisting of a total of 16,000 men of whom 5,700 were from the DR itself. They were committed to the restoration of heavily damaged yards.28 Organic repair personnel handled lesser damage. The DR had always fielded dedicated right-of-way repair trains. They  were enitinned with snecial tanls and machine schon enniinment and were haced at mainr stations thraughant the evstem During the war thev were reinforced and kent at instant readiness 29 Materials  Page 38 of 282 15% SWITZERLAND Cuuncary kilometers of cable serving over 600,000 telephones and 200,000 teletypes.145During the war over 7,700 kilometers of new line were laid.16 Directorates were connected to Berlin by double cable lines