ortation facility repair and the building of underground factories.18& Wholesale regional electricity cutoffs were implemented in hopes of conserving coal.182 But this only caused armaments factories and even air bases to be blacked out.188 On 14 December, Kehrl issued a directive that established standards for the provision of car space based on the study of the economy’s performance in 1943. Plenipotentiaries appointed by the RMfRuK would allocate car space to industry based on need and the amount available as determined by the DR.182 It was still hoped that standards could be established centrally in Berlin and be applied locally by the plenipotentiaries. Speer and Kehrl were deliberately delegating their authority to local leaders, based on the realization that the confused transportation situation could not be grasped from Berlin. It also marked what was the final stage in their endeavor to centralize control of the economy in their own hands, for it con- stituted a component of their drive to extend their suzerainty over the Reichsbahn. The latter part of 1944 and early 1945 witnessed the disintegration of Speer’s delicate control apparatus. The physical means were wrenched from him by the bombers. The psychological pressure bearing upon him and the other leaders of the Reich economy was tremendous. Dorpmiiller, Ganzenmiiller, and Speer were constantly traveling to gather impressions, exhort, and resolve disputes. Em-rich, Kehrl, and their staffs remained in Berlin. The pressure to get results amid the shrill complaints of Bormann and the Gauleiters, the lack of information, the squalid rooms, most windowless and unheated due to ceaseless bombings, and the growing reluctance of industry to heed their directives—all were insuperable. A general nervousness infected the bureaucrats. Most silently accepted that the war was lost. But they fought on. Hitler’s hold over them and the dictates of patriotism would not permit them to capitulate.122 It is this psychologic