sfied only 5 6 percent of nominal demand for car space of all types. This was a third less than in September 1943.104 The backlog had mushroomed to an average of 1,155 trains per day during the last ten days of October.19 Put differently, this meant that 307,000 cars were caught in backlogged trains and were therefore unavailable. A further 62,000 were delayed in loading and unloading because freight car turnaround time was up to 12.7 days in October, a quarter more than during the previous year.19 The effort to repair freight cars was actually reduced because there was no freight car shortage.1Z In effect, the Reichsbahn had lost access to over a third of its entire freight car park simply through disorganization in marshalling. Nor was there a locomotive shortage. By the end of down to just twelve days, 40 percent below the minimum.122 Despite these problems, it was the Reichsbahn’s task alone to supply the country with coal. By late October the waterways were carrying a mere 7 percent of all coal shipments. Local sales accounted for 14 percent. Even in its weakened state the Reichsbahn still moved three-quarters of the nation’s coal traffic.U42 The geographical division of labor was disintegrating. Transportation troubles, cuts in the waterways serving the Ruhr, and the bombing of marshalling yards in the west were prying apart the interdependent regions of the Reich economy. The Ruhr could no longer sustain its dependencies and Upper Silesia was prevented from stepping into the gap. Through the conscious exploitation of elasticity of supply, however, Speer and Kehrl managed to maintain output of selected weapons at a very high rate. The overall armaments production index declined by only 9 percent during the period of special priority.111 By comparison, national hard coal production tumbled by 31 percent.112 The difference is explained by the consumption of stocks of coal and components. In this way assault gun output, easier to sustain than that of tanks due to