chsbahn directorate.42 The Reichsbahn moved decisively both to increase the movement of coal and to placate Schmidt. On 7 October it finalized an arrangement with the RWKS to form coal unit trains for use within the Ruhr and for shipments outside of it. On 28 October the region’s coal car target was reduced to 8,000 per day, all moving in unit trains formed at the mines themselves. Finally, on 19 October, in a meeting at RVK headquarters, Schelp laid down that distance from a mine should be the determining factor in what plants would be supplied. The area served by Upper Silesia should extend no further than 300 kilometers. Industries in that area should be run at the maximum, others shut down. Shipping coal from Upper Silesia to Hamburg and other places as far west was a mistake, Schelp explained, because the cars were never returned, thus weakening the entire transportation system and ultimately hurting the RWKS.48 Schmidt could not con- tra-diet Schelp on this issue. The Reichsbahn prevailed. But the syndicate and its leader stubbornly continued to defend its market rights in spite of the threatening military situation. Despite these palliatives, the battering of the marshalling yards had its effect. In October car placings for hard coal in RBD Essen declined 54 percent below the level of the previous year.42 Inevitably coal stocks at the mines skyrocketed to six and a half times the October 1943 amount. Coke stocks at the ovens rose in the same fashion. Because production could not be transported, the coal cut fell by a third. Coke output declined by a quarter.5° This had a direct effect on gas supplies, which fell by half. Complicating the problem was destruction of the administrative offices of Ruhrgas by bombing and the many cuts in the mains from the same cause. At Speer’s orders, Pleiger transfered men from the coal mines, where they were redundant due to shipping difficulties, to teams repairing gas lines.51 Electrical service in the area also deteriorated