kness meant that the issue in the transportation sector resolved itself into a race between the bombers’ ability to inflict dam- age and the Reichsbahn repair crews’ ability to make it good. A competition had opened between the military force led by Tedder and the economic apparatus led by Speer and Ganzenmiiller.  Least affected by the first wave of air attacks was the inland waterway system. It was not struck directly although it was influenced by car shortages at ports and by the RVM’s and RWKS'’s attempts to shift traffic from the Reichsbahn to the barges. Overall tonnage moved by the waterways during the third quarter of 1944 was about 15 percent lower than during the same period of the preceding year. Coal shipments along the Rhine were actually slightly above normal.? The decline in overall movements was caused by low water during the spring and summer and the chronic disorganization of the boatmen. Indeed, although bargespace was short, in some places boats had been laid up and were being used as warehouses by shipowners looking for higher profits.8  Lacking the ability or the time to build more vessels, both the Armaments Ministry and the Transportation Ministry resorted to organizational measures to increase the tonnage carried on the waterways. When faced with a crisis, complex organizations resort to responses that have served them well in the past. That is what happened in this instance. On 30 June, Speer ordered that bargespace be used more efficiently.2 On 13 September the ZVL relieved the waterway plenipotentiaries who had been appointed in 1942 and vested their responsibilities in the shipping offices. These offices were ordered in turn to report directly to the ZVL. In addition, many of their heads were replaced in hopes of increasing control from the center.12 Meanwhile, in June, Adolf Sarter, head of GBL- West, appealed to the RWKS to transfer some of its coal traffic to the waterways. Initially, though, the syndicate balked.4  From the ZVL’s pos