se it placed a heavier burden on the Ruhr steel and coke industries, which were already highly strained. In effect, the Saar had been eliminated and there was nothing that the Ruhr could do to compensate. In the Ruhr itself the leadership of the steel industry and Schmidt of the RWKS were chafing at the measures being undertaken by the regime to counter the growing transporation problem. The RWKS in particular resented them as restricting its prerogative to service its customers as it saw fit even in time of national emergency. With the weakening of the west both physically and psychologically the central and eastern industrial regions assumed greater import anee. Those areas of central Germany that were tributaries of the Ruhr were well provided with coal by the canal system and, to a lesser extent, by the increased shipments from Upper Silesia. Both the Dortmund-Ems and Mittelland canals carried coal eastward at about normal levels. In addition, brown coal mining in the Elbe region continued without interruption. RBD Halle had increasing difficulties supporting the latter flow. Its overall car placings dropped by almost 9 percent during the third quarter and its car placings for brown coal fell by 6 percent. These declines came about as a result of delays in traffic moving through the region to the west and disruption caused by air attacks on the nearby hydrogénation plants. Slight as they were, they resulted in a small reduction in raw iron production. In the Ruhr’s Hanover dependency, no energy problems developed and arms production targets were met, though with increasing difficulties due to dwindling supplies of components. Stocks of coal for the winter could not be accumulated. Arma- ments output at both the RWHG and Krupp-Gruson was not affected.3&  One reason why production continued almost undisturbed in the Ruhr’s hinterland in central Germany was the help given to the RWKS by the other syndicates. The Upper Silesian and Lower Silesian hard coal syndicate