njunction with the useful general appreciations that were lying on the shelf, could have exerted a beneficial influence over target selection. But errant preconceptions, the bias of bureaucratic politics, and the proliferation of bodies charged with the exploit- ation of intelligence prevented it. The Americans, EOU in particular, were guilty of mirror imaging and bureaucratic egotism of unusual dimensions in single-mindedly advocating the attack on oil and rejecting transportation out of hand as a viable target system. This is not to suggest that the oil offensive was misguided. Far from it. Rather it means that target selection was prevented from  a dnntin ata aban wine steneee nta ann Lanneenn AE fain wn fn tn Penta eae nn aera Teall AM cera At ners nin lta Cree ne fe die ntees Dernen LE TAT, nena neintinn Lad Lane G61BN AA te ten nntiontee thn anna ele  adapting to changing circumstances because of failings in the intelligence system itself. Oil was not crucial to German industry Even if EOU’s prescription had been fulfilled in its entirety, the assault on Germany’s petroleum resources could not have harmed the Reich’s basic industrial economy and, given the fanaticism of Nazi resistance, could not have ended the war alone. To a degree Sir Arthur Harris was correct in opposing the single-minded attack on narrowly defined target categories. So long as the Germans possessed the means to divert resources among various sectors of the economy they could thwart almost any such attack. The inability to comprehend how the relative importance of target systems changed over time was the greatest failing of Allied intelligence after its funda- mental misappreciation of the German industrial effort. It prevented the Allies from formulating a more balanced and flexible air strategy by hindering the shifting of a greater portion of their bomb- ing effort to transportation when it superseded synthetic fuel in importance in the autumn of 1944. Ironically, bad weather was as muc