n Stretch that ran south through the Ruhr’s historic source of iron ore to Frankfurt/Main. It and Geisecke were administered by RBD Wuppertal.  TO MUNSTER senger stations. Larger shipments were put aboard cars at loading docks operated by manufacturers connected to the main line by spurs. All major heavy industries and coal mines possessed their own. coming from intersecting directions or if it was near a port. In any case, it was an exceedingly complex and delicate affair subject to disruption by weather and human error.®6 Problems at one yard initially disliked by the Reichsbahn. But their advantages in terms of reduced marshalling grew in importance and they were used more frequently with every passing month.62 traffic and to recipients. Consequently a few yards in RBD Essen and in the surrounding directorates were of overriding importance. They were identified by Rudiger Schmidt of the RWKS and, along route in Germany. At Hamm local trains from within the Ruhr were combined for dispatch east and incoming long distance trains were broken up for distribution of their contents within the region.®2 Vaan a. ar HOHENBUDBERG ———— a with the Reichsbahn, he agonized daily over their well-being because they regulated the flow of coal from the Ruhr to its dependencies.£& To the south in RBD Kassel w: which could handle 4,000 cars per day. It paced the flow to the Ruhr’s satellites in Saxony, which ran on the line using the Altenbecken Viaduct. Farther south To MUNSTER HOHENBUDBERG  0 j OBERHAUSEN 4 cam Ve  DUISBURG-RUHRORT 3 e T_  WEDAUC) mu O GEISECKE VORHALLEQ  O HAGEN  Page 4¢€  HOHENBUDBERG i- OBERHAUSEN O GEISECKE VORHALLE Q Map 3.3 RBD Essen and the Coal Gateways At the opposite corner of the Ruhr was Wedau in RBD Essen, which could process 7,200 cars each day. It regulated the flow from Duisburg, Oberhausen, and Essen southward along the right bank of the Rhine to Diisseldorf and its Derendorf yard and ultimately to Mannheim. North of Wedau on the left bank of the R