ed during summer by low water. Aside from the objections of the boatmen, it was difficult to utilize ships built for one waterway on another because of their different characteristics. Finally, because of topographical limits on where they could be constructed and the given locations of navigable rivers, barges could serve only a limited portion of the market. They were not suitable for express freight, component parts of machinery, and other relatively small shipments. Their major contribution was in moving coal and ore but even here they were an adjunct to and never a potential replacement for the Reichsbahn. Their physical and organizational limitations combined to cause the failure of the waterways to meet the needs of Speer’s arms production scheme. In the coal economy year 1943/44 the barges and tugs moved a!  in 1940/41.123 It was against this somber background that Speer’s carefully balanced mec  output fell 5 percent behind its target.124 The Reichsbahn narrowly failed to meet its goal and the waterways were far  plies. The usual restoration of stocks during the spring did not occur.126 To di  The gathering erupted into one of the stormiest of the war. Pleiger painted  been a year before, and piles at the mines mushrooming. The downward slide the Ruhr and 28,000 for Upper Silesia.122  scuss the matter Speer called a meeting o:  was accelerating, he warned, and drastic  There followed a chorus of appeals for coal and impassioned accounts of failing transport. The common theme was t  had disrupted the flow of coal there. The Reichsbahn was even sending in coa! returned to Germany.128 Kehrl cautioned that the Reich was on the verge of p. unging into a major coal emergency.122  most a quarter less coal than in the preceding year and almost a tenth less than  hanism was beset by anew crisis beginning in the spring of 1944. Coal production was a tenth below expectation and coke  away from theirs.125 The result was a marked tightening of industrial coal sup- f Cen