vided by the Red Army when it overran Upper Silesia. SHAEF G-2  Page 163 of 282 59% eeeEee——eee———————eE—e——eE—EE——— ee ee EEE eee ee ee _E—————ee———e—ee eee Eee resources, that is, overcome the Reich economy’s elasticity of supply before it could reduce the combat power of the Wehrmacht.13 The CSTC feared that another “eight months or a year” would pass they did succeed in having him shunted off to Moscow on a trip lasting from 1 to 19 January.46 SHAEF G-2 labored in the wilderness. was the first to sense the importance of the Red Army’s success. On 5 February it stressed in its regular transportation report that the loss of Upper Silesia imposed an even heavier burden on the Ruhr and especially on the Reichsbahn’s already weakened marshalling yards and arteries serving it.26 This argument proved decisive. Yet it did not have an immediate effect on bombing priorities. The committee system used by the Allies to formulate strategy was slow. It produced flaccid compromises. Viewed in another light, it also prevented gross mistakes and it ensured that when a strategy was agreed it would be implemented by subordinate operational eche-lons. Moreover, the bureaucratic situation had been simplified by February. Tedder had returned from Moscow and reasserted his position. Now decision making centered on just two forums: the CSTC and the air commanders’ conferences. Tedder retained his control of the latter and outmaneuvered the former.22 The CSTC never fully accepted Tedder’s strategy. It tolerated transportation attacks only in relation to what it considered an exceptional case—the Ruhr after the loss of Upper Silesia.2& Like a hunter closing in for the kill, SHAEF G-2 refined its arguments in favor of transportation bombing and pressed for a concerted effort to isolate the Ruhr. By mid-February it had accurately divined that armaments production in the Ruhr itself was declining and the region’s ability to support its tributaries was waning. A final offensive against the R