egy by hindering the shifting of a greater portion of their bomb- ing effort to transportation when it superseded synthetic fuel in importance in the autumn of 1944. Ironically, bad weather was as much the cause of the assault on the Reichsbahn as any decision made by the Allied air commanders. Flexibility of intelligence analysis and decision making was achieved only after the Ardennes offensive. Misunderstandings of the influence of the time factor were pervasive, and most Allied intelligence analysts and air commanders never overcame them. Most underestimated the time needed for the oil offensive to become effective and overestimated the time in which the transportation offensive would. The majority never realized that the latter had begun to weaken Germany in September 1944.1 Most importantly all consistently misapprehended the time frame within which they were operating. Until the Ardennes offensive of December 1944, they repeatedly underestimated the prospective length of hostilities, and afterwards many overestimated it. They were especially prone to searching for rapid solutions that would redound to the prestige of their service. They failed to comprehend Page 177 of 282 64% the potential for economic collapse. MEW was not alone in this. Every other agency engaged 1n the evaluation or intelligence on the German economy failed to question the universally accepted the capacity for resistance of a highly developed industrial economy. Only Sir Arthur Tedder sensed that a strategy of weakening the core of the enemy economy was necessary, that concentration need not be defined in narrow geographical terms, that results need not appear immediately, and that if consistently and ruthlessly applied, transportation bombing would paralyze the German economy in a surprisingly short time. Conceptually the transportation system was both sufficiently well defined to enable concentration of effort and functionally broad enough to strike at the root of the German economy whi