in service increased.2° Hard coal production, measured on the same basis as car placings, fell by 18 percent in October. Coke production, especially valuable in light of the losses suffered in the Ruhr, was sustained with only a 4 percent loss. But again, the weakening of the DR was highlighted by the alarming increase in coal stocks at the mines by 176.5 percent and coke stocks by 720.5 percent.2! Coal production was reduced due to lack of storage space at the raines.22 Raw iron production was pushed despite all hindrances and suffered a loss of less than 2 percent.23 But as in the west, the mere production of an article did not ensure that it could be used. The Oberhiitten Gleiwitz complained as early as 27 September that it lacked car space to ship components graced with Hitler’s special “Panzerblitz” priority.24 Upper Silesia’s dependencies were better supplied than those of the Ruhr and so were able to continue operations at near normal levels. But even here, distressing signs of weakness began to appear. Coal traffic on the Oder was reduced in September and October due to low water.25 Movement on the Adolf Hitler Canal was blocked by Fifteenth Air Force raids on the nearby Blechhammer synthetic fuel plant.26 At Berlin, coal arrivals from the west through Stettin were down by 40 percent during September while shipments from Upper Silesia were off by a quarter.22 In October, brown coal traffic also fell a quarter below normal.28 Nevertheless, through conservation coal supplies in Berlin were maintained or even increased as was the case at the city’s gas works.22 BEWAG suffered a 15 percent drop in supplies. Stocks fell by 9 percent. Consumption rose so that by the end of October stocks sufficed for one and a half months’ production.102 But a new factor limited the nominal value of these stocks. Supplies from Upper Silesia continuously deteriorated in quality causing the jump in consumption.12! Actual electricity generation by BEWAG was 4 percent lower than the m