ost a tenth less than output fell 5 percent behind its target.124 The Reichsbahn narrowly failed to meet its goal and the waterways were far away from theirs.125 The result was a marked tightening of industrial coal sup- plies. The usual restoration of stocks during the spring did not occur.126 To discuss the matter Speer called a meeting of Central Planning on 25 May 1944. the Ruhr and 28,000 for Upper Silesia.122 There followed a chorus of appeals for coal and impassioned accounts of failing transport. The common theme was that Allied bombers were battering marshalling yards in France and Belgium and weather the storm.13° The fate of coal supplies and with them Speer’s entire finely balanced industrial organism lay with the Allied bomber commanders. It is to them that we turn next. 4 Controversy and Compromise The air attack on the Reichsbahn that seemed inevitable to Speer was actually the product of an unstable compromise among Allied air leaders and could very well not have occur red. Powerful organizations and personalities ranged themselves against the notion of a transportation offensive. In part they did so because the problems confronting the German war economy and the vulnerability of its transportation system were not clear to them. Reliable, detailed information on current economic activity in the Reich was scarce. Yet the basic configuration of Germany’s economy, the role coal played in it, and the function of the transportation system had not changed since the beginning of the war and could have been understood from the study of open sources. Moreover, by 1944 entirely serviceable appreciations of the Reichsbahn and the inland waterway system stood ready on the shelves of Allied air intelligence officers. The major obstacles to a coherent attack on the German transportation system were bureaucratic in nature. Competition within the air intelligence apparatus and among the armed forces skewed appreciations. Almost as important was the understandable fe