nd over which track had been laid. Their own weight and gravity pulled them toward a second gridiron in which each track represented a route. Cars were lined up on the tracks of this sorting group in the order in which they would be dropped off. Remotely controlled switches and brakes called retarders, directed them to the proper tracks and prevented them from crashing into each other. Once they had all been sorted, yard locomotives pulled the cars to a departure group where a line locomotive would take them on their way. All of this highly complex and dangerous work occurred at night to enable completed trains to depart during the early morning to deliver the freight during business hours. The entire marshalling pro ould be vastly more complicated if a yard served traffic flows coming from intersecting directions or if it was near a port. In any case, it was an exceedingly complex and delicate affair subject to disruption by weather and human error.£6 Problems at one yard reverberated to others. For this reason unit trains (Ganzziige) carrying just one type of freight, usually coal or ore, were used. They took longer than ordinary trains to form and for that reason were initially disliked by the Reichsbahn. But their advantages in terms of reduced rr halling grew in importance and they were used more frequently with every passing month.£2 he importance and sensitivity of the marshalling process meant that the ZVL and the other offices responsible for the allocation of car space utinized their operations very closely. Inevitably  OGLEIMWiITz LUDWIGSHAFEN }. J MANNHEIM GNUREMBERG vieduct LL All of this bustling traffic was orchestrated from what was universally recognized as the Reichsbahn’s heart, its most sensitive point—its marshalling yards. The marshalling yard was the physica! to enable completed trains to depart during the early morning to deliver the freight during business hours. The entire marshalling process could be vastly more complicated if a yard serve