al. Only very large consumers such as the major iron companies and the Reichsbahn could circumvent this process and deal directly with the syndicate. Consequently, because it alone controlled the coal and had its own organization and sources of information, and because its goals did not always coincide with those of the regime, the RWKS actually controlled the distribution of coal and could obstruct government policy. Riidiger Schmidt could therefore heavily influence the perform- ance of Speer’s economic apparatus. He could greatly smooth its operation or severely disrupt it.  Because of its importance to every phase of economic life and because of its strong political position, the coal industry was the decisive factor shaping Germany’s economy. It determined, subject to a few modifying influences, the overall scale of industrial activity and its geographical configuration. Two areas, the Ruhr and Upper Silesia, dominated it and developed manufacturing satellites that  Aa Oo ee at ee td 2 ee te te tt ee ae tN ae  Page 25 of 282 1% many’s hard coal production. Its dominance was reinforced in 1934 and 1935 when the Aachen and Saar mines were put under its sway by the RWM.42 The acquisition of the Polish sections of Silesia depended upon them for energy and basic heavy industrial goods and in turn provided them with specialized manufactures and food (see Map 2.1).48 Of the two coal hubs the Ruhr was the more important because of the scale and quality of its coal output and its strong business organizations. It was the home not only of mining, but of heavy iron, steel, chemical, and engineering concerns that attracted a horde of supporting industries. Around it revolved dependencies such as Hamburg and the North Sea ports that provided it with light manufactures, imported petroleum products, and iron ore. To the east were Hanover, Elassel, and Brunswick where engineering, vehicle, and other manufacturing industries were grouped. To the southwest was the region centere