her side of the line, Speer’s resources were disappearing rapidly. To him, the meaning of the dual offensive was painfully clear. Page 81 of 282 29% at pre-cieted tilat Gerinally Would be Cemed OVE fall OF Its Petroleuln TEserves WILT) Six MOTUS OF Che start OF thle assault It Ility-rour lalgeets Were Aisavied alld revisited perloaically to prevent tiie completion of repairs. EOU argued that oil was the decisive factor in German economic life as well as the foundation of its military operations. According to EOU, the civilian sector consumed a third in time to help the invasion. They ordered the acceptance of Tedder’s transportation plan. Spaatz, however, saw the oil plan as his last opportunity to show what air power could do and to upstage Harris and win the war alone.Z2 Morever, he believed that Overlord would fail.22 So on 31 March he offered to attack transportation targets in France if he could use the remaining bombers to strike and the Luftwaffe were given the highest priority with the Overlord transportation plan second in line.22 He ensured that a balance was maintained between transportation and oil attacks.78 In late the destruction already meted out to marshalling yards.22 Both in the final days before the invasion and immediately after the landings, Tedder protected the unstable compromise against continued 5 Living for the Present  The compromise worked out by the commanders of the Allied air forces loosed a deluge of explosives on the marshalling yards of the French and Belgian railways. The disaster lapped up against the western edge of the Reichsbahn. The Miinster, Geisecke, and Wedau coal gateways were hit either at their source or along their tributaries. By the time the troops hit the beaches on 6 June, the strategic air forces had dropped 56,930 tons of bombs on transportation targets in support of Overlord in France, Belgium, and western Germany. Then through the summer, the focus of the assault shifted eastward in conjunction with the advance