syndicate’s operations east to Detmold. Terboven was one of the fanatics who harbored hopes for a change in fortune and who wanted to destroy all economic assets and evacuate the population before they fell into the hands of the advancing Allies. Hugo Stinnes, Jr., heir to one of the Ruhr’s oldest coal fortunes, spoke up at this. He supported Schmidt’s suggestion that Terboven’s order be ignored and offered the convenient pretext that it was only a “recommendation.” It was agreed to distribute one month’s salary to everyone and to disperse. When conditions stablized after the end of the fighting they would gather again and resume operations.  Possibly the most difficult capitulation was that of Speer. Contrary to the portrait painted in his memoirs, the young armaments minister battled on into 1945. Undoubtedly he fell prey to severe doubts about final victory as early as November 1944. But he continued to press for the restoration of transportation facilities and the continuation of armaments production. He took a hand in aesperately seeking ruel drove their engines to mine sidings.-= 1he Dk operated omy /,UUU OF its locomotives. About <5,UUU were 1dled by lack OF fuel and Gamage to repair facilities.-— Cars continued to be derailed by the thousands. The DR even offered to give freight cars to companies so long as they would be removed from its rails.55 Ganzenmiiller admitted to Hitler in February that traffic in the cut because the Reichsbahn could not move it, brown coal output was down by 44 percent.£° Consequently, only 5 to 10 percent of the greatly reduced demand could be satisfied.! Both national and Ruhr steel output were just a quarter of normal.S2 The armaments production index collapsed to the level of late 1942. It fell fifty-two points in February alone.®2 The cessation of deliveries, not just of the forty-nine trains that it usually received each day carrying munitions, in February only eight or nine arrived per day.§° Stocks of the Type 44 machine pi