and British archives are used in this book, combined with a fresh perspective from one who has no institutional ties past or present to any of the actors. Considerable detail relating to developments throughout the Reich economy and to policy decisions on both sides has been included because it is indispensable to untangling the confusion and misconceptions that arose at the time and have persisted to the present concerning the nature of the German war effort and how the disruption of its transportation sector by bombing contributed to its collapse. A chronological account is given because no thematic rendering can fully portray the sequence of events and the chaos that swept Germany beginning in September 1944 and the interaction between the leaders of the German economy and their assailants. It is hoped that an anatomy of the collapse of a highly developed industrial economy is the result. This may illuminate how complex organizations, in this case the Deutsche Reichsbahn and the Speer ministry, attempted to cope with massive external challenges. It should also provide a warning to those who, even in this nuclear age, lightly con- template future conventional air offensives.  Three analytical themes shape the present work. Because of their importance and the novelty of their application they bear elucidation at the outset.  The first crucial consideration holds that the German industrial economy had been shaped decades before the Nazi seizure of power by a geographical and functional division of labor based on proximity to and exploitation of the nation’s coal supplies. A large and highly ramified transportation system enabled the division of labor to function effectively, permitting coal to flow to consumers far removed from the mines and manufactured goods and food to be exchanged among economic regions. The transportation system itself relied on coal for energy, and the prime mover of coal was ing on the Nazi economy. Most focus on the struggle for air supremac