ons to capital. Speer did make provision for heightened output of simplified locomotives, but no substantial construction of stations or right-of-way was planned.32 Accompanying these personnel changes were organizational reforms through which Speer integrated the DR into his administrative apparatus. Initially he attached transport representatives to his rings and committees.42 But they proved inadequate. On 21 June 1942 he formed a Transport Office in his ministry, composed of himself; Ganzenmiiller; Erhard Milch; Willi Liebel, mayor of Nurem- berg, another close friend; Wilhelm Landfried of the Ministry of Economics; Karl Kaufmann, Gauleiter of Hamburg and special plenipotentiary for sea transport; and Wilhelm Meinberg, responsible  Page 39 of 282 15% —— — vee Wehrmacht, and the Repair Service of the Security and Emergency Service (Instandsetzungsdienst des Sicherheits- und Hilfsdienstes, IS) of the Air Raid Protection League.32 The OT could intervene rings and committees,42 But they proved inadequate. On 21 June 1942 he formed a Transport Office in his ministry, composed of himself; Ganzenmiiller; Erhard Milch; Willi Liebel, mayor of Nurem- for coal transport in the Four Year Plan Office.41 This body was run by Milch with Speer remaining in the background. It instituted measures to speed loading of cars and to shift traffic from the rails to the waterways. Deeming its task accomplished, it dissolved itself in September 1942.42 Operating in tandem with the Transport Office was Hans Kehrl, who was named Special Representative for the Reichsbahn. Kehrl also concentrated on reducing loading time and eliminating unjustified shipments. Among the latter were goods sent over long distances that the purchaser could have obtained locally. Ending such shipments saved transport both by shortening the average flow of goods and by eliminating the phenomenon of similar products passing each other on the rails, headed to adjacent consumers and shippers. Kehrl also sought to lim