rage daily backlog system wide was 282 trains.84 between 1940 and 1942.27 Operations were mechanized to the latest standard with retarders, remote control switches, and radios.28 The number of marshalling locomotives was increased fifteenfold capacity by improving rivers and adding to the canal system. Yet by 1943 the inland waterway network had fallen badly behind expectations. Its share of overall transport tonnage and its share of coal traffic had steadily declined since the start of the war. Moreover its performance in real terms had also fallen.192 There were three major causes for the deterioration. One was the loss of ship personnel to the Wehrmacht. Another was the decline in maintenance standards. The most important was poor organization. Traffic on Germany’s rivers and canals was nominally under the overall control of Werner Hassenpflug, head of the Inland Waterway Section of the Ministry of Transportation.1®1 He had assumed this responsibility in 1942 during Speer’s reform effort. His brief was to energize the sluggish waterways administration, but the inherent qualities of the shipping business and the vagaries of the weather defeated him. Unlike the Reichsbahn, which was operated directly by the state, waterway traffic was in the hands of boat owners and forwarding agents, who ran for profit.102 They had been incorporated into the Economics Ministry’s framework of trade groups in 1935 and retained ties to their historic private organizations.123 But they had evaded strict government control. There were simply too many individual boat owners to be harnessed by any regulatory body. All of them were jealous of their freedom and could sail as they pleased, given the long stretches of unsupervised waterway and the bustle of the ports. They could embark when they chose, negotiate for lucrative cargoes, tie up their vessels, and rent them out as storage space if that promised greater returns, or if they thought an area too dangerous they could avoid it altoget