sfactory functioning of the waterways enabled production to continue uninterrupted.45 BEWAG had no difficulty meeting electrical demand.46 Coal and materials. Only the Saar had suffered a major collapse. The effects of this were not immediately felt in final production. But the region's loss reduced the nation’s overall armaments potential be- 1942 and May 1943 exceeded the March-July 1944 period in rate of monthly growth.*= These months saw production of many important weapons—the Panther tank, 88 millimeter anti-tank ammu- slashed and that they consume their plentiful holdings of these materials.52 The RMfRuK estimated that stocks of iron and steel at the factories had almost doubled during 1943 and reached a level that would suffice to maintain output at the current rate for six to eight months.£2 On 13 July Speer named inspectors whom he empowered to enter factory premises unannounced to check inventor- ies.S1 The purpose of these measures was to maintain or increase final production of weapons and simultaneously to reduce the burden on the Reichsbahn. The dwindling car space that was available would be used to ship finished armaments. The entire scheme was predicated on achieving short-term results. At his regular conference with Hitler on 20 August, Speer counseled, and Hitler agreed, that industrial planning should focus only on the next nine months. Long-term planning was irrevelant.S2 Implicitly, Speer and Hitler admitted that Germany was in a fight for survivial in which the next few weeks would be decisive. Major setbacks had so far occurred only in the Saar. But Speer gave the Allies credit for a consistency of command that they did not possess. He anticipated a major new series of air attacks on the synthetic fuel industry and especially on the Reichsbahn. The latter was his greatest fear. While fending off these blows, he faced the urgent task of reequipping the Wehrmacht streaming back to Germany from France and Poland. To do so, like Ganzenmiiller an