s except coal should be reduced to two weeks supply. Stocks of components were to be reduced to a mere eight days. Those factories that possessed supplies in excess of these limits were not to share them with factories that were below the standard. Instead, to save transport space, they would draw them down by producing arms and would receive no additional supplies until they complied with the limits that he had stipulated. The goal, Speer emphasized, was to produce the maximum number of completed armaments in the shortest time and to ship them to front-line units as quickly as possible.62  Accompanying the Armaments Order was the “Coal Saving Action” that Speer promulgated on 20 September.22 The minister demanded that coal be used as efficiently as possible to heighten production, reduce the burden on the Reichsbahn, and bridge the current period of unreliable supplies. Additional rationalization measures would be used to save energy. Heating would be ruthlessly curtailed and alternative sources would be pressed into the breach. Each plant would name an energy expert who would participate in regional and national organizations that would share experience and propagate best methods.  The Armaments Order and the Coal Saving Action of September 1944 mark the point at which the German economy stepped over the precipice into chaos. Speer had explicitly called upon elasticity of supply to carry the economy through the impending coal emergency. That done, new plans would be formulated in the future. To an extent his scheme was a rational response to a very dangerous  alteendtan ML tare sabe -. 28 La Ale tnd A218 Ae ett AO nee 2 net ee 8 tL ne eet 1 tn ed ee td At Sa ee ne 2 et Lee wile Be ene tow Party chieftains.S4 had also arrogated to themselves power not authorized by Berlin.£5 Clearly, Speer had realized that the practice of naming special commissioners with extraordinary powers was counterproductive. ground.s® Kammler seized men and resources without consulting Spee