nerve that Speer and Ganzenmiiller were frantically trying to shield: “The one common factor in the whole attacks on trains.126 Unlike his opponents, he viewed the oil and transportation offensives as “complementary.”127 But the crucial distinguishing feature about transportation and the reason it was ona conceptually and geographically coherent target system and the armies’ continued attrition of the Wehrmacht would break Germany’s war fighting power. Tedder was successful. On 28 October, SHAEF adopted his plan and the combined chiefs ratified it.122 The new directive was issued on 1 November. It placed oil first and transportation second assistance to the ground troops, little more could have been expected.142 As it was, the first transportation plan represented a dire threat to the Reichsbahn and Speer’s weakened production apparatus.  7 Spades against Bombs  One of the great imponderables in warfare, indeed in all human affairs, is time. Judgments of the influence of the time factor, how much was available and whom it favored, were at the heart of the issue between Tedder and Spaatz on the one hand and Speer and Ganzenmiiller on the other. The German leaders had a better insight into the workings of time. They realized as early as June 1944 that it was moving against them, and they took appropriate steps. They consciously exploited elasticity of supply to stretch their resources over the looming crisis period with the hope that if they could surmount it then more time would become available which would allow them to take new measures. The Allies, Tedder excepted, consistently misjudged the play of time. They sought rapid results from their bombing effort, in large part because of their haste to end the war in Europe. The British in particular desired an early conclusion in order to spare their people additional casualties. In contrast, the Americans planned to transfer the bulk of their forces to the Pacific to help consummate the victory over Japan. This contri