shipped what it could. But the Allied bombers intervened to veto its plans. The Reichsbahn was unable to move all of the trains that the eastern syndicate loaded because of snarls in marshalling yards in the west. For the same reason, the transfer of unuseable fuel from bomb-damaged facilities such as the Leuna synthetic fuel plant proved impossible. In this case, problems in RBD Halle nullified the RMfRuKk’s efforts.28  The implications of the breakdown in marshalling, the severing of the Ruhr’s waterways, and the disintegration of telecommunications and interregional coordination were clear to Riidiger Schmidt from his post in the Essen. Throughout November and December he reported to the RWKS board of directors that the source of the syndicate’s problems was the decline in car placings and barge movements due to air raids. The collapse of telephone and telegraph service caused by the raids hindered coordination among the syndicate’s mines and trading companies, with its customers and the Reichsbahn.22 By the second week of November he already feared a collapse of industrial activity and considered the crisis the worst ever faced by the German mining industry. No scheduled distribution was nossible and stocks could not he mobilized. In late Novemher and earlv Decemher he informed the hoard that stacks had heen exhausted. Even the most imnortant consimers could  Page 140 of 282 51% what it had been scheduled to ship.% In January, arrivals from Upper Silesia sank to only a third of target.25 The failure of the Upper Silesian Hard Coal Syndicate’s help to meet expectations triggered synthetic fuel plant proved impossible. In this case, problems in RBD Halle nullified the RMfRuK’s efforts.28 distribution was possible and stocks could not be mobilized. In late November and early December he informed the board that stocks had been exhausted. Even the most important consumers could not be satisfied.122 As he put it on 14 November, “It is in no way a production, rather on