ings were never more than half of normal. Brown coal car placings in RBD Cologne were almost 90 percent below normal by the end of January 1945.25 In RBD Essen, even car placings for armaments were off by 90 percent in December.2& A major, irreparable disaster had been suffered by RBD Essen and the adjoining directorates. Damage to marshalling yards in the region and in the areas that it served was inflicted on such a massive and widespread scale and the disruption of telecommunications was so severe that the real capability to place cars in trains dropped precipitately and, moreover, the DR’s ability to coordinate the activities of its numerous parts was ruined.ZZ The Reichsbahn could no longer operate as a unit. Losses in one area could not be made good in others.Z8 There was too much damage to too many important marshalling yards and too many telephone and telegraph lines were out. Added to these potentially fatal wounds were the bridge and viaduct cuts. The loss of the Bielefeld and Altenbecken viaducts simultaneously not only slashed two of the Ruhr’s main railway arteries to the east, but also severely reduced the Reichsbahn’s capacity to shift traffic to circumvent obstacles on either route. Nominally, the Ruhr’s gateways remained open, but their ability to generate traffic and move it to the region’s distant dependencies was fatally reduced by early January 1945.  The decline in rail service and the deterioration of the physical means of production increased the psychological friction under which the Reichsbahn and the Ruhr industrial leaders labored. The result was the disintegration of both the DR’s and industry’s administrative apparatus. Bitter disputes erupted between RBD Wuppertal and RBD Frankfurt/Main concerning the operation of the Wedau gateway22 Many companies, including the RWKS, expanded their private courier services to exchange information with their subsidiaries and to maintain at least tenuous contact with Berlin. None of them was coordinate