target systems, EOU rejected all of them. It condemned railways because there was too great a “cushion of civilian and long-term industrial use” between them and the fighting units.S8 Harris and win the war alone.?2 Morever, he believed that Overlord would fail.23 So on 31 March he offered to attack transportation targets in France if he could use the remaining bombers to strike oil and ball-bearing targets in Germany.24 Meanwhile, Churchill objected to Tedder’s plan because he feared that it would inflict too many casualties on the French population living near the railyards. But the assurances of the spokesman of the Free French in Britain, Maj. Gen. Pierre J. Koenig, and finally of President Roosevelt stilled the prime minister’s opposition in mid-April.22 On 19 April, Eisenhower gave verbal permission to Spaatz to use the Eighth Air Force against Germany’s synthetic fuel industry so long as he fulfilled his obligations under the transportation plan.26 Two days before, Eisenhower had assumed command of all Allied air forces in Europe and delegated authority over them to Tedder. The deputy supreme commander issued a directive in which German industry and the Luftwaffe were given the highest priority with the Overlord transportation plan second in line.72 He ensured that a balance was maintained between transportation and oil attacks.78 In late May the Eighth Air Force vented its full fury on the rail lines leading to the front and on the Reichsbahn along the western edge of Germany. Tedder ordered bridge and strafing attacks to complement the destruction already meted out to marshalling yards.72 Both in the final days before the invasion and immediately after the landings, Tedder protected the unstable compromise against continued sharp criticism. Meanwhile, on the other side of the line, Speer’s resources were disappearing rapidly. To him, the meaning of the dual offensive was painfully clear. Page 81 of 282 29% at pre-cieted tilat Gerinally Would be Cemed OVE fa