ng attacks on their very organizational existence, present or future. The leaders of the two air forces, especially the Americans, belonged to the first generation of aviators who were much more attuned to flying than theorectical speculation. They were not intellectuals.’ They were dynamic leaders, men of action, who were impatient with the subtleties of intelligence analyses or economics. The combination of novelty, fear, and dynamism meant that the selection of targets during the war was done haphaz- ardly. Allied air strategists learned as they went along while operating in a highly competitive bureaucratic environment. Throughout, faith was more important than contemplation. Confronted with the reality of the Nazi economy and the competing calls for resources from the other services, the problem arose of defining the mission of the strategic bomber forces. It became necessary to determine just what would be considered success. This in turn raised critical questions of how the bomber offensive would fit into overall strategy and especially of how to judge the time element. Considerations of how long the war would last and how Germany would be defeated played a decisive role in determining the selection of target systems. An initial attempt to clarify these issues was made at the Casblanca Conference of January 1943. President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill affirmed that an invasion of the continent of Europe would be necessary to defeat Germany. They also agreed that a preliminary air bombardment would be necessary to weaken the Luftwaffe and the Reich’s industrial capacity. The mission that they assigned to the strategic air forces was intentionally vague. The RAF and the USAAF had lobbied vigorously to retain their freedom of action. In large measure they succeeded. The task that they were given was “the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people