he year for the Reichsbahn. After the harvest, traffic remained heavy until warm weather in the spring reduced the demand for coal and therefore for transport. The Reichsbahn continuously warned consumers to accumulate stocks during the summer months when car space was plentiful. But inevitably they failed to seize the opportunity.7&  To trace the Reichsbahn’s activities in the three GBLs and the three pivotal directorates, four indices have been selected, all of which were used for the same purpose by the DR itself. The most revealing is car placings. It measures the overation of the heart of the svstem. the marshalling vards. A car placing was the insertion of one car into a train. It was not svnonvmous with loading. In  Page 49 of 282 19%  The second coal pivot, Upper Silesia, was served by RBD Oppeln. Traffic here was much simpler, generally flowing out of the region westward over the so-called Coal Railway to Berlin and Saxony.  45 percent of all brown coal shipments. Its importance is belied by its overall freight car placing share since its operations were highly complex and were executed under extreme time pressure so as These three pivotal directorates, Essen, Halle, and Oppeln, determined the overall scale and pace of the Reichsbahn’s operations. They performed this role because of their association with the coal Special importance was accorded by Berlin to their mastering of coal traffic. RBDs Essen and Oppeln were given wide operational latitude in the matter. But the Main Car Office and the ZVL watched warned consumers to accumulate stocks during the summer months when car space was plentiful. But inevitably they failed to seize the opportunity.2& revealing is car placings. It measures the operation of the heart of the system, the marshalling yards. A car placing was the insertion of one car into a train. It was not synonymous with loading.72 In 1943 the Reichsbahn achieved its highest car placing total since 1916 by putting 48,614,078 cars into trains.