ticipated using only about half of the bombing capacity available from the strategic air forces. The oil compaign, with its roughly fifty targets, could be accommodated by remaining capacity. Many of the railway center targets in western Germany were casualties of the com- promise, however. This had no effect on the tactical aspects of Tedder’s plan. But it did imperil the attainment its long-term strategic goals.  The compromise was fashioned between March and May. Harris’s objection that his aircraft could not hit targets as small as marshalling yards was eliminated first. On 4 March, Eisenhower ordered a series of test attacks against yards in France. They proved highly successful.22  On 25 March a major meeting was attended by all of the key players. During the discussion, Eisenhower and Portal exposed one of the crucial weaknesses in the oil plan: it would not become effective in time to help the invasion. They ordered the acceptance of Tedder’s transportation plan.24 Spaatz, however, saw the oil plan as his last opportunity to show what air power could do and to upstage Harris and win the war alone.Z2 Morever, he believed that Overlord would fail.22 So on 31 March he offered to attack transportation targets in France if he could use the remaining bombers to strike oil and ball-bearing targets in Germany.4 Meanwhile, Churchill objected to Tedder’s plan because he feared that it would inflict too many casualties on the French population living near the railyards. Ss ee oo ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee Se 7 | eee ee Se ee eee eee eee Se ee ae eee ee ee oe ae eS completion of repairs.£5 EOU argued that oil was the decisive factor in German economic life as well as the foundation of its military operations. According to EOU, the civilian sector consumed a third prospective target systems, EOU rejected all of them. It condemned railways because there was too great a “cushion of civilian and long-term industrial use” between them and the fighting units.S8 Harris and win t