rted assault on Germany’s petroleum industry would be launched, supported by raids on ball-bearing, ordnance, and tank engine plants. “The heavy bomber force could make no greater contribution to the victory on the field,” concluded EOU, “than to press home the attack against German oil production.”23 Two days after the landings in France, Spaatz implemented this scheme, giving oil first priority.44 But he had moved too soon. Eisenhower and Tedder made heavy demands on the bombers to support Montgomery’s precarious toehold on the continent, so Spaatz’s initiative was stymied.  A critical factor bearing on how the strategic bombers would be used was the picture of the overall performance of the German economy developed by MEW. In its six-month summary issued in  Taann MTT eam a eanannahler anauenta nntimatas af Caeman anal nenduntian and tha imnlinntiane af tha antininatad lane af Cnindiah avn oumnling Th ear nn chanean in aemamante nenduntian thauch  Page 95 of 282 34% situation. Lhe Wenhrmacnt was Dadly 1n need OF large quantities of new equipment to replace the staggering losses tnat it nad sustained during the summer. At the same time, because of the bombing oil production.”23 Two days after the landings in France, Spaatz implemented this scheme, giving oil first priority.24 But he had moved too soon. Eisenhower and Tedder made heavy demands on the June, MEW gave a reasonably accurate estimate of German coal production and the implications of the anticipated loss of Swedish ore supplies. It saw no change in armaments production, though it discounted the possibility of any substantial increases. MEW did detect growing transportat ion problems and saw the Reichsbahn in particular as being in difficulty. But it did not know what this meant for the future. It was certain, however, that dispersal had increased the vulnerability of the economy to disruption of transportation.22 MEW’s appraisal was basically accurate but because of its many qualifications, it was hardly