center.12 Meanwhile, in June, Adolf Sarter, head of GBL- West, appealed to the RWKS to transfer some of its coal traffic to the waterways. Initially, though, the syndicate balked.4  From the ZVL’s position in Berlin, the situation by mid-August appeared ominous. Emrich considered air attacks on marshalling yards to be the greatest threat followed by the retreat in the east. Together these pressures prevented the Reichsbahn from meeting the coal car target.12 In response, on 23 August the ZVL held a crisis meeting at which Ganzenmiiller and Speer’s assistant Willi Liebel set the direction for the entire transportation system for the foreseeable future. Ganzenmiiller stressed that Speer was planning a major increase in armaments production to make good the Wehr- macht’s losses of the preceding summer and to prepare for the defense of Germany. The minister’s plans could be fulfilled only with a maximum effort by the Reichsbahn and the bargemen. Especially important was the shipment of coal. Industrial stocks had shrunk in some places to as little as three weeks. Lost opportunities to move coal during the summer could never be made good. Therefore every chance, every potential avenue had to be seized. Ganzenmiiller ordered that military shipments to front line units should enjoy first priority. Next, coal would be moved. Then would come the harvest. Liebel informed the ZVL that beginning immediately, arms shipments would be directed to units in the general areas of the factories. Shipments to depots would cease. Stocks at plants would be used to continue or increase outvut and shipments of raw materials would be cut to free un space for finished weavons. Everv car would be used. oven or covered. for whatever freight was at hand. to stem the invasion.2 Flak was also concentrated near the hydrogénation plants in the Leuna and Leipzig regions near RBD Halle.4 But with the growing shortage of powder, itself due to the attacks on oil, restrictions were placed on the expendit