succeeded. The task that they were given was “the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.”4 This brief effectively allowed both air forces to pursue their own strategies for defeating Germany independently. No time limit was set. Undermining the German people’s ability to wage war could  1 award ae . at aoaoad aoe ow fF mae 1 aur aH 1 a 1  Page 61 of 282 22%  be interpreted as weakening the Wehrmacht directly or ruining the war economy. Nowhere was it stated what level of decline in fighting power or production constituted “fatally” weakening. Church- ill and Roosevelt set broad guidelines which allowed them to adjust plans to subsequent developments. The air forces refined their target priorities during 1943 but never came to a clear, universally accepted definition of victory. This prevented them from adequately evaluating their actions. It also makes it very difficult in retrospect to gauge the success of the strategic bombing offensive. It might be useful, then, to establish a rough standard by reviewing the overall strategic situation and the comparative economic power of the two sides fighting in Europe at the end of 1943 (see Table 4.1). Germany suffered from an inferiority in manpower that prevented it from fielding armies on the scale of its opponents. While occupied Europe offset Allied preponderance in population, the conquered territories, except France and Bohemia, could not produce sophisticated armaments. Nor could they provide raw materials and agricultural goods in sufficient quantities to free enough assets in Germany that might have balanced the Allied advantage. Most of the workers of Europe labored for the Third Reich unwillingly and therefore comparatively unproductively. During the war French output never attained its prewar level.2 What contributions were deriv