ctors. The overall image of the German economy held by the Allies— its output, organization and division of labor, and the implications of these factors for the strategic air offensive—was highly imperfect. The general conception held by MEW and JIC up to the middle of 1943 was wholly unreliable. They emphasized that the German economy was stressed to the limit, and that no reallocation of resources in it or expansion of armaments output was possible. They repeatedly predicted its collapse and consistently exaggerated the effects of strategic bombing. MEW even argued that industrial capacity was being shifted from armaments production to the output of civilian goods. AWPD shared MEW’s basic assumption that the German economy was stressed to the breaking point. COA, in its haste, elected not to question this assumption.3&  In mid- and late 1943 this unrealistic picture was changed. JIC and MEW argued that now there was no evidence of a general collapse on the horizon, and that reserves of manufacturing capacity apparently existed.32 JIC stressed that no reliable standard of measurement was available. But by February 1944 MEW was again arguing that armaments production had actually declined, and that there were no reserves to shift to weapons output.42  An important reason for the failure to gauge German output accurately aside from the errant initial assumption that the German economy had been fully and carefully mobilized at the outset of the war, was the inability of MEW and OSS R&A to assess Speer’s programs accurately. MEW never detected the existence of Central Planning, one of the keys to Speer’s success. The other bodies were identified but their purpose escaped MEW. It thought that they only added complexity to his managerial apparatus and doubted that they could be effective.41 Since it did not understand the overall context, it could not appreciate Speer’s initiatives. R&A did only a bit better. Very soon after the formation of the RMfRuK, it noted the chan