n that business may not subordinate the profit motive to the national interest even in times of direst crisis and that Nazism and big capitalism were only allies of convenience.  Looked at from the military perspective, it may be contended that strategic bombing can make a significant contribution to victory in war. But it is not a substitute for a balanced strategy encompassing every component of a nation’s military power. It is peculiarly reliant on accurate intelligence, sensibly interpreted. Above all, strategic bombing is not a cheap, easy, or quick avenue to success. It involves a major investment of national resources to build a force powerful enough to be effective. To be successful, strategic bombing requires simultaneous and repeated strikes against a small number of indispensable sectors of the enemy economy after air superiority has been won.  Reconsideration of the assault on the Reichsbahn offers no more than these general guidelines. The slavish application of a similar strategy to another bombing offensive in the future would fail as abysmally as did the simplistic application of the oil and “interdiction” strategies to North Vietnam between 1965 and 1968. Each war presents new and unique problems for which the past provides no obvious solutions. Moreover there is no insurance against the bureaucratic egotism that caused both the Allies and the Nazis so much difficulty. Only the careful selection of responsible leaders and the subordination of the military to a broadly based, democratically chosen government can mitigate their influence. It must also be recalled that doggedness and resourcefulness can stymie a force enjoying mere material superiority if that preponderance is not well used. Ignorance of the Reichsbahn’s stubborn struggle against overwhelming odds and the overriding importance of the psychological and time factors in the final collapse of Nazi Germany help to explain the frustration of the: American air effort over North Vietnam betwee