ir commanders agreed to set bombing priorities in line with Tedder’s conception. The consequence was a devastating new offensive against the DR. But by then the Reichsbahn and the German economy with it were already grinding to a liait. The new wave of attacks crushed all hope of recovery among the more reasonable German leaders and abetted the final spasm of nihilistic destructiveness from Hitler and his followers. Throughout November, doubts grew among Allied intelligence officers concerning the results of the first transportation plan. It seemed to them either to be taking too long or to be having no effect at all. The Ardennes offensive threw Allied air intelligence and command circles into despondency. After all, after four and a half years of bombing and many severe defeats on the battle fronts in the west and the east, Germany should not have been able to mount such a drive. From the high optimism of the summer and autumn, the Allies fell into deep pessimism. In USAAF circles it was predicted that the war would not end until the summer of 1945. The Combined Intelligence Committee of the CCS in Washington feared that Germany could prolong the war for a considerable time and discerned no deterioration in the Reich’s ability to sustain combat. At Yalta the CCS informed the Soviets that they did not expect hostilities in Europe to cease until July or December 1945.1 These dire predictions indicate how poorly the Allies understood the way the German economy functioned and how badly they misunderstood the effect of their bombing. For the most part they simply pro- jected what they thought was the trend of the most recent events far into the future.  The apparent failure of the bomber offensive and the assault on the Reich transportation system in particular triggered another review of Allied air strategy. On 8 January 1945, General Arnold asked his staff to reevaluate the strategic bombing campaign, take a critical look at priorities and prepare a new set of propos