the bureaucrats. Most silently accepted that the war was lost. But they fought on. Hitler’s hold over them and the dictates of patriotism would not permit them to capitulate.122 It is this psychological factor that explains why Ganzenmiiller, Speer, and the others continued to improvise, to prolong resistance despite the punishment Tedder meted out to the Reichsbahn. They understood the basic situation. As early as 8 November, Central Planning expressed its fear that elasticity was about to be exhausted.121 Within a few days though, it proposed new ways to conserve raw materials and continue production.122 Speer, from his travels to the west, grasped the importance of the attacks on marshalling yards, especially those serving the Ruhr. On II November 1944 he described in a memorandum for Hitler how the disruption of marshalling and canal movement had unleashed a serious coal famine in the Ruhr that prevented it from supporting its dependencies. Yet he hoped that traffic could be restored by a massive repair effort. On 30 November he still considered stocks sufficient to maintain a high level of armaments output. In a speech given to his subordinates at Rechlin on 1 December, he again expressed his confidence in their ability to master the crisis. A few days later he called upon his organization and the Gauleiters fanatically to repair rail facilities in the Ruhr. Reopening a yard even  Page 152 of 282 55% into the Volkssturm, and a reduction in the demand for car space to the amount that the DR could provide.12 But the Reichsbahn continued to sink, its heart, the marshalling yards in the Ruhr, beat- percent below the previous year’s level during the Ardennes period.128 Only a quarter of the daily target for open freight cars and a third of the target for box cars for armaments shipments, a total of Throughout the events of 1944-1945, Speer and Kehr] fought to assist the Reichsbahn and to maintain a bare minimum of armaments production. In late November, Speer restri