ay network. Of the two, the Reichsbahn was by far more important. In 1943 it carried over three-quarters of all freight while the waterways bore only one-tenth.2 Moreover it moved 90 percent of all coal that was shipped.10 The Reichsbahn was the main constituent of the coal/ transport nexus. Because of its flexibility and the wide range of services that it offered it was also the most important prop to the functional division of labor. It could reach more places, more often and faster than the barges. It was the indispensable conduit, the most powerful buttress of the German economy.  The Reichsbahn was fairly new, created only in 1920 through the amalgamation of the numerous German state railways that had survived into the twentieth century. But it was also the legatee of a long and honorable railroading heritage. Its past was personified by Dr.-Ing. Julius Dorpmiiller, its head and Reich Transportation Minister. Known for his geniality and engineering expertise, Dorpmiil-ler was seventy-four years old. He enjoyed a wealth of railroading experience including work in China and in Germany’s great coal regions. He had been General Director of the DR since 1927 and Transportation Minister since 1937. During the 1920s he resurrected the Reichsbahn from the confusion of hasty unification and the reparations crisis of 1923. He initiated technical and managerial improvements that raised it to the first rank of world railroading. He also imbued it with a philosophy stressing the formation of a solid capital base, the accumulation of excess vehicle capacity, the conduct of operations well within the limits of available equipment, and the provision of a wide variety of services tailored to the broadest consuming public. Dorpmiiller was a political conservative who eschewed membership in the Nazi Party. But as a patriotic German, he cooperated with it in its economic and military ventures with the proviso that it not interfere in the internal matters of the railroad!  Dorpmiil