c egotism. These factors working against an accurate appreci- ation were reinforced by a serious lack of hard information. The gravest void stemmed from the dearth of photo intelligence. ACIU was beset with two major obstacles—cloud cover and incorrect priorities. Throughout November, during most of December, and even through much of January 1945, heavy cloud prevented the reconnaissance aircraft from observing the German transportation system. Repeated sorties were necessary to monitor repair work, judge the state of marshalling, and gauge locomotive oper- ations. But under the circumstances this proved impossible. The result was that photo interpreters and those reliant on them were forced to turn to conjecture. This opened the door for prejudice to govern appreciations. Since photo reconnaissance had played a predominant role in earlier intelligence assessments, its loss was especially important. Equally important was the poor application of what imagery they did obtain. The practice of allowing the user of intelligence to determine how collection assets were to be used exerted a harmful influence. The CSTC established the priorities for photo coverage and nominated lines likely to be carrying military traffic and sections of yards unrelated to economic movements. The result was that the coal gateways were not covered even when they were not blanketed by cloud. When photo interpreters did evaluate yards, they frequently failed to distinguish between passenger stations and marshalling yards, and they often emphasized damage to lines while ignoring the hump, switches, and locomotive sheds.4 ACIU even had trouble assessing the situation at Bielefeld.5 In contrast, be- cause of the CSTC’s support of canal attacks, coverage of the Ladbergen and Gravenhorst breaks was good.&  Page 160 of 282 58% In light of these impediments it is not surprising that the overall level of intelligence assessment was low. MEW had repeatedly been disappointed in its predictions of the col