ns of bombs on transportation targets in support of Overlord in France, Belgium, and western Germany. Then through the summer, the focus of the assault shifted eastward in conjunction with the advance of the armies. In July and August an average of 2,400 tons of bombs per month was dropped on transportation targets in Germany.2 During the first two weeks of September the pace accelerated. Against the onslaught, the Luftwaffe’s fighters could mount only feeble resistance. Priority was given by the Luftwaffe High Command to protecting the synthetic fuel plants in central Germany. But even here, the defense was anemic owing to the crushing losses suffered during the spring defending these targets and trying to stem the invasion.3 Flak was also concentrated near the hydrogénation plants in the Leuna and Leipzig regions near RBD Halle.4 But with the growing shortage of powder, itself due to the attacks on  Page 82 of 282 30% oil and ball-bearing targets in Germany.74 Meanwhile, Churchill objected to Tedder’s plan because he feared that it would inflict too many casualties on the French population living near the railyards. But the assurances of the spokesman of the Free French in Britain, Maj. Gen. Pierre J. Koenig, and finally of President Roosevelt stilled the prime minister’s opposition in mid-April.25 On 19 April, beaches on 6 June, the strategic air forces had dropped 56,930 tons of bombs on transportation targets in support of Overlord in France, Belgium, and western Germany.1 Then through the summer, to stem the invasion. Flak was also concentrated near the hydrogénation plants in the Leuna and Leipzig regions near RBD Halle.4 But with the growing shortage of powder, itself due to the attacks on oil, restrictions were placed on the expenditure of ammunition.* This weakness meant that the issue in the transportation sector resolved itself into a race between the bombers’ ability to inflict dam- age and the Reichsbahn repair crews’ ability to make it good. A competi