uld do. Beyond the measures that it took to conserve energy, outlined above, it resorted to other anemic expedients. Central Planning granted factory workers an extended vacation from the day before Christmas to New Year’s Day so that their factories could be closed to save coal. Pleiger drove the miners to work Sundays and holidays, not to cut coal, but to load it into freight cars.22  The enforced restructuring of the coal market was continued. Syndicates throughout Germany were again called upon to assist the RWKS by supplying its outlying customers. The leader was the  Page 138 of 282 50% ruption of transportation.8& disruption of transport on the Rhine and the Reichsbahn. Brown coal production in the area was only a quarter of normal throughout the period. Reich output fell by about a quarter,2! and 83 percent Upper Silesian Hard Coal Syndicate. In November it sent 475,289 tons of coal to RWKS customers from Kiel to Mannheim.23 In December it dispatched 520,000 tons. But this was only three-quarters of what it had been scheduled to ship.%4 In January, arrivals from Upper Silesia sank to only a third of target.25 The failure of the Upper Silesian Hard Coal Syndicate’s help to meet expectations triggered bitter recriminations against it from the RWKS. The Ruhr coal barons contended that the eastern syndicate was exploiting the situation to lure away its customers by providing coal on a preferential basis to consumers favorable to it.26 Similar disputes arose between the RWKS and other syndicates.22 Market considerations continued to be overriding even during a national crisis. These tensions reduced the efficiency of the German economy in ways that were real though unquantifiable. Toa very great extent, the RWKS’s fears were unjustified. The Upper Silesian syndicate shipped what it could. But the Allied bombers intervened to veto its plans. The Reichsbahn was unable to move all of the trains that the eastern syndicate loaded because of snarls in marshalling yards