ese reasons, low energy content and fragility, it was generally not economical to ship it long distances or store it in quantity for long periods. Industry adapted to these characteristics in two ways. One was to make brown coal suitable for transport by forming it into briquettes that were more robust and had about twice the heat value per unit of weight as raw brown coal. The other method was to locate plants immediately adjacent to brown coal mines. Unlike hard coal which is won in shafts diving hundreds and sometimes thousands of feet below the earth’s surface, brown coal is obtained by strip mining from open pits on the surface. This fact meant that  arid the sopfiisticated technology afd aistripution system necessary for its exploitation. COal ls afl Orgariic seaimentary rock formed Dy the combined action of pressure afd temperature of pliant Ged- Ruhr hard coal had energy values ranging from 6,800 to 7,600 calories per kilogram. Upper Silesian hard coals were slightly less potent.2 Within this broad grouping were ranks, each with its own To facilitate its utilization, a number of derivative forms of coal were developed.2 The most important was coke. A hard, brittle, spongy mass, coke was first used in the Ruhr in the late 1850s. It is Other heavy industrial and ancillary industries followed in their In the coal economy year 1943/44, Germany produced 278.1 million tons of hard coal and 53.3 million tons of coke.2 Her total assured reserves amounted to 190.6 billion tons.12 These massive third of total production amounting to 101,512,000 tons.14 But the lower quality of its coal meant that it provided only 13 percent of national coke supplies.15 It was this factor that put Upper Silesia plants generating electricity could be built beside the mines, using conveyor belts to bring the raw coal to the furnaces.2° Synthetic fuel plants were located near brown coal pits for the same reason. Germany’s brown coal supplies were grouped in two main areas. The most import