oving equipment delayed the work.2 bridge at Nordstern fell into the RHK blocking it again.2 It took over a week to clear the wreckage of the two structures. The result of these five attacks on the DEK system was a severe reduction in coal shipments out of the Ruhr to its dependencies in northern and central Germany. During December, coal movement past the Miinster lock was 68 percent lower than the monthly average for the fourth quarter of 1943. In January it was fully 98 percent lower than the first quarter 1944 monthly average.12  Other attacks on the Mittelland Canal reduced coal supplies in central Germany even fuither. On 6 November the Eighth Air Force attempted to renew the break at Minden but missed. Movement here resumed on 9 November. The Eighth tried again on 6 December and failed.11 Traffic east of Minden flowed freely until it was strangled by attacks at Giavenhorst near the junction with the DEK and ice. Bomber Command succeeded where the Eighth failed and shut the MLK at Gravenhorst on 21 November. It returned on 1 January 1945 and cut the canal again. About thirty kilometers of the waterway was drained on each occasion.12 As a result, it was impassable from 21 November to 11 December 1944 and again from 1 January 1945 until the end of the war. As at Ladbergen, the Reich Tugging Service attempted to slip barges through at night when the waterway was open. But the results were puny compared to the dire need for coal in central Germany.13 The RVM tried to use the Elbe as a substitute, hoping to employ the Reichsbahn to bring coal to the river and then to move it eastward by barge.14 But the effort collapsed in confusion.12 It continued to use the long detour over  —— eee  Page 126 of 282 46% SS BARS Rae ASSES Sy A eee CSE Be ee FE ee a a eee ae er a a ee eS ee ee ee Se Fe Oe ee ES Ne a eee ee ee ee See ek ee accounted for 55 percent of the total. here resumed on 9 November. The Eighth tried again on 6 December and failed.1! Traffic east of Minden flowe