. The remainder were operated only on demand. Each RBD held a stock of cars and locomotives from which it attempted to meet requirements. Every morning between six and ten it reported its plans and needs to the appropriate GBL and the Hwa. They coordinated movements among the RBDs and allocated cars to those in need. Therefore, each RBD operated independently with the central authorities acting as referees who stepped in to play a direct role only when necessary. The resulting system was flexible, although it suffered from a lack of coordination from the center due to unclear lines of authority between the Hwa, GBLs, and RBDs.14 DENMARK “we. BALTIC SEA K6nigsberg  NORTH SEA » .  »)  _J USSR  4  /  Page 35 of 282 14% a a re a planning and provision for contingencies in its basic framework. The central organs formulated policy and oversaw daily operations. Regional at aad re re a and local bodies managed the system and actually ran  with emphasis on the smooth and punctual flow of traffic. Because of their control of armaments traffic and close cooperation with the military,  their existence was a closely guarded secret. They were  The basic operational unit of the DR was the Reichsbahn Directorate (Reichsbahndirektion, RBD). In 1943 there were thirty-one of them divided among the three GBLs (see Map 3.1). Each was associated with a Regional Traffic Office (Bezirksverkehrsleitung, BVL). The directorates ran trains, managed their supporting maintenance s ops, and had control over locomotives and cars. They The allocation of car space was a cooperative venture accomplished by the Main Car Office, sections EI and EII, the GBLs, and the RBDs. Each day as many as 30,000 freight trains were run. Of them  Q DENMARK Al BALTIC SEA 6 ° KOnigsberg * 9 ° S NORTH SEA « Ss RS Va . s Danzig  mee ef  Hambure NETHERLANDS ( ?  S  “Munster e e Osten  (Frankfurt/Oder)  e Posen  Dresden ‘LITHUANIA ™  » 14% DENMARK in : BALTIC SEA KOnigsberg g ° ms NORTH SEA « Ss RRS a ‘ ° Danzig _ er J US