eteen-day level.82  The Reichsbahn achieved its best performance of the war in 1943. Speer’s managerial reforms had enabled it to realize its full potential in concert with the increase in armaments production. The system was now personified by Ganzenmiiller. He infused new energy into the DR and banished the old conservative managerial and operational practices embodied by Dorpmiiller. The historical div- ision of labor which bestowed special importance on RBDs Essen, Halle, and Oppeln was thereby adapted to the new situation.  Nevertheless, performance remained inadequate in light of the additional increases in production sought by Speer. Car placings were consistently about a quarter below demand.88 Of the 200,000 cars per day requested by industry, probably about 165,000 were genuinely needed.82 But actual car placings averaged 158,352 per day in 1943—close but far enough below demand to put a cap on Oppeln accounted for 12 percent of general freight car traffic and originated a third of hard coal movements. 45 percent of all brown coal shipments.22 Its importance is belied by its overall freight car placing share since its operations were highly complex and were executed under extreme time pressure so as revealing is car placings. It measures the operation of the heart of the system, the marshalling yards. A car placing was the insertion of one car into a train. It was not synonymous with loading. In production.22 Coal car placings were also near target, but the overall tonnage sought by the RVK, 275 million for the coal economy year 1943/44, was not met by almost 5 percent.2! Again this was close, but given the need for ever-increasing amounts, every kilogram of coal not delivered meant a real production loss.  Two reasons can be adduced to explain the DR’s inadequacy. First was the increase in the average length of a trip from 183 kilometers in 1938 to 375 by the end of 1943. This was caused by the expansion of the geographical area served by the Reichsbahn a