ives were plentiful but coal to fire them was not. Stocks of locomotive coal in GBL-West were down to only five days as early as the end of November. But this did not harm RBD Essen as much as it did those directorates that were dependent upon the Ruhr for coal. During November, instead of the 20 service coal trains per day needed to supply these regions, an average of just 7 left RBD Essen. Despite every effort the situation did not improve.®2 The Reichsbahn was driven to confiscating coal to keep its locomotives running.$8 This, combined with the disruption of marshalling in GBL-South, pre- vented them from sending empty cars back to the Ruhr to be used to ship coal. Here was a major component of the problem.  Lammertz recognized the difficulty. His lines were open but he could not use them. On 14 November he begged the ZVL for empty cars.£2 Even before Lammertz’s appeal, Berlin attempted to relieve his plight. On 11 November, Dilli ordered that unit trains of empty open cars be formed in central Germany and Upper Silesia and rushed to the Ruhr. All locomotive reserves were to be thrown into the effort.22 The surge occurred on 15 November.2 On 29 November. Berlin ordered that the highest prioritv be given to sending open cars to the Ruhr.72 Still RBD Essen lacked emptv cars. The situation  Page 135 of 282 49% enough only to complete weapons. On 25 January 1945 homes were denied all hard coal supplies in order to permit shipments to powder, liquid fuel, and munitions plants.45 would receive nothing.2& railway shipments by 47 percent.£! The decline in waterborne dispatches can be easily explained by pointing to the cuts on the DEK and MLK and the block at Cologne. But the sharp drop in railway 140 moved.£2 At the end of December only 20 or 30 moved each day. The situation improved a bit by late January. Then about 90 train pairs could operate.£2 The volume of freight traffic, despite the in service increased also from 755 to 807.64 But the number stored cold for lac