d that since the Reichsbahn was the primary carrier of Ruhr coal, it was the most important single element in the German economy.£8 Sherrington’s reports were concise and generally accurate. They can be faulted only for not noting the importance of RBDs Halle and Oppeln. But they were very useful contributions. In November 1943 the technical intelligence section, TN 1(c) of Military Intelligence, MI 8, in the War Ministry, produced a basically accurate appraisal of the Ruhr and its railways. Although it missed the role of marshalling yards, it did highlight the importance of the region’s coal traffic and the role played by RBD Halle. Overall, it considered the Reichsbahn to be “the greatest single factor in maintaining the economic life of the nation.”52 At the same time, OSS R&A completed a series of very valuable reports on the Reichsbahn. It correctly asserted that the DR was under great pressure but had nonetheless barely succeeded in fulfilling Germany’s transportation needs up to late 1943. The Reichsbahn’s main role in the eyes of R&A, was to move coal and other raw materials between the Ruhr and its hinterland. The keys to these movements were the marshalling yards. The report provided accurate, detailed information on the location and capacity of the DR’s major marshalling yards. It even identified and correctly internreted the role of the ZVT. In its view trucks were 1nimnortant and the canals were heing used to trv to relieve the railwav. It susgsested a series of attacks to isolate the Rithr and nner Silesia but  Page 76 of 282 27% ciemmes Wiesel _—_— eee se to“u“_ EOU itself never studied transportation, let alone the Reichsbahn.+ Instead it relied on papers prepared by others such as MAAF. On 8 February 1944 it counseled USSTAF that the delay incurred coal-mining sector was especially vulnerable to disruption from indirect causes such as transportation snarls.55 The RRS produced a number of accurate portrayals of the Reichsbahn and its economic part of