ifice had been co-opted by big business, especially heavy industry, to serve its own purposes. The interest groups and cartels sim- ply used the chambers and groups as cloaks behind which they pursued their customary goals. Industry, the fourth entity, therefore played a de facto independent role.  In 1936 the poorly managed Four Year Plan organization was created to focus the energies of these groups on the expansionist aims laid down by Hitler. Gdring hoped to use segments of existing  Page 1 of 282 3% ee eee EE EE EEE a ee eee ee ee ee ee ee OO SS ee eee eel ee ee In 1936 the poorly managed Four Year Plan organization was created to focus the energies of these groups on the expansionist aims laid down by Hitler. Goring hoped to use segments of existing bureaucracies to serve his purposes and so began by creating only a very small office. But over the months it mushroomed until finally in 1938, he meshed it with the RWM. Subsequently both for this reason and because Goring began to turn his attentions elsewhere, the Four Year Plan faded into virtual insignificance.24 When the war began, these power centers were competing with each other causing the utmost confusion in the management of the economy. While many proposals had been made to name an economic dictator to impose order, nothing had been done. No tightly o i i re mn b  Nazi ideology was the product of tensions that grew out of the peculiar political and economic development of Germany during the preceding sixty years. It crystallized after defeat in 1918, which it attributed to the collapse of popular morale due to economic hardship, and gained political strength and broad popular acceptance thereafter. It advocated the rejection of industrialization and liberalism and a flight to folkish forms of romanticism.25 The concomitant was the denigration of bureaucratic organization and the discounting of the role of the state.26 From this flowed an irrational conception of social mobilization as a fanatical burst