the middle of October, after the setback of the fourteenth, coal had moved into the spotlight with the ZVL refusing to shift car space from the mining regions to the east to carry the harvest.35 On 20 October the ZVL bowed to circumstances and reduced the coal target to free up space for grain and sugar beets.36 This meant that the goal for daily coal car placings was cut from 69,200 to 49,000 units. The Ruhr quota was slashed from 16,000 to 11,000.32 The sacrifice was more apparent than real because the marshalling yards could not meet even these low targets. Nevertheless, the transfer was reflected in the share of space devoted to food transport. Food occupied 27 percent of available space in boxcars by the middle of October, compared to 20 percent at the end of September. Moreover, after having given no space at all in open cars for food transport, by mid-October nearly 5 percent of such cars was used to carry food.38 The changes were incremental, but they did contribute to postponing urban starvation. The Reichsbahn was capable of little more. Its options were rapidly dwindling.  The Reich Coal Association and the Speer ministry attempted to help by reducing demand for coal and establishing priorities for the allocation and consumption of what was available. Those firms adjacent to the mines and not reliant on the Reichsbahn were allowed a full supply. Among all other plants served by the RWKS, those that had exhausted their stocks would be served first. Then the Reichsbahn’s needs would be satisfied. Next the gas works supplying industrial regions, the Wehrmacht, electrical works, and armaments plants would be catered to, in that order.32 Emphasis was  Page 105 of 282 38% OLFOlflariy sere tile LERIOT Gally OLLY aVOUL LWETILY COUIG TM Lileit Way OULAS COlitral Pialliiiris COMSIGered Lillis tO VDE LIE ELEALESt COdi Clisis olllCe ile DEEIUIUITIE OF Le Wal. A= MeCLITIE Ol of UCLODET LO decide where to send delayed goods, especially coal and perishables.31Late in th