4 it produced monthly an average of 2,592.3 tons of all products including 107 tanks, 137,000 shells, and 47 anti-aircraft pieces.o4 Krupp-Gruson 145,000 tons of bauxite per annum, or about a fifth of total German capacity.©5 In 1943 it obtained 303,808 tons of bauxite, all by rail and all from regions outside of Germany, enabling it to accumulate Brown Coal Syndicate (Rheinisches Braunkohlensyndikat, RBS) which arrived both by rail and by barge.S° The company operated its own coal-fired electricity generating plant to support its voracious thousand kilowatt-hours of electricity. They produced perhaps only a few thousand kilograms of goods. But they were vital to the system because they provided components and sub-assemblies without which the major firms engaged in final production could not function. Like the great concerns, they relied on the easy exchange of goods to perform their function. Some will be mentioned later, but in the interim their indispensable contribution should be borne in mind. By late 1943 the German economy had developed a highly complex functional and geographical division of labor steered by the managerial system perfected by Speer. Its strength lay in the close integration and tight coordination of its separate parts. A key to its efficient operation was the grouping of industry around the two great coal centers, the Ruhr and Upper Silesia. The Ruhr predom- inated because of the high quality of its coal, its more variegated ancillary industries, and its superior political organization. The exchange of goods in a timely fashion among industrial sectors and regions was crucial. The lifeblood of the system was coal, and the fate of the entire organism rested on the conduit that ensured its steady flow, the Deutsche Reichsbahn.  3 Wheels Must Roll for Victory The Deutsche Reichsbahn eee SS Eee ee OEE eee EE eee eee es ee eee ee OE EE Eee ee eee Brown Coal Syndicate (Rheinisches Braunkohlensyndikat, RBS) which arrived both by rail and by barge.S