sion in order to spare their people additional casualties. In contrast, the Americans planned to transfer the bulk of their forces to the Pacific to help consummate the victory over Japan. This contributed heavily to their bad misjudgment of the length of time necessary for an air attack on transportation to reduce industrial output and supplies of weapons to the Wehrmacht. In part due to a dearth of air reconnaissance, they did not appreciate that the bombers were gradually winning their destructive race against the repair crews. They repeatedly pointed to the pipeline as a buffer between the transportation system, industry, and the enemy fighting formations. But weeks of air attacks on transportation, the pipeline itself, had shortened it and forced German industry to consume part of its reserves. With every passing day, the argument that stocks, hats pipeline, and the recuperative powers of the transportation system would muffle the shocks of bombing lost validity. The struggle at this juncture resolved itself into a contest between  aL AMIAA 221 dae 2 aa ate 2a ate nee ee A nent 2 ate 22 2 A nd 2 et Le A A tenet ne ee dee et ne en LA Ae we nw Ane ne Tedder was successful. On 28 October, SHAEF adopted his plan and the combined chiefs ratified it.422 The new directive was issued on 1 November. It placed oil first and transportation second that stocks, the pipeline, and the recuperative powers of the transportation system would muffle the shocks of bombing lost validity. The struggle at this juncture resolved itself into a contest between the Allied air leaders and their consistency in the pursuit of their goal and the Germans’ dogged efforts to repair bomb damage and improvise production arrangements. There can be no doubt that transportation bombing had disrupted the German economy. The key question now was whether the Allied air commanders could agree among themselves to continue the bombing and force its col- lapse.1 The Luftwaffe was too weak to oppose them. B