lling trans- port in the Reich. The ZVL was headed by the fifty-six-year-old Ernst Emrich, who had begun his railroad career in 1912 and was simultaneously head of GBL-East.46 Formed in June 1942, the ZVL was composed of representatives of all ministries involved in economic affairs. Heads of important offices in the Reichsbahn and the Inland Waterway Section of the RVM regularly reported before it on traffic conditions. While the ZVL possessed no statutory powers, because of the importance of its membership, its uniqueness as a forum where providers and consumers of transportation services could meet directly, and because it enjoyed Speer’s imprimatur, it was the most powerful administrative organ influencing transport policy in the Reich. It alone allocated space among groups of users and relied on Dilli and the Main Car Office to set specific quotas. One exception was coal transport where the ZVL constantly maintained the closest supervision.42  The net result of these personnel and administrative reforms was that the Reichsbahn weathered the 1942 winter crisis and markedly improved its performance afterward. It provided the necessary support for Speer’s armaments expansion by increasing the tonnage it carried through enhanced efficiency, not through the provision of greater car space. This enabled Pleiger to conclude after the Central Planning meeting on coal matters on 30 April 1943 that the situation was satisfactory.48  While managerial changes could wring increased performance from it, ultimately the Reichsbahn’s limits were set by its fund of physical assets. In 1943 it was manned by about 1.5 million people, about 12 percent of whom were foreigners and prisoners of war.42 They operated 78,879 kilometers of line, of which 55 percent was considered main line suitable for the heaviest traffic. Two-thirds of the main line was double tracked, and a further 3 percent had three or more tracks. About 3 percent, primarily in southern Germany, was electrified.5° (Fo