, concentration camp inmates, idled factory workers, and others from armaments plants were committed. But again the order emphasized that this was necessary for the successful continuation of the war.22 On 14 March, Speer personally issued a set of transportation priorities that put troop trains in first place. But he stated this priority very narrowly. Only the most urgent movements necessary to maintain short-term resistance were to fall into this category. Food and repair materials for the Reichsbahn received next priority. Among bulk commodities food received highest priority, higher even than coal.Z8 The Reichsbahn was given complete au-  Page 171 of 282 62% — pretext that it was only a “recommendation.” It was agreed to distribute one month’s salary to everyone and to disperse. When conditions stablized after the end of the fighting they would gather again ordered a new, frantic effort; to repair marshalling yards to maintain traffic; 800,000 people were to be thrown into the struggle.26 Prisoners of war, concentration camp inmates, idled factory workers, category. Food and repair materials for the Reichsbahn received next priority. Among bulk commodities food received highest priority, higher even than coal.28 The Reichsbahn was given complete au- thority to refuse any freight that it deemed unworthy of transport. These last orders indicate that by early March Speer had concluded that further resistance was futile. He arrived at this realization in part because of the damage caused by bombing to the transportation system and the synthetic fuel industry and in part because of his revulsion at Hitler’s scorched-earth policy. The Fiihrer had been moving since the autumn toward ordering the destruction of all economically valuable goods and structures. Speer had repeatedly put him off. In mid-March the young minister, reluctantly admitting that his accomplishments had been for naught and his organization shattered, collided with Hitler, who sought a last nihilist