rful locomotives, placed more cars in trains, and carried a third more freight. This was in spite of an increase in average haul by more than half and a rise in turnaround time by a third. Whereas in 1913 German railways were operated by the various states, the Reichsbahn was able to provide greater service with a similar capital base because it was unified, because it had more modern, more productive equipment, and because it was administered more effectively. For the same reasons it was able to improve its performance still further during the war. When the war began, contrary to the generally accepted view, the Reichsbahn had a large fleet of modern vehicles run on solid, beautifully maintained right-of-way with an extensive maintenance organization supporting both. It enjoyed the reputation of being one of the best railroads in the world. Ultimately it was overwhelmed by the enormous demands placed upon it by Hitler’s megalomania. Nevertheless the Reichsbahn performed admirably and fought doggedly against long odds until the end. Even under optimum circumstances the Reichsbahn could not have satisfied all the demand for transport space unaided, especially for bulk commodities. Since the turn of the century, transport planners had intended that the inland waterways help the railroads. During the 1930s both the Weimar Republic and the Nazi regime engaged in an extensive program aimed at expanding the net’s capacity byi improving | rivers and adding to the canal system. Yet iby 1 943 the inland waterway network had fallen badly behind expectations. Its share of overall transport tonnage andi ‘its share of coal  a —  we ee  Page 50 of 282 19% Asecond major measurement was backlog, that is, trains delayed more than two hours after scheduled departure time. In 1943 the average daily backlog system wide was 282 trains.84 between 1940 and 1942.27 Operations were mechanized to the latest standard with retarders, remote control switches, and radios.28 The number of marshal