3/44, Germany produced 278.1 million tons of hard coal and 53.3 million tons of coke.® Her total assured reserves amounted to 190.6 billion tons.1° These massive Holding a third of Germany’s proven reserves, the Ruhr was the leader in German hard coal production. In the 1943/44 coal economy year, it accounted for 45 percent of the Reich’s hard coal  meant that unlike The upshot was th; ing de  The patterns in which coal was consumed can be understood in two ways: by industry and by region. The two schemas coincide but for the sake of clarity they will be discussed separately.  The single largest consumer of hard coal was the mining industry itself. It used a third of the cut to power its equipment and produce coke. Next was manufacturing which used about 17 percent of supplies. Half of this was drawn from the Ruhr. Third in importance was transportation which used 15 percent of total output and relied on the two major coal regions almost equally. Then came the utilities, which used about a tenth of hard coal supplies. The gas works relied on the Ruhr for almost two-thirds of their needs while the electricity plants drew equally upon the two major hard coal regions.18 Gas and electricity can be viewed as transformations of coal that allow its energy to be consumed at locations remote from the mines. The use of electrical transmission cables also permit- ted the second coal family brown coals, to be exploited on a nationally important scale.  Brown coal, familiar to Americans as lignite, is one of the younger ranks of coal that have been subjected to the geological development process for less time than hard coals. Raw brown coal has a thermal value ranging from 2,000 to 2,500 calories per kilogram.12 It contains a high percentage of water which renders it fragile. For these reasons, low energy content and fragility, it was generally not economical to ship it long distances or store it in quantity for long periods. Industry adapted to these characteristics in two ways