o years away from smelting its first ton of iron.2 Schacht resigned as minister of economics and plenipotentiary for the war economy in November 1937. He was replaced by the political nonentity Walther Funk on 7 February 1938.10 Géring was given control over the Ministry  Page xx of 282 3% enunciating the second Four Year Plan under Hermann Goring. He called upon industry to make Germany ready for war within four years. To this end the government would sponsor the expansion industry.3 staff overnight. The complex would exploit the low-quality iron ores located near Salzgitter in central Germany.£ Named to lead the new combine was Paul Pleiger, an energetic manager cum techno- Goring’s organization.’ The synthetic fuel program had yet to yield appreciable results and the RWHG was still almost two years away from smelting its first ton of iron.2 Schacht resigned as minister of economics and plenipotentiary for the war economy in November 1937. He was replaced by the political nonentity Walther Funk on 7 February 1938.12 G6ring was given control over the Ministry of Economics in the interim. He used this opportunity to merge his diffuse Four Year Plan organization with the ministry and to cut back on projects, including a few in the synthetic fuel sector that promised only long-term benefits. He also set a drastically shortened timetable for the first appearance of significant quantities of synthetic gasoline.11 The whole scheme worked toward the realiza- tion of gains that would enable Germany to embark upon the first stage of a career of military conquest in the near future. By the outbreak of hostilities, then, the German economy as a whole had not been prepared for a prolonged war. But significant changes had been made in the allocation of resources. Private consumption had fallen from 78 percent of the GNP in 1933 to 52 percent in 1938.12 Armaments spending rose from 4 to 22 percent of GNP which itself had risen by 16 percent compared to 1928.13 A significant incr