l.12 As a result coal supplies at the city’s gas works dropped to just sixteen days instead of the target of thirty-two.122 it received, coal consumption actually rose in December by 7 percent. Stocks fell to a third below normal.122 Electricity production held steady.123 Clearly, however, the end was in sight. marshalling yards operated at reduced levels or not at all; too many lines, especially the two gateways passing over the viaducts, were out; too many telephone connections had collapsed.125 The very into the Volkssturm, and a reduction in the demand for car space to the amount that the DR could provide.12Z But the Reichsbahn continued to sink, its heart, the marshalling yards in the Ruhr, beat- The crucial problem was that the Reichsbahn had lost control of its freight-car park due to the disruption of marshalling and telecommunications. In January, freight car turnaround time had skyrocketed to twenty days. The backlog soared to 1,994 trains on 18 January 1945. At least 100,000 cars, many bearing coal, were immobilized. We have observed how the ZVL used embargoes, redisposed marshalling, and put aside trains to combat this dread problem. But none of these measures sufficed. Control from Berlin loosened. The process of putting trains aside ran out of control. Yard crews sidetracked cars bearing even the highest priority code words. On 9 December 1944 the Reichsbahn took the desperate step of ordering that entire trains be derailed to relieve the glut of cars in vital marshalling yards and lines. On 28 January 1945 it set quotas totalling 125,000 cars to be derailed within a month. Every yard was to form crews to derail cars. Each directorate had to create twenty columns that were to derail ten cars each per day.184 By late December 1944 and early January 1945, the Reichsbahn had disintegrated into segments operating semi-independently. Control had virtually collapsed. The transportation system ceased to play its role in the division of labor. Throughout the e