e same powers to his own ministry.122  Sneer had ennnerated clacely with the Reichchahn cineca hic annnintment in 1949 Ha and Ganzanmiiller in nartienlar had davelaned a cardial nrnfaccinnal ralatinnchin Rut during Navemher Sneer ae aarti, — pelea Throughout the events of 1944-1945, Speer and Kehr] fought to assist the Reichsbahn and to maintain a bare minimum of armaments production. In late November, Speer restricted the use of materials for transportation facility repair and the building of underground factories.18& Wholesale regional electricity cutoffs were implemented in hopes of conserving coal.482 But this only caused Planning expressed its fear that elasticity was about to be exhausted.12:Within a few days though, it proposed new ways to conserve raw materials and continue production.122 tended for their region. But in January 1945 he arrogated the same powers to his own ministry.125 Speer had cooperated closely with the Reichsbahn since his appointment in 1942. He and Ganzenmiiller in particular had developed a cordial professional relationship. But during November, Speer and Kehrl became increasingly dissatisfied with the Reichsbahn, suspecting that it suffered from inefficiencies similar to those that had afflicted it in 1942. At the end of the month they decided to incorporate it more fully into their bureaucratic domain. Kehrl negotiated with Dorpmiiller and Ganzenmiiller to create national and regional transport plenipotentiaries. On 5 December, in a letter to Kehrl that must have disappointed Speer, Ganzenmiiller rejected the proposal. He argued that the ZVL and its regional organizations already adequately performed the task of distributing car and barge space. Acceptance of Kehrl’s proposal would only compound the growing confusion. Speer and Kehrl overrode Ganzenmiiller’s objections and on the next day, 6 December, they named Dr. Fritz Rudorf as Plenipotentiary for Economic Transport. He and his subordinates were empowered to demand any informatio