. While production flickered out, the bureaucratic predators consumed each other in pointless struggle. Speer dissolved the remains of his production apparatus on 8 February He divided the Reich into three areas, one in the west with headquarters at Heidelberg, one in the southeast based at Prague, and the other in the east with offices at Kopfenberg. Armaments plenipotentiaries who were empowered to make any decisions up to the limits of Speer’s authority were named to head each area. They were to cooperate closely with business leaders, the Reichsbahn and the representatives of the rings and committees.S2  Speer also moved to seize the Reichsbahn. On 14 February he discussed with Hitler his proposal to send Dorpmiiller on leave due to the aged railwayman’s illness, and to appoint himself commissar of the Reichsbahn. Hitler approved and signed Speer’s draft of a decree creating a transportation staff in the RMfRuK chaired by Speer. The armaments minister acquired full power to allocate transport space. Members of the staff were to be named in agreement with the RVM.72 At the moment of collapse Speer nearly absorbed one of the few entities in the economic sphere that had retained its independence since 1942. His motivations were ambiguous. He simultaneoulsy hoped to protect the DR from the fanatics in the Party and to increase his own power. Goebbels as Plenipotentiary for Total War attempted to divert its personel to trench digging or the Volkssturm. Bormann stuggled to radicalize and nazify it. In the face of all this, the Reichsbahn retained its separate identity and command structure to the end. Its heritage, its organization, were in tatters but still fuctioning, and the loyalty of its men to Dorpmiiller and Ganzenmiiller was too strong.  That defeat was at hand was apparent to all of the Reich’s economic leaders. We have already seen that Ganzenmiiller had warned Hitler that his railway was at the end of its tether. On 14 February,  in a message to the remaini