ry to the com- bat units had collapsed. By early January 1945 the bombing of marshalling yards and canals had caused a major weapons shortage in the Wehrmacht.212  The transportation offensive had both physical and psychological effects. On the one hand, the repeated bombing of marshalling yards, canals, and viaducts denied real resources to German industry and to the Wehrmacht. It prevented the distribution of coal, fatally disorganized the exchange of components, and compelled German industry to consume its reserves of both. The bombing also had the synergistic effect of reducing both the Reichsbahn’s and industry’s recuperative capacities. It created an emergency that exacerbated itself. On the other hand, the transportation offensive also created psychological pressures that gravely reduced the German industrial elite’s capacity to react to emergencies. It magnified the tensions that the Nazi system either suppressed or, in the case of the Party and governmental structures, encouraged. The collapse of telecommunications, an unintended by-product of the attacks, made planning and coordination impossible. The results were a major coal famine with dire short-term effects on all of German industry, the disintegration of the division of labor, serious declines in armaments production, and a major reduction in supplies to the Wehrmacht. Yet in some places the disaster was not recognized. In early January 1945 neither in Hitler’s headquarters nor in the majority of Allied air intelligence and command agencies was the col- lapse of the Reich economy perceived, though for different reasons. coal.202 Gas plant stocks in many cases had been exhausted.23 Approximately 450,000 kilowatts of electrical generating capacity had been lost to coal shortages alone.2 Here too, coal stocks were down to just a few days inspite of the reduction in demand by a fifth.225 Gas output by the municipal works had fallen 20 percent below the previous year’s level in December. Cokery gas produc