ral Transportation Offices (Generalverkehrsleitungen, GVL) that coordinated waterway, street car, and road traffic with the Reichsbahn’s activities.13 The basic operational unit of the DR was the Reichsbahn Directorate (Reichsbahndirektion, RBD). In 1943 there were thirty-one of them divided among the three GBLs (see Map 3.1). Each was associated with a Regional Traffic Office (Bezirksverkehrsleitung, BVL). The directorates ran trains, managed their supporting maintenance shops, and had control over locomotives and cars. They were in the most intimate contact with transportation consumers. Within the general guidelines set by Berlin, they exercised enormous power.  The allocation of car space was a cooperative venture accomplished by the Main Car Office, sections EI and E II, the GBLs, and the RBDs. Each day as many as 30,000 freight trains were run. Of them about 17, 000 worked to a fixed schedule. The remainder were te operated only on demand. Each RBD held a stock of cars and locomotives from which it t attempted to to meet requirements. Every morning  Sa ee Pe ec. Sc. ae Sarre ie ee ee ce ee wee 2 ete nnn a ee a areata -- 4d mie 8 tan et  Page 34 of 282 14% it carried over three-quarters of all freight while the waterways bore only one-tenth.2 Moreover it moved 90 percent of all coal that was shipped.12 The Reichsbahn was the main constituent of the coal/ 927 and Transportation Minister since 1937. During the 1920s he resurrected the Reichsbahn from the confusion of hasty unification and the reparations crisis of 1923. He initiated technical and matters of the railroad. were General Transportation Offices (Generalverkehrsleitungen, GVL) that coordinated waterway, street car, and road traffic with the Reichsbahn’s activities.12 about 17,000 worked to a fixed schedule. The remainder were operated only on demand. Each RBD held a stock of cars and locomotives from which it attempted to meet requirements. Every morning between six and ten it reported its plans and ne