ance was the source of the most voluminous and in many ways the most reliable information.12 Black and white and infrared photography could depict the location of factories, give clues about their activities by showing stockpiles of raw materials or finished goods waiting on loading docks, and provide information on bomb damage. The exploitation of imagery was handled at the Allied Central Interpretation Unit at Medmenham. Here photos were developed and interpreted for both the British and the Americans.18 Prisoners and travelers could be interrogated to provide clues about the thoughts and plans of decision makers and about activities in labora- tories or sections of plants that could not be seen by the cameras. But such informants had a limited field of knowledge and frequently gave very impressionistic accounts. The third form of covert intelligence, signal intelligence, played little role in shaping air strategy before the spring of 1944. Its most important form was Ultra, the system for decrypting high-grade German cipher traffic generated by the Enigma machine. Ultra provided a wealth of data on military movements. But it told little about economic events because such information flowed over land lines or by mail.12 However, the Reichsbahn did use Enigma and in February 1941 its cypher, code-named “Rocket” and later “Reichsbahn” by the British, was solved.22 Therefore, Ultra was potentially a source of economic information of great value. But again, so long as the Reichsbahn could use its land lines, little could be gained from Rocket. A complementary s source of signal intelligence was the  ee 0 er a a ee CS | ee ee i Se Se Se Po: ire. Sane ae eet “:Somieal eee oe — ee Allied Expeditionary Air Force had been created under Air Chief Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh- Mallory to support the invasion. Neither Spaatz nor Harris thought that the invasion would succeed and each the Reich’s economy crashing to the ground. But his bombers were suffering increasing losses wh