ken under intense pressure from the Allies, to cut off supplies to the Reich. The RVM and Rochling agreed to compensate by increasing shipments of minette.12 But during August, overall ore movements fell by a quarter. Shipments by water, especially on the Rhine, held steady but rail- way movement declined by 28 percent.18 The cause and the most important problem confronting German industry by the end of August was the decline in the powers of the Reichsbahn. Overall freight car placings during the third quarter of 1944 were only 4 percent below the level of the same period during 1943. But coal car placings were 16 percent lower. Placings for brown coal fell by 9 percent.12 There was no shortage of cars or locomotives. The difficulty was in marshalling. The attacks in France and Belgium had created chaos that reverberated eastward into Germany. The Reichsbahn was compelled to feed cars into the inferno in the west to support the military. The result was that the most important coal pivot, the Ruhr, and along with it the Saar, was swept up first in the spreading chaos. During the third quarter of 1944, car placings for hard coal in the Ruhr were off by 7 percent. Given the dire need for every ton of coal, this was ominous enough. But brown coal car placings in the region west of Cologne also dropped by 18 percent, although production continued at normal levels.22 This had major implications for the industrial region around Mannheim and put a greater burden on hard coal suppliers in the Ruhr. In the region itself, coal production proceeded normally. However, stocks of both coal and coke at the mines and ovens began to rise when they ordinarily sank to their lowest.21  RBD Saarbriicken suffered the greatest setbacks. The backlog of trains mounted and delays increased. Coal trains destined for France clogged the sidings. Trains that were sent into France frequently did not return, thus creating a shortage of empty cars.22 During the third quarter, freight and coal car p