ighted. He resorted to behind-the-scenes maneuvering to have them lifted to first position.22 A new feature of the attack, complementing the blows to marshalling yards, would be a major effort to cut viaducts and bridges along all of the coal gateways. This “interim plan” was implemented from the end of January. However, bombing priorities remained a constant subject for debate in February. Tedder continued to lobby for his plan and achieved a breakthrough when the CSTC visited SHAEF on 10 February42 It was agreed that the primary aim now should be the isolation of the Ruhr. On 14 February the CSTC began to prepare plans to achieve Tedder’s goal.41 The deputy supreme commander left nothing to chance. He had his staff at SHAEF formulate its own plan. It pinpointed the Hamm, Soest, and Miinster gateways, incorporating the proposal to cut viaducts with a scheme to hit major marshalling yards within the Ruhr, not just along its periphery, in order to reduce the overall volume of traffic generated by the region.42 This scheme was discussed at the air commanders’ conference of 15 February. The air leaders recommended that marshalling yard, bridge and viaduct, and strafing attacks be coordinated closely to strangle the Ruhr.43 Toddar facad an additinnal thraat At tha 1 Fehriuarw air eammandor ce’ maating Gnaatz7 had nranncead an attack an a larca niumhar af emall railuraw facilitiac ceattarad thrauchaut Garmanw Ha honed Page 166 of 282 60% Like a Nunter closing in for the Kill, om ALL G-2 refined its arguments in favor of transportation bombing ana pressed for a concerted effort to isolate the Kunr. by mid-rebruary it Nad accurately priorities. In mid-January oil shared first priority with jet aircraft plants. Transportation targets, especially on routes serving the Ruhr, were next.4 Then at the end of the month, the Berlin, Leipzig, and the Ruhr arteries through Paderborn, Hamm, and Minster last.38 Tedder realized that although the coal gateways figured prominently in the