as Speer failed to overcome the opposition of the Gauleiters.62  The only solution that Speer could see to the problem was to press forward with his policy of expansion and centralization. First, after having sought to do so since the beginning of his tenure, he gained control of naval armaments. The obstacle had been Hitler who had prevented the navy from being represented on Central Planning when it was formed. Now his objections were removed and at Admiral Dénitz’s own urging Speer assumed responsibility for naval armaments on 31 March 1943.61  Next, Speer stretched his grasp toward the Economics Ministry. On 10 June, after long and difficult negotiations, he and Funk initialed an agreement under which Speer would assume responsibility  far all cartare anf tha aranamu aveant fand and aanaral nivilian nlannina 62 Thic ume tha nraranditian far tha third maiar additian ta Cnaar’e machina _—_tha Dlannina ONfBira (Dlanimeacamt) rs, ~ Js for all sectors of the economy except food and general civilian planning.£2 This was the precondition for the third major addition to Speer’s machine—the Planning Office (Planungsamt). On 4 September 1943 Goring signed the order authorizing the creation of the Planning Office and admitting Funk to Central Planning. The Reich Offices and Reichsvereinigungen were transferred to Speer and his ministry was renamed the Reich Ministry for Armaments and War Production (Reichsministerium fiir Riistungsund Kriegsproduktion, RMfRuK) consonant with its widened re- sponsibilities. Ten days later the Planning Office was formed and placed immediately below Central Planning. Its head was Hans Kehrl, who brought with him the personnel of Main Section II of the Economics Ministry.©3 The Planning Office prepared statistics and agenda for Central Planning, drafted orders embodying its decisions, and monitored production programs. The committees and rings were subordinated 1:0 it. Kehrl took personal charge of one of the office’s subsections, the Raw Mate