ed 462 percent, coke holdings at the ovens 580 percent, and brown coal at the pits 400 percent compared to summer 1943.50 Although production was not interrupted, the fruits  Page 89 of 282 32% becoming increasingly difficult.24 A few slight problems arose obtaining components. The statistics concealed the strains under which plant managers struggled in order to find car space to get parts ments output at both the RWHG and Krupp-Gruson was not affected.36 and South. In RBD Oppeln problems arose due to the need to handle traffic moving west to escape the onrushing Red Army.22 This was a new factor. Its importance would grow during the coming months. For the moment, the eastern coal pivot suffered a loss of 16 percent in overall car placings and 18 percent in hard coal car placings in the third quarter of 1944.40 Traffic on the Oder at the coal At Upper Silesia’s major dependency, Berlin, the satisfactory functioning of the waterways enabled production to continue uninterrupted.48 BEWAG had no difficulty meeting electrical demand.46 Coal of the miners’ labors could not be sent to the mills and factories. They were forced to dip into their stockpiles to compensate. As yet the decline in stocks among consumers was not serious. But when it is recalled that this was the time of year when they should have been accumulating, then the peril for the future becomes glaringly obvious. The same held for iron ore. Stocks at the steel works were only half as great as during the preceeding year.5! The cause was the drop in minette shipments from Lorraine, and the major loser was the Saar. Reich raw iron production fell in August by a quarter compared to the preceding year.52 This was due almost entirely to the disaster in the Saar. Steel production did not fall in tandem since both in the Saar and elsewhere scrap could be substituted for high-content ore.53 Consequently steel production fell by 16 percent.44 While basic industries sustained their first setbacks, armaments final pro