eaucratic struggle that swirled in the Allied command. In a masterly summary of his position submitted to Portal on 25 October, he stated, in words that would have amazed Speer and Ganzenmiiller, “I am not satisfied that. .. we are using our air power really effectively The various types of operations should fit into one comprehensive pattern, whereas I feel that at nrecent they are mare like a natchwoark anilt "134 He then ninnninted the eynased nerve that Sneer and Ganzenmiiller were frantically trving ta shield: “The ane cammoan factar in the whale  Page 119 of 282 43% — dinary strain on Speer 's administrative apparatus, causing it and the Reichsbahn to begin to disintegrate. the transportation offensive.112 The very clouds that intensified the attack concealed its results. They were also unanimous in pinpointing the lack of reliable ground sources.118 The Special Measures the Reichsbahn train crews was sinking.121 No one on the German side was aware of this. MAGIC provided no useful evidence.122 OSS agents and PW interrogators did learn that the Hamm and Soest MEW, RRS, EOU, the Air Ministry, USSTAF, and SHAEF.13! Tedder immediately realized that the board was loaded in favor of oil.132 Consequently, much to the chagrin of the CSTC which bitterly resisted his move, Tedder compelled it to form a transportation working committee on 25 October.423 This gambit can be interpreted as an attempt by Tedder not only to balance the committee but also to en- that at present they are more like a patchwork quilt.”124 He then pinpointed the exposed nerve that Speer and Ganzenmiiller were frantically trying to shield: “The one common factor in the whole German war effort, from the political control down to the supply of troops in the front line is communications. . .. In my opinion, our primary air objective should be the enemy’s communications.”135 He explained how the heavy bombers should focus their attention on railway centers, canals, and synthetic oil plants, especially