al stocks were either exhausted or could not be redisposed. Components deliveries were hopelessly snarled. Finished goods could not be delivered. Telecommunications virtually collapsed, rendering centralized control impossible. Then the Red Army seized Silesia and pushed the system into complete collapse. The geographical division of labor was shattered. Production tumbled to levels far below the 33 percent decline set out earlier as a threshold, and it continued down to 1942 levels. Armaments reserves for the army ran perilously short and were virtually impossible to distribute.  The final waves of bombing in February and March only abetted the disintegration that had already set in. By February coherent economic activity had ceased. Speer continued to try to make do with an even more drastic Emergency Program. But the means for its implementation had been wrenched from his grasp by the bombers. The transportation system was in a shambles and telecommunica- tions were in hopeless disarray. Elasticity had rebounded to the extent that, when the Allies finally burst through the military facade and raced across Germany in April 1945, they found the economy moribund. The decisive factor in bringing this about was the bombing of marshalling yards, not the destruction of rolling stock or even the paralysis of the inland waterway system. It was the disrup- tion of marshalling that severed the coal/transport nexus, demolished the division of labor, and contributed heavily to the disorganization of Speer’s administrative system.  Speer estimated that Germany could have resisted until early 1946 if the bombing had ceased in September 1944.2 After that date transportation attacks were the largest component of the Allied bomber offensive as measured by tonnage and the overriding source of Germany’s economic difficulties, far outweighing the loss of the occupied territories.2 The transportation offensive severely weakened the German economy from October 1944 and induced its coll