s’ problem. If the goal of the air offensive were simply to weaken the Wehrmacht in conjunction with land campaigns, then target systems fairly late in the production cycle would be selected. That is to say, they would choose the sites of final production of armaments or the manufacture of components closely related to completed products because their loss would have direct military effects in fairly short order. But if the invasion would be long postponed, the goal could become the general weakening of the Reich economy because more time would be available. Then they could select target systems deeper in the economy, which were farther removed from final production and where greater stockpiles were kept. A successful attack on these systems would take longer but would result in a more complete disruption of the German economy. These considerations demanded a very clear definition of options concerning not only target systems but also types of attack. Tactical considerations related to the way a target was attacked, that is, by night or day, from high altitude or low, or in a dive. Tactical considerations also dictated whether an area would be drenched with bombs or a precise target, for example, a factory, would be hit. Among the strategic airmen, the term “tactical” was used to mean a type of target directly related to the outcome of a specific ground engagement. Strategic attack focused on the sources of enemy strength. Strategic issues included the crucial question of whether to pursue general or selective attack. In a general attack, an entire economy or society would be the object for destruction. Selective attack, in contrast, would seek to disable only vital sectors of the economy and thereby paralyze the entire system.35 In the spring of 1944, USSTAF favored a selective attack using daylight precision tactics. Bomber Command employed general attack with night area tactics. Both sought to bring down the entire German economy. MEW and the Air Ministry favored