Mannheim area.2 But by 14 October, a week later, the Reichsbahn had to reduce its help to seven trains daily with the proviso that it determine their destinations.26 This directly challenged the RWKS’s prerogatives. But there was little that the syndicate could do. In its southern hinterland, the Messerschmitt aircraft plant at Augsburg and the Dornier airplane factory at Friedrichshafen had already exhausted their coal supplies by I November.22 Although armaments output in the Mannheim area was delayed by the transport crisis, fuel and components remained sufficiently available to avoid major production losses.78 The situation near Hanover was more serious. Here the first major production drops occurred. The key was the cessation of shipments on the Mittelland Canal. Coal arrivals by water at Hanover were down by half. Including assistance from Upper Silesia and the Central German Brown Coal Syndicate, which depended on the Reichsbahn, overall coal receipts were off by 80 percent. Coal stocks were confiscated and production losses were appearing even among armaments plants.22 At the Reichswerke Hermann Goring coal supplies were at the eight to ten day level by the end of October. Consequently, operation of the cokeries was reduced by up to two-thirds.£2 Yet, reflecting the government’s direct control of this facility, production of iron increased 24.2 percent and that of finished goods by 134.8 percent compared to the average for the fourth quarter of 1943. This was done by rifling stocks. Coal consumption rose and scrap usage was up by almost half. Not surprisingly in light of its own increased energv demands, the complex cut sales of electricity to outside consumers bv a third.81 The end result was that the attempt to use central Germanv to compensate for the losses COMSUTIPUOT LOL CaCih MOT, SLOCKS ACLUALLY LOSE. itl OEPLenllDE?r LIICY SUILICEC LOL 9. / MOTUS, UIUClLODET LOL &.6 TOTTI, 11) Part Ulle UlsClepaliCy Call VE AllliVDUled LO CallldEe lO PLOGUucriOl Lac