Ruhr just as France had during the spring and summer of 1944. Bringing the cars to RBD Essen was just the beginning. Once there, they would have to be formed into trains. Using unit trains would ease matters only slightly because the region’s marshalling yards had not recovered from the air attacks of September and October. Renewed attacks in January had depressed their capacity even further, as we have seen.  The result of the massive backlog in the south caused by the bombing of marshalling yards there and the disruption of marshalling at the Ruhr coal gateways was a disastrous fall in car placings. Sohl and Schmidt heartily agreed to do everything in their power to help the beleaguered Reichsbahn, including providing labor. They decided to christen their program “Spades Against Bombs.”25 railway shipments by 47 percent.®! The decline in waterborne dispatches can be easily explained by pointing to the cuts on the DEK and MLK and the block at Cologne. But the sharp drop in railway every effort the situation did not improve.£2 The Reichsbahn was driven to confiscating coal to keep its locomotives running. This, combined with the disruption of marshalling in GBL-South, pre- effort.22 The surge occurred on 15 November. On 29 November, Berlin ordered that the highest priority be given to sending open cars to the Ruhr.22 Still RBD Essen lacked empty cars. The situation abandoned.23 By any means the backlog simply had to be reduced. As of 29 December 1944, 450 trains were backlogged in GBL-West.24 Many were coal trains. All tied up valuable cars and locomotives Throughout the period of the first transportation plan and the Ardennes offensive, overall freight car placings in RBD Essen were 60 percent below the level of the same period in the preceding year. Hard coal car placings were never more than half of normal. Brown coal car placings in RBD Cologne were almost 90 percent below normal by the end of January 1945.25 In RBD Essen, even car placings for armaments were of