companies, including the RWKS, expanded their private courier services to exchange information with their subsidiaries and to maintain at least tenuous contact with Berlin. None of them was coordinated with similar government activities and none could carry sufficient information quickly enough. As a result, not only were the physical links to the central authority loosened,  Page 136 of 282 49% VULITIE VECEMIVEL LAS LIE OVET AM AlllOUlIL OL CUdL stl Pe DY LIE NICMISIimVVEolpiidlildll VOdL OYIIUICALE ULOP VEU Vf VETCEL COMIPALEU LO OCVLEHIIVDET. VWWALEL Way UlspalClies Lell DY OO PEICet alla railway shipments by 47 percent.£1 The decline in waterborne dispatches can be easily explained by pointing to the cuts on the DEK and MLK and the block at Cologne. But the sharp drop in railway 140 moved.£2 At the end of December only 20 or 30 moved each day. The situation improved a bit by late January. Then about 90 train pairs could operate.£2 The volume of freight traffic, despite the directorates that were dependent upon the Ruhr for coal. During November, instead of the 20 service coal trains per day needed to supply these regions, an average of just 7 left RBD Essen.° Despite every effort the situation did not improve.£2 The Reichsbahn was driven to confiscating coal to keep its locomotives running.£8 This, combined with the disruption of marshalling in GBL-South, pre- effort.22 The surge occurred on 15 November.24 On 29 November, Berlin ordered that the highest priority be given to sending open cars to the Ruhr.72 Still RBD Essen lacked empty cars. The situation abandoned.23 By any means the backlog simply had to be reduced. As of 29 December 1944, 450 trains were backlogged in GBL-West.?4 Many were coal trains. All tied up valuable cars and locomotives for armaments were off by 90 percent in December.7& the activities of its numerous parts was ruined.22 The Reichsbahn could no longer operate as a unit. Losses in one area could not be made good in others.78 There was to