hipments. Subsequent investigation showed that a brutal coal famine had swept the 1944 level. By D-Day it was 70 percent lower and by the end of July a staggering 90 percent lower.78 There had never been a car shortage. Nor had there been a lack of locomotives. The vehicles available, and the Reichsbahn had constantly fed more into the system from Germany, could not be used because marshalling was in disarray.272 Captured documents proved that even military movement had to the units thrown against the Allied landing. But it had also spread far greater chaos in the French economy than Tedder or Zuckerman had imagined possible beforehand. They now fully realized the importance of marshalling yards both to railway activities and to coal supplies. They perceived that similar attacks would have dire, possibly decisive effects on the German economy. They were more firmly convinced than ever that the transportation offensive should continue unabated and that it should be extended eastward into Germany as far and as soon as possible. In the meantime, Tedder had become very dissatisfied with the quality of the intelligence analyses that he was receiving from the Air Ministry and other agencies. Therefore, he ordered SHAEF G-2 to begin preparing weekly summaries of intelligence bearing on the transportation offensive in mid-July.82 EOU was not susceptible to the evidence uncovered by Zuckerman. It had adopted the oil alternative and now defended it as an article of faith. No one can doubt that the oil offensive was extremely effective in reducing the combat power of the Wehrmacht and especially the Luftwaffe. Nor can it be doubted that it exerted no influence on the operations of German industry. The issue then, as it had been before Overlord, turned on how much of the Allies’ massive bombing capacity would be devoted to each. One can sympathize with Spaatz’s staff, beleaguered as it was with requests for support from the army, attacks on V-Weapon sites, and submarine pens. B