S. intelligence appreciations. Of more lasting importance were three other bodies, one civilian, one military, and one composed of civilians in uniform. The civilian body was the Research and Analysis Branch of the Office of Strategic Services in Washington (OSS, R&A). R&A came into existence during August 1941 under the auspices of the Library of Congress and Archibald MacLeish. It was composed of academicians drawn from a broad range of universities solely for their competence and specialized knowledge. R&A had access to a wide variety of overt sources, including America’s libraries and the holdings of business and trade organizations. It also received at second-hand prisoner interrogation reports and captured documents. It did not obtain Ultra.22  During the spring of 1942, OSS established a branch office in London dubbed Economic Warfare Division. EWD in turn formed the Enemy Objectives Unit in April to provide targeting information to the Eighth Air Force.22 EOU produced aiming point reports based on overt sources and some classified data but no Ultra.31 Manning the unit were academics who were given military rank for the duration. EOU therefore existed somewhere between the civilian world and the military. Its civilians in uniform were anxious to win the confidence of their military counterparts. They carried over from civilian life the academic’s skill in and love of bureaucratic politics. EOU had a stormy birth and would struggle with every intelligence organization that it encountered. Its unique degree of ego- tism made it a bitter opponent of all who disagreed with it and prompted it to subvert even those whose views coincided with its own.  The purely military intelligence organization supporting the American segment of the strategic air offensive was the office of the Assistant Chief of Air Staff-Intelligence (AC/AS A-2). It was created during 1942 and had an analysis division with a European branch headed by Maj. Gen. James P. Hodges, a former bombardm