’s capacity to move freight. Although Tedder and Zuckerman never fully rid themselves of this misconception, beginning in the summer of 1944 they did sense the importance of marshalling and its cru- cial relationship to coal as the primary energy source of the German economy, not only as locomotive fuel. No single intelligence organ fully understood the coal/transport nexus and the geographical division of labor though all the pieces of the puzzle had been found. This placed a premium on cooperation. But pooling information and insights proved very difficult under the prevailing atmosphere of interservice, interoffice, and inter-Allied conflict. This prevented the intelligence agencies that were well established in the ETO from putting the puzzle together. They were preoccupied with protecting their institutional turf and disputing prewar claims made for strategic bombing. It took the new group under Tedder and Zuckerman to take a fresh look at the information and formulate a new strategic compromise. They were able to do so precisely because at the outset they were uninvolved in these wrangles and because they stressed cooperation. Just as important, they had immedi- ate access to the key decision makers: Eisenhower, Portal, Spaatz, and Harris.  The Allied intelligence apparatus controlled very powerful tools, which, if used properly and in concert, could have provided it with a sufficiently accurate picture of the disaster that gradually en- veloped the German economy beginning in September 1944. But it did not use these tools effectively because it lacked the fundamental understanding of the German economy necessary to do so. Especially Ultra, but also photoreconnaissance and espionage offered information that, if properly exploited in a timely fashion and read in conjunction with the useful general appreciations that were lying on the shelf, could have exerted a beneficial influence over target selection. But errant preconceptions, the bias of bureaucratic polit