ity. But transportation was raised to a special position, depending on weather conditions that effectively gave it second priority The agreement, informally reached at SHAEF on 13 September between Spaatz, Bottomley, Harris, and Tedder, was presented to the CCS by Portal.82 When cloud obscured the synthetic fuel plants, which Spaatz insisted must be attacked visually, the bombers would use radar to hit marshalling yards. At the air commanders’ conference of 19 September, Tedder agreed with Harris and Doolittle that marshalling yards near Koblenz, Cologne, and Soest should be bombed.22 Harris intimated that he was also contemplating strikes against the canal system. The deputy supreme commander warmly encouraged Bomber Command’s chief.  Tedder had shepherded transportation to a high place in the priority list by assiduous political preparation, relentless struggle, and maintaining good personal ties with Eisenhower and Portal. He also knew that Spaatz and Harris did not agree with his ideas. But they could not cooperate with each other and were checkmated by superiors who supported Tedder. The deputy supreme commander improved his position by his pragmatism. Unlike EOU, he did not exclude alternatives to his own preferences. He advocated transportation bombing, but also saw the merits of attacking Germany’s  Page 98 of 282 35% ee a ee ee ee er ee ee ee ee ee eee eee eee ee eee eee ee ee ee FS ke a RAE ER OLR eee EEE ee eee SR FAR A eee kt SEAS which oil and popular morale would be the primary targets and transportation would be excluded.86 But Tedder had created a web of relationships that enabled him to dominate the air commanders’ oil supply simultaneously. A new compromise had been reached. As additional strains impinged on the Allies during the coming weeks, the fragile understanding would threaten to collapse. Tedder would be hard pressed to preserve it. Throughout, in contrast to his opposition, he emphasized cooperation and the mutually reinforcing nature of t