e’s trading companies held steady But in regions dependent upon it, stocks dwindled to eight to ten days.4  Again the RVK arranged for the other syndicates to help the RWKS. It called for the Upper Silesian Hard Coal Syndicate to provide 700,000 tons of coal to RWKS dependents and the Central German Brown Coal Syndicate to supply 200,000 tons of brown coal. Some consumers were compelled to switch from hard coal to brown coal, with all of the difficulties and inefficiencies that entailed. But the ubiquitous problem, the weakness of the Reichsbahn, interposed itself. RWKS customers in Hamburg, Hanover, Kassel, and the RWHG at Salzgitter, all well within the syndicate’s hinterland, received only about half of the relief consignments intended for them.4&  The coal emergency was exacerbated by the confrontation that developed between the RWKS and various government agencies. At an advisory board meeting held in Essen on 19 September, Schmidt attacked Sarter and expressed his desire to work with Lammertz of RBD Essen instead. More importantly, he refused to allow the Reich Coal Association, Speer’s Armaments Commands, or the Gau Economics Chambers to interfere in the distribution of coal. He had browbeaten Pleiger into agreeing to stay out of coal distribution, leaving it to the RWKS’s local traders. They in turn would deal directlv with the nearest Reichsbahn directorate.42 The Reichsbahn moved decisivelv both to increase the movement of coal and to placate Schmidt. On 7 October it finalized an arrangement with the  Page 107 of 282 39% putting freight cars aside en masse—38,093 by the end of October.42 Yet the Ruhr could not ship coal in the quantity necessary. By the third week of October the Reichsbahn could carry only a quarter to ten days.42 directly with the nearest Reichsbahn directorate.42 The Reichsbahn moved decisively both to increase the movement of coal and to placate Schmidt. On 7 October it finalized an arrangement with the RWKS to form coal unit trains for