ly short time. Conceptually the transportation system was both sufficiently well defined to enable concentration of effort and functionally broad enough to strike at the root of the German economy while preventing it from shifting resources to counter losses. In this latter respect it was unique. It was this feature that bestowed upon it potentially decisive importance. Moreover, it would complement the oil offensive and perceptibly assist immediate ground operations. Despite its weaknesses, the Allied air intelligence and command structure did fashion a workable compromise that enabled it to launch a successful offensive against Germany’s transportation sector. The attack that was mounted was not perfect: it did not go according to plan. Target selection was not the best, and the enemy was allowed intervals for recuperation. Such is always the case in war. But ultimately the offensive did fulfill Tedder’s promise.  Speer and Kehrl concluded from the Overlord transportation offensive that the Reichsbahn and the inland waterways of Germany would be subjected to an even fiercer assault soon after. With a keen appreciation of the working of the time factor, they consciously sought to exploit elasticity of supply to sustain the economy during the anticipated emergency. Beginning in June, basic goods production and non-essential output were cut back and final production of the most important armaments was pressed forward. Stocks were ordered drawn down. Industry resisted but the gambit succeeded inasmuch as the weapons given priority continued to be turned out in increasing numbers.  The feared storm began in September as Tedder, using his influence with Spaatz and backed by Eisenhower, managed to have transportation raised to special priority. Significant cuts were made in the performance of both the Reichsbahn and the inland waterway system. But the repair crews limited the spread of the paralysis. Sharpened measures to focus on final arms production were implemented a