late twentieth-century one. Fie articulated a response that was uniquely suited to it. The keys to Speer’s reforms were the improvement of production practices through his revitalization of the network of rings and committees, his careful effort to obtain and preserve the explicit support of Hitler for his policies, and his creation of a centralized apparatus for the establishment of priorities and the evaluation of economic data that allowed him to orchestrate the whole as a system. Speer’s edifice was very carefully balanced and its emphasis on the highest efficiency placed a great burden on the Reichsbahn.  Finally, constantly operating unseen, and in the end explicitly called upon by Speer to help Germany overcome the transportation crisis of 1944, was the phenomenon of elasticity of supply. Briefly explained, under normal circumstances the production of any good involves the use of a certain amount of materials. If the supply of materials is reduced or halted, production can continue at or near normal levels by using stocks, and by making emergency savings in their use on the factory floor. The length of time during which elasticity can be invoked varies among industries. But when it is exhausted, the resultant fall in production exceeds that which would have come about if output had been reduced immediately, commensurate with the decline in available resources. The critical realization from this is that the denial of materials through the disruption of transportation cannot result in an immediate, comparable drop in production. Instead the fall in output is delayed, necessitating a more prolonged interruption of transport. However if transportation disruption can be maintained long enough it promises rich dividends. This raises a subsidiary consideration—the time element. It appeared in the strategic bombing offensive in 1944 in two ways. It constituted a race between, on the one hand, the bomber’s ability to destroy transportation facilities and thus to conti