d executed extensive preparations to meet any conceivable emergency Not surprisingly, it resented outside suggestions for change and, until the spring of 1942, it successfully resisted them.34 But then its front crumbled under the pressure of the massive crisis that swept over the entire German war effort and brought Speer to power. The defeat before Moscow and the terrible winter that accompanied it both in the Soviet Union and in Germany unleashed a serious transportation crisis. The long lines of communication leading eastward drained the DR of locomotives and cars. Many war neared its conclusion. As fears increased concerning the security of its other channels and as land lines were cut by bombing, the DR relied more heavily upon its supposedly unbreakable cipher.2= were immobilized by the intense cold. By March 1942 available car space could satisfy only about two-thirds of demand, and coal car space was a tenth below target.35 Plant closings followed and coal piled up at the mines.  Dorpmiiller himself recognized the magnitude of the emergency and offered to hand over control of railroad matters to Speer. But the new armaments minister was loathe to shoulder such a heavy burden in addition to his other onerous tasks. He therefore obtained Hitler’s approval for personnel and managerial changes that would revitalize the DR and incorporate it into his nascent system of industrial efficiency.3&  Speer won the dismissal of the heads of the Reichsbahn’s Traffic and Operations sections and replaced them with Dr. Fritz Schelp and Gustav Dilli respectively. Schelp was forty-five years old and had been active in the DR for nineteen years. He was trained as a jurist and was a solid administrator. Dilli had an engineering background and was fifty-two years old. He was a specialist in freight train scheduling and had served in the Ruhr, in the occupied territories, and at GBL-West.32  The most important of Speer’s appointments was the new state secretary and assistant gene