element. It appeared in the strategic bombing offensive in 1944 in two ways. It constituted a race between, on the one hand, the bomber’s ability to destroy transportation facilities and thus to continue the disruption of traffic, and on the other, the Reichsbahn’s ability to repair them. In the second instance, it pitted German doggedness and inventiveness in exploiting elasticity against Allied intelligence’s perception of the state of German industry and the bomber commanders’ persistence in striking marshalling yards. Both sides set these considerations against their estimates of the gen- eral war situation. The Germans hoped to prolong the war, the Allies to end it as soon as possible. The combination of these considerations results in a study that focuses on the decisive components of the German economy and the most important activities of the transportation system. It ignores functionally marginal forms of production and low-volume traffic because they did not exert a decisive influence on war production. One of these was the transport of Jews to their deaths.&  No work of this nature can be completed without extensive help. I have benefited throughout from the advice and unstinting support of Dr. Gerhard L. Weinberg and Dr. Samuel R. Williamson. The criticisms of Dr. Josef Anderle, Dr. Michael H. Hunt, Dr. James R. Leutze, and Dr. George V. Taylor were also of inestimable value. The comments of Lord Zuckerman were most enlightening. Without the financial assistance of the Office of Air Force History, the Air Force Historical Foundation, the German Academic Exchange Service, and the Smith Fund I could not have performed the research that is the basis of the work. Archivists are the crucial intermediaries between historians and the documents that are the substance of their accounts. For their assistance in this regard I am indebted to Mr. John E. Taylor and Ms. Teresa E. Hammett of the Modern Military Headquarters Branch of the National Archives in Washington,