d the speculations of a few writers who had addressed the problem during the interwar years. The most prominent of these was the Italian Giulio Douhet whose work, The Command of the Air, was published in 1921. Unfortunately, Douhet provided no set of rules for building an air force and employing it in battle. Rather, using his limited observations of the effects of German bombing of Italian cities during World War I and his own speculations, he offered an idealized scenario to a future air commander. Douhet argued that the vital prerequisite for a successful air offensive was winning air superiority. This could be achieved only by offensive action: by operating over enemy territory and defeating the opposing air force. Only then could the assault on the kernel of the enemy nation’s strength begin. But the problem of how to exploit this opportunity would be immense. Douhet emphasized that the choice of targets would be the most important task facing air commanders because the result of the entire campaign would turn on these decisions made at the outset. Douhet was convinced that if correct selections were made, taking into consideration the entire social, economic, and organizational framework of the enemy state, air forces could win the war alone. For this to occur, to prevent the air force’s resources from being diverted to secondary targets, it was vital that it achieve organizational independence. Although he admonished air commanders to cooperate with the army and navy, he stressed that the air force should act independently of them. Only in this way could it achieve the mass and concentration that would be decisive. Douhet, in his discussion of an imaginary air offensive, visualized a mighty, remorseless attack on the production centers of the opposition and its population. He speculated that the psychological impact of this offensive would exceed its physical effects and ultimately lead to the collapse of the opposing state.1  MLA aLinin a eiaian 2f 4 aeetale