selective attack using daylight precision tactics. Bomber Command employed general attack with night area tactics. Both sought to bring down the entire German economy. MEW and the Air Ministry favored a selective attack to achieve the same purpose. OSS R&A generally advocated selective attack without expressing any preference as to the ultimate goal. EOU vehe- mently advocated selective attack that would have direct, short-term consequences on the military situation. COA shared this view.32 This diversity of opinion greatly complicated target selection especially since EOU’s difference with General Spaatz was not made explicit. Moreover, EOU came into conflict with the two new actors Page 71 of 282 26% Ee eee eee Oe ee eee oe ee Te ge eee Se ee eee eee ae ee ee ——————TE——E—_ OO eee officers.34 Arnold had been disappointed with the level of AWPD’s economic analysis and with the appreciations developed by his uniformed subordinates. COA was to provide a comprehensive mently advocated selective attack that would have direct, short-term consequences on the military situation.2£ COA shared this view.32 who appeared on the scene in connection with Overlord, Sir Arthur Tedder and his scientific advisor on planning, Dr. Solly Zuckerman. The dispute that flared between them was in part a product of differing bombing philosophies, in part due to EOU’s misunderstanding of Tedder’s goals, and EOU’s bureaucratic egotism. The decisive factors, then, in determining what targets were attacked by the Allied strategic air forces were the views of the decision makers, especially Harris, Spaatz, and Tedder, their advisors’ access to them, the credibility that the intelligence agencies enjoyed with them, and what was known about the German economy especially its energy and transportation sectors. The overall image of the German economy held by the Allies— its output, organization and division of labor, and the implications of these factors for the strategic air offensive—was highly impe