sssary to support the major wars of territorial expansion that they contemplated. Therefore the strategic flanks would be cleared in a series of short wars that would place relatively little burden upon the shaky populace because they would require only a modest level of economic effort compared to World War I. The culmination would be a short, violent campaign against the USSR, which would win for Germany the rich grain- and raw-material-producing regions of the Ukraine. Victory in these conflicts would assure Germany’s resource and population bases and enable it to pursue Hitler’s even more grandiose aims later. It was for these reasons that comparatively little was done to increase the capacity of the armaments industry before 1936. Then the Four Year Plan was introduced to rapidly increase output in a few crucial sectors such as liquid fuels, aircraft, and steel to make possible the initial campaigns. The pace was accelerated in 1938 when Hitler perceived an opportunity to achieve his goals sooner than  Page 174 of 282 63% =e a ee eee ee  ——— eee TTT le eel —————————_ TO ——_—_——_—_—— Or rT Tee eee ee eeeeeeeEeEeeEeE—e ee eee he had expected. Throughout, the program was hobbled by administrative confusion and the attempt to shield the German public from the full burden of the effort. Nevertheless, it contrived to create a military force strong enough to subdue quickly Germany’s comparatively unprepared initial opponents. By 1942, however, the scheme had collapsed, and new policies, designed to exploit available resources more fully, were required.  It was under these circumstances that Hitler called upon Albert Speer to manage the Third Reich’s economy. Speer, reflecting commonly accepted ideas, appreciated what was politically feasible and  ations without significantly increasing raw material consumption. With difficulty, he also shifted assets from consumer to military production. However, the most important reallocations were made within manufacturing industry