rea not officially within his purview and improved the coordination of economic affairs.  A weakness in both Todt’s organization and the Four Year Plan had been their reliance on others to gather information and implement their plans at the local level. Speer moved to avoid this error by seizing Thomas’s Wi-Rii Amt on 7 May. The War Economics Office remained with OKW while the regional officers and inspectors were transferred to the Ministry of Armaments and Munitions. By November, Thomas had been completely banished.5=  Speer’s drive to collect the strings of economic control in his hands and Central Planning’s preoccupation with steel led the industry to organize a formidable self-protection agency, the Reich Iron  moor ra . yond wrod mmta nt: ners Aae 1 4a mo neree . some wast oe  Page 7 of 282 5% the threads of economic control in his hands, his committees contributed to the confusion.4 In effect, Todt laid a foundation but he lacked the bureaucratic power to build a structure above it. His Year Plan.48 He also instituted a regular series of meetings with Hitler to resolve armaments production issues. Realizing that Hit-1ler had the dilettante’s penchant for absorbing the technical details Speer, Paul Kérner, and Erhard Milch. Korner was Goéring’s representative from the Four Year Plan. He was the weakest of the three in terms of both political power and strength of personality. Milch Raw materials not affected by steel allocations were apportioned by Speer’s ally at the Economics Ministry, Hans Kehrl.23 As head of Main Section II, Kehrl divided the commercial economy into by seizing Thomas’s Wi-Rui Amt on 7 May. The War Economics Office remained with OKW while the regional officers and inspectors were transferred to the Ministry of Armaments and Munitions. By Association. The forerunner of the new interest group was the Reichsvereinigung Kohle (Reich Coal Association, RVK) created on 3 March 1941. The RVK was a reaction to Todt’s and Goring’s initiatives in the