ed for by the loss of Saar production.122 The same phenomenon appeared in steel making: by January 1945, as measured against the monthly average for the first quarter uary 1945.110 Scrap supplies followed the same path. Yet with iron and steel, for reasons highlighted earlier, the causes of the decline in production were more complex than for coal. Many of the Ruhr steel plants had been damaged by bombing. In addition, the mill owners had intentionally restricted production to conserve raw materials for the postwar period. For these reasons a closer look at United Steel (see Table 7.1) may again prove rewarding. About a tenth of VSt’s loss of iron and steel production can be attributed to direct damage to its Bochumer Verein subsidiary. Coke production fell due to the disruption by bombing of both the Reichsbahn and internal plant transportion, as shown by the decline in output and the massive increase in stocks at the coke ovens. The shrinkage of coal stocks at the mills can be attributed to the same factor. Since the company reduced iron and steel output in accordance with the availability of the least abundant resource, one may surmise that about half the production decline is attributable to coal, coke, and ore shortages due to transportation attacks. The remaining loss, about a third, was most likely caused by the drop in foreign ore supplies and direct damage to plants other than the Bochumer Verein, although repair of these facilities was also hampered by the transportation crisis.  These severe losses compelled the Planungsamt ruthlessly to slash steel allocations for the first half of 1945. Steel quotas for tank, aircraft, ammunition, and weapons programs were reduced by between 40 and 60 percent. Consumption of coal to produce this steel was to be half of the prior year’s consumption for the larger programs.112 This by itself is a clear indication that elasticity of sup- ply had been exhausted at the level of capital goods production. But losses extended f