ceived the Cowan article as well as Arnold’s request from a Colonel Rex Smith, who lamented, “This is certain to have nationwide serious effect on the Air Forces as we have steadfastly preached the gospel of precision bombing against military and industrial targets.” 7 Anderson replied to Ar - nold on 19 February, contending that Cowan’s article was an ex- aggeration that had slipped past the censors. “We have not, or do not,” he asserted, “intend to change the basic policy which has governed the direction of effort of the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe from the time they first started operations in this Theater. Our attacks have been in all cases against Military objec- tives.”8 Colonel Alfred R. Maxwell, usstaf’s Director of Opera- tions, followed with another message written on Spaatz’s behalf: “It has always been my [Spaatz’s] policy that civilian populations b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 192 --- 151 are not suitable military objectives.”9 An Army Air Forces spokes- man in Washington dc mirrored those replies in a 21 February press conference, remarking that Americans stressed precision bombing over “wasteful and ineffective” indiscriminate attacks and adding, “We have never done deliberate terror bombing . . . we are not doing it now . . . we will not do it.” 10 Such statements were half-truths at best. Since May 1943 when Ira Eaker, then the Commander of Eighth Air Force, acknowl- edged that cloud cover prevented precision bombing, the Amer - ican bomber force had often resembled raf Bomber Command on days that weather obscured the target area. The distinction between the two bomber forces became especially thin once the Eighth Air Force received radar bombing equipment in autumn 1943  and Eaker informed Arnold of his intention to break the morale of the German public. Spaatz had refused t