ft! Moreover, the cable failed to mention what types of air - craft the United States should produce. With Foulois, now a ma- jor, serving as Signal Corps representative, the Joint Army-Navy Technical Board hurriedly sketched out a program for a 9 ,000- aircraft force with a reserve of 3,000 airplanes. Of those totals, the board slated 1,000 and 333 respectively as bombers; the remainder would be fighters and observation aircraft. The program’s magni- tude disheartened many members of the Army’s General Staff, who believed that the emphasis on aviation might limit the nation’s ca- pability to manufacture other needs for the service.8 Their reser -g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 28 --- 11 vations led Brigadier General George O. Squier, the Army’s chief signal officer, to present the board’s proposal directly to Secretary of War Baker. Baker then took it to Congress, which appropriated a staggering $640 million to fund the entire program. President Woodrow Wilson signed the measure into law on 24 July. Even before Congress approved the plan, an American mission departed for Europe to obtain information on the best aircraft de- signs to produce in the United States. Arriving in Liverpool on the twenty-sixth, the mission spent the next five weeks interviewing air officers and industrialists in Britain, France, and Italy. Led by Major Raynal C. Bolling, a former U.S. Steel lawyer who had or - ganized the National Guard’s first aviation unit, the group con- sisted of 105 military and civilian aviation experts. One of them was Captain Nap Gorrell, fresh out of mit and sporting a master of science degree in aeronautical engineering. Despite the group’s qualifications, Bolling faced a difficult task. Besides the time constraint demanding an immediate start to full- scale American production, the mission suffered from tw