e or two violent  f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 273 --- 232shocks. . . . To avert a vast, indefinite butchery, to bring the war to an end, to give peace to the world, to lay healing hands upon its tor - tured peoples by a manifestation of overwhelming power at the cost of a few explosions, seemed, after all our toils and perils, a miracle of deliverance. 169 assessment LeMay would have argued that Churchill’s remarks appropriately described the rationale for the incendiary attacks, and that those raids alone would have ultimately compelled surrender without an invasion—an assertion supported by the U.S. Strategic Bomb- ing Survey.170 That contention downplayed the Soviet Union’s 8 August entry into the Pacific War and the condition of Japanese troops in Manchuria opposing the Soviet advance, factors that— along with the lack of resources, relentless thrust of America’s is-land-hopping campaign, devastation of cities, and shock of the atomic bombs—likely combined to produce Japanese capitula-tion. 171 Indeed, for all the emphasis aaf leaders placed on de- stroying Japan’s industry through incendiary attack, the Survey observed that strategic bombing had less impact on Japan’s pro-duction capability than did shortages imposed by sea blockade and merchant shipping losses.172 Production hours lost because of bombing rose from 20 percent in 1944 to more than 40 percent in July 1945, by which time industrial production had declined to 35 percent of its wartime peak. 173 The Survey also claimed that the LeMay’s fire raids undercut Japanese public support for the war. Data collected after the con - flict showed that only 19 percent of the populace believed that Ja- pan could not win before LeMay’s incendiary assault began; the number had increased to 68 percent on the eve of surrender, of which more than half credited air attack