gineering. Despite the group’s qualifications, Bolling faced a difficult task. Besides the time constraint demanding an immediate start to full- scale American production, the mission suffered from two key problems. First, it would not finish its work before the arrival of General John J. Pershing’s American Expeditionary Force (aef) staff, which would evaluate air requirements from the vantage point of the force that would do the fighting. Bolling’s mission reported to General Squier in Washington dc, not Pershing, and the mission’s conclusions would not match those of Pershing’s of- ficers. Second, the group’s departure for Europe almost a month before Congress approved the air arm’s structure compelled its members to devise a structure of their own, and doing so required making determinations about air strategy that would dictate air - craft roles and the types needed to fulfill them.9 Many of their de- cisions stemmed from the ideas of Allied airmen. For Nap Gor - rell, the insights gained would endure, and would form the basis of his plan for a bomber offensive.g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 29 --- 12Bolling’s group spent its first week in Britain meeting with Brit- ish Director-General of Military Aeronautics and General Officer Commanding the Royal Flying Corps, Sir David Henderson. He suggested that the Americans concentrate exclusively on bomber production and not try to develop a balanced force of fighters, bombers, and observation aircraft. 10 The first attack on London by German Gotha bombers a fortnight before the Bolling mis-sion arrived may have triggered Henderson’s recommendation. In two minutes, fourteen Gothas had dropped nearly two tons of bombs, killing 162 people and injuring 432. 11 The bombers attacked in daylight and with impunity; none fell to antiaircraft fire or fighters. Many of Lo