itfires and eighteen squadrons of p-47s that accompa- nied them across the English Channel, because no Allied fighter possessed the range to fly beyond the German frontier. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 145 --- 104b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e Eighth Air Force planners, though, had devised a scheme to get the bombers to their targets and back relatively unscathed. The Fourth Bomb Wing would depart for Regensburg fifteen minutes before the First Wing followed it for Schweinfurt, which would prevent German fighters from attacking both formations on the way to their targets. The Regensburg mission would initially draw the Germans’ attention, and by the time the First Wing’s bombers approached Schweinfurt, the German fighters would have landed to refuel and rearm, which would allow the Schweinfurt force to proceed to its target unhindered. In the meantime, after the Fourth Wing bombed the Messerschmitt complex at Regensburg, it would avoid further combat by flying south across the Mediterranean to land in North Africa. The Schweinfurt bombers would then bat- tle the rearmed German fighters on the trip home to British bases. If everything worked as planned, the Germans would suffer ma- jor damage to two of their most important war-making facilities, and the American bombers would inflict that pain at minimal cost to the attacking force.1 Yet the plan that appeared so appealing on paper turned out to be lacking in practice. To succeed, it required near-perfect weather, crisp coordination between multiple layers of command, and zero mishaps as two large formations of heavy bombers took shape in the skies over East Anglia. Those demands were a lot to ask for from a bombing force that had never flown so far across hos-tile territory. Pre-mission briefers told crews to expect “negligi - ble” opposition, but the airmen had routinely flown miss