nical problems to solve.”82 Arnold decided that he had heard enough. He told Norstad to head to the Marianas and no- tify Hansell that he had been relieved from command.f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 253 --- 212lemay to the marianas LeMay was Arnold’s choice for a successor. With the establish- ment of bases in the Marianas, the offensive from China had lost its urgency, and Arnold directed his staff in late September to study the implications of withdrawing the b-29s from Chengtu.83 A month and a half later he told LeMay to prepare to take XX Bomber Command to a new location. Arnold added, “I cannot at this time tell you where you will go or when your bases will be ready” and thus LeMay would likely have to stay put “for a mat- ter of months.”84 Hansell’s dismissal changed the equation. More- over, Hansell was a brigadier general, LeMay wore two stars, and LeMay was a b-29 commander who was in-theater and avail- able.85 Arnold ordered LeMay to proceed to Guam, the new site of XXI Bomber Command, and to arrive there immediately after Norstad. Once Norstad conveyed the news to Hansell, Arnold wanted LeMay available to discuss operations with the man that he would replace. Hansell accepted his relief with a minimum of complaint, though his ten-page, typed letter to Arnold on the eve of his departure from Guam—a highly detailed discussion of problems that he had faced leading XXI Bomber Command—typified his commu- nications with his boss. At the end of his report, Hansell stated: “I feel, on reflection, that I have erred in not passing on to you my problems in more detail. I have felt that my first consider - ation should be to solve my problems as best I could, rather than to send complaints to you. Perhaps I have overdone this concep- tion.”86 Ironically, such lengthy explanations of why he had failed to achieve success pr