son, military aide to President Franklin Roosevelt. Andrews pleaded to Watson for additional b-17s, noting that the two engine b-18s lacked suf- ficient range for coast defense.23 Ultimately, Andrews’s zeal for the b-17 resulted in a Mitchell-like banishment to an obscure Texas assignment. But unlike Mitchell, Andrews found support for his beliefs from among the Army hierarchy, and that backing rekin- dled his air power crusade. Shortly after taking charge of the ghq Air Force at Langley f r o m  p r o p h e c y  t o p l a n EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 93 --- 76Field, Virginia, Andrews told his staff that unified Air Corps ac- tion was essential to convince the public that his new organiza-tion was viable; he desired “publicity that can’t be beat.” 24 The creation of the ghq Air Force severed the Air Corps into two dis - tinctive units, with reduced authority for each air commander. The Chief of the Air Corps was now responsible only for supply and procurement, and developing doctrine. Meanwhile, Andrews reported directly to the Army Chief of Staff (or the theater com-mander in time of war), commanded all Air Corps combat air - craft in the United States, and assumed responsibility for training his forces. Those forces consisted of three wings: the First, com-manded by Brigadier General Hap Arnold at March Field, Cali- fornia; the Second, commanded by Brigadier General Conger Pratt at Langley; and the Third, commanded by Colonel Gerald Bryant at Barksdale Field, Louisiana. Each wing contained a mixture of bomber, fighter, and ground attack aircraft; observation units re-mained assigned to ground commanders. Yet establishing a new command did not mean that it possessed its full complement of airplanes. The authorized strength of ghq Air Force was 980 aircraft, but Andrews complained to newsman Lowell Thomas in a 1936 national radio broadcast that hi