hat it possessed its full complement of airplanes. The authorized strength of ghq Air Force was 980 aircraft, but Andrews complained to newsman Lowell Thomas in a 1936 national radio broadcast that his com- mand had only 350 combat airplanes, of which 190 were obsolete. The aircraft that Andrews desperately wanted were b-17s. After the crash of the xb-17 prototype in October 1935, he persuaded Brigadier General Augustine W. Robins, Chief of the Army’s Ma- terial Division, and Major General Oscar Westover, Chief of the Air Corps, to secure War Department approval to buy thirteen b-17s on an experimental basis. Andrews viewed the b-17 as the epitome of American air power, and on radio he voiced views on bomber invincibility that parroted those of the Tactical School. “I do not believe that air attacks can be stopped by any means known,” he told an nbc audience in May 1937. “The best defense f r o m  p r o p h e c y  t o p l a n EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 94 --- 77 is a strong offense. We must have an air force capable of going out and meeting an enemy before he can get under way.”25 Like Mitchell, Andrews stressed the bomber’s ability to de- fend America against a seaborne invasion, and he also revealed a progressive mindset regarding the bomber’s capacity to trans- form war. “The four-engined bombardment airplane, as a coast defense weapon, is one of the greatest steps forward in our air - plane development in recent years,” he told Air Corps Tactical School students in September 1937 . 26 One month later at the Army War College, he elaborated on how air power could best accomplish coast defense—by attacking the enemy “as far from our shores as we can reach him.” Only bombers such as the b-17 could accomplish that goal. “Bombardment aviation is, and will always be, the principal force employed in independent air opera- tions,” he remarked. “The mea