the impunity that he believed al-lowed them to conduct the most accurate bombing. Implementation Problems As Gorrell worked to sell his scheme at aef headquarters, Lieuten- ant Colonel Ambrose Monell took over in late January as Chief of Strategical Aviation in the Zone of the Advance. An ex-president of the International Nickel Company, Monell was assisted in his new endeavor by Gorrell’s former compatriots Fowler and Grey. Meanwhile, Gorrell helped create an Office of Air Intelligence in the g-2 (Intelligence) Section of the aef staff. This section con- tained a “bomb target unit,” described by historian Thomas Greer as the “prototype of the organizations which played such an im- portant role in the strategic operations of World War II.”57 The unit produced target maps, antiaircraft defense maps, and maps of key German railroads and industries, all divided into “target folders” for specific installations. While the Americans geared up to bomb Germany, the British had already launched the assault. In October 1917, in response to g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 42 --- 25 the Gotha raids, Prime Minister David Lloyd George had promised London’s citizens: “We will give it all back to them and we will give it to them soon. We shall bomb Germany with compound inter - est.”58 Limited attacks began before the end of the year, and many of them were indiscriminate. Trenchard announced at a meeting with Gorrell and French representatives on 22 December that he aimed to establish a special force for bombing German industry and asked whether the French and Americans would contribute to it. Gorrell stated that the Americans planned to begin a sim-ilar effort but that he could not pledge the Air Service to a joint endeavor without Pershing’s approval. 59 In contrast to the eager - ness for bombing Germany that they had displ