bject of seri-ous study by this Headquarters and have lead [sic] directly to the directive covering the operations of this command for the next three months.” 77 That same day Hansell was to begin bombing Japan’s aircraft industry from the Marianas, in accordance with the coa outline for operations. While those raids produced mea- ger results, they also showed that Japanese fighters offered fee- ble resistance to the b-29 force. Arnold remained impatient for bombing success, and Norstad deemed that the time had come to test the prospects of urban area attacks. On 18 December he sent Hansell a message to attack the main residential district of Nagoya with one hundred b-29s dropping the new m-69 gaso- line gel incendiary bombs. Hansell responded to Norstad’s directive within hours. “I have with great difficulty implanted the principle that our mission is the destruction of selected primary targets by sustained and de-termined attacks using precision bombing methods both visual and radar,” he answered. “The temptation to abandon our pri- mary targets for secondary area targets is great and I have been under considerable pressure to do so, but I have resisted so far. I am concerned that a change to area bombing of the cities will undermine the progress we have made. However, I am accepting your No. s-18-2 [message number] as an order from you and a change in my directive and I will launch this operation next.” 78 Norstad replied that XXI Bomber Command’s primary mission remained the destruction of Japanese air power, but the requested strike was a “special requirement resulting from the necessity of future planning.” 79f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 252 --- 211 Hansell did indeed attack Nagoya next. Yet he did so with forty- eight b-29s, not one hundred; his crews aimed at the Mitsubishi aircraft factory, not the city’s resid