ond the enemy’s lines in an endeavor to interrupt his communi- cations. However, this was of secondary importance during the battle, as aviators were then expected to protect and assist our ground troops.”76 To him, the main functions of an air force were to drive off hostile aircraft and provide the infantry and artillery with information on enemy troop movements. Many Army offi- cers agreed. One week before the Armistice, a General Staff anal- ysis noted that the meager number of American bombers at the front (the Air Service had six squadrons of day bombers at the end of the war) and the small number of bombs they carried made their destructive potential “practically the same as long-range ar - tillery.” Ignoring the issue of range, the study’s authors concluded that it took “two squadrons of bombing planes to equal the work of one 155mm. gun.”77 In the final analysis, the key reason that the United States never mounted a bomber offensive was indeed the failure to build bomb- ers for it. “Aircraft production [was] the greatest American air headache of World War I,” recalled Hap Arnold, who tracked the building of warplanes as a thirty-year-old colonel and assistant to the director of the Signal Corps’ Aeronautical Division. 78 Ar- nold bemoaned the inefficient organization that divided respon- sibility for developing aircraft between the civilian Bureau of Air - craft Production and the Signal Corps’ Production Division. The Bureau, led by the former chief of Hudson Automobiles, How - ard Coffin, supervised engineering, supply, and testing, while the Production Division oversaw procurement. Neither organization had an aviator assigned to it on a full-time basis. Arnold remem-bered that after Coffin boasted forty thousand aircraft would be g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 48 --- 31 built by June 1918, he asked