rom Spaatz’s usstaf staff in the United King- dom, as well as from Arnold’s air staff in the Pentagon. Spaatz’s officers examined the British proposal from a progressive mind- set that presumed a faster end of the war meant a better end of the war—at least as far as Allied combatants were concerned. “If the operation should succeed in curtailing the duration of the war by even a few weeks it would save many thousands of Allied ca- sualties and would justify itself many times over,” their critique stated. They further noted that a large portion of the German gov- ernment had evacuated Berlin, making the operation’s ability to cause a sudden administrative breakdown problematic. Still, the daylight population of the targeted area was roughly 375,000, of whom 275, 000 would likely die or be seriously injured, and “it b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 210 --- 169 may well be that an attack on the proposed area of Berlin would have a greater effect upon national administration than is at pres- ent appreciated.”72 Spaatz disagreed. In March, he had shunned a British plan to attack “political targets” in the Balkans to reduce Nazi support there,73 and felt that Portal’s current proposal was unsound as well. He informed Eisenhower that American bombing policy con- doned attacks on military objectives, not morale. “I am opposed to this operation as now planned,” he declared. “We are prepared to participate in an operation against Berlin, but in so doing will select targets for attack of military importance.”74 Eisenhower had initially been receptive to Thunderclap. After reviewing the proposal on 7 August, he penciled: “Since conditions stated are ‘that military defeat is certain and obvious’—I agree the project would be a good one. (We would no longer require bomb- ing strictly military targets.)”75 Once he received Spaa