ovide the answer. Hansell, who served in England as air planner for Lieutenant Gen- eral Dwight Eisenhower, relied on his expertise in crafting awpd- 1 after he returned to Washington dc along with Eaker. Ten days later, Hansell and a small staff produced awpd-42. Much like awpd-1, awpd-42 estimated America’s air needs in broad terms that went beyond the scope of the original request, and it also hearkened to the progressive notions that had guided the earlier plan. Hansell concluded that the United States would need to produce 139,000 aircraft in 1943, of which the Army Air Forces would require 63,000 combat aircraft, organized into 281 groups. In the Pacific, defensive operations would dominate, but in Europe Hansell envisioned that 78 groups would fly from Great Britain, and many of those would begin a bomber offen- sive against Germany. That campaign would destroy German war- making capability in six months of constant bombing once the at- tacking force reached maturity. awpd- 42 “contemplated a degree of destruction of internal Ger - many which would make invasion feasible and relatively inexpen- sive in terms of U.S. lives,” Hansell reflected.34 The destruction of the Luftwaffe again received emphasis as “an intermediate objec- tive with overriding priority,” followed by submarine yards, trans -b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 157 --- 116portation systems, electric power facilities, oil installations, and aluminum and rubber plants. The U-Boat scourge during the Bat- tle of the Atlantic dictated second billing for the submarine yards, but the remainder of the list differed little from awpd-1’s priori- ties. Hansell estimated that forty-two groups of heavy bombers, composed of 48 aircraft each and totaling 2,016 aircraft, would arrive in the United Kingdom by 1 January 1944, along with 960 medium bomb