ng too progressive, is really not progressive enough.” 28 Besides preaching the Tactical School’s gospel of air power, An- drews displayed his faith through flying demonstrations. He sent part of his fledgling b-17 force to the West Coast to participate in an August 1937 Army-Navy exercise simulating a seaborne in- vasion of the United States. In it, seven of his bombers success-fully attacked the battleship Utah by flying underneath a thick fog. When Navy umpires complained that the overcast prevented sailors from seeing the b-17s and taking evasive action, the bomb- ers attacked in clear weather at altitudes between eight and eigh- teen thousand feet. They scored hits with 12 percent of the bombs dropped—a higher percentage than Navy aircraft had scored in tests from lower altitudes. 29 Andrews also used his bombers to convey political messages. In February 1938 Lieutenant Colonel Robert Olds led six b-17s to Buenos Aires for the inauguration of Argentine President Rob- ert Ortiz. The flight demonstrated America’s resolve to uphold the Monroe Doctrine in light of fascist encroachment in the area. De- spite strong General Staff opposition, Andrews secured the mission by having a journalist friend recommend it to Assistant Secretary of War Louis Johnson, a b-17 proponent. Afterward, the General Staff reiterated its opposition to further long-distance b-17 flights, and General Craig vetoed a request from the Army commander on Hawaii to fly bombers there from the West Coast. 30 Such resistance did not keep Andrews from striking a blow for air power if the opportunity arose, and the Rex intercept in May 1938 was a notable opportunity. The morning after the flight, he f r o m  p r o p h e c y  t o p l a n EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 96 --- 79 received a telephone call from Craig, who told him that future flights over water by the ghq Air Force would no