se it will be looked on by them merely as an auxiliary and not as a principal thing,” he protested in De-p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 63 --- 46cember 1919.30 Mitchell provoked the Navy’s ire with his persis- tent claims that the sea service provided minimum defense for a maximum price tag. In 1922  he contended that an average bat - tleship cost roughly forty-five million dollars to build and equip, while bombers cost twenty thousand dollars each. Thus, the na- tion could either build one battleship or two thousand bombers— each of which could sink a battleship!31 Mitchell’s argument omit- ted a great deal, such as the rapid rate of obsolescence of aircraft compared to capital ships, and the high costs of training aircrews and building air bases, but its simplistic logic touched a receptive chord in many Americans. In December 1924 Representative Julian Lampert, chairman of the House Military Affairs Committee, began hearings in re- sponse to Representative John F. Curry’s bill for a unified avia- tion service. Mitchell testified extensively at the hearings, making some of his most inflammatory accusations. “All the organiza-tion that we have in this country really now is for the protection of vested interests against aviation,” he told the committee. He added that some individuals testifying for the government had showed “a woeful ignorance . . . and in some cases possibly a falsification of evidence, with the evident intent to confuse Con-gress.” When asked by Secretary of War John W. Weeks to elab-orate on his testimony in writing, Mitchell declined to provide specifics and added additional charges. He berated the Navy for the conduct of its bombing tests, remarking that it “actually tried to prevent our sinking the Ostfriesland.”32 Mitchell had recently angered Secretary Weeks by publishing an explosive ser