e those threads quickly. “The more speed- ily a war is over and the world can revert to its normal peace- time pursuits, the better it is for the entire world,” George re-marked. 94 Mitchell had said much the same, and so had Douhet, whose translated works were available at Maxwell.95 Yet neither Mitchell nor Douhet placed the overriding emphasis on accurate bombing that came from the Tactical School. Although Mitchell stressed precision attacks against a hostile fleet, he also advocated the development of “aerial torpedoes,” self-propelled, remotely controlled bombs accurate enough only to “hit great cities.”96 For Douhet, population centers were legitimate targets, and victory would come from terrorizing the enemy populace into demand-ing peace. Tactical School instructors believed that such random bombing could not rapidly snip away the key strands of the in- dustrial web. In 1930, the school shunned night bombing as inefficient; texts stated that daylight was necessary to pinpoint key targets.97 But attacking in daylight exposed aircrews to enemy defenses, forc- ing them to attack at high altitudes to avoid anti-aircraft artillery (aaa) and in formation for mutual protection against enemy fight- ers. High altitude bombing was also inherently more inaccurate than that conducted at lower levels, and in 1930 the Air Corps did not possess a bombsight that assured a reasonable degree of precision. Nor did it possess a bomber that could deliver a sub- stantial bomb load against an enemy’s economic web. Neverthe- less, Tactical School instructors continued to refine the industrial web theory, confident that air technology would ultimately pro-vide them with a means to implement it without suffering crip-pling losses. In the days before radar, air maneuvers appeared to show that even antiquated bombers could attack targets in daylight and p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms