book Winged De - fense: “The time has come when aviation must be developed for aviation’s sake and not as an auxiliary to other exiting branches [of the service]. Unless the progressive elements in our makeup are availed of, we will fall behind in the world’s development.” 4 Much like the muckrakers, Mitchell took his case for autonomy straight to the American public. In the aftermath of the “War to End All Wars,” however, he found that his message could not per - suade a populace beset by isolationism, pacifist tendencies, and, ultimately, the Great Depression. 5 Still, his progressive ideals en- dured among airmen, and provided the foundations for the bomb- ing doctrine they developed during the interwar years. Mitchell was an apt choice to serve as the messiah of Amer - ican air power. With a United States senator for a father and a p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 56 --- 39 railroad tycoon grandfather, he possessed ties to leaders in both government and industry. World War I provided him with con- siderable experience as a combat air commander, and he had ex-celled at it—most of the pilots who flew in his units adored him. Brimming with confidence in any situation, he could charm most audiences, often by relying on his fluent French or his expert polo. Yet his overwhelming self-assurance did not stem entirely from expertise. Mitchell was a driven man, a man on a mission, a man with little time to waste. He wrote his mother in December 1919 that he “was practically the only one that can bring about a bet- terment of our national defense at this time” and noted with pride in his diary on Christmas Eve five years later: “Supposed to be a half-holiday, but I worked hard all day in the office neverthe- less.”6 Those who interfered with his promotion of air power—or his boundless ego—incurred his wrath. “Mitchell tri