er_beneficial.pdf --- Page 26 --- 9 infantry, cavalry, or artillery, aviators were almost unanimous in condemning the proposal. Lieutenants Benjamin D. Foulois and Henry H. “Hap” Arnold testified that the Signal Corps’ control of aviation was satisfactory. 3 Captain William “Billy” Mitchell, at that time a non-flyer and the lone Signal Corps representative on the Army’s General Staff, argued that aviation was essential to Signal Corps reconnaissance and communication. “The offensive value of this thing has yet to be proved,” he stated.4 The outbreak of war in Europe heightened interest in the air - plane’s military potential. That conflict, combined with a grow-ing rift between Signal Corps aviators and their non-flying su - periors, spurred Secretary of War Newton D. Baker to launch a General Staff investigation in April 1916 on the appropriate- ness of severing aviation from Signal Corps control. Many pilots bemoaned the “under 30, bachelor only” restrictions on flying, while many of their non-flying superiors regarded the young avi-ators as undisciplined. Baker decided that air autonomy was not the answer, but also admitted that combat in Europe had demon - strated that the air arm was more than just an auxiliary service.5 The next year, on the eve of America’s entry into the Great War, a joint Army-Navy panel recommended purchasing “a rigid air - ship of the zeppelin type” that could bomb an enemy’s homeland.6 Although the dominant focus of America’s air power vision re-mained on supporting the Army, that view did not exclude inde-pendent operations. The failure of American civilian and military leaders to articu- late a definitive concept of military aviation likely stemmed from the paucity of military aviation available. When Congress de-clared war against Germany on 6 April 1917 , the Signal Corps’ Aviation Section numbered only 65 officers on active duty, of whom 26 were certified pilots, backed by 1,100 enlisted men and 200 civilian personnel. The Army’s so