ept other aircraft,” and that after achiev- ing air supremacy, an enemy’s vital centers—a term used by both men—could be wrecked at will. 22 They differed, however, about how best to achieve air control. For Douhet, the best method was to destroy the enemy air force on the ground, either at its bases or before it left factory assembly lines. 23 Mitchell countered that air combat was also a suitable means, and that attacking a crit-ical vital center would compel the hostile air force to rise in de-fense, whereupon it could be overcome. 24 Both initially thought that escort fighters for bombers were essential to ward off the en - emy’s fighters, although Douhet would later advocate an air force based on a single type of aircraft, a bomber bristling with ma-chine guns that he dubbed the “battleplane” in his 1926 revision to Command of the Air. Like Mitchell, Douhet argued that an independent air force em- phasizing the bomber was the cheapest and most efficient means to defend his nation. Yet unlike his American counterpart, Douhet had to consider that his country was susceptible to air attack.25 The Italian asserted that a defending air force could not protect all of a nation’s vital centers, because the defender could never be certain what centers the attacker would choose to strike.26 His answer was to attack first, with as much air power as possible, and destroy the enemy’s ability to retaliate in kind. Once enemy p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 62 --- 45 bombers took to the air against an unknown target, attempting to stop them was probably futile.27 Mitchell realized that advanc- ing technology would ultimately overcome the limitation on range that protected the United States from air attack by a European or Asiatic power. Under his guidance, Air Service Colonel Townsend F. Dodd prepared an April 1919 study eva