rrible toll on the German civilian populace. Still, the public statements of air leaders, as well as much of their pri-vate correspondence, often sounded as if their efforts were be - yond reproach. In private, though, they also frequently agonized over the pros- pects of using brute force to secure victory—especially in terms of the legacy that it might foster. Eaker, who contributed the heavy bombers of Fifteenth Air Force to Spaatz’s campaign against Ger - many, commented at length on the dilemma. Spaatz had requested his views on “Clarion,” a plan designed not only to disrupt trans- portation links in small towns, but also to showcase the might of Allied air power to German citizens unfamiliar with its fury. Eaker did not mince his words on the proposal: It [Clarion] will absolutely convince the Germans that we are the bar - barians they say we are, for it would be perfectly obvious to them that this is primarily a large-scale attack on civilians as, in fact, it of course will be. Of all the people killed in this attack over 95% of them can be expected to be civilians. It is absolutely contrary to the conversations you and [Air Secre- tary] Bob Lovett had with respect to the necessity of sticking to mil- itary targets. . . . If the time ever comes when we want to attack the civilian popu- lace with a view to breaking civil morale, such a plan as the one sug- gested is probably the way to do it. I personally, however, have be- come completely convinced that you and Bob Lovett are right and we b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 221 --- 180should never allow the history of this war to convict us of throwing the strategic bomber at the man in the street. I think there is a better way we can do our share toward the defeat of the enemy, but if we are to attack the civil population I am certain we should wait until i