re may be important but should be ignored.” He also remembered that in classroom exercises instructors deemed “bombing inaccuracy”— not enemy defenses—the greatest threat to a successful air offen-sive. “Nothing could stop us,” he reflected. “I mean this was a zealous crowd.” 101 The confidence displayed by faculty and students at the acts would intensify during the decade with the development of the four-engine b-17 “Flying Fortress” and the sophisticated Norden p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 83 --- 66bombsight. Together, those technological marvels seemingly of- fered the means to validate the industrial web theory. Yet before that theory could be put to the test, the Army’s leaders had to en- dorse it. A difficult challenge loomed for the believers in progres- sive air power—one that was far more demanding than Mitchell faced in sinking the Ostfriesland.p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 84 --- 67 3 • From Prophecy to Plan to understand a ir Power, it must be realized that the airplane is not just another weap- on. It is another means, operating in another element, for the same basic purpose as the application of military Power or sea Power—the destruction of the enemy’s will to fight. the true object of war has never been merely to defeat an army or navy. such defeat is only a means to an end. that end is the destruction of the enemy’s will. the fundamental difference between air Power and military Power is that air Power can be applied directly against the objective sought, without first having to overcome bar - riers and obstacles such as swamps, rivers, mountains, and enemy surface forces. • maJ. gEn. Frank andrEWS, 15 oCtoBEr 1936 I do not believe that air