ng decisive.”94 Those perspectives mir - rored Arnold’s, and his guiding hand never truly left Twentieth Air Force as he read mission reports and message traffic from his recuperation bed in Coral Gables, Florida. Still, Arnold could not actively lead the force that mattered most to him, and he would have to count on Norstad and LeMay to make his vision of rapid success a reality. “General Arnold was absolutely determined to get results out of this weapons system,” LeMay recalled. 95 The new commander of XXI Bomber Command did not intend to dis- appoint his ailing boss. LeMay soon realized that satisfying Arnold—and Norstad— would not be easy. LeMay was especially upset with the staff that Hansell had left him, which he described to Norstad as “practi - cally worthless.” He further told Norstad that Rosy O’Donnell’s Seventy-third Wing was “in bad shape” and that “you better start warming up a sub for Rosy in case we have to put him in. . . . I get the impression from Rosy on down they think the obstacles too many and the opposition too heavy to crash through and get the bombs on target.” 96 Much as he had with XX Bomber Com- mand, LeMay started an intensive training program for his crews in the Marianas. Yet he discovered that training alone would not cure the problems that had plagued Hansell. Like his predecessor, LeMay believed in the merits of high alti- tude, daylight, precision bombing against specific targets essential to enemy war production. That faith could not overcome the ob- stacles of wind, clouds, and distance. Jet stream winds continued f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 257 --- 216to scatter bombs, clouds frequently obscured targets, and 1,600- mile flights to and from cities like Tokyo and Nagoya tested the limits of the b -29’s range, often leading to ditchings on the way back to the Marianas. From his 20 J