re- mained—how much of an impact? Eaker could not say with cer - tainty. He could express success in numerical terms—the amount of bombs dropped, the percentage that hit the target, the numbers of enemy fighters shot down—but even with photographic recon- naissance and Ultra intercepts he could not know for sure whether the destruction that he claimed had actually occurred, or, more importantly, if the actual destruction had produced the desired ef- fect on Germany’s capability and will to keep fighting. Eaker’s inability to divine his enemy’s response to bombing was a problem that did not lend itself to easy solutions. Besides scru- tinizing intelligence reports, he examined German newspaper ac- counts of raids to determine if the tone of articles revealed the German public’s willingness to keep supporting the war.132 Many coa members relied on their knowledge of American industry to b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 183 --- 142determine the likely impact of destroying similar features of Ger - man war production. Planning for the first Schweinfurt raid typ- ified the mirror-image approach. “Industrialists think in terms of what destruction of American ball bearing plants would mean to them, and they are completely unable to suggest a method by which they could long continue in operation if this [destruction] should occur,” wrote the coa’s Colonel Guido Perera. “There is every reason to believe that the German situation is identical, for in both countries the industry has the same essential character - istics.” 133 Such logic ignored actions that the Germans might have already taken to forestall production losses or that they would take after - ward to replace their capability; it also presumed that German in- dustry operated at peak capacity (it did not, and would not until 1944). Thus, determining when a