ftwaffe reeling, Arnold raised the tour length for bomber crews from 25 to 30 missions. Spaatz had given him daylight air superiority. Spaatz had achieved what Eaker could not because Spaatz pos- sessed an abundance of resources that allowed him to conduct an air campaign based on attrition.41 Eaker had counted on the Luft- waffe’s aerial losses to spur his quest for air superiority as well, but anxiety about the survival of his bomber force prevented per - sistent attacks deep into Germany. Neither Eaker nor Spaatz com- pletely abandoned their progressive belief that the destruction of key targets like aircraft factories and ball bearing plants would produce rapid results; their concern was whether the results would occur rapidly enough. As the countdown toward Overlord contin- ued, a negative answer appeared likely. Spaatz chose to forego the b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 201 --- 160progressive goal of “cheapness” to obtain the higher priority ob- jective of speed, and, in the end, was successful. Yet the cost was enormous. Eaker’s painstaking commitment of a weak bomber force that lacked escort fighters, and Spaatz’s ruthless use of the strength that he possessed, combined to make a staggering 77 per - cent of all American airmen who flew against the Third Reich be- fore D-Day casualties.42 Eaker and Spaatz had accurately surmised the importance of the German aircraft industry to Hitler’s war machine. The Luft-waffe was not going to risk losing its production centers without a fight—which was exactly what Spaatz hoped in early 1944. Be- tween January and the end of April, the Germans had 1 ,684 pi - lots killed, and Ultra intercepts made Spaatz aware of the loss.43 Eaker, who now “owned” Fifteenth Air Force as a part of his Med- iterranean Allied Air Forces (Spaatz, as usstaf Commander, di-rected the heavy