ercast devices. These factories, as you know, are scattered and isolated and they also require deep penetration. We are not justified in striking at them unless the conditions augur for success. These deep penetrations and the impossibility of fighter es- cort will cost us 80–120 bombers. We will suffer this loss any time we penetrate in force to these targets. We must, therefore, be reason- ably certain of their destruction before we launch any expedition en-tailing such cost. 148 The Army Air Forces Commanding General—who had never commanded any force in combat—failed to empathize with Eak- er’s plight. Arnold could also hear the clock ticking to produce air power results, and he did not like his chances. Even though his di-b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 187 --- 146versions of bombers to the Mediterranean and Pacific had helped emasculate Eaker’s force, Arnold felt that the situation demanded a new commander for America’s bomber offensive against Ger - many. Eisenhower would soon arrive in Britain to command the forthcoming invasion and had asked that Spaatz, who had served as his air commander in the Mediterranean, accompany him. The overall Allied air commander in the Mediterranean, Air Marshal Arthur Tedder, would join Eisenhower as well, creating a vacancy that needed to be filled by an experienced airman. In addition, Arnold had long desired a single air commander for “strategic” air operations, and with the creation of the Fifteenth Air Force, he now had two bomber forces engaged in the bombing of Ger - many. His solution was to make Spaatz the Commander of the “U.S. Strategic Air Forces,” which would encompass the bomber commands in the Eighth and the Fifteenth, and shift Eaker to com- mand the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces. Eaker, who had received a promotion to lieutenant general in Septembe