s officers who stressed an “independent” air cam-paign must realize that their views were contrary to the needs of the service. “It is therefore directed that these officers be warned against any idea of independence and that they be taught from the beginning that their efforts must be closely coordinated with those of the remainder of the Air Service and those of the ground army,” McAndrew stated. 69 Recent savage fighting by the Amer - ican Second and Third Divisions at Chateau-Thierry had helped stop the German drive on Paris, and further bloodshed was im - minent as Pershing readied his troops to support Foch’s coun- teroffensive. When the assault began, the American commander wanted his soldiers to have maximum backing from their Air Ser - vice. The June name-change of the Strategical Aviation branch to the General Headquarters (ghq ) Air Service Reserve reflected this continuing concern. By the summer of 1918 Gorrell’s scheme for a massive Amer -g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 46 --- 29 ican air offensive had atrophied. Colonel Monell had, in Gor - rell’s words, worked on developing a strategic air force for only “a month or so,”70 and Major Fowler left Air Service headquar - ters to command the American air units operating with the Brit-ish. Discouraged by production deficiencies and convinced that an American strategic bombing campaign would never material- ize, Wing Commander Grey returned to a British assignment. Mo- nell succeeded during his tenure as Chief of the Strategical Sec- tion/ghq Reserve only in selecting prospective airfields for his phantom force. 71 After the war, Gorrell wrote that a major reason American stra- tegic bombing never materialized was that his plans “were not syn- chronized properly, especially from a mental point of view” with the Army’s General Headquarters. 72 General Fo