opment of new airplanes with greater ranges would make Berlin a viable target. He did not, however, contend during his first en- counter with Mitchell that the quickest way to defeat the German army was through an air offensive aimed at the German nation. While others around Trenchard stressed a “radical air strategy” against the German homeland, he remained focused on using air power to defeat the German army on the Western Front. None- theless, Mitchell emerged from his initial contact with Trenchard profoundly affected by the general’s ideas and convinced that an aerial offensive was a key to winning the war. 24 As a result of observing Allied operations, Mitchell proposed dividing the American air contingent into categories of “tacti-cal” and “strategical” aviation. He made his proposal to Persh - ing’s chief of staff, who arrived in France with the commanding general in mid-June. Tactical aviation would consist of squadrons g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 33 --- 16attached to divisions, corps, or armies and would operate as any other combat arm. In contrast, strategical aviation “would be bom- bardment and pursuit formations and would have an independent mission very much as independent cavalry used to have. . . . They would be used to carry the war well into the enemy’s country.”25 This mission, he insisted, could have “a greater influence on the ultimate decision of the war than any other arm.”26 Soon after re- ceiving Mitchell’s plan, Pershing selected a board of officers to de - termine the proper composition for aef aviation. Because Mitch - ell was the senior American aviator in Europe, the general made him chief of the newly created Air Service, which had replaced the Signal Corps as the Army’s air organization in the aef.27 Mitch- ell’s appointment did not, however, guarantee his proposal’s ac- cep