ive sought, without first having to overcome bar - riers and obstacles such as swamps, rivers, mountains, and enemy surface forces. • maJ. gEn. Frank andrEWS, 15 oCtoBEr 1936 I do not believe that air attacks can be stopped by any means known. . . . the best defense is a strong offense. we must have an air force capable of going out and meeting an ene - my before he can get under way. • maJ. gEn. Frank andrEWS, 20 may 1937 12 May 1938 Army Air Corps First Lieutenant Curtis LeMay felt his stomach churning as he trudged through a heavy morning downpour toward the b-17 bomber designated “Number 80” and parked at Mitch- el Field, Long Island. LeMay was a handpicked member of three b-17 crews who would fly their bombers as “blue force” aircraft in the Army’s spring maneuvers against a fictional “black force” invasion fleet bound for the northeastern United States. The Navy, participating in a simultaneous exercise in the Pacific, had been unable to provide any ships for the black fleet. To remedy that problem, the enterprising Lieutenant Colonel Ira Eaker, Chief of Air Corps Information, had devised an intriguing substitute. He EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 85 --- 68f r o m  p r o p h e c y  t o p l a n learned that the Italian luxury liner Rex, traveling from Gibral- tar to New York City, would be roughly seven hundred miles east of New York on 12 May, making it a superb double for an ene- my aircraft carrier. The Air Corps had received permission from General Malin Craig, the Army Chief of Staff, as well as from the Italian cruise line to intercept the vessel. LeMay, as lead naviga-tor for the mission, was to guarantee that the three b-17s found the Rex in the Atlantic Ocean at the appointed time. The idea of intercepting the Rex before its theoretical aircraft would be in range to attack the east coast delighted Major Gen-eral Frank Andrews. As Command