roy the Japanese industry, you’re going to have to invade Japan,” he re-flected. “And how many Americans will be killed in an invasion of Japan?” 4 Unlike Germany, though, targeting Japan’s industry posed a much different problem. Japanese cities contained few factories set apart from residential districts. Instead, a multitude of “cottage industries,” each employing fewer than 250 work- ers, spread throughout most urban areas. Despite this blending, Army Air Forces planners divided Japan’s largest cities into sep-arate zones that they thought contained the most factories, the most residences, and the most commercial enterprises. In Tokyo, the city’s most densely populated residential district, not its primary industrial area, was the target for the b-29s on the night of 9 March. That guidance came from Brigadier General Lauris Norstad, who served from the Pentagon as the Twentieth Air Force’s Chief of Staff. 5 Arnold had vetoed Norstad’s plan to firebomb Tokyo’s Imperial Palace on 8 December 1944 as retribu- tion for Pearl Harbor, though he disagreed more with the choice of target and its political ramifications than with the desire to bomb Japanese urban areas intensively. Since Arnold’s heart at-tack on 17 January, and his subsequent recuperation in Florida, much of the real power driving Twentieth Air Force operations now came from Norstad. When Arnold’s impatience with poor bombing results had led him to relieve LeMay’s predecessor, Brig- adier General “Possum” Hansell, from command in early January, he had sent Norstad to Guam to convey the news. On the night f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 228 --- 187 of 9 March Norstad was on Guam once again, asleep in LeMay’s quarters after having arrived from Washington dc that morning. LeMay viewed the visit as a threat since his own bombing had thus far produced results mirrori