inued to demand air support. In addition, the Luftwaffe revealed a new threat—the Me-262 jet fighter— that could fly 100 mph faster than the Mustang and could also fly on cheap, plentiful kerosene. Despite those concerns, Eighth Air b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 213 --- 172Force flew four raids a week throughout November that averaged more than one thousand heavy bombers against oil and transpor - tation targets, which occupied the second spot on the Combined Chiefs’ target list.83 Eighth Air Force heavies dropped 39 percent of their bombs that month on oil targets, and the Fifteenth’s heavy bombers did the same with 32 percent of their ordnance, but ra- dar bombing occurred on most attacks. raf Bomber Command also contributed 24 percent of its November ordnance to the oil campaign, again by radar techniques. The German oil system that had suffered so severely in the summer continued to rebound.84 Still, Spaatz thought that the weight of ordnance dropped on oil and transportation targets might prove decisive. On 13 De- cember he informed Arnold: “There is increasing evidence that the attacks on rail communications and industrial areas in Ger - many are having a cumulative effect. There is [a] possibility that the breaking point may be closer at hand than some of us are will - ing to admit.”85 Three days later Spaatz realized that the desired breaking point remained elusive. the ardennes and Its aftermath On 16 December 1944, the Germans demonstrated in convinc-ing fashion that they still possessed both the capability and will to continue the war. The Ardennes offensive stunned Allied lead-ers, most of whom had assumed that Germany was on the brink of collapse. Spaatz shifted usstaf’s focus from oil to transporta- tion centers west of the Rhine, and Eighth Air Force flew only one mission against oil targets be