d been the vast marshalling yard on the southern bank of the Elbe. By the time crews could see the smoke EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 190 --- 149 b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s rising from the city, the target had become a rail intersection in Dresden’s center, west of the main residential area. Clouds obscured the rail junction, though, and when the lead bombardier signaled “Bombs away!” he was actually over Dres- den’s most densely populated district—the same area that the raf had pummeled just hours before. Using radar bombing techniques, the b -17s dropped more than seven hundred tons of bombs, al- most half of which were incendiaries. The next day, 211 b-17s at- tacked Dresden’s marshalling yard, and cloud cover once again prevented accurate bombing. Almost five hundred tons of high explosive bombs fell on the city’s center. 2 The series of raids cre- ated a firestorm similar in intensity to the one almost two years earlier at Hamburg; between twenty-five thousand and thirty-five thousand German civilians died, and an estimated five hundred thousand lost their homes. 3 On the afternoon of 15 February, raf Air Commodore C. M. Grierson conducted a press conference in Paris in which he high-lighted the Dresden raids. Grierson stated that bombing popula- tion centers caused the Germans difficulty because it forced them to send in trains carrying relief supplies and send out trains carrying homeless civilians, thereby disrupting transportation and contrib- uting “greatly to the break up of the German economic system.” Concerning Dresden, Grierson noted that the city was a commu-nications center that the Germans used to relay men and equip-ment to the Russian front, and that refugees fleeing the Russians clogged the city. He maintained that the principal reason for the raids was to stop communications rather than to kill refugees. 4 Griers