missions that began more than a year before. Gradually, though, the mindsets of American air commanders morphed into a mentality that viewed radar bombing in the same vein as precision raids. Regardless of the equipment used, the em- phasis remained on the targets attacked rather than on the meth-ods used to attack them. American air leaders retained their con- victions regarding the importance of Germany’s industrial web and devoted considerable attention to pinpointing the key connections in it—even though they knew that they lacked the capacity to at- tack those strands with true precision bombing. What they did not lack were numbers. By fall 1944 Spaatz could regularly send one thousand bombers against a particular target, and did so. The demand for rapid results—part of which stemmed from the airmen’s own desires to demonstrate that they could achieve “in-dependent” success—pushed them relentlessly onward, and the overriding war aim of unconditional surrender condoned the mas- sive destruction that followed.105 Arnold had told his command- ers in June 1943, “We are not in a position to ignore the costs and win by brute force.”106 A little more than a year later, Spaatz and b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 220 --- 179 usstaf could try to do exactly that. Throughout their portion of the Combined Bomber Offensive, American airmen failed to note that the emphasis on rapid results distorted the progressive ideals of efficiency and economy at the heart of their beliefs about the virtues of bombing. American bomber crews paid a heavy price for achieving dominance in the European skies, and radar bomb- ing wreaked a terrible toll on the German civilian populace. Still, the public statements of air leaders, as well as much of their pri-vate correspondence, often sounded as if their efforts were be - yond reproach. I