nned to begin a sim-ilar effort but that he could not pledge the Air Service to a joint endeavor without Pershing’s approval. 59 In contrast to the eager - ness for bombing Germany that they had displayed to the Bol - ling mission, the French were lukewarm now that the idea had be- come a reality. They stressed Germany’s ease of retaliation against French cities, and indeed in January 1918 German bombers at-tacked Paris for the first time in two and a half years. 60 The Brit- ish then confined their raids to factories and rail yards, but they did not curb their plans for a separate bombing unit. On 5 June 1918, Trenchard took command of the Independent Air Force (iaf) of the newly created Royal Air Force. The need to devote half his sorties against German airfields, and the small number of aircraft available (his force varied between five and ten squad-rons), limited the amount of iaf bombs dropped on Germany to 550 tons, which were spread over fifty towns and cities. 61 None- theless, Trenchard claimed that the “moral effect” of his bomb-ing outweighed its material impact by twenty to one. 62 Because Trenchard took orders only from the British Air Min- istry, the iaf effort endeared itself to neither the French nor the Americans. The French were particularly incensed, as their Mar - shal Ferdinand Foch was Supreme Allied Commander. Trenchard’s restricted chain-of-command also led the aef Chief of Staff, Ma- jor General James W. McAndrew, to prohibit American bombing g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 43 --- 26with the iaf once Air Service bombardment units reached suffi - cient strength to conduct separate operations. In January 1918 Pershing had agreed that British personnel could organize, train, and equip the thirty projected American night bombing squad- rons, and British flying schools also taught some Ameri