our position as commander of one of our great striking forces, will do your utmost to help accomplish the ear - liest possible defeat of Japan. This can only be done by making the best possible use of the weapon at your disposal.57 In November, the Joint Chiefs of Staff approved a tentative plan for invading Kyushu in September 1945. Hansell’s race against the clock had officially begun. On 24 November 111 b-29s took off to attack Tokyo’s Naka- jima aircraft engine factory, responsible for an estimated 30 to 40 percent of all Japanese combat aircraft engines.58 Brigadier Gen- eral Emmett “Rosy” O’Donnell, the Commander of the Seventy- third Wing, led the mission, with Major Robert K. Morgan, who had commanded the famed Memphis Belle in the European the- ater, flying as his co-pilot. Vile weather had compelled Hansell to cancel the mission five times. Shortly before it finally occurred, he received a portent that it might not go well. O’Donnell, a Brooklyn native who had commanded a b-17 squadron in the Philippines after Pearl Harbor, and who had also served as a favored colo- nel on Arnold’s Advisory Council, came to Hansell with a hand- written letter. It concerned the forthcoming mission and warned that “the hazards and the lack of training produced risks which exceeded the limits of prudent military judgment.” O’Donnell thought that the raid could produce a “disaster,” and urged Han- sell to forego a daylight attack and instead bomb at night “until the command had a chance to build up its competence.” 59 Han- sell thanked Rosy for his views, and then burned the letter in his presence to prevent misinterpretation if the raid succeeded.f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 247 --- 206The attack was far from successful, though not for the reasons that O’Donnell had suspected. Only twenty-four b -29s bombed the engine factory, wh