tressed continuous, systematic bombing as the key to overwhelming Ger - man defenses while unnerving workers and preventing them from making repairs. Yet the Germans, Gorrell warned, also realized the potential of strategic bombing and aimed to launch a simi- lar large-scale effort against the Allies during the next year. Thus, the sooner the American campaign began, the better. “This is not a phantom nor a dream,” he wrote to Bolling in October 1917 , “but is a huge reality capable of being carried out with success if the United States will only carry on a sufficiently large campaign for next year, and manufacture the types of airplanes that lend themselves to this campaign, instead of building pursuit planes already out of date here in Europe.” 50 Gorrell submitted his plan on 28 November to Brigadier Gen- eral Benjamin Foulois, who had become Chief of the aef Air Ser - vice the previous day. The two had served together as pilots in the First Aero Squadron during the Mexican punitive expedition and knew each other well. Like Mitchell, Foulois had changed his at-titude on the value of independent air operations since his 1913 testimony that Army aviation belonged under Signal Corps’ con- trol. He approved Gorrell’s plan in December and sent it to Gen-eral Pershing for his endorsement. Foulois also placed Gorrell— now a lieutenant colonel—in charge of Strategical Aviation in the Zone of the Advance. Persuaded that an independent bombing force would not deprive him of air support for American ground troops, Pershing approved the plan in early January. Gorrell then transferred to Pershing’s staff as the Air Service’s g-3 (War Plans and Operations) representative to oversee the plan’s implementa- tion, but he remained attuned to Pershing’s concern that the Air Service might neglect American armies. To assuage this fear, Gorrell produced a written analysis of his plan’s impact on Army aviation for Pershing’s staff. Entitled “The Future Role of American Bombardment Aviat