supplies allow; then they stop. And when they stop the German digs in, and the way must be blasted again be-fore they move.” 70 Prospects for Peace through a thunderclap As Allied armies pushed toward the German frontier, the ques-tion of how best to use the heavy bomber force to speed the end of the war surfaced yet again. In early July, the Combined Chiefs b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 209 --- 168of Staff determined that a time might come when a massive as- sault against German morale might prove decisive. A month later, Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles “Peter” Portal, Chief of the Brit- ish Air Staff and the ranking officer in the raf, produced a pro- posal for such a catastrophic blow from the air. Portal argued that a massive attack on the German civilian populace was unlikely to produce an overthrow of German leadership; at best it might spur rioting, but the rioting would probably occur among foreign workers only. Direct attacks on the morale of political and mili-tary leaders themselves, though, might lead to significant results. “Our object must be to influence the minds of German high po- litical and military authorities in the desired direction to the point where the High Command must either accept the necessity of sur - render or be replaced by an alternative Command which does so,” Portal maintained. He believed that heavy attacks on government and military control centers in Berlin (five thousand tons of high explosive ordnance on a 2 ½-square-mile area), backed by “well judged propaganda,” could lead to German capitulation. 71 Codenamed “Thunderclap,” the proposed operation received intense scrutiny from Spaatz’s usstaf staff in the United King- dom, as well as from Arnold’s air staff in the Pentagon. Spaatz’s officers examined the British proposal from a progressive mind- set that presumed a fast