iked his work and selected him to command the new f r o m  p r o p h e c y  t o p l a n EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 92 --- 75 force that would contain all of the Air Corps’ combat aircraft— with a jump in grade from lieutenant colonel to brigadier general. General Drum concurred with the appointment. Ironically, he de- scribed Andrews as an efficient flyer who “has been in harmony with all the War Department has been trying to do.”19 In many respects, Andrews’s fight for air force autonomy par - alleled Billy Mitchell’s. Andrews had not been in Mitchell’s inner circle, but after Mitchell left the service Andrews became one of his closest confidants. 20 Both men believed that the bomber was the key to obtaining service independence, and both jumped the chain of command and appealed directly to the public to secure a bomber-oriented air force. Andrews was perhaps the more re- strained of the two. Initially, he refused to proclaim his ideas too loudly, and he also developed contacts who helped him convey his message. In December 1936 he told General Embick that the heavy bombers under development were for defensive purposes only and that it was “utterly absurd to consider them as anything else.”21 One month later he provided Army Chief of Staff Gen- eral Malin Craig with a poker-faced endorsement of Representa-tive Wilcox’s bill advocating an autonomous air force—when in fact Andrews had drafted the proposal himself. 22 The ghq Air Force Commander possessed ties to the govern- ment’s executive branch as well as its legislative. In late 1937 An - drews sent copies of confidential Navy reports complimenting b-17 bombing accuracy to Colonel Edwin M. “Pa” Watson, military aide to President Franklin Roosevelt. Andrews pleaded to Watson for additional b-17s, noting that the two engine b-18s lacked suf- ficient range for coast defense.23 Ultimately, Andrews’