him chief of the newly created Air Service, which had replaced the Signal Corps as the Army’s air organization in the aef.27 Mitch- ell’s appointment did not, however, guarantee his proposal’s ac- ceptance. On 11 July, Pershing outlined a comprehensive plan for aef organization that authorized fifty-nine squadrons of tactical aircraft for service with the field armies. It made no mention of an independent force for “strategical” operations. a Plan evolves Pershing’s failure to approve the proposal caused Mitchell to re-double his efforts. In August 1917 he asked the aef Intelligence branch to provide information on strategic targets in Germany, and later received a list of industrial targets in the Ruhr from the French. 28 He also created a staff to explore the possibilities of bombing Germany in more detail. To direct the Air Service’s Technical Section, Mitchell picked the twenty-six-year-old Gor - rell, who had just completed his work with the Bolling mission. Gorrell’s job for Mitchell would be similar to his former work for Bolling: to determine Air Service requirements, including the various types of aircraft needed. In trying to estimate the correct number of bombers, Gorrell considered the prospects of strategic bombing, and ultimately produced America’s first plan for a stra-g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 34 --- 17 tegic air campaign. He developed this plan in relative splendor, for Mitchell chose the Chateau de Chamarandes, a magnificent hunt- ing lodge built by Louis XV, as his headquarters. Located within a mile of Pershing’s headquarters at Chaumont, the chateau pro-vided both living quarters and office space. It continued to serve as Air Service headquarters after Mitchell left in October to be- come Air Service Commander in the Zone of the Advance. 29 Besides Mitchell, a variety of individuals h