st officers on the Army’s General Staff—who saw bombers only as vehicles for providing close air support to ground troops—would EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 87 --- 70probably view the episode differently. “I notice from some press reports that there is a tendency to indicate that the Army ghq Air Force is planning to fight a war by itself. I would like to correct that impression,” he diplomatically remarked to journalists af-ter the flight. “We must realize that in common with the mobili-zation of the Air Force in this area, the ground arms of the Army would also be assembling, prepared to take the major role in re- pelling the actual landing forces. . . . I want to ask that you do not accuse us of trying to win a war alone.”5 technological developments By the mid-1930s many air power advocates believed that aerial technology had finally begun to catch up to air power theory. The outdated Keystone b-4, a two-engine, fabric-covered biplane that served as the Army’s primary bomber when the decade began, gave way to all-metal monoplanes, the Boeing b -9 and Martin b -10. The open-cockpit b-9 could fly at 186 miles per hour at six thou- sand feet, which made it 60 miles per hour faster than any cur - rent Air Corps bomber when it first flew in April 1931. At above twenty thousand feet—the estimated maximum range of antiair - craft artillery—it was faster than the Air Corps’ primary fighter aircraft, the p-26! The b-10 was faster still, recording a speed of 207 miles per hour at twenty-one thousand feet in 1932 , plus it sported internally carried bombs, enclosed crew compartments, and a retractable landing gear.6 Both aircraft had only two en- gines, however, which precluded them from carrying heavy bomb loads for long distances. To overcome this deficiency, Air Corps Chief Major General Benjamin Foulois submitted a request to aircraft manufacturers for