actical School instructors based the industrial web theory on American projections, they have since been criticized for “mirror-imaging”—substituting America’s economic and social make-up for that of all other industrialized nations. Kuter later remarked that they had little choice. A small number of officers (seventeen total) from Britain, Canada, Mexico, Spain, Sweden, and Turkey attended the school, and their presence prevented in-structors from focusing their analysis on potential enemies Ger - many and Japan. “It would have been unthinkable in peacetime to have U.S. Army Air Corps officers estimating the national fab- ric of an industrial nation, searching for critical and vulnerable elements and concluding how many long range heavy bombers would be required to overcome their will to resist our objectives,” Kuter recalled. “Not only would it have been politically unthink - able to assume that another nation was our enemy, but at the acts it would have been downright embarrassing.”89 Haywood S. Han- sell, a first lieutenant fighter-pilot-turned-bomber-advocate who taught with Kuter in the Bombardment section, remembered that p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 80 --- 63 instructors deemed target selection a problem for industrial econ- omists. Since the school had none, it “did the best it could. It rea- soned that other great nations were not unlike our own, and that an analysis of American industry would lead to sound conclu- sions about German industry, or Japanese industry, or any other great power’s industry.” 90 Yet in the final analysis, Hansell, Kuter, and their compatriots did not project American characteristics onto the socioeconomic infrastructure of their potential enemies. They instead replicated their perceptions of the United States, and those perceptions in all likelihood did not conform to realit