neficial.pdf --- Page 105 --- 88organizational changes that made air power’s independent appli- cation possible once America entered the war. After Andrews’s transfer to Fort Sam Houston, control of the ghq Air Force re- turned to the Chief of the Air Corps. The change thrilled Arnold, but it proved transitory. The buildup of Army ground forces that occurred concurrently with Air Corps expansion caused Mar - shall difficulty in getting his decisions through the General Staff. To decentralize the War Department, he established the ghq U.S. Army in July 1940. Brigadier General Lesley McNair—who had critiqued the Tactical School’s curriculum four years earlier— directed the new organization, which was slated to control the ghq Air Force. But Arnold believed “it would be suicidal,” as he told Marshall on 6 July, “to separate the G.H.Q. from the Air Corps right in the middle of an expansion program.” 59 Arnold instead proposed establishing three Army deputy chiefs of staff—one each for ground, air, and service forces. General Staff officers rejected the idea, and their rationale revealed that many still harbored a hostile view of the Army’s air component. “The Air Corps believes that its primary purpose is to defeat the en-emy air force and execute independent missions against ground targets,” they wrote. “Actually, its primary purpose is to assist the ground forces in reaching their objective.” 60 On 19 Novem- ber ghq U.S. Army consumed the ghq Air Force. Marshall, how- ever, had not discounted Arnold’s proposal. He made Arnold his deputy chief of staff for air on 30 October, and by March 1941 he gave Arnold authority to direct all air matters not pertaining to war plans or intelligence. Secretary Stimson believed that smooth air operations demanded even greater authority. As a result, on 20 June 1941 , Arnold became Chief of the Army Air Forces ( aaf), which comprised the Army Air Corps, the ghq Air Force (redes- ignated as Air Force Combat Command), and all other Army