Kuwait, and the elder Bush’s use of air power likely heightened his son’s perception that bombing could achieve dramatic results. Against Taliban and al Qaeda forces in Afghanistan, U.S. Air Force and Navy aircraft in Operation “Enduring Freedom” were by far the dominant com- ponents of American military force marshaled in the aftermath of the 11 September terrorist attacks. Bush relied on twenty thou-sand troops of the Afghan Northern Alliance for support on the ground, supplemented by small numbers of American and nato Special Forces. 41 The collapse of the Taliban regime in December 2001 after two months of bombing, and with only twelve fatali- ties suffered by American ground forces, further vindicated Bush’s belief that air power could achieve a quick, inexpensive victory.42 He commented in December 2001 that precision-guided muni- tions offered “great promise” and “have been the majority of the munitions we have used. We’re striking with greater effectiveness, at greater range, with fewer civilian casualties.” Thus, he insisted, America was “redefining war on our terms.”43 The president concluded from the destruction of the Taliban re- gime that air power could help in deposing a recalcitrant Saddam Hussein thought to possess weapons of mass destruction. Bomb-ing provided the initial thrust of Operation “Iraqi Freedom” in March 2003 . When intelligence reports indicated the Iraqi dic - tator was in a farm near Baghdad, Bush ordered an air strike on the facility. The attack by two f-117 stealth fighters with laser-p r o g r e s s i v e  l e g a c i e s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 292 --- 251 guided bombs failed, but precision bombing remained the cen- terpiece of the “shock and awe” air campaign that began on 21 March. More than 1,500 bombs and cruise missiles struck Iraqi governmental and military installations that night in a fantastic displ