egic bomber at the man in the street. I think there is a better way we can do our share toward the defeat of the enemy, but if we are to attack the civil population I am certain we should wait until its morale is much nearer [the] breaking point and until the weather favors the operation more than it will at any time in the winter or early spring. 107 Eaker—who had himself attempted to subdue German morale with bombs—did not completely dismiss the possibility that air power might break civilian will, but he thought that the current odds were low. Despite his concerns, Operation Clarion transpired in early 1945. On 22 February more than two thousand usstaf bombers, with heavy fighter escort, roamed over Germany bomb- ing and strafing railroad stations, marshalling yards, and bridges. The raf supported the effort with intense attacks on lines of com- munication in the Ruhr. The pattern was repeated the next day and produced a temporary halt to rail traffic throughout much of the Reich. Yet it did not significantly affect the morale of the pop- ulace. The bland statement appearing in the Army Air Forces’ of - ficial history, “Nothing in particular happened after the German people beheld Allied warplanes striking towns which usually es-caped bombings,” made a fitting epitaph for the operation. 108 The remainder of America’s contribution to the Combined Bomber Offensive continued with the same intensity that Spaatz had displayed since taking command of usstaf a year before. Oil and transportation remained the two top targets. Winter weather made attacks on both difficult, but the magnitude of the air of-fensive ultimately made a difference. Every day between 19 Feb- ruary and 4 March Eighth Air Force attacked targets in Germany with more than one thousand bombers; Fifteenth Air Force heav- ies raided Germany on twenty days in February. Germany’s syn-b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.eb