nd doing it in a way that showed its unwillingness to accept casualties it- self.”54 Air Force Lieutenant General Michael Short, the air com- mander responsible for conducting Allied Force, seemingly con-firmed that assessment by listing one of his primary objectives as “zero losses. . . . I wanted to destroy the target set and bring this guy [Milosevic] to the negotiating table without losing our kids.”55 Many of the world’s onlookers likely nodded at Short’s admis- sion, and believe that such emphasis will continue to guide appli- cations of American air power. Many around the globe also discount American assurances that precision bombing will not threaten noncombatants. Although American political and military leaders continue to make such promises, bombing mistakes consistently prove them wrong. The more limited the conflict, the greater the progressive rhetoric seem- ingly becomes, and the greater the probability that “collateral damage” will undermine the political goals sought. The key problem in stressing progressive air power as an as- pect of American military prowess is that it does not suit war’s basic nature, much less the types of war that America now faces. As Prussian military philosopher Carl von Clausewitz observed, the fundamental nature of war is constant, a swirling mix of vio- lence, hatred, and enmity; calculated reason; and probability and chance.56 No amount of technological wizardry can remove those components, no matter how sophisticated the technology, or how sound the intentions of those who apply it. Clausewitz added: “Kind-hearted people might of course think there was some ingenious way to disarm or defeat an enemy with - out too much bloodshed, and might imagine this is the true goal p r o g r e s s i v e  l e g a c i e s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 297 --- 256of the art of war. Pleasant as it sounds, it is a fallac