ary zones. They calcu-lated that six tons of incendiaries per square mile would suffice to destroy Zone I completely, while the total destruction of Zone II would require ten tons per square mile. They did not consider Zone I more important than Zone II, because Zone II contained more factories that would affect war production. Zone I, though, contained more people, and its destruction would produce a sig- nificant indirect effect on Japan’s war effort by killing and dislo- cating its work force.31 The recommended instrument of destruc- tion was the m-69 incendiary bomb, a 6.2-pound gasoline gel device tested against simulated German and Japanese residences at Dugway Proving Ground, Utah, between May and Septem - ber 1943. 32 Despite the attention given Japan’s “Urban Industrial Areas” as potential targets in late 1943, they were only one of many possible target categories, and the emphasis remained on precision bomb - ing with that marvel of air power technology created by Ameri- can engineering prowess, the b-29 “Superfortress.” The b-29 was the war’s most expensive weapon system at $3 billion, compared to the next costliest arms project, the $2.2 billion atomic bomb. f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 236 --- 195 The Superfortress traced its roots to a 1939  Army Air Corps pro - duction board that had included Charles Lindbergh. Board mem- bers called for a heavy bomber with twice the range of a b-17, while Arnold demanded an aircraft that could attack targets two thousand miles away from its home base. Boeing won the con- tract and took two years to build a prototype, which first flew in September 1942. The b-29 suffered from production delays and design prob- lems, including four Wright r-350 engines prone to overheating, but contained unique features that made it a truly revolutionary design. The bomber sported the worl