er provided significant impetus to fulfill the dream of service independence. With the war over, the campaign for an autonomous Air Force loomed, and many air - men were eager for it to start. Eleven days after Japan’s surren-der, LeMay wrote his friend Fred Anderson, who now served in the Pentagon on Arnold’s air staff: Do you know what General Arnold’s thought is on my returning to Washington now that the war is over? My interest in this theater has more or less folded with the Japs and I am anxious to get into the fight for a separate Air Force. Most of us believe out here that we must get it quick or not at all. My own personal views are that we must get f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 275 --- 234the ball rolling in the next 30 days or fail again. None of us of course have any desire to finish out our service under the same conditions that we have had for the last fifteen years.179 In LeMay’s eyes—and those of many of his contemporaries— the air campaign in the Pacific had now achieved the progressive ideals proclaimed by Nap Gorrell, Billy Mitchell, and the Air Corps Tactical School. Service independence was a natural con- sequence of that victory. The principles of progressive American air power, LeMay and his cohorts believed, would work well to justify that autonomy in the future.f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 276 --- 235 7 • Progressive legacies It is a fundamental principle of democracy that personnel casualties are distasteful. we will continue to fight mechanical rather than manpower wars. • gEn. hE nry h . arno Ld, 1944 only air power can frequently circumvent enemy forces and attack strategic centers of gravity directly. o ther components, on the other hand, need t