ence office were invaluable in this en-deavor. Using them, planners concluded that the electric power, transportation, and oil production systems were the key compo- nents of the German economy. They decided that those systems could be wrecked by destroying 124 vital targets—fifty electric power plants, fifteen marshalling yards, fifteen bridges, seventeen inland waterway facilities, and twenty-seven petroleum and syn-thetic oil plants. This bombing would not only destroy German war-making capability, but also the “means of livelihood of the German people.” George’s group noted that civilians might also be attacked directly once their morale had weakened due to sus- tained suffering and a lack of faith in Germany’s ability to win the war. “However, if these conditions do not exist,” the planners f r o m  p r o p h e c y  t o p l a n EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 112 --- 95 cautioned, “then area bombing of cities may actually stiffen the resistance of the population, especially if the attacks are weak and sporadic.” If the industrial web theory was correct, German mo- rale would crack without targeting residential districts.75 George and his planners realized that the destruction of Ger - many’s industrial apparatus would be no easy task. German air defenses—which now included radar—were formidable, causing the group to list “neutralization of the German Air Force” as an “intermediate objective, whose accomplishment may be essen-tial to the accomplishment of the principal objectives.” 76 With- out achieving control of the air, the ability to wreck German war- making capacity remained problematic; moreover, an invasion of France could not occur unless the Allies first obtained air superi-ority. George’s planners determined that air control through at- trition was unlikely. Many industrial targets lay beyond the range of escort fighters, requiring bombe