plan, as did Army Chief of Staff George Marshall and Secre- tary of War Henry Stimson. The promise of progressive air power had broad appeal. The reality of war—which revealed that American bombers and their crews were rarely capable of pinpoint destruction during com- bat conditions, and included an overarching political objective of “unconditional surrender” that allowed unlimited devastation— generated a momentum of its own that undermined several of the progressive notions that had guided American airmen before the conflict. By 1945, “progressive air power” meant quickly ending the war to reduce American casualties. Still, many air command-ers continued to believe that the destruction of vital centers— despite the accompanying death and desolation—not only has- tened the war’s end, but also ultimately saved lives on both sides. As a result, the progressive mindset that guided airmen on the eve of war never really disappeared during its conduct. The progressive notions of beneficial bombing—germinated in World War I and tested in World War II—became the basis of doctrine for an independent Air Force in the immediate postwar era, and continue to guide Air Force thought today.i n t r o d u c t i o n EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 23 --- EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 24 --- 7 1 • genesis in the great war accurate bombing on a large scale is a new science and requires the entire time and study of the man who is to shoulder the responsibility for success or failure during the coming year. • Lt. CoL. Edgar S. gorrELL, 2 January 1918 29 May 1910 On a warm Sunday morning, U.S. Military Academy cadets as- sembled at Trophy Point to witness a spectacular event. Avia- tion pioneer Glenn Curtiss had announced that he would pilot his thirty-foot