ned that the importance of the tar - gets justified the risks involved in dispatching the two bomb wings individually.4 As a result, almost three hundred Luftwaffe fight- ers were available to attack both formations for the duration of their time over the Reich. Unlike the dismal weather in Britain, German skies were crys- tal clear, making them ideal for bombing—and for fighter assaults against the bombers. LeMay’s b-17s formed a stream fifteen miles long at staggered intervals from sixteen thousand to twenty thou- sand feet. A Messerschmitt Me-110 quickly positioned itself along- side the formation, out of range, and relayed information to wait- ing German fighters. Colonel Beirne Lay Jr., who flew as a copilot in the bomber stream’s last squadron, later wrote: “I had the lone- some foreboding that might come to the last man about to run a gauntlet lined with spiked clubs.”5 An enormous aerial melee soon engulfed the bombers. Lay described what transpired: EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 147 --- 106Swinging their yellow noses around in a wide U-turn, the 12-ship squadron of Me-109 ’s came in from 12 to 2  o’clock in pairs and in fours and the main event was on. A shining silver object sailed past over our right wing. I recog- nized it as a main exit door. Seconds later, a dark object came hur - tling through the formation, barely missing several props. It was a man, clasping his knees to his head, revolving like a diver in a triple somersault. I didn’t see his ‘chute open. A b-17 turned gradually out of the formation to the right, main- taining altitude. In a split second, the b -17 completely disappeared in a brilliant explosion, from which the only remains were four small balls of fire, the fuel tanks, which were quickly consumed as they fell earthward. . . . I watched a b-17 turn slowly out to the right with its cockpit a mass of flames. The copil