art of Feb-ruary.” Arnold marked out the second use of the word “fighter” f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 258 --- 217 and put parentheses around the word “night,” and then wrote “ok” across the sentence.99 Norstad’s answer to overcoming the lack of precision was the same that he had provided Hansell—area attacks on the densely populated centers of Japanese cities. He had failed to get Arnold’s endorsement for his plan to commemorate Pearl Harbor’s anni- versary with a fire raid on the emperor’s Tokyo palace, though Arnold’s response indicated that he opposed the target, not the concept of incendiary attack. “Not at this time,” Arnold wrote on the proposal. “Our position—bombing factories, docks, etc., is sound. Later destroy the whole city.” 100 He had not demurred earlier when Norstad directed Hansell to attack the center of Na- goya with incendiaries, which Arnold could convey to the press and the public as an attack on Japan’s cottage industry. That rationale still applied, Norstad surmised, after the change at the top of XXI Bomber Command. Norstad suggested firebomb - ing the most densely populated part of Kobe, and LeMay com - plied. On 4 February—one day after almost one thousand b-17s targeted government buildings in Berlin’s main residential district with 2,279 tons of bombs—sixty-nine b-29s attacked the cen- ter of Kobe with 159 tons of incendiaries.101 Norstad deemed re- sults of the raid “inconclusive” after reconnaissance photographs showed fire damage covering 0.15 square miles of the city and three of twelve industrial targets damaged.102 Eight days later he told LeMay to prepare to create a “conflagration that is beyond the capacity of fire-fighting control” in Nagoya.103 The following week LeMay received a directive stating that aircraft engine plants remained his primary objective, but “selected urban are