en song even more enticing than have the airmen, for it seemingly offers political leaders a way to eliminate a perceived evil cheaply, and without having to inflict undesired pain. In the classic phrasing of Johns Hopkins professor Eliot Cohen, “Air power is an un-usually seductive form of military strength, in part because, like modern courtship, it appears to offer gratification without com-mitment.” 52 Much like President Roosevelt, Presidents George H. W. Bush, Clinton, and George W. Bush all turned to bombing to help fight wars that each viewed as a just crusade, and each believed that air power’s progressive ideals blended well with the war’s righ-teous cause. President Barack Obama has also relied on bomb- ing to thwart America’s enemies. 53 The presidents have all tried to achieve success by risking the fewest American lives, and re- lying on air power has risked fewer Americans than turning to p r o g r e s s i v e  l e g a c i e s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 295 --- 254armies or navies. Yet the war aims sought and the type of war en- countered have profoundly affected how air power could be ap- plied. Roosevelt pursued unconditional surrender in a total war. That political objective condoned such methods as area bomb-ing to produce victory as rapidly as possible. His successors have all pursued goals far more circumscribed in conflicts far more constrained. Despite having vastly more sophisticated technology available, presidents can no longer apply it in unlimited fashion— limited goals demand limited applications of violence. In the age of cnn and al Jazeera, collateral damage is an American enemy’s best friend, and perceptions of damage inflicted often count more than reality. The limited goals sought in the wars that America is most likely to fight will demand not only extreme precision from air power, but also, in many cases, infall