oyment.” 78 Like both Gorrell and Mitchell, most Tactical School instruc- tors equated the will of the nation to the will of its populace. They also presumed that civilian will was fragile, and that bombs could crack it without killing large numbers of people. Air power would instead break morale by putting people out of work. “The effects of an attack against the industrial facilities on the social life of a nation can not be overestimated,” stated a 1934 text. “The psy- chological effect caused by idleness is probably more important in its influence upon morale than any other single factor.” 79 Un- employment further offered a gauge to determine when civilian will was on the verge of collapse. “The effectiveness of an air of-fensive against a nation may find its yard stick in the number of people which it will deny work,” a 1936 lecture asserted. “Idle- ness breeds discontent—and discontent destroys morale.” 80 Tactical School instructors considered the prospect of destroy- ing enemy will by attacking the populace directly, but dismissed the idea because they believed it less effective than an attack on key industries. In addition, many thought that such an approach was inhumane. Major Muir S. Fairchild, like George a veteran of World War I day bombers, told students in 1938 that “the direct attack of civilian populations is most repugnant to our humani-tarian principles, and certainly it is a method of warfare that we would adopt only with great reluctance and regret. . . . Further - more, aside from the psychological effects on the workers, this at- tack does not directly injure the war making capacity of the na- tion.” He also argued that it was difficult to determine the amount p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 77 --- 60of bombs needed to terrorize a population to such a degree that it forced its government to