e, and consultation, I am grateful to many people as well. Ms. Heather Lundine and Ms. Bridget Barry at University of Nebraska Press provided me with a multitude of use- ful tidbits that I would never have considered and made this book much better than it otherwise would have been; I also appreciate the sage advice of Ms. Sarah Steinke, the copy editor. Dr. David Mets, a dear friend and outstanding historian who taught with me at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, provided a critique of the first two chapters that I took to heart. Professor Emeritus Gerhard Weinberg—the historian of the Second World War—also provided me with an invaluable critique of my chap- ter drafts. Students from the National War College and Industrial College of the Armed Forces in my “Air Power and Modern War” class during the past decade never failed to challenge my thinking, as did Air Force Colonel Peter Faber—a wonderful air power his- torian—who twice taught the class with me. Air Force Lieuten - ant Colonel Rondall Rice, author of the excellent book The Pol- itics of Air Power: From Confrontation to Cooperation in Army Aviation Civil-Military Relations , read the manuscript and pro - vided me with sound recommendations. Rondall, a fellow North Carolinian, was one of my advisees when I taught at the Air Force Academy, and his assistance is a classic case of the student instruct- ing the teacher. My next-door neighbor, Dr. (and physicist) Les - lie Cohen, gave me many useful insights in frequent discussions. Former students at the University of North Carolina—and current EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 12 --- xi a c k n o w l e d g m e n t s Air Force officers—Chris Holland, Sheila (Johnson) Baldwin, Jes- sica Rice, Bob Champion, and Wendy (Williams) Walker provided continued encouragement and advice. Air Force Colonel “BA” Andrews, who has taught at both National