- lin—the desire for a rapid end to the war.19 Despite their “preci- sion bombing” rhetoric, air commanders did not aim the Tokyo raid and those that followed in its immediate aftermath at Japa- nese industry. Their intent was to kill people and destroy homes, which would indirectly affect industrial production—an argu- ment that stood one of the chief bombing tenets of Maxwell Field’s Air Corps Tactical School on its head. Air commanders believed that the attacks would demonstrate to Japanese leaders that they could not stop the urban annihilation and cause them to end a futile conflict. If they failed to yield, the devastation would con- tinue unabated until bombing wrecked any remaining capacity to resist. Either way, air commanders surmised, air power prom-ised to save American lives. To guarantee that promise, though, air chiefs had to produce rapid success—and produce it quickly enough to prevent the in-vasion of Japan. “The factor of time was taking on a new insis - tence,” Hansell reflected. “The invasion of the Japanese home is- lands—whose necessity had become an obsession with the Army f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 231 --- 190planners—had been agreed upon. If air power was to end the war without a massive bloodletting on the ground, its applica- tion could not be delayed.”20 Victory via bombing would not only save American lives, it would also go a long way toward vindi-cating the quest of Army Air Forces leaders to make their orga - nization an independent service. The emphasis on speed, when combined with the overarching goal of unconditional surrender, would again produce enormous suffering for those on the receiv- ing end of American air power. Still, the prewar progressive belief endured that destroying key elements of production would collapse the dominos connecting the enemy’s war effort. While targetin