le for training, and with the first mission looming, several crews would fly against Tokyo without any practice flights in the combat theater at all. Arnold’s impatience for a rapid start to the Marianas offensive stemmed in part from high-level developments in the orchestration of Allied strategy. At Quebec’s Octagon Conference in September 1944 , the Combined Chiefs of Staff foreshadowed an invasion of Japan’s home islands by stating that the Allied mission in the Pa- cific included seizure of “objectives in the industrial heart of Ja - pan.”56 Once the invasion began, Arnold would lose his chance to score “decisive” results with air power in the Pacific. He knew that the clock had begun ticking for the b-29s to achieve indepen- dent success—much as it had for Eighth Air Force in May 1943 after the Combined Chiefs of Staff selected a projected date for Overlord. Three weeks before Hansell took XXI Bomber Com- mand from its training location in Colorado Springs to the Mar - ianas, Arnold wrote him: As you well know the original conception of the b-29 was an air - plane that would carry tremendous loads for tremendous distances. We have not to date fulfilled this promise. We have flown great dis-tances but we have not carried any sizeable bomb loads. In fact we f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 246 --- 205 have not carried any more bombs and in most cases considerably less than the b-24s and b-17s carry. One of the greatest factors in the de- feat of Japan will be the air effort. Consequently every bomb that is added to each airplane that takes off for Japan will directly affect the length of the war. . . . I know that you, in your position as commander of one of our great striking forces, will do your utmost to help accomplish the ear - liest possible defeat of Japan. This can only be done by making the best possible use of