o destroy the objective in a single operation. Any attempt to repeat such an at-tack will meet with very bitter opposition.” 86 While acknowledging the strength of German air defenses, Eaker insisted that they would not prevent effective bombing, provided that he received adequate bombers and crews. Once more he turned to statistical analysis to make his case. Eaker contended that the twenty daylight bombing missions that the Eighth Air Force had flown from 3 January to 6 April 1943 “definitely establish the fact that it is possible to conduct precision pattern bombing opera-tions against selected precision targets from altitudes of 20, 000 feet to 30,000 feet in the face of anti-aircraft artillery and fighter defenses.” He rated twelve of those missions as “highly effective,” and added that the destruction produced by an average of eighty- six bombers was “highly satisfactory.” Thus, he surmised, “From this experience it may be definitely accepted that 100 bombers dis- patched on each successful mission will provide entirely satisfac-tory destructive effect of that part of the target area within 1000 feet of the aiming point; and that two thirds of the missions dis-patched each month will be successful.” 87 Eaker likely knew that he had overstated his case. His First Bomb Wing Commander, Hansell, had written Arnold’s intelli-gence chief in February regarding the difficulty of discerning the number of bombs that fell in the target area and noted, “To date we have been unable to account for approximately fifty percent of the bombs which we take out.” He added that future bombing b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 171 --- 130analysis should “not harp too much on small precision targets. We find they are hard to hit, particularly in the face of heavy aa [anti- aircraft] fire and determined fighter opposition.”8