cals for them. . . . If the chemical factories can be blown up, the shell and bomb output will cease, to a greater or lesser degree, dependent upon the damage done these chemical plants.”45 In addition, Ger - many’s main aircraft engine factory and magneto plant were both in Stuttgart, and their destruction would severely hamper Germa- ny’s ability to sustain its air power on the Western Front. The belief that the essence of an enemy nation’s war-making capability consisted of certain key components linking together its industrial complex was the crux of Gorrell’s proposal—and a conviction that ultimately became a central pillar of the Ameri- can approach to strategic bombing. Although destroying German war-making capability was the focus of Gorrell’s plan, his scheme presupposed that attacks on in- dustrial targets would also break the morale of the German work force. His rationale stemmed partly from the effects of German air raids on the French factory at Pont-St. Vincent, where work-ers had been reluctant to return to their duties even though the bombs had missed the mark; he knew as well of the work stop - pages resulting from the Gotha offensive against London. 46 Gor-g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 38 --- 21 rell believed that a concentrated air attack against the four enemy target groups would persuade the German populace to demand an end to the conflict, and called for one hundred bomber squad- rons to start the campaign by simultaneously attacking arma- ment works in Mannheim and Ludwigshafen for five continu- ous hours. “If immediately afterwards, on the next possible day, Frankfurt were attacked in a similar way, judging from the press reports of what has already occurred in Germany,” he contended, “it is quite possible that Cologne would create such trouble that the German government might be force