um was on fast results, and fast did not necessarily guar - antee efficient. Moreover, the overall war aim did not lend itself to rapier thrusts of air power; bludgeoning with bombs better suited Roosevelt’s goal of “unconditional surrender.” That objec- tive called for speed, but only from the standpoint of ending the war quickly to save Allied lives. It also demanded enough destruc- tion to erase the future desire for war from the collective psyche of the Axis populations. Roosevelt and Churchill—as well as Jo-seph Stalin—intended not only to wreck Germany’s war-making capability and will to fight, but also to destroy the Nazi philos- ophy that fostered the German war effort—and to assure that a similar world view never again materialized. “Practically all Ger - mans deny the fact that they surrendered in the last war, but this time they are going to know it,” the president would tell journal- ists in summer 1944. “And so are the Japs.”97 To the Commander of raf Bomber Command, the April 1943 b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 174 --- 133 Combined Bomber Offensive plan ably reflected the ideals that he believed should guide an air campaign. Air Marshal Arthur Har - ris had directed the raf’s bombing of Germany for more than a year, and had staged his first “thousand plane raid” in May 1942 against Cologne. He thought that the opportunity to employ two “highly specialised and well equipped” bomber forces in tandem simply made sense, plus it offered the chance to achieve maxi-mum efficiency. “There is no difficulty in achieving our object at minimum cost in life, material and effort,” Harris remarked to Eaker in April 1943. “There is difficulty only in convincing those in whose hands lies the power to grasp the opportunity.” Having received the blessing of Combined Chiefs in May, Harris set out to achieve ae