All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 77 --- 60of bombs needed to terrorize a population to such a degree that it forced its government to surrender. Thus, Fairchild advocated at- tacks on the industrial web, which would have “the great virtue of reducing the capacity for war of the hostile nation, and of ap-plying pressure to the population both at the same time and with equal efficiency and effectiveness.” 81 To George, efficient bombing was the overriding concern. He rejected the direct attack on populations, “not because of the fact that it might violate some precept of humanity,” but because at- tacking the industrial web promised greater dividends, and prom- ised them sooner, than killing civilians. Railroads, refineries, elec- tric power, and key industries were his targets of choice; “no highly industrialized nation could continue existence” without them. Yet George also provided a caveat that left the door ajar for attacks that did more than just disrupt normal life. He remarked that “any sane nation” would capitulate once the key threads of its indus- trial web were severed. If surrender did not occur—implying that the enemy was not rational—as a last resort the attacker might de- stroy the enemy’s water supply system. George acknowledged that doing so would have grave implications. “The results and conse-quences of such an attack are too terrible for any nation to bring about unless it offered probably the only means in which it could be successful in the prosecution of the war,” he cautioned.82 Much like Mitchell, the Tactical School instructors presumed a uniform code of rationality for both the government and the pop- ulace of any modern nation attacked from the air. The government would “sense” the discomfort of its people and would act to end their pain. Accordingly, the attacker should avoid bombing gov- ernment centers, because “the political establishment must remain intact if the attit