ity, and quality, of materiel that the Germans could bring to the battlefield. Though the dream of a distinctive “victory through air power” remained unfulfilled in Europe, American airmen would have one more chance to make it a reality. As Spaatz signed Germany’s un - conditional surrender to the Soviet Union in the smoldering Ber - lin suburbs just before midnight on 8 May, half a world away, the crews of 302 b-29s of Hap Arnold’s Twentieth Air Force pre- pared for missions against Tokuyama, Otake, and Amami-O- Shima. They had been burning Japan’s cities for two months. An- other massive effort to achieve a rapid, independent victory with air power was underway.b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 225 --- 1846 • Fire from the sky Japan, 1944–45 results of incendiary attacks have been tremendous. the first areas assigned were select - ed on the basis of a compromise between industrial importance and susceptibility to fire. with a greater respect we now have for our fire-making ability and the greater weight that we are able to lay down, these new areas which have just been sent to you repre - sent more nearly the top industrial areas. they also appear to be most susceptible to fire attack, but they do not represent any compromise. • Brig. gEn. LauriS norStad to maJ. gEn. CurtiS LEm ay , 3 apriL 1945 I am influenced by the conviction that the present stage of development of the air war against Japan presents the a a f for the first time with the opportunity of proving the pow- er of the strategic air arm. • maJ. gEn. CurtiS LEm ay to Brig. gEn. LauriS norStad, 25 apriL 1945 Night of  9–10 March 1945 As midnight on 9 March passed into the wee hours of the next day, Major General Curtis LeMay could not sleep. Instead, he paced back and forth through the Quonset hut that served as the oper - ations control room of Head