York City after two hours and forty-six minutes of air travel—Gor - rell determined that he too would become an aviator. Assigned to the infantry after graduation, he transferred to the Signal Corps’ Aviation Section in 1914 and then completed flight training. Two years later, as one of eleven pilots in the First Aero Squadron, he helped track Pancho Villa’s band of outlaws across northern Mex- ico. He became the first American to fly an aircraft equipped to take automatic photographs, the first to fly an aircraft while con- ducting radio experiments, the first American Army officer to vol - unteer for a parachute jump, and one of the first officers to fly at night. He also developed the first plan for an American bomber offensive against an enemy nation. 2 early notions of american air Power Gorrell’s scheme for attacking Wilhelmine Germany called into question the basic purpose of an air force: whether to support the Army directly through air operations tied to the Army’s immedi- ate progress on the front lines or to conduct “independent” oper - ations, such as “strategical” bombing, that would ultimately im-prove the Army’s situation at the front but that also offered the prospect of a rapid, cheap victory by destroying the enemy’s war- making capability and will to fight. If air power could achieve victory independently of ground forces, it implied that the Ar - my’s “air” branch might deserve a measure of autonomy. Before World War I, however, such concerns were minimal, even among airmen. When Congressman James Hay proposed a bill in Feb - ruary 1913 to create an “Air Corps” equivalent in stature to the g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 26 --- 9 infantry, cavalry, or artillery, aviators were almost unanimous in condemning the proposal. Lieutenants Benjamin D. Foulois and Henry H. “Hap” Arnold testified that