ile: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 72 --- 55 land and testified at his court-martial, and served as a bomber test pilot at Aberdeen Proving Ground. He directed the school’s Bombardment section from 1932 to 1934, and then doubled for two years as the director of Air Tactics and Strategy and its “Air Force” subdivision. The holder of a George Washington Univer - sity law degree and winner of a national competition in typing and shorthand, he played a major role in structuring the curriculum that formed the basis of America’s World War II strategic bomb-ing doctrine. His progressive views on the nature of war and air power paralleled those of Mitchell—with whom he corresponded frequently—and were manifest in his opening lecture for the “Air Force” course. He began by telling his students: The question for you to consider from today onward, to have con- stantly before you as you continue your military careers, is substan- tially this: Has the advent of air power brought into existence a method for the prosecution of war which has revolutionized that art and given to air forces a strategical objective of their own, independent of ei- ther land or naval forces, the attainment of which might, in itself, ac- complish the purpose of war; or has air power merely added another weapon to the waging of war which makes it in fact only an auxil-iary of the traditional military forces? 67 George then outlined the probable answer. “Modern inven- tions” such as the machine gun and rapid-fire artillery signifi- cantly increased the power of defensive land warfare, he asserted, and a conflict similar to the world war “might mean a breakdown of civilization itself.” Yet he also argued that achieving victory did not require defeating an enemy’s army. Pointing to 1918, he stated that Germany surrendered because its populace lost the will to resist, not because its army had been destroyed. Overcoming hostile will was the true object of war. “The continuous denial p r o g r e s s i