Allies first obtained air superi-ority. George’s planners determined that air control through at- trition was unlikely. Many industrial targets lay beyond the range of escort fighters, requiring bomber squadrons to rely on Walk-er’s formation tactics as they fought their way across Germany. “We knew that defensive firepower in the air would not suffice to defeat the Luftwaffe,” Hansell recalled.77 Neither would attack- ing German air bases, which were well dispersed and heavily de-fended. As a result, planners decided to attack the Luftwaffe be-fore it left the assembly line. They designated eighteen aircraft factories, six aluminum plants, and six magnesium plants as es - sential to aircraft production, and added them to the list of vital centers earmarked for destruction. Until negated, German air defenses would likely hamper bomb- ing accuracy, and accurate bombing was essential to wreck Ger - many’s industrial web. Marginal weather also threatened to dis-rupt the precision bombing effort. Based on studies that Hansell obtained from the British, George’s group estimated that an av- erage of only five days a month would be suitable for daylight operations over the Reich. 78 The best weather occurred between f r o m  p r o p h e c y  t o p l a n EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 113 --- 96April and September. The prospect of stiff defenses and poor fly- ing conditions, combined with George’s own experience from Ab- erdeen Proving Ground, caused planners to predict that raids on Germany would be 2.25 times more inaccurate than peacetime practice bombing.79 George demanded that bombers had to attack each target in sufficient force to achieve a 90 percent probability of destroying it—the same percentage deemed acceptable in sim-ilar problems at the Air Corps Tactical School. 80 In addition—as Gorrell had pointed out in 1917—bombers would have to attack man