ed to death by the African operation.” 76 After arriving in Britain Andrews wasted no time in notify- ing his friend Marshall of how bomber diversions had depleted Eighth Air Force. 77 The Army Chief of Staff, in turn, took that message to the president. “Up to the present time the Army Air b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 168 --- 127 Forces have never been able to even approximate the technique on which they have built up the proposition of daylight precision bombing,” Marshall informed Roosevelt in March. “I might fur - ther say, without greatly exaggerating, that Army Air elsewhere in the world, except in the Australian theater, has been somewhat misused by the employment of Army planes and crews in a manner for which the planes were not designed nor the crews trained, all of which has been a constant embarrassment to the Air Corps.”78 Marshall’s blunt notice, Eaker’s continued clamor, and the real- ization among Allied leaders that an invasion of Europe could not occur without control of the air finally produced noticeable in- creases in Eighth Air Force bomber strength. Bolstered by the rising numbers, Eaker came to Washington dc in late April to brief his plan for a Combined Bomber Offensive to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. His proposal reflected extensive collab-oration with members of the coa, as well as assistance from raf analysts and commanders. He gave top emphasis to the destruc-tion of German fighter strength—“an intermediate objective sec- ond to none in priority” 79—and then outlined a series of phased attacks on industrial centers and war-making facilities that would wreck the essential components of Germany’s ability to fight. A steady increase in bomber strength was vital to success. Eaker ar - gued that he would need a total force of at least 800 bombers to dispatch 300 on a regular basis,