the Atlantic Ocean at the appointed time. The idea of intercepting the Rex before its theoretical aircraft would be in range to attack the east coast delighted Major Gen-eral Frank Andrews. As Commander of the General Headquar - ters (ghq) Air Force, the Air Corps branch containing all com- bat aircraft, Andrews touted the merits of the b-17 as the nation’s first line of defense to all who would listen. The Rex intercept would emphatically demonstrate the bomber’s ability to thwart an invading carrier force far from American shores, and Andrews aimed to assure that it received maximum publicity. The Navy had downplayed the successful results of an “attack” on the battle- ship Utah by seven b-17s during maneuvers the previous August. For the Rex mission, an nbc radio crew would ride in “Number 80” and broadcast the event live to millions of listeners across the country, while newspaper reporters, including the New York Times’s Hanson Baldwin, would also fly in one of the bombers. In addition, Major George Goddard, the Air Corps’ ace photog- rapher, would record the scene using a specially modified Graf-lex camera. 1 Shortly after 8:00 a.m. on 12 May, the aircrews and journalists crowded into the three b-17s on Mitchel Field. Sheets of rain cas- caded across the runway, and clouds clung just above the frothing Atlantic Ocean. Besides the vile weather, the Rex had not updated its position from the day before, causing the thirty-two-year-old LeMay to want “to go somewhere and hide.” General Andrews EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 86 --- 69 f r o m  p r o p h e c y  t o p l a n had emphasized the mission’s importance to his crews before they boarded their aircraft, telling them that the Navy had buried the results of the Utah bombing last year, and that the American pub- lic needed to understand bomber capabilities. As the crews de - parted the operations b