raise them. After rhetorically asking McKelway why he was still awake, the man who had found the Rex in the At- lantic, designed the Eighth Air Force’s formation tactics, and led the grueling August 1943 mission against Regensburg, admitted: “I’m sweating this one out myself. A lot could go wrong.” Yet LeMay also believed that his new approach would pay dividends that made the risks worthwhile. “If this raid works out the way I think it will,” he told McKelway, “we can shorten this war. . . . I think we’ve figured out a punch he’s not expecting this time. I don’t think he’s got the right flak to combat this kind of raid and I don’t think he can keep his cities from being burned down— being wiped right off the map. . . . I never think anything is going to work until I’ve seen the pictures after the raid, but if this one works we will shorten this damned war out here.”3 LeMay’s progressive desire to end the Pacific War quickly and decisively with air power mirrored that displayed in Europe by Tooey Spaatz. Like Spaatz’s 3 February attack on Berlin, LeMay’s raid a month later against Tokyo was an attempt to speed the end of the war by obliterating the center of the enemy’s capital city. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 227 --- 186The progressive notion that bombing would limit enemy civilian casualties had faded after more than three years of war; “pro-gressive” now meant hastening the war’s end and saving Ameri- can lives in the process. LeMay still believed that the precise de - struction of the key elements of enemy industrial power would end the war more quickly—and inexpensively in terms of Ameri- can lives lost—than any other approach. “If you don’t destroy the Japanese industry, you’re going to have to invade Japan,” he re-flected. “And how many Americans will be killed in an invasion of Japan?” 4 Unlike Germany, though, targeting Japan’s industry p