All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 212 --- 171 Planners selected targets “designed to destroy such necessities of life as are normally required from day to day [to] produce a mo- rale effect over a longer period of time than would an indiscrim-inate direct attack on a town.” 80 Focus on oil, september–december 1944 In September Eisenhower returned operational control of the usstaf to Spaatz, and the usstaf commander intensified his assault on the target that he thought would end the war most rapidly—oil. Eighth Air Force launched “thousand bomber raids” on synthetic oil plants, refineries, and related industries on 27 and 28 September and again on 3, 6, and 7 October, with the last day’s effort total- ing more than 1,300 heavies, of which 52 were lost, and most of those to flak.81 The weather, though, refused to cooperate. In Oc- tober American bombers launched only three entirely “precision” raids on oil targets, and Germany’s synthetic oil production tri - pled from its output the previous month. Radar attacks produced dismal results—of 81,654 tons of bombs dropped by Eighth Air Force using h2x between 1  September and 31 December 1944, only 674 tons—0.8 percent—fell within one thousand feet of the aiming point.82 Clear skies did not guarantee good bombing, how- ever. Despite the large size of the oil facilities, only small parts of them contained equipment truly vital to production. Those com-ponents were hard to hit, even with the Norden bombsight, and flak bursts made the task especially difficult. The Combined Chiefs of Staff kept oil as the top target for both usstaf and raf Bomber Command when they met in late Octo- ber. Germany remained overcast for most of November, and Al-lied ground forces continued to demand air support. In addition, the Luftwaffe revealed a new threat—the Me-262 jet fighter— that could fly 100 mph faster than the Mustang and could also fly on cheap, plentiful kerosene. De