solve my problems as best I could, rather than to send complaints to you. Perhaps I have overdone this concep- tion.”86 Ironically, such lengthy explanations of why he had failed to achieve success probably contributed to Hansell’s relief. In con- trast, LeMay had provided short, pithy summaries of his results directing XX Bomber Command. Those synopses usually con- tained bomb tonnages along with the amount of damage inflicted f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 254 --- 213 to the target—“hard” data that Arnold could show his Joint Chief counterparts to justify his control of Twentieth Air Force and its expensive bombers—and that Arnold could himself use as sol- ace that his b-29s were on their way to achieving decisive results. “Statistics of tons of bombs dropped and of sorties flown are eas- ily compiled, seem factual and specific, and are impressive. Pho-tographs of burned-out cities also speak for themselves,” Han-sell later remarked. 87 LeMay fully appreciated the desire for tangible results in Wash- ington dc, but his selection to lead XXI Bomber Command stemmed as much from his flexible attitude, especially his willingness to try new bombing methods, as it did from the numbers that he actu- ally produced. The initial bombing by XX Bomber Command, in- cluding several raids after LeMay had taken charge, was partic - ularly poor. A December 1944 study of the command’s first ten missions revealed that only 269 bombs out of 5 ,554 fell within one thousand feet of the aiming point, followed by the comment: “A look at planes lost on these missions brings the realization that it cost us one b-29 to place twelve 500 G.P. [General Pur - pose] bombs within 1,000 feet of the target.” Arnold underlined that sentence and wrote in the margin beside it, “Oh, Lord!” 88 The numbers improved as a result of LeMay’s rigorous training poli