aft, telling them that the Navy had buried the results of the Utah bombing last year, and that the American pub- lic needed to understand bomber capabilities. As the crews de - parted the operations building, Andrews looked directly at LeMay and said, “Good luck.”2 Fortunately for LeMay, an update of the Rex’s position arrived just before takeoff, allowing him to revise his calculations as he bounced along through turbulence so severe that the aircraft’s al- titude often shifted by more than five thousand feet in a matter of seconds. He found that his original estimate placed the ship much closer to shore than was actually the case; now the intercept would occur more than 750 miles out to sea. Moreover, an intense headwind slowed the projected ground speed of the b-17s. Before takeoff LeMay estimated sighting the Rex at 12:25 p.m., and nbc decided to begin its live radio broadcast based on that prediction. But like any good navigator—and LeMay was deemed the best in the Air Corps—his original estimate contained a time cushion. At 12:21 the aircraft entered a squall. Two minutes later the clouds began giving way to patches of sunlight. Dead ahead was the Rex. “It was all a movie. It was happening to someone else, it wasn’t real, wasn’t happening to us,” LeMay recalled. 3 The impact of the intercept was immediate. Goddard’s photo- graph of two b-17s flying past the liner at mast level appeared on page 1 in newspapers around the nation. Hanson Baldwin’s fea- ture in the New York Times noted that the b-17s “roared through line squalls, hail, rain and sunshine today in a 1,300-mile overwa- ter flight unprecedented in the history of the Army Air Corps.” The mission was “a striking example of the mobility and range of modern aviation.”4 Andrews was elated, yet realized that most officers on the Army’s General Staff—who saw bombers only as vehicles for providing close air support to ground troops—would EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https