https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 263 --- 222the city. Two nights later 274 Superfortresses torched the heart of Osaka and wiped out eight square miles. On 16 March 307 bomb- ers attacked Kobe, destroying three square miles. Finally, on 18 March, 290 b-29s again bombed Nagoya, wrecking another three square miles and completing the series of incendiary attacks on Japan’s four most populous cities. Combined, the five raids incin- erated nearly thirty-two square miles of urban real estate—which equated to 41 percent of the destruction inflicted on German cities by the Army Air Forces during the entire war. The devastation re- quired less than 1 percent of the total bomb tonnage dropped on Germany, and it cost twenty-two b-29s and their crews.120 From the progressive perspective—as it had evolved among American airmen by 1945—LeMay’s series of five incendiary attacks marked the epitome of efficient destruction. Arnold and Norstad now focused on how others would per - ceive that destruction—and how rapidly it would translate into decisive results. Banner headlines in many newspapers announced the devastation of Japanese cities. While grateful for the attention, Arnold cautioned LeMay and Norstad that “editorial comment [is] beginning to wonder about blanket incendiary attacks upon cities therefore urge you to continue hard hitting your present line that this destruction is necessary to eliminate Jap home industries and that it is strategic precision bombing.”121 Norstad continued that mantra in a 23 March press conference after he returned to Washington dc. Resorting to statistical analysis, he noted that the Tokyo raid alone resulted in “1 ,200,000 factory workers made homeless [and] 369,000 square feet of highly industrialized land . . . leveled to ashes.” Incendiary bombing was just “the econom- ical method of destroying the small industries in these areas . . . of bringing about their liquidation.” When asked if any chan