nto to Hawaii in for - mation, even without a bomb load and in good weather. The dis- tance was 2,400 miles. We would have to fly 3,200 miles, with a bomb load, in the face of enemy fighters, without weather report- ing or navigation aids.”51 Besides the difficulties encountered in long-range formation fly- ing, Hansell faced a dearth of target information, plus he also had to deal with crews and aircraft unprepared for the missions ahead. His initial orders were to destroy Japan’s aircraft industry, but he had no target folders to guide his mission planning. “Our strate-gic air intelligence was simply non-existent in regards to Japan,” he recalled. 52 Not until the 1 November arrival of two b-29s spe- cially modified for photographic reconnaissance did Hansell ob-tain the needed targeting clues; the aircraft took seven thousand photographs from thirty-two thousand feet, beyond the range of f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 245 --- 204Japanese flak.53 More reconnaissance missions followed. Han - sell and his staff then had to review the photographs and prepare for the first raid, which Arnold wanted by the middle of Novem- ber.54 Hansell scheduled it for the seventeenth. In the meantime, the Seventy-third Wing, originally slated for General Wolfe’s XX Bomber Command in China and trained in radar bombing at night, had begun arriving at Saipan at the rate of two or three aircraft per day. Japan’s aircraft factories were precision targets that demanded visual bombing with the Norden bombsight. The Seventy-third’s b-29s had apq-13 bombsights designed for radar attacks and ill-suited for precision bombing. 55 Limited time was available for training, and with the first mission looming, several crews would fly against Tokyo without any practice flights in the combat theater at all. Arnold’s impatience for a rapid start to the Maria