ded the Focke-Wulf factory at Bremen a month later, fierce German defenses claimed 16 bombers, with another 46 dam- aged.54 Eaker tried to husband his strength in early 1943 by inter - spersing his attacks on Germany with raids on targets in France and the Low Countries, where he could count on fighter escorts. The Bremen mission indicated that stern tests awaited Eighth Air Force over the Reich. Eaker faced the challenge of trying to achieve positive results with a bombing force lacking in potency, and to assist him in tar - get selection, Arnold created the Committee of Operations An- alysts (coa ) in December 1942. The group was a mix of civilian professors, lawyers, industry executives, and Army Air Forces officers based in Washington dc who received intelligence infor - mation on German war-making facilities and tried to determine which ones to attack to achieve maximum impact. Major Gen- eral Muir S. “Santy” Fairchild, an Army Air Forces officer on the Joint Staff who had taught bombing theory at the Air Corps Tac- tical School, prodded Arnold to create the committee to deflect criticism from Army and Navy intelligence officers who ques-tioned the utility of Eighth Air Force bombing. Arnold directed Colonel Byron E. Gates, who oversaw the coa , to prepare a re- port analyzing how bombing could systematically wreck the Ger - man war effort and to determine “the date when the deterioriza- tion will have progressed to a point to permit a successful invasion of Western Europe.”55 In Arnold’s mind—as Hansell had likewise reflected in awpd- 42—the proper application of air power would dictate the tim-ing of the invasion, and that meant wrecking German capability and will to such a degree that the invasion would occur against minimal resistance—if any. Substantial ground forces might be b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.