used at Maxwell, when they were dormant at Langley. I think I’m speaking for all of my generation at the time. We had our first introduction to any sort of air strategy.”61 Major Ira C. Eaker, a distinguished pilot sporting a Southern Cal- ifornia journalism degree who graduated from the Tactical School in 1936, remarked: “If military education may be likened to a bad pill, it is not too much to say that a very satisfactory sugar coat-ing is put on it at Maxwell Field.” 62 Students attended classes Monday through Friday from 0900– 1200, with afternoons reserved for flying and Wednesday after - noons off. For much of the 1930s horsemanship was a mandatory course, although most of the curriculum explored more serious subjects. Between 1931  and 1938 , courses the first half of the year focused on specific branches of the Army, such as the infan-try, cavalry, and artillery, while naval topics also received atten-tion. The study of air power dominated the second half of the curriculum. The Department of Air Tactics and Strategy was re-sponsible for that instruction, and the “Air Force” section was its primary subdivision. Other branches included “Observation,” “Attack Aviation,” “Pursuit,” and “Bombardment,” with the most hours devoted to “Bombardment.” A faculty and staff consisting p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 71 --- 54of twenty-two officers in 1935 oversaw the school’s program. Of that total seventeen were in the Air Corps.63 The Air Corps officers serving on the Tactical School faculty played an enormous role in shaping air power convictions. Most students arriving at Maxwell needed little convincing that Air Corps autonomy was a worthwhile goal, although the notion of a separate air force did not receive an overriding emphasis in fly- ing squadrons.64 Entering students also likely agreed that the inde- pendent