that the object of these attacks was not to bomb indiscrimi - nately civilian populations. The object was to destroy the indus- trial and strategic targets concentrated in the urban areas of these four cities.”126 Such internal statements demonstrated the depth of the convic- tion among Army Air Forces leaders to their progressive ideals. Indeed, for some, the vision had become reality—they saw no dis- tinction between the theory of precision bombing against specific industrial targets to achieve rapid, efficient results, and the reality of area attacks on residential districts to achieve the same goal. Colonel Cecil E. Combs, a member of the XXI Bomber Command f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 265 --- 224staff with both Hansell and LeMay, wrote his former boss: “With- out abandoning the concept of precision destruction of priority targets the Twenty-first [wings] have been experimenting with in- cendiary missions and the results . . . indicate the high degree of vulnerability of Japanese industry as a whole.”127 After the war LeMay added: “Japanese targets being largely inflammable, we hit vulnerable areas with firebombs. Let me emphasize that this was not a deliberate deviation from precision to area bombing. We hit only areas when enemy war-making capacity was spread over large areas, as in the ‘cottage industries’ surrounding facto-ries or when weather forced us into radar bombing, visual preci-sion being impossible.” 128 LeMay’s postwar comment was disingenuous, for at the time he knew that his four-city series of attacks had targeted Zone I in each—the densest area of population that also contained the least amount of industry. Norstad wrote him on 3 April with a new list of targets, noting that those assigned in March “were selected on the basis of a compromise between industrial importance and susceptibility to fire,