vide a written rationale to justify the radical approach that he planned to take. On 2 March Giles had notified Arnold, “I am sending Norstad out to the Pacific to discuss questions with LeMay that can be ironed out only through personal contact,” and LeMay received word of the impending visit.114 He had little doubt what it meant, or that its impetus came from Arnold. “General Arnold needed results,” LeMay recalled. “Larry Norstad had made that very plain. In effect, he had said: ‘You go ahead and get results with the b-29. If you don’t get results, you’ll be fired.’” 115 Norstad’s directive to attack Zone I in both Tokyo and Na- goya had not changed, and area bombing—with incendiaries—offered the best means to inflict some damage to Japan’s war effort as well as provide photographic proof of the damage ren- dered. LeMay knew that the night, low-level area attacks that he envisioned were certain to kill thousands of Japanese civilians, yet, based upon his calculations of Japanese defenses, they also provided the best chance for his crews to survive. His goal now matched the cold-blooded thinking that rationalized the obliter - ation of German cities—an air power–induced early end of the war that would save American lives. LeMay aimed to achieve it by losing the minimum number of his own men in the process, 116 and he viewed his action as ethical as well as laudatory. “Actually, I think it’s more immoral to use less force than necessary, than it f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 262 --- 221 is to use more,” he later wrote. “If you use less force, you kill off more of humanity in the long run, because you are merely pro- tracting the struggle.”117 Like his counterparts in Europe, LeMay’s logic presumed that increased brutality would hasten victory, and that fewer people would die from his incendiary campaign than would perish