cen- terpiece of the “shock and awe” air campaign that began on 21 March. More than 1,500 bombs and cruise missiles struck Iraqi governmental and military installations that night in a fantastic display of American military prowess. Although the raids caused few civilian casualties, they garnered widespread media atten- tion, and much of the coverage from around the globe was highly critical.44 Bush was upset that many observers failed to appreci- ate the American ability to apply lethal doses of air power pre- cisely. He later remarked that “it was not understood that the United States had found a way to wage war that as much as pos- sible spared civilians, avoided collateral damage and targeted the leaders and their means to fight and maintain power. Wars of an-nihilation, carpet-bombing, and fire-bombing of cities should be a thing of the past.” 45 twenty-First-Century dilemmas of Progressive american air Power Progressive sentiments have continued to guide America’s appli-cation of air power in both Iraq and Afghanistan, but the results have not matched the rhetoric. Both conflicts have evolved into struggles against irregular units in which ground combat has dom- inated. Enemy fighting techniques have varied from guerrilla war - fare, replete with suicide terrorism, booby traps, and roadside bombs, to occasional massed uprisings. Generally, when the en- emy chooses to fight, civilians are likely to be close at hand, which increases the chances of bombing mistakes even with the sophis-ticated technology now available in the likes of Predator drones and satellite-guided bombs. In Iraq, an estimated 1 ,560 civilian deaths resulted from air strikes between 2006 and 2008. 46 In Af- ghanistan, according to un assessments, air raids killed 116 civil- ians in 2006, 321 in 2007, and 522 in 2008.47 The trend is especially discouraging in Afghanistan, where ef-p r o g r e s s i v e  l e g a c i e s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https:/