t his bombers had vindicated his faith in the supremacy of air power and justified the need for an indepen - dent air force.1 mitchell and the Foundations of Progressive air Power The Ostfriesland episode demonstrated much more than simply Mitchell’s commitment to Air Service autonomy. It also revealed that the vestiges of progressivism remaining in postwar America had enveloped many airmen, and none more so than Billy Mitch - EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 55 --- 38ell.2 Far more ambitious than their muckraker predecessors, Mitch- ell and the air progressives aimed to reform the most violent of man’s activities—war. Rifled artillery, the machine gun, and poi-son gas had made war an endless nightmare that killed millions, as typified by the unremitting fury of the Western Front. Technol- ogy was the demon responsible for the slaughter, but, Mitchell and his cohorts believed, technology was also the key to salvation. The bomber would be their instrument of change. Not only would it prevent a naval force from attacking the United States, it would obviate trench warfare, single-handedly achieving a victory that was quicker, cheaper, and hence more humane than one gained by ground combat. The wartime application of air power would, Mitchell contended, “result in a diminished loss of life and trea-sure and will thus be a distinct benefit to civilization.” 3 Mitchell’s unabashed faith that air power had altered the charac- ter of war caused him to demand an air force separate from Army or Navy control to guarantee its proper use. He continually voiced progressive notions in his appeals for service independence, and used the term directly in the foreword to his book Winged De - fense: “The time has come when aviation must be developed for aviation’s sake and not as an auxiliary to other exiting branches [of the service]. Unless the progressive elements in ou