he Gen- eral Staff in the summer of 1939—as the sole Air Corps officer in the Operations and Training section—he worked on tripling the size of the Air Corps into a 5,500-plane force adequate to defend the Western hemisphere. Walker deemed his expertise essential to designing a viable plan for a potential air war, and persuaded Spaatz—now Arnold’s chief of staff and a brigadier general—to obtain Kuter’s temporary relief from the General Staff. 68 Kuter arrived for duty in the War Plans Division on 4 August—the date that George notified his staff of their nine-day deadline. George’s group accomplished their marathon planning session in the recently constructed penthouse on top of the eighth wing of the old Munitions Building, located on Constitution Avenue be- tween the Washington Monument and Lincoln Memorial. Hastily constructed during World War I as a temporary facility, the three- story, steel-and-concrete structure contained cramped offices sep- arated by numerous partitions and concrete pillars. The daytime temperature in Washington dc that August hovered near ninety, and the penthouse absorbed the heat. 69 Oscillating fans did little to relieve the oppressive conditions. Hansell later described the penthouse as “intolerably hot,” and recalled that “literally, when you put your hand down on your desk, your papers would stick to it.” 70 Despite the heat, the short deadline kept George and his staff working in the penthouse until nearly midnight every night, and on two evenings they did not go home.71 The heat and the long hours frayed nerves and led to angry confrontations. On one oc- casion Walker railed at George that he could no longer work with Hansell, precipitating a similar outburst from Hansell.72 George smoothed the ruffled feathers, and throughout the nine-day or -f r o m  p r o p h e c y  t o p l a n EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 110 -