eficial.pdf --- Page 252 --- 211 Hansell did indeed attack Nagoya next. Yet he did so with forty- eight b-29s, not one hundred; his crews aimed at the Mitsubishi aircraft factory, not the city’s residential area; and they dropped m-76 incendiaries, not the m-69s that Norstad had requested— the five-hundred-pound m-76 could penetrate brick and concrete structures (like the roof and walls of the Mitsubishi factory), while the lightweight m-69 could not.80 On 27 December the bombers returned to Tokyo once more to attack the Nakajima factory with high explosive bombs, and once more the results were meager. That same day an exasperated Arnold, mindful of the impression that b-29 operations made on an American public eager for suc- cess against Japan—and retribution for the Bataan Death March and Kamikaze attacks—admonished Hansell: To oversimplify our basic operating policy, it is our purpose to destroy our targets. For this reason we have avoided announcing in advance what we propose to do and we have carefully screened our news re- leases to avoid the public’s becoming overoptimistic. We want to let the results speak for themselves. However, we must accept the fact that we have a big obligation to meet. To fulfill this we must in fact destroy our targets and then we must show the results so the public can judge for itself as to the effectiveness of our operations. . . . To me the best evidence of how you are getting along is the pic- tures of the destruction that you have accomplished against your pri- mary targets.81 On 28 December, Hansell’s press statement assessing his first raids against Japan appeared in several American newspapers. Despite praising the excellence of the b-29 and its crews, he also noted that “we have much to learn and many operational and other technical problems to solve.”82 Arnold decided that he had heard enough. He told Norstad to head to the Marianas and no- tify Hansell that he had been relieved from command.f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y E