3 --- 162Roosevelt and Churchill, those deaths were a small price to pay for a successful invasion that would shorten the war, especially since both leaders placed a higher premium on the lives of their own combatants than they did on the lives of civilians in occu- pied countries. Eisenhower sympathized with those views. On 6 June, he used b-17s to demolish twelve French towns and block roads in them that the Germans could use to move reinforcements to the invasion beachhead.49 American air commanders shared the progressive desire for rapid victory, but continued to maintain that independent bomb- ing operations, rather than those devoted to ground support, of- fered the most inexpensive way to end the war quickly. Before departing England for his Mediterranean command, Eaker re-viewed the Overlord plan and deemed the proposed use of b-17s and b-24s to support ground forces a mistake. “Heavy bombers are inefficient artillery,” he observed. “They have a more impor - tant assignment in the war effort which, incidentally, is more im-portant to winning the battle on the beaches as well.” 50 Arnold concurred in his response for “Eaker’s Eyes Only,” which Eaker received in the midst of his effort to prevent widespread use of Fif- teenth Air Force bombers as “flying artillery” in the Italian cam- paign. “I have reason to fear that we will be dragged down to the level and outlook of the Ground Forces,” Arnold fumed. “Our airmen thoroughly know the capabilities of their Arm. They, and they alone, must control the operations of their Air Forces. It is, in my opinion, impossible for Ground Force officers to fully uti-lize vision and imagination in air action, since they are not well acquainted with air capabilities and limitations.” 51 Spaatz despaired as well over the extensive use of his bomber force to support Overlord. In June, he scoffed at Eisenhower’s suggestion to have b -17s drop supplies to partisans in southern France, and also complained that British ground comman