nd all important mission of air power, when its equipment permits, is the attack of those vital objectives in a nation’s eco-nomic structure which will tend to paralyze that nation’s ability to wage war and thus contribute directly to the attainment of the ultimate objective of war, namely, the disintegration of the hos-tile will to resist.” 76 Besides Clausewitz and Marx, the industrial web theory hear - kened to Nap Gorrell and Billy Mitchell. In 1935 the mustachioed Lieutenant Kuter, now an instructor in the school’s Bombardment section after graduating first in his class, discovered a copy of Gor - rell’s plan and decided to devote an entire lecture to it. He con-tacted Gorrell—who had become president of the American Air Transport Association—to verify that the lecture conveyed the es- sence of the 1917 proposal, and Gorrell invited him to his Chi- cago office to discuss it. When Kuter arrived he found that the re- tired colonel had distributed copies of the lecture to many senior officers from the First World War. All expressed satisfaction that it accurately represented the past, as did Gorrell himself. 77 An in- vigorated Kuter then returned to Maxwell. “No principle or doc- trine in the Confidential Air Force text that is being written today was missed in that plan,” he proclaimed to his students. “We may p r o g r e s s i v e  p r o p h e c y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 76 --- 59 return to our steel desks considerably refreshed by the knowledge that our school plans and our theories are not only supported by, but identical with the plans of the level-headed commanders in the field when the grim realities of actual war demanded effec-tive employment.” 78 Like both Gorrell and Mitchell, most Tactical School instruc- tors equated the will of the nation to the will of its populace. They also presumed that civilian will was fragile, and that b