tion of the enemy fighter forces.” 141 The coa echoed Por - tal’s message, noting that Overlord placed “increasing emphasis on the need for short-term results.” 142 Accordingly, Arnold di- rected Eaker on 1 November to conduct radar bombing, when cloud cover prohibited precision attacks, against area targets that would adversely affect the Luftwaffe fighter force.143b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 186 --- 145 Germany’s aircraft factories, though, were all small, “preci- sion” targets scattered deep inside the Reich. Eighth Air Force could not hit them using radar techniques; furthermore, Eaker lacked the strength to send bomber formations across Germany unescorted. 144 At the end of November, after contemplating a mission against Berlin as a part of Harris’s offensive against the city, Eaker decided against it.145 He continued to highlight the de- struction that his radar bombing had rendered to German cities, and hence to German morale. 146 He further confided to Air Sec- retary Lovett, “I think those who discount and discredit the ef-fect that our overcast bombing on German cities is having on the enemy are unrealistic and unwise.” 147 Yet he also acknowledged to Major General Barney Giles, who directed Arnold’s air staff, on 13 December: There seems to be a feeling there of great irritation that we have not attacked the fighter factories recently. The plain truth of the matter is that there has been no day since November 1 when we could see these factories well enough to bomb them visually. We have not reached a state of either technical or tactical development where we can attack fighter factories with overcast devices. These factories, as you know, are scattered and isolated and they also require deep penetration. We are not justified in striking at them unless the conditions augur for success. These