d in late Novem-ber. 41 Although Gorrell’s plan took into account Grey’s expertise and Caproni’s images, as well as Mitchell’s ideas, gleaned largely from Trenchard, about air power’s ability to destroy the German army’s means to fight, Tiverton’s notions had a telling impact on Gorrell’s thoughts. Gorrell added an introduction and conclusion to address strictly American concerns, but most of the remaining words came from Tiverton. 42 Gorrell began by noting that three and a half years of conflict had produced a stalemate on the ground and at sea, and that only “a new policy of attacking the enemy” would affect the war’s con- duct.43 That new policy was “strategical bombing,” which he de- fined as air attacks on commercial centers and lines of commu-g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 37 --- 20nication to stop the flow of enemy supplies to the front. Much like Salveneschi, Gorrell asserted that “there are a few certain in- dispensable targets without which Germany cannot carry on the war.”44 The German army could be likened to a drill, whose point could continue to bore only if the shank—the German national ef- fort—remained durable. Four target groups were essential to keep- ing the shank strong: the industries surrounding Dusseldorf, Co- logne, Mannheim, and the Saar. If those vital factories and their transportation links were destroyed, the drill would become im-potent. “German shells are being fired at Allied troops and posi- tions over a large area of the Front,” he observed, “but the manu- facture of these shells and bombs is dependent upon the output of a few specific, well-known factories turning out the chemicals for them. . . . If the chemical factories can be blown up, the shell and bomb output will cease, to a greater or lesser degree, dependent upon the damage done these chemical plants.”45 In additio