8 Arnold wanted an explanation as well. Eaker sent him a ca- ble in the immediate aftermath of the raid confirming the loss of sixty b-17s in combat and another five when their crews elected to bail out over England rather than attempt landing with heav- ily damaged aircraft. Eaker further noted that his crews had shot down ninety-nine German fighters, with another thirty proba-bly destroyed and fourteen damaged. 129 “This does not represent a disaster,” he asserted. “It does indicate that the air battle has b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 182 --- 141 reached its climax.” Eaker then asked Arnold to expedite the ar - rival of additional bombers and crews, provide auxiliary fuel tanks for escort fighters, and “send every possible fighter here as soon as possible. We must show the enemy we can replace our losses; he knows he cannot replace his. We must continue the battle with unrelenting fury.”130 Arnold agreed that the Luftwaffe had also suffered much but wanted proof that its end was near. “It appears from my viewpoint that the German Air Force is on the verge of collapsing,” he cabled Eaker. “We must not (repeat) must not miss any symptoms of impending German collapse. . . . Can you send me any substantial evidence of collapse?” 131 the Intensifying demand for results, october–december 1943 Arnold’s request crystallized the great dilemma for Eaker as the clock continued ticking toward Operation Overlord, the codename given for the invasion of France. Intelligence assessments indicated that his bombing—and the air battles that accompanied it—had a detrimental impact on the German war effort, yet the question re- mained—how much of an impact? Eaker could not say with cer - tainty. He could express success in numerical terms—the amount of bombs dropped, the percentage that hit the target, the numbers of ene