rception that air power had coerced the Bosnian Serbs caused him to return to that formula in response to Serb ethnic cleansing in Kosovo, and his motivations for bombing in 1999 paralleled his 1995 objectives. “Why are we in Kosovo?” he asked rhetorically during the midst of the air campaign desig- nated Allied Force. “Because we have a moral responsibility to oppose crimes against humanity and mass ethnic and religious killing where we can. Because we have a security responsibility to prevent a wider war in Europe, which we know from our two World Wars would eventually draw America in at far greater cost in lives, time, and treasure.”34 Although the 1999 Kosovo conflict was a periodically waged p r o g r e s s i v e  l e g a c i e s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 290 --- 249 guerrilla struggle unlike the conventional war that Bosnia had be- come by 1995, Clinton believed that air power offered the best chance to accomplish his Kosovo goals at a minimum cost. He fur - ther thought that bombing was a more acceptable solution than a ground invasion not only to the American public but also to the nineteen states comprising nato, and he placed a high premium on preserving the alliance. Yet he understood that maintaining nato support—as well as an endorsement from the global com-munity at large—would be difficult “at a time when footage of airstrikes is beamed to homes across the world even before our pilots have returned to their bases, a time when every accidental civilian casualty is highlighted.” 35 The seventy-eight-day Allied Force air campaign produced mixed results, but the impression of a rapid, efficient application of air power persisted with many observers. Much of the bomb-ing targeted Serb installations in the vicinity of Belgrade. Ameri- can aircraft flew the bulk of the sorties and dropped most of the twenty-eight thousand munitions expend