aim of rapidly destroying the fascist regimes, the aer - ial technology available, and the impact of friction on the technol- ogy’s employment, air power was not the antiseptic instrument of finite destruction that Mitchell and Tactical School instructors had forecasted, nor was it necessarily “cheap” in terms of men or money. American bomber crews in Europe paid a heavy price for their attempts to gain daylight air superiority over the conti- EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 279 --- 238nent in time to permit an invasion of France in spring 1944. The b-29 was the war’s costliest weapon, which contributed to Hap Arnold’s zeal to gain a return on the investment in it. The desire to achieve quick success, and hence limit American losses, con- sistently trumped the desire to limit enemy civilian casualties— and also produced losses among civilian populations in occupied countries. Still, many airmen during the war continued to think in prewar progressive terms. They sincerely believed that their bombing ben- efited all concerned because they were certain that it guaranteed a quicker end of the war than a reliance on surface forces alone— and the sooner the killing stopped, the better for the world as a whole. Their assertion presumed a strategic equation: a quicker end of the war = fewer deaths. But that logic was uncertain, even regarding the likelihood of saving American lives, because other outcomes were possible. For instance, reducing the incendiary ef- fort against Japan, eliminating the atomic bombs, and increasing aerial mining might, in concert with a vigorous Soviet advance in Asia, have produced Japanese surrender later than mid-August but before the 1 November date scheduled for Operation “Olym- pic.” Such an outcome would have likely saved more American lives by exposing b-29 crews to less danger than they endured from overflying Japanese citie