le: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 247 --- 206The attack was far from successful, though not for the reasons that O’Donnell had suspected. Only twenty-four b -29s bombed the engine factory, while another sixty-four dropped their bombs on the city and its docks. An additional seventeen aborted en route to the target, and mechanical difficulties prevented the re-mainder from bombing at all. 60 The chief problem encountered was unforeseen—jet stream winds of more than 150 mph that whipped through the high altitudes above Tokyo and tossed the bombs randomly across the city. Out of more than one thou- sand bombs dropped, only forty-eight landed within the Naka- jima plant’s boundaries. 61 Two bombers were lost, one to a Jap- anese fighter that rammed it, and the other ditched after running out of fuel on the trip back. On 27 November eighty-one bombers again took off for the Nakajima factory, but clouds obscured the target and none hit it; on 3 December seventy b -29s attacked it, again with dismal re- sults. Hansell’s crews had few answers for the jet stream, which pushed the Superfortresses along at a staggering 445 mph over the ground—much too fast for the Norden bombsight to compensate for its effects.62 If the crews flew perpendicular to the winds, they still could not correct for the wind velocity. If they flew into the winds, they risked flying so slowly that they would become easy prey for antiaircraft batteries. Hansell tried flying upwind during a 13 December raid against the Mitsubishi aircraft engine factory at Nagoya and had thirty-one bombers damaged by flak, although bombing accuracy showed marked improvements.63 Frustration and debate Meanwhile, the invasion clock continued ticking, and Arnold grew increasingly frustrated. The Japanese had responded to the at-tacks on their homeland by launching two night raids from Iwo Jima against Saipan that wrecked four b-29s, left three more un-f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9