ntry as a whole.” 29 At first glance, the coa recommendation of “urban industrial areas” as targets appeared inconsistent with the notions of strate- gic bombing that had guided America’s initial planning for World War II air campaigns. Both awpd-1, developed before the United States entered the war, and awpd- 42, designed soon after the Eighth Air Force had begun bombing Hitler’s Europe, stressed precision f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 234 --- 193 attacks against key centers of production to wreck Axis war-mak- ing capability. Army Air Forces planners intended those raids to achieve rapid, efficient results once the bomber force received the desired number of aircraft, crews, and logistical support. Japan’s industrial pattern, though, did not match Germany’s, and both awpd-1 and awpd-42 focused on the European war. The coa de- termined that Japan’s cottage factories were an important part of its industrial complex, and the only way to attack that compo-nent successfully would be through area bombing. awpd- 1 had not completely dismissed area attacks, and in fact had stated that such raids might occur late in the European war when German morale reached the breaking point. By the time of the coa report on Japan, Ira Eaker’s Eighth Air Force—with Hap Arnold’s blessing—had begun using radar to area bomb German cities in attacks ostensibly aimed at industrial targets but actually designed to break German morale. In the case of Japan, the primary purpose of the coa-recommended attacks would be to wreck industry, although the raids would also kill large numbers of civilians. If the bombing worked as intended, it would provide the most efficient means possible to eliminate a key element of Japan’s production capability. While the coa tried to identify Japanese targets, Brigadier Gen- eral Orvil Anderson, the chief of the planni