nation, but also that its decisive ef-fects justified an autonomous American air force. In June 1942, Spaatz arrived in Britain as the commander of Eighth Air Force, and he quickly shunned the night “area bomb-b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 150 --- 109 ing” campaign against German cities started by Air Marshal Ar - thur Harris and raf Bomber Command earlier that year. Spaatz had observed firsthand the German attempt to break British mo- rale with bombs during the Battle of Britain. He disdained the Brit- ish approach because he thought it much less efficient than the Americans’ precision efforts in daylight. “It wasn’t for religious or moral reasons that I didn’t go along with urban area bombing,” he later confided, but instead because precision attacks “could win the war more quickly.” 10 Brigadier General Haywood “Possum” Hansell, a key archi- tect of awpd- 1 who twice commanded an Eighth Air Force Bomb Wing, agreed. “We preferred to avoid mass killings of civilians and we thought there was a better way to ‘fatally weaken’ an industrialized modern state,” he reflected. 11 Hansell noted that “selective strategic air attack served to keep the losses of land war in Western Europe in World War II far below the levels they would have reached if decision had rested entirely upon victory on the battlefield.” American air commanders preferred “selective targeting” rather than area bombing to cripple “the entire war- supporting activity of the enemy nation, not simply making the Army’s task feasible and easier.” 12 Hansell’s observation blended the notions of efficiency and effectiveness with the other great goal of American airmen—to achieve an independent air force. Hansell was not afraid to state that desire openly, and others did as well. Billy Mitchell’s former confidant, Frank Andrews, had worked hard for