olland, Sheila (Johnson) Baldwin, Jes- sica Rice, Bob Champion, and Wendy (Williams) Walker provided continued encouragement and advice. Air Force Colonel “BA” Andrews, who has taught at both National War College and the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, provided invaluable sug- gestions, both in terms of research and structure. Professor Peter Maslowski, who has served as my mentor since 1982 when I became one of his graduate students at the Univer - sity of Nebraska, provided continual support and a tremendous critique of an early draft of this work. I never cease to be amazed by his continued drive for excellence and his absolute commit - ment to making his students better people—in all facets of life. Pete has been my definition of the ideal teacher for as long as I have known him, and he is the example I have tried to emulate throughout my teaching career. This book would not have occurred without the guidance pro- vided by two key people in my life—my father-in-law and my fa- ther. My father-in-law, Dr. David MacIsaac, wrote the definitive study of World War II’s U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey, and taught me when I was a senior cadet at the Air Force Academy—long be- fore his daughter Donna caught my eye. He was a rigid disciplinar - ian when it came to historical scholarship then, and nothing has changed in almost thirty-five years since. He read an early draft of this work and took me to task on many parts of it, and the result- ing product is far better than it would have been without his com- ments. I cannot thank him enough for his help—in this endeavor and many others—and I dedicate this book in part to him. My dad—Walter Allen Clodfelter Jr.—is a part of Ameri- ca’s greatest generation, and served in a control tower on Tin-ian during the early morning of 6 August 1945  when the Enola Gay took off on its fateful mission to Hiroshima. His stories of what it was like in the closing stages of the war—to include talk-ing down a squadron of Mustangs thro