milar way, judging from the press reports of what has already occurred in Germany,” he contended, “it is quite possible that Cologne would create such trouble that the German government might be forced to suggest terms if that town were so attacked.” 47 To Gorrell, a nation’s will to fight equated to the population’s willingness to endure the conflict. A mass revolution that threat-ened to dislodge the enemy government—and forced its govern-ment to make peace to stay in power—would certainly indicate that bombs had broken enemy morale. Yet a popular revolt was not necessary to break German will. For Gorrell, widespread ab-senteeism would suffice, and would have the same impact as fac-tories destroyed by bombs. The ultimate goal was to prevent the German army from waging war. The enemy’s capability and will to fight were complementary objectives, and Gorrell’s offensive aimed at both. “From both the morale point of view and also that of material damage, concentra- tion of our aerial forces against single targets on the same day is of vital importance since it tends to hamper the defense and also to complete in a thorough manner the work which the bombard- ment is intended to perform,” he observed.48 Gorrell estimated that between three thousand and six thousand American bombers were necessary to carry out his plan, provided that the force received adequate logistical support and aircrew training.49 The armada would fly en masse, and concentrate on de- stroying a particular set of targets completely before assaulting a g e n e s i s  i n t h e g r e a t  w a r EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 39 --- 22different target group. Hearkening to Trenchard, Gorrell stressed continuous, systematic bombing as the key to overwhelming Ger - man defenses while unnerving workers and preventing them from making repairs. Yet the Germans, Gorrell warned, also realized the