of 6 August 1945  when the Enola Gay took off on its fateful mission to Hiroshima. His stories of what it was like in the closing stages of the war—to include talk-ing down a squadron of Mustangs through a solid overcast over EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 13 --- xiia c k n o w l e d g m e n t s Tinian’s runway—planted the seed that got me interested in the Air Force and air power, and I’m sure were instrumental in my decision to attend the Air Force Academy. He also read an early draft of this work and, as the most meticulous proofreader I have ever seen, pointed out errors I would not otherwise have caught, as well as asked me “big picture” questions that I had not consid- ered. He is a continual source of inspiration, and I dedicate this book in part to him. Despite the considerable advice and assistance that I have re- ceived, the responsibility for all that is written is mine alone, and my work does not necessarily represent the views of the National War College or any government agency. I have already mentioned the role that my father played in help- ing me craft this work, but I must also mention Mom as well, for together my parents provided an unceasing amount of guidance and support. I also cannot fail to mention Donna, for without her this project would never have happened. She never doubted my instincts, constantly encouraged me through difficult peri-ods, plus gave me that greatest of all commodities—time—and she never laughed too much when I came bursting through the door after a run on the gw Parkway Trail and madly scrambled to find a pen and paper. Finally, I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge Coach Roy Williams and the National Championship North Carolina basket- ball team of 2008– 9. As a die-hard Tar Heel who will have part of his ashes scattered at the Old Well, I was consistently thrilled and inspired by the exploits of Tyle