occurred against steel production facilities, the only significant targets in range from the Chinese bases. Not until 7 July did XX Bomber Command again bomb Japan, and only fourteen bombers completed the mission. The next major raid did not transpire until 29 July, an attack on coke ovens at the Showa steelworks in An-shan, Manchuria, responsible for a third of Japan’s steel supply. Arnold was grateful for the positive response that the b-29s raids elicited from the American press and public, especially in the aftermath of the acclaim received by the Army and Navy for the Normandy invasion, but he could not tolerate a feeble effort that produced minimal bombing results. 44 He decided to replace Wolfe with an innovative bomber commander from the Euro- pean theater who had a sterling reputation but whom Arnold had never met—the Army Air Forces’ youngest major general, Curtis LeMay. Wolfe possessed an excellent engineering background, yet he lacked combat experience. Arnold wanted a combat leader—an “operator”—and LeMay ably fit the bill. He took control of XX Bomber Command on 29 August. A week later, he participated in a renewed attack against the Showa steelworks at Anshan by ninety-five b-29s that produced significant damage. LeMay was not impressed by the success and instituted a rig- orous training program for his crews. It included daylight forma - tion tactics similar to those he had devised for Eighth Air Force, with an emphasis on “lead crews” to guide the formations and signal the remaining crews when to drop their ordnance. To as-f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 242 --- 201 sure that such “pattern bombing” could occur in all weather con- ditions, both the bombardier and radar operator in the lead air - craft monitored the bomb run so that either could take control of the aircraft depending on the amount of visibil