of Japan as well as Germany. Against Japan, weather conditions foiled high altitude precision bombing, and the nature of Japanese industry would have made the utility of such bombing problematic even in the absence of jet stream winds. Air commanders on the Marianas could point to a nine-month campaign that was remarkably efficient from the American perspective. For the loss of fewer than 2,500 air - men, the b-29 offensive (punctuated by two atomic bombs) in - cinerated almost all of Japan’s most populous cities and helped to compel a surrender prior to an invasion of the home islands. Untold numbers of Americans—and Japanese—were spared from savage ground fighting that might have persisted for more than a year. Precluding that combat cost the lives of at least 330, 000 Japanese civilians. In the war’s aftermath, many airmen continued to view air pow- er’s contribution to victory in prewar progressive terms. Shortly after he replaced Arnold as Commanding General of the Army Air Forces in 1946, Spaatz wrote an article for Foreign Affairs that lauded strategic bombing’s ability to minimize the war’s to-tal costs: Our land and sea forces, supported by air, could be expected to con- tain the most advanced echelons of our enemies, and gradually drive their main armies into their heavily fortified citadels. But the essen- tial question remained. How was their military power to be crushed behind their ramparts without undertaking an attritional war which p r o g r e s s i v e  l e g a c i e s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 282 --- 241 might last years, which would cost wealth that centuries alone could repay and which would take untold millions of lives? . . . The devel- opment of a new technique was necessary. Some new instrument had to be found. . . . The outcome of the total war hung in the balance un- til that new technique had been found and proved dec