ld actually drop their bombs in the vicinity of the aiming point. The weather in summer 1943 had turned especially nasty, with clouds covering Germany during the months that should have provided ideal daylight bombing conditions. The British had developed various methods of radar bombing that allowed them to bomb at night, and Eaker wanted to use those devices to enhance the Eighth Air Force’s daylight efforts during periods of poor weather. “We are looking for a considerable degree of accuracy, sufficient b r e a c h i n g  f o r t r e s s  e u r o p e EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 177 --- 136at least that we can dump our bombs in the heavily built-up in- dustrial areas,” he informed Arnold—a far cry from the notion of precision bombing that he had espoused less than a year be- fore.110 The best of the British instruments was h2s, a ground map- ping radar that the raf employed with great effect against Ham- burg. The British were reluctant to provide their allies with it for the same reason that American airmen refused to share the Nor - den bombsight with the raf—they feared that a downed bomber might reveal its secrets to the Germans. At the end of July, Air Chief Marshal Portal relented, and Eaker reported that he would soon have a squadron “ready to go with one of these gadgets” in the lead aircraft. 111 In the meantime, whenever the weather cooperated, Eaker re- mained true to the principles that had guided the development of an American bombing force. In August Eighth Air Force partici- pated in two dramatic raids against perceived linchpins of the Nazi industrial web. The first occurred on 1 August against the com - plex of petroleum refineries at Ploesti, Romania, which refined 60 percent of Germany’s crude oil needs. Eaker had mentioned Ploesti in his brief to the Joint Chiefs in April, and the coa  had long had it on its list of targets. E