as a forward air controller in Vietnam, and his frustrations in that restrained conflict caused him to consider a new approach for applying air power to achieve quick success. During the decades that followed he developed ideas that would form the basis of America’s air campaign plan for the 1991 Persian Gulf War—and for much of the Air Force’s planning in subsequent conflicts. Like Mitchell, Warden stressed air power’s “revolutionary” characteristics, and he fully shared Mitchell’s progressive vision. For both men aerial technology was the key to reforming war. The incredible accuracy possible with an array of precision-guided “smart” munitions was a linchpin of Warden’s ideas. He believed that those munitions, which included bombs with significant pen- etrating power, and the development of stealth aircraft gave the United States a dramatic capability to fight limited wars by rely-ing almost exclusively on air power. He argued that those tech-nological developments enabled American air forces to attack a prospective enemy’s “centers of gravity” directly, which they could do by circumventing its surface forces. “Air power then be- comes quintessentially an American form of war; it uses our ad- vantages of mobility and high technology to overwhelm the enemy without spilling too much blood, especially American blood,” he insisted.22 For Warden, the key center of gravity of a nation—or any or -p r o g r e s s i v e  l e g a c i e s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 287 --- 246ganized group capable of fighting—was leadership. That element comprised the center ring of his five-ring model that specified the major components, or systems, essential to war-making capabil-ity. Surrounding leadership was a ring of key production, which for most states included electricity and oil. Surrounding key pro- duction was a ring of infrastructure, comprising transportation