ent in-human and ruthless.” 102 By 1945, German civilians had no argu- ment with Arnold’s assessment. For them, no distinction existed between the raf Bomber Command’s area attacks and American raids against specific targets in or near cities. For Eighth Air Force, the 3 February raid on Berlin was the tenth against the German capital. More than 600 bombers had b l u d g e o n i n g  w i t h  b o m b s EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 218 --- 177 attacked it on several occasions; on 21 June 1944 935 heavies had pummeled the city; and on 26 February 1,100 more would strike it.103 Spaatz understood that whether his crews bombed ur - ban targets using the Norden bombsight or radar, they would kill many civilians, and “dehouse” many more. To him, though, in- tent mattered. Why counted more than how in evaluating success, and the purpose of the raid provided criteria by which to judge re- sults. With photographic reconnaissance and Ultra intercepts, he could calculate the damage rendered to Germany’s oil producing capability caused by bombing a specific synthetic oil plant. What he could not do, however, was translate those figures into an ac- curate estimate of when Germany’s oil supply would cause it to quit fighting—and the time factor was the ultimate judge of suc- cess. He had faced a similar dilemma the previous spring in trying to determine when his bombers and fighters might gain daylight air superiority, and resorted to aerial attrition to achieve his goal in the time allotted. Now, in the aftermath of Hitler’s Ardennes offensive, the impetus for quick success—in this case, quick vic- tory—helped to mold the intent of his actions. The desire for a rapid end to the war courtesy of American air power was nothing new to Spaatz—or Arnold—or any Army Air Forces commander. They entered the war with that goal in mind, but they also sought to dictate when t