n- stant design changes. Only sixteen of the ninety-seven b-29s pro- duced in January 1944  were flyable.41 To remedy the situation, Arnold created an array of “production modification centers” in central Kansas where design updates occurred en masse to the newly produced bombers; Boeing provided six hundred mechan- ics to assist. Once the b-29s received the necessary modifications to make them operational, their combat crews arrived and flew them to India—where they faced a new set of challenges to pre-pare them for their missions against Japan. Bombing from China The first b-29s began arriving at Indian bases near Kharagpur in April 1944, and from there they would fly east for one thou-sand miles to their advanced airfields at Chengtu, China, the site of four 8,500-foot runways that more than three hundred thou-f i r e  f r o m  t h e s k y EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 240 --- 199 sand Chinese peasants had constructed by hand. Major General Kenneth “K. B.” Wolfe commanded the force of roughly one hundred Superfortresses, their crews, and support personnel that comprised the XX Bomber Command of Arnold’s Twentieth Air Force. Wolfe, a pilot from Denver and one of the Army Air Forces’ top engineers, had supervised b-29 flight tests and had organized, trained, and led XX Bomber Command from its inception. Still, he never anticipated the logistical nightmare that he would face to get his bombers positioned to raid Japan. To provide the nec-essary fuel and munitions, c-46 cargo aircraft typically carried one thousand pounds of gasoline and three thousand pounds of bombs on resupply missions across the “Hump” of the Himala-yas. b -29s had to shuttle fuel as well, and required seven flights from India to China just to build up the needed gasoline for one flight from Chengtu against Japan.42 As Twentieth Air Force Com- mander, Arnold tried to provide as mu