than manpower wars. • gEn. hE nry h . arno Ld, 1944 only air power can frequently circumvent enemy forces and attack strategic centers of gravity directly. o ther components, on the other hand, need to fight their way in— normally with large casualties. air operations—especially with modern weapons and accuracy as used in the gulf war—are very much likely to result in fewer casualties to either side. air power then becomes quintessentially an american form of war; it uses our advantages of mobility and high technology to overwhelm the enemy without spill - ing too much blood, especially american blood. • CoL. John a. Ward En iii, 1992 2 September 1945 Tooey Spaatz stood on the deck of the uss Missouri and watched a seemingly endless stream of b-29s pass low overhead. The spec- tacle, which also included vast formations of Army Air Forces and Navy fighters, was an awesome display of American air power fol- lowing the formal Japanese surrender in Tokyo Bay. Spaatz was the only American representative present at each of the war’s ma- jor surrender ceremonies—at Rheims and Berlin in May 1945 , as well as at Tokyo—and he could take grim satisfaction in know- ing that much of the devastation that he observed in the two en- emy capitals resulted from men and aircraft that he had led. As he watched on the Missouri with the other Allied representatives, he was the acknowledged commander of the world’s mightiest aer - ial strike force. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/13/2024 9:54 PM via . All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- clodfelter_beneficial.pdf --- Page 277 --- 236p r o g r e s s i v e  l e g a c i e s Postwar Perceptions The American public and its political leaders also acknowledged the Army Air Forces’ contribution to concluding the Pacific War, and they viewed that contribution from a progressive perspective. Yet their definition of “progressive air power”—had they used such a term—would have now mirrored the definition that air com- manders wo