eer in the British Army ended as he followed his wife to the United States. He became a US citizen and eventually joined the Army Air Corps at the onset of war. Colonel Hughes became the chief planner on General Carl Spaatz’ staff, which led him back to London in 1942.45! Colonel Hughes recognized that the air planning staff lacked targeting expertise and thus, aspired to build a team that could meet this operational need. He needed a team that could skillfully analyze enemy targets for the strategic bombing campaign in order to determine which enemy targets would have the greatest impact on the German war effort. What was the enemy’s greatest vulnerability and could the Allies exploit that vulnerability? The team Col- onel Hughes received possessed the economic skills Colonel Hughes needed, but lacked military experience.  Therefore, before tasking the EOU to develop targets for the Allied bombing campaign, Colonel Hughes directed the team to develop aiming-point reports.!& The purpose of the aiming- point reports was to analyze German industrial plants and installations to determine their most vulnerable points.“ Additionally, from Colonel Hughes’ perspective, this tasking induced the EOU members to think about industry as a military target and provided him an opportunity to evaluate the competence of the EOU members before launching them on the task of target selection. Colonel Hughes and the Eighth Air Force specifically did not provide detailed guidance to the team on which industries they should focus their efforts. They wanted the full range of German industry open to this analysis.{18  The EOU conducted detailed analysis of each industry in order to develop the thorough understanding required to populate the aiming point reports. According to the EOU’s War Diary, the aiming point reports needed to answer “importance of plant within industry, function of buildings, vulnerability of processes, probable rate of recovery after successful attack, and the sections