per reviews the operations research techniques and effects-based methodology employed by the EOU before highlighting the importance of integration and cooperation between the EOU and USAAF leaders and planning staffs during WWII. This partnership ensured targets selected by the EOU for aerial bombardment sup- ported political and military objectives.  BACKGROUND OF STUDY  Establishing the Enemy Objectives Unit  In May 1941, nearly two years after President Roosevelt convinced Congress to revise the Neutrality Law so the United States could provide materiel support to the Allies, seventy-nine percent of the American populace favored isolationism.! Fortunately, this popular sentiment did not prevent the President and Congress from preparing the US defense establishment for war. Beginning in 1938, the United States ramped up defense spending to address the shortfalls in the defense sector. This foresight was critical and gave industry a two-year head start to improve its military industrial base. While the US Government was taking action to remedy its military equipment and manpower shortfalls, President Roosevelt confronted another problem--the lack of a centralized system of intelligence.  The Office of Naval Intelligence, the Military Intelligence Division, and the State Department maintained their own empire of knowledge.#! No central organization existed to collect and evaluate information collected. The lack of a centralized intelligence organization that synthesized intelligence data frustrated President Roosevelt. He felt blind to the situations in Europe and the Pacific, which made it difficult for the President to provide strategic guidance. These paralyzing uncertainties forced President Roosevelt to establish a national organization that could meet his comprehen- sive intelligence needs!  re a a ee aan wo. ree . faan ee ee ee ed reer — Sant  Page 1 of 52 5%  eee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee nee ee a er re ec eee re a nee eR RR ee RD OR ee NE RE SEINE REIN Shae BRA