ous influx of bombers, the strategic bombing campaign began gaining momentum toward the close of 1943 and the USAAF in Europe had reached its full strength and capabilities in February 1944.24! with these numbers and cooperation from the weather, the Allies executed an aggressive week-long bombing campaign against the German Air Force. “Big Week” was a great success, resulting in the tactical defeat of the German fighter force over its own bases, and necessitating a change in the Allies’ bombing strategy.!125!  General Spaatz, the commander of US Strategic Air Forces in Europe believed the Allies’ success during “Big Week” signaled that the destruction of other German industries was not only feasible, but also desirable 125! The EOU, hearing this guidance, began looking at alternative target systems to determine which industry the strategic bombing campaign should pursue next. Specifically, Colonel  Page 29 of 52 50%  Upon inspection, the EOU felt the priorities required modification in order to fit with political and military aims and USAAF capabilities.*“ Understanding the strategic goals, the EOU thought changes were necessary to achieve those goals. For one, the attacks on the submarine yards needed to be drastically reduced or eliminated. Not only were the Allies successfully dealing with German submarines at sea, but attacks on production and bases were not making a significant difference.{*12! Since the submarines had an extremely long production interval, effects from bombing submar- ine production would not be felt for months.!"12! Conversely, attacks on aircraft production would have a more immediate effect.  The EOU determined attacks on aircraft industry should focus on single-engine fighters. The single-engine fighters were Germany’s primary hope for maintaining air superiority over Germany and were responsible for many friendly losses. In order to prosecute targets in other industries, the United States had to marginalize the German single-engine fight