trayal of the German logistic situation on the Eastern Front garnered the branch much attention resulting in additional requests for products and support. One of these requests was to provide support to the Allied bombing campaign in Europe, and that became one of the most important sSntributions made by the branch during the war.  The Eighth Air Force deployed to Great Britain in June of 1942. Colonel Richard Hughes, Chief Planner for American Air Forces in Europe, recognized the USAAF lacked detailed intelligence analysis and the capability to analyze and recommend bombing targets. He reached out to the OSS, asking for personnel to assist with the target selection process. In response to this request, General Donovan ordered a team of R&A Branch economists to London and established the EOU. The team members began arriving in London in September 1942. While formally assigned to the Economic Warfare Division of the US Embassy in London, for practical purposes, the team worked for Colonel Hughes. 2! In this capacity, the only individuals with access to the EOU were the American Ambassador and a few designated USAAF officers.22! The mission given to the EOU was to study German infrastructure and its industrial complex in order to determine the best methods for execut- ing the strategic bombing campaign.  Initial Responsibility of the EOU  Colonel Hughes’ experience and education made him the perfect choice to lead the EOU. He grew up in Great Britain and served as an officer in the British Army. As a graduate of Wellington and Sandhurst, Colonel Hughes trained in the principles of concentration of effort at the enemy’s most vulnerable point and in the prompt and maximum follow through when friendly forces achieved breakthrough.@4! However, upon marriage, his promising career in the British Army ended as he followed his wife to the United States. He became a US citizen and eventually joined the Army Air Corps at the onset of war. Colonel Hughes became the chief planner