UALY LIT, LIS LAME S MAM A OULLICIEIIL LULL UL aircraft to attack the German oil industry and significantly degrade the German war economy in a relatively short time.!2%! With the oil industry now within the realm of USAAF capabilities, the EOU  recommended a way ahead for the strategic bombing campaign.  The EOU proposed the following priorities for the strategic bombing effort: 1) completion of POINTBLANK and the destruction of the German Air Force; 2) tactical support if absolutely required; 3) execution of the attack on the oil target system since among the remaining targets, oil offers the best opportunity to bring the German war effort to a close.{3% The EOU recognized the importance of continuing to put pressure on the German Air Force to ensure the Allies had air superiority for the invasion of Europe. Thus, Operation POINTBLANK remained the number one priority. Secondly, to support the amphibious landing and assist soldiers on the ground, tactical support received the next priority. Oil was the logical next step.  Not only did oil affect all German war production, but it also limited the fighting capacity of German air, ground, and sea forces.“24! In the EOU’s view, destruction of oil refineries and storage facilities would bring the entire German war machine toa halt. With an overwhelming number of bomber aircraft available, the Allies could systematically attack the twenty-three synthetic plants and thirty-one refineries that accounted for over ninety percent of the total Axis refinery and synthetic oil output.@22! Moreover, from a targeting standpoint, oil refineries seemed unusually vulnerable as they were easily identifiable from the air and were located in open areas away from densely populated towns.!433! From the findings of this research, the EOU generated a memorandum on 28 February  1944 titled, “The Use of Strategic Air Power after 1 March 1944,” that they staffed through USAAF leadership.13  The plan aligned with guidance provided by General Sp