vices has been mostly excellent, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have highlighted the need to improve coordination and integration between the Department of Defense and other US departments, particularly the Department of State. The collaboration, cooperation, and integration between the EOU and the United States Army Air Forces in World War II stands as the gold standard that US government agencies should emulate today.  REQUEST FROM THE PUBLISHER  Page 45 of 52 77%  OMB EOM 2E4 OY SAE EE WEEE ECALLE LAL LS, GEE ESO CEE WI © OULU LEU LEE SUES OMY Ps LUM LLG SAY SVG  As in World War II, collaboration and coordination remain critical in today’s operating environment to synchronize efforts and align operations with political objectives. The US fields the world’s best army, navy, marines, and air force, yet the ability of these services to integrate and conduct joint operations truly makes the United States the world’s greatest military power. While interaction and collaboration between the military services has been mostly excellent, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have highlighted the need to improve coordination and integration between the Department of Defense and other US departments, particularly the Department of State. The collaboration, cooperation, and integration between the EOU and the United States Army Air Forces in World War II stands as the gold standard that US government agencies should emulate today.  REQUEST FROM THE PUBLISHER  Thank you!!!  Can | ask a favor?  Page 45 of 52 77%  army, navy, marines, and air force, yet the ability of these services to integrate and conduct joint operations truly makes the United States the world’s greatest military power. While interaction and collaboration between the military services has been mostly excellent, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have highlighted the need to improve coordination and integration between the Department of Defense and other US departments, particularly the Department of State. The col