e selecting the oil industry as the most lucrative target system.  The EOU staffed a memorandum through USAAF leadership to ensure the German oil industry aligned with strategic objectives. The fact that the text in the final version of the plan drew heavily on the EOU memorandum and used the EOU appendices in their entirety illustrates how successful the EOU was in selecting a target that aligned with military and political objectives. The next problem  Co ae 8 a ae tt te ta te a ee ee tee we 8 et nt Ann  Page 36 of 52 61%  support the amphibious landing and assist soldiers on the ground, tactical support received the next priority. Oil was the logical next step.  Not only did oil affect all German war production, but it also limited the fighting capacity of German air, ground, and sea forces.34! In the EOU’s view, destruction of oil refineries and storage facilities would bring the entire German war machine to a halt. With an overwhelming number of bomber aircraft available, the Allies could systematically attack the twenty-three synthetic plants and thirty-one refineries that accounted for over ninety percent of the total Axis refinery and synthetic oil output.“32! Moreover, from a targeting standpoint, oil refineries seemed unusually vulnerable as they were easily identifiable from the air and were located in open areas away from densely populated towns.!133! From the findings of this research, the EOU generated a memorandum on 28 February 1944 titled, “The Use of Strategic Air Power after 1 March 1944,” that they staffed through USAAF leadership.134  The plan aligned with guidance provided by General Spaatz and was well received by USAAF planners.!25! The plan discussed the strategic importance of oil, vulnerability to attack, and the  anticipated effects of striking specific targets.{3% Colonel Hughes hurried the plan through the staffing process and presented the plan to General Spaatz on 5 March 1944.{37! General Spaatz recognized that the EOU’s plan was ess