f Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force, Mediterranean Allied Air Forces Headquarters, and the British Air Ministry.22! According to Walt Rostow, one of the EOU members, “... EOU probably had its greatest operational impact through Operation Octopus.”!4! With the knowledge gained producing the aiming point reports and developing their target selection theory, the EOU used Operation Octopus to share their findings and influence others as to the best way to hurt the Germans.!» Further, through discourse, they hoped to learn other perspectives.  While the EOU members were spread out to all these organizations, they made sure to maintain close communication with each other to harmonize their efforts and share findings. By maintaining close contact with each other and the air planning staffs, the EOU ensured that its efforts and selected targets aligned with military and political objectives. Not only did the EOU develop relationships with the US and British air planning staffs, but they also worked closely with USAAF leadership.  Collaboration with Army Air Force Leadership  The most effective way to ensure targets meet military and political aims is to present those targets to leadership and get senior leader approval. Colonel Hughes, as a lead air planner for Eighth Air Force and later US Strategic Air Forces was the link between the EOU and USAAF leadership. Colonel Hughes passed strategic guidance to the EOU to help guide their planning and target selection process. The EOU selected targets in accordance with explicitly defined military objectives and if the targets linked to the overall war strategy. To ensure a relation between bombing operations and war strategy, the EOU reviewed the history of existing directives and evaluated targets against those directives.24  Moreover, many times Colonel Hughes had the EOU members present their findings directly to USAAF leadership. EOU members felt very comfortable in those settings to speak their mind and offer s