a bombing. The EOU did not think area bombing would produce decisive results nor did it align with military and political aims. Specifically, they felt the Allies lacked the capability to create social catastrophe in enough cities simultaneously to create national disruption and grind the German war economy to a halt 8! Accordingly, the EOU committed to precision, daylight bombing attempting to identify those targets that would have the greatest effect on Germany’s military power and would affect Germany’s war effort in a reasonably brief period of time. The relatively slow build-up of forces pressed the EOU to focus on efficient targeting to create the biggest effect. It was this shortage of resources that compelled the EOU to pursue those German industries where only a small number of targets needed to be attacked to achieve the desired effects. While the EOU took into account the strategic and economic importance of particular industries to Germany, the primary factor when looking at German industries was the military indispensability of an industry’s products.“ This overarching theory provided the foundation from which the EOU developed a detailed methodology to analyze and assess the feasibility and suitability of different target systems.  In analyzing and assessing the merits of competing target systems, the EOU was careful to avoid long-term specialization“! The EOU did not want its members to become wed to the targets they studied, which could produce biased recommendations. Therefore, the members migrated from one target system to another to develop a more well-rounded appreciation of the enemy’s industrial capabilities.  Nevertheless, when studying a target system, the EOU expected its members to become experts on that particular system. Specifically, the team examined eleven different factors, listed below, for each target system.  1. Importance of the product to war production. 2. Specialization of use pattern.  3. Importance of individual plant.  4. Im