wareness of United States Army Air Forces bombing capabilities, and most importantly an understanding of military and political aims. To ensure selected targets aligned with military and political aims, the EOU regularly collaborated with air planning staffs and senior leaders. Three case studies highlight the interaction and collaboration that occurred between the EOU and Army Air Forces planners and leaders: prioritizing targets for Operation POINTBLANK, development of an Oil Plan following “Big Week” in February 1944, and the recommendation to strike bridges versus marshaling yards prior to Operation OVERLORD. Each of these case studies demonstrates that the integration and cooper- ation between the EOU and air force leaders and planning staffs ensured that targets selected for aerial bombardment supported political and military objectives.  INTRODUCTION  With the declaration of war, the United States began mobilizing the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) sending the Eighth Air Force to England in 1942. The initial strength of the Eighth Air Force was not sufficient to strike all desired enemy targets. Furthermore, the German Air Force was extremely capable and posed a significant threat to Allied aircraft flying over the continent. Thus, the lack of a robust air force and the lack of air superiority complicated air planners’ efforts to select targets. To assist with this problem, Colonel Richard Hughes, the Chief planner for American Air Forces in Europe, assembled a team of economists in London, the Enemy Objectives Unit (EOU), to assist the Eighth Air Force in prioritizing target lists and selecting targets to strike. Using their eco- nomic expertise, the EOU recommended strategic targets to the Eighth Air Force that the team projected would have the greatest effect on the German war-making effort.  The question this monograph addresses is how did the EOU, in making these recommendations, ensure targets selected for aerial bombardment during World War II s