rough understanding of each of these factors provided the source of comparison between target systems.  To compare the different industries the EOU members assigned a score (e.g. anumber from 0 to 10) to each of the factors.{75! However, the EOU recognized that target selection was more complicated than a simple mathematical equation. They understood the inherent flaw of arbitrarily assigning numbers to each of the factors and knew senior leaders would not select targets based on the scores. Further, it was not a simple additive process. The targets had to satisfy three simple tests to be considered:  1. You must be able to reach it and drop bombs on it. 2. You must be able to damage it when you do hit it. 3. You must be able to impair the war effort, directly or indirectly, when you damage it 7%  Therefore, even if a target received high scores for two of the tests, if it could not satisfy one of the tests, then the EOU removed that target from consideration.!” In general, while recognizing the limitation of quantifying each targets’ potential, the scores provided a source of discussion and a means to compare various targets and target systems.  The EOU members not only needed to be experts on each target within a target system, they also needed to understand the interrelationships within an industry. Only with a broad understanding of these interrelationships could the EOU grasp the effect bombing a particular industry would produce.”*! This boiled down to being able to answer four questions:  1. How large an attack’s effect would be within its own sector of the economy or military system?  Page 18 of 52 32%  resources that compelled the EOU to pursue those German industries where only a small number of targets needed to be attacked to achieve the desired effects. While the EOU took into account the strategic and economic importance of particular industries to Germany, the primary factor when looking at German industries was the military indispensability of an ind