e “operations that are planned, executed, assessed, and adapted to influence or change systems or capabilities in order to achieve desired outcomes.”{*8! Simplified, EBO focus on the results, desired outcomes, achieved through action, not on the means, or platforms, weapons, and methods.&# Thus, from an airpower perspective, EBO provide a methodology for determining which targets produce the greatest effects in line with military and political means.  During World War II, airpower strategists attempted to prioritize targets based on the expected impact destroying a target would have on the German war economy. However, since the USAAF lacked in-depth intelligence on all German industries, the planners had to avoid falling into the trap of the ‘blueprint availability syndrome.’ With this ‘syndrome,’ planners overemphasize the importance of targets on which they have information at the expense of targets where information is lacking. To help overcome this pitfall, air planners placed great emphasis on gathering as much intelligence as possible on German industries. As air planners learned about specific German industries, they became more adept at anticipating and projecting first, second, and third order effects. This allowed them to develop the measures of effectiveness needed to assess whether bombing attacks produced the intended effects. Upon adopting this effects-based approach, airpower strategists in the United States and Britain developed three overarching philosophies for aerial bombardment.  The RAF adopted a philosophy of area bombing against cities. This philosophy was partially born out of the fact that the RAF could not sustain precision daylight bombing operations due to the heavy losses they were taking. However, many in RAF Bomber Command, including Air Marshall ‘Bomber’ Harris, believed night-time area attacks against German cities would destroy German mor- ale and bring an expedient end to the war.  The second philosophy centered on the idea of stri