o.  i OM = Sy is ballew_intel (3) Q Search Recents  4. Applications Name Size Kind Date Added © Downloads  (chim  © Working  a Creative Clou...  iCloud © QuickTime PI...  © iCloud Drive  (S Documents  (=) Desktop  E® Shared  Locations  ® DataGrip = Cancel Open  JX \MhateAnn — &  Favorites < > © Recents  = yO BB @& ballew_intel [SJ Q Search  4. Applications Name Size Kind Date Added © Downloads  chim  © Working  a Creative Clou...  iCloud © QuickTime PI...  © iCloud Drive (S Documents (=) Desktop Shared  Locations ® DataGrip = Cancel Open  LX \MhateAnn _ &  onvree J as y,  :    Mayor: Bea 1 es Baillewa  Bye 1 es Baillew  Beau Ie Baillewa    Pickle Partners Publishing  This edition is published by PICKLE PARTNERS PUBLISHING—www.picklepartnerspublishing.com To join our mailing list for new titles or for issues with our books - picklepublishing@gmail.com  Or on Facebook  Text originally published in 2011 under the same title.  © Pickle Partners Publishing 2014, all rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted by any means, electrical, mechanical or otherwise without the written permission of the copyright holder.  Publisher's Note Although in most cases we have retained the Author's original spelling and grammar to authentically reproduce the work of the Author and the original intent of such material, some additional notes and clarifications have been added for the modern reader's benefit.  We have also made every effort to include all maps and illustrations of the original edition the limitations of formatting do not allow of including larger maps, we will upload as many of these maps as possible.  The Enemy Objectives Unit in World War II: Selecting Targets for Aerial Bombardment that Support the Political Purpose of War  Contents  TABLE OF CONTENTS 4  Abstract 5  Introduction 6  Background of Study 8 Establishing the Enemy Objectives Unit 8 Initial Responsibility of the EOU 9  US Airpower Strategy Enteri