.47! Although the influence of operations research spanned all facets of the military during the war, it significantly influenced the application of airpower at all levels of war. Both the RAF and USAAF developed operations research sections in their headquarters with the goal of improving the effectiveness of their strategic bombing campaign.  Aga a-nation et rte ab atin. a Awa n+ L  Page 10 of 52 19%  airpower leaders viewed fighter escorts as an unnecessary capability. Thus, in June 1941, when the Air Corps became the United States Army Air Forces, airpower doctrine centered on high-altitude, daylight, precision bombing.  While the RAF entered the war with this same philosophy, early results dictated a change in philosophy. From the outset of war, the RAF struggled to employ their bombers effectively against German targets. Not only were the bombing raids failing to have any significant impact on the German industrial base, the RAF’s small force size could not sustain the losses they were taking.42! To preserve the force, the RAF transitioned to a philosophy of night-time area bombing of cities hoping to undermine the German workforce’s productivity and morale.“2! This change in philosophy set the stage for the establishment of the Combined Bomber Offensive after the United States entered the war.  While the RAF had switched to night-time area bombing against cities, the USAAF remained steadfastly committed to high-altitude, daylight, precision bombing. When President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill met in Casablanca on January 14, 1943, the two parties agreed on a combined approach to keep the pressure on Germany.*! The Casablanca Directive endorsed a “sustained and unremitting air offensive, calling for a Combined Bomber Offensive.”!5! The USAAF and their doctrine of high-altitude, precision bombing struck targets by day while the RAF used area bombing to strike targets at night. It was under this pretense, that the EOU selected targets for the USAAF, pa