me of that conflict. Nevertheless, military leaders and airpower advocates envisioned the potential role airpower would play in future conflicts. At first, the prevailing thought was that the purpose of airpower was to provide fire support to the troops on the ground.2% Military leaders were looking for a way to return mobility to the battlefield in hopes of avoiding the stagnation and lethality of trench warfare. However, during the interwar years, noteworthy airpower theorists advocated using airpower in a strategic context to affect the enemy’s will to fight. Three notable theorists, Billy Mitchell from the United States, Giulio Douhet from Italy, and Hugh Trenchard from Great Britain, advocated attacking enemy population centers to destroy enemy morale and force capitulation.2" These theorists, while recognizing that airpower maintained the critical role of supporting troops on the ground, viewed strategic bombing as the primary purpose of airpower.  Shortly after the First World War, Great Britain established the independent RAF. Meanwhile in the United States, the air forces remained under the control of the US Army.!22! Since the majority of US Army leadership visualized the primary role of airpower to support the troops on the ground, those advocating for strategic bombardment, including General William “Billy” Mitchell, struggled to have their voices heard.  General Mitchell was an outspoken airpower advocate who sought to demonstrate air force capabilities in a manner that resonated with civilian leadership and the American populace. Following the war, the United States adopted a foreign policy of isolationism. Therefore, to expand the role of airpower, the Air Corps had to demonstrate airpower’s capability as something different from what the Army and Navy could provide and do it in a fashion that left a favorable impression with the public and civilian leadership.2#! The sinking of the German battleship Ostfriesland accomplished that goal. This demonstra