n May 1941, nearly two years after President Roosevelt convinced Congress to revise the Neutrality Law so the United States could provide materiel support to the Allies, seventy-nine percent of the American populace favored isolationism. Fortunately, this popular sentiment did not prevent the President and Congress from preparing the US defense establishment for war. Beginning in 1938, the United States ramped up defense spending to address the shortfalls in the defense sector. This foresight was critical and gave industry a two-year head start to improve its military industrial base. While the US Government was taking action to remedy its military equipment and manpower shortfalls, President Roosevelt confronted another problem--the lack of a centralized system of intelligence.  The Office of Naval Intelligence, the Military Intelligence Division, and the State Department maintained their own empire of knowledge.#! No central organization existed to collect and evaluate information collected. The lack of a centralized intelligence organization that synthesized intelligence data frustrated President Roosevelt. He felt blind to the situations in Europe and the Pacific, which made it difficult for the President to provide strategic guidance. These paralyzing uncertainties forced President Roosevelt to establish a national organization that could meet his comprehen- sive intelligence needs.{t  On 11 July 1941, President Roosevelt established The Office of Coordinator of Information (COI) under the leadership of General William J. Donovan. This organization split on June 13, 1942, with the Foreign Information Service falling under the Office of War Information while the remainder of COI became the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) under the direction of General Donovan.&! With the establishment of the OSS, the United States, for the first time in its history, had a single intelligence service engaged in all intelligence activities  One of the first branches General Don