’ planners overemphasize the importance of targets on which they have information at the expense of targets where information is lacking {© To help overcome this pitfall, air planners placed great emphasis on gathering as much intelligence as possible on German industries. As air planners learned about specific German industries, they became more adept at anticipating and projecting first, second, and third order effects. This allowed them to develop the measures of effectiveness needed to assess whether bombing attacks produced the intended effects. Upon adopting this effects-based approach, airpower strategists in the United States and Britain developed three overarching philosophies for aerial bombardment.  The RAF adopted a philosophy of area bombing against cities. This philosophy was partially born out of the fact that the RAF could not sustain precision daylight bombing operations due to the heavy losses they were taking. However, many in RAF Bomber Command, including Air Marshall ‘Bomber’ Harris, believed night-time area attacks against German cities would destroy German mor- ale and bring an expedient end to the war.  The second philosophy centered on the idea of striking the major plants in a variety of industries. This ‘Gross National Product’ theory was short lived. This method proposed that precision attacks would lower Germany’s Gross National Product and thus the theory focused on the civilian economy rather than the German war effort.{! Additionally, the USAAF and the RAF lacked the bombers necessary to create the intended effects on the German economy.{©#! As a result of these circumstances, air planners discarded this theory before application.  The third vhilosovhv focused on concentrating bombing efforts on whole target svstems.{ Rather than striking maior targets from multivle industries. this anproach pursued persistent attacks  Page 14 of 52 26%  aircraft artillery. To improve the survivability of the aircraft, the analysts recommended modific