n- sive intelligence needs!  re a a ee aan wo. ree . faan ee ee ee ed reer — Sant  Page 1 of 52 5%  eee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee nee ee a er re ec eee re a nee eR RR ee RD OR ee NE RE SEINE REIN Shae BRA RE NRA RE BA RAE AER REAR ERIE EE DAN ESE VERE ee  tackled their problems.  Chapter 3 of this monograph begins with a discussion of the advent of operations research in military affairs during World War II and the important role operations research played in shaping military operations. At the tactical level, analysts used operations research to maximize the effectiveness of weapon system employment, while at the operational and strategic levels, planners em- ployed operations research techniques during planning to identify enemy vulnerabilities. This paper discusses the effects-based approach used by the EOU to identify and select Axis targets for aerial bombardment. The difficulty in this selection stemmed from the United States’ lack of intelligence. A common, thorough understanding of Axis vulnerabilities or of German industrial infrastructure did not exist. As a result, different organizations had conflicting ideas about which targets provided the greatest effect. The EOU, using their backgrounds in economics, were able to succeed in this uncertain environment. Through in-depth research, cooperation with outside organizations, and a sound methodology, the EOU developed prioritized targets for USAAF leadership that aligned with national strategic guidance.  In Chapter 4, the monograph explains how the integration of the EOU with USAAF leadership and their planning staffs ensured that targets selected aligned with military and national strategic objectives. The paper discusses the habitual relationship and constant coordination that occurred between the EOU and military planners and leaders. This relationship and constant collaboration pro- duced a common understanding of why the EOU selected specific targets and how those targets supported political objectives.  Ch