zations coupled with the professional aiming point reports they produced gave the EOU a good reputation. US air and ground leaders requested the presence of EOU members on their staffs.  Operation Octopus  Having established credibility, the EOU assigned its analysts to branches of the US air and ground staffs to help guide the execution of the air offensive.™! Additionally, the EOU sent members to the British Air Ministry to share information and synchronize efforts. The EOU members coined this effort Operation Octopus. This operation was critical for the EOU as it allowed EOU members to de- velop close ties with planners and leaders in the USAAF and planners in the British Air Ministry.&  Allin all, besides the umbilical ties to Eighth and Fifteenth Air Force, EOU personnel were sent to Twenty-first and Twelfth Army Group, Allied Expeditionary Air Force Headquarters, the intelligence branch of Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force, Mediterranean Allied Air Forces Headquarters, and the British Air Ministry.®! According to Walt Rostow, one of the EOU members, “... EOU probably had its greatest operational impact through Operation Octopus.” With the knowledge gained producing the aiming point reports and developing their target selection theory, the EOU used Operation Octopus to share their findings and influence others as to the best way to hurt the Germans.!° Further, through discourse, they hoped to learn other perspectives.  While the EOU members were spread out to all these organizations, they made sure to maintain close communication with each other to harmonize their efforts and share findings. By maintaining close contact with each other and the air planning staffs, the EOU ensured that its efforts and selected targets aligned with military and political objectives. Not only did the EOU develop relationships with the US and British air planning staffs, but they also worked closely with USAAF leadership.  Page 24 of 52 43%  eT ee eine a eee ne ee iee