st few months working solely on producing aiming point reports and continued to generate them during the course of the war. By May 1944, the EOU produced 285 aiming point reports.2” The Eighth Air Force and Fifteenth Air Force bomber commands used the aiming point reports as general intelligence summaries as well as for operational aiming points for attack.28 Since US intelligence was lacking, these reports provided a badly needed means for organizing intelligence. The high quality of information contained in the reports earned the EOU a favor- able reputation in the Eighth Air Force and Fifteenth Air Force bomber commands.  The knowledge gleaned from generating the aiming point reports prepared the EOU for the more complicated, thought-provoking task of target selection and target prioritization. By the end of 1942, the EOU members allocated extensive time to studying the theory of target choice.@*! Nonetheless, in order to effectively study target choice theory and apply said theory to the air campaign in Europe, the EOU needed an understanding of USAAF doctrine and strategy.  US Airpower Strategy Entering World War IT  While airpower played a significant role in World War I, it was not the determining factor in the outcome of that conflict. Nevertheless, military leaders and airpower advocates envisioned the potential role airpower would play in future conflicts. At first, the prevailing thought was that the purpose of airpower was to provide fire support to the troops on the ground.2% Military leaders were looking for a way to return mobility to the battlefield in hopes of avoiding the stagnation and lethality of trench warfare. However, during the interwar years, noteworthy airpower theorists advocated using airpower in a strategic context to affect the enemy’s will to fight. Three notable theorists, Billy Mitchell from the United States, Giulio Douhet from Italy, and Hugh Trenchard from Great Britain, advocated attacking enemy population centers to destroy ene