required; 3) execution of the attack on the oil target system since among the remaining targets, oil offers the best opportunity to bring the German war effort to a close.{13°! The EOU recognized the importance of continuing to put pressure on the German Air Force to ensure the Allies had air superiority for the invasion of Europe. Thus, Operation POINTBLANK remained the number one priority. Secondly, to support the amphibious landing and assist soldiers on the ground, tactical support received the next priority. Oil was the logical next step.  Not only did oil affect all German war production, but it also limited the fighting capacity of German air, ground, and sea forces.31! In the EOU’s view, destruction of oil refineries and storage facilities would Ubring the entire German war machine toahalt. With an overwhelming number of bomber aircraft available, the Allies could systematically attack the e twenty- three e synthetic plants and  sta a re ater wk Oat et te a ee eS RN SED) toe lle _ ee eee eee  Page 32 of 52 54%  The POINTBLANK Directive guided the application of Allied air power into early 1944. For most of 1943, the Allies did not have the number of aircraft necessary to achieve the objectives outlined in the directive. With the continuous influx of bombers, the strategic bombing campaign began gaining momentum toward the close of 1943 and the USAAF in Europe had reached its full strength and capabilities in February 1944 £124! with these numbers and cooperation from the weather, the Allies executed an aggressive week-long bombing campaign against the German Air Force. “Big Week” was a great success, resulting in the tactical defeat of the German fighter force over its own bases, and necessitating a change in the Allies’ bombing strategy.1225!  General Spaatz, the commander of US Strategic Air Forces in Europe believed the Allies’ success during “Big Week” signaled that the destruction of other German industries was not only feasible, but also desirable.426!