ect on the German war economy. In the EOU’s estimation, multiple strikes on targets within a single industry would have a greater effect on Germany’s war production than striking a key target in multiple industries. Taking this approach, the EOU pursued those industries where the minimum  number of targets would have the greatest effect on the German war effort. {81  While this methodology allowed the EOU to prioritize targets based on what they thought would have the greatest effect, only through coordination and integration did the EOU ensure the targets they selected aligned with political and military objectives.  The EOU understood the importance of personal and professional relationships and thus sought to establish and build relationships with all organizations involved in the Allies’ bombing campaign. During Operation Octopus, the EOU sent its members to branches of the US air and grounds staffs in England as well as the British Air Ministry to share information and synchronize efforts. Even with its members spread out to different organizations, the EOU members maintained close contact with one another to ensure all were operating from the same page. While the EOU interacted and coordinated with all units involved in the bombing campaign, the primary organization it worked with was Eighth Air Force, which later combined with Fifteenth Air Force to become US Strategic Air Forces in Europe. While formally assigned to the US Embassy in London, in reality the EOU supported Eighth Air Force efforts to prosecute a strategic bombing campaign. Thig chain of command offered opportunities as well as challenges.  By not falling directly under the command of Eighth Air Force, the EOU could independently develop its target selection methodology.!82! However, since EOU members lacked military experience, Colonel Hughes assigned liaison officers to work inside the EOU and foster the relationship between the two organizations. The liaison officers proved extremely benefici