y with Colonel Hughes and the rest of General Spaatz’s staff. Although not adopted initially, the EOU’s ability to understand the environment, conduct in-depth research and analysis, and develop detailed plans resulted in General Eisenhower choosing to execute the bridge campaign a month prior to D-Day. Through constant coordination and seamless integration with the USAAF leaders and planners, the EOU ensured the targets they selected supported military and political objectives.  >  CONCLUSION  The EOU played a critical role in shaping the strategic bombing campaign during WWII. Although the civilian economists arrived in London in September 1942 lacking an understanding of military operations and target selection, in less than six months they had become experts on the German industrial complex and had gained the respect of US air planners and leaders. Colonel Hughes, the Chief planner for USAAF in Europe, served as the conduit between the USAAF planning staff and the EOU. In this capacity, Colonel Hughes provided direction to the EOU.  Colonel Hughes’ first task directed the EOU members to generate aiming point reports. In addition to helping the members become familiar with German industry, this task sought to change the way EOU members looked at industry. Rather than viewing industry from an economists’ perspective, the EOU members would have to look at industry from a military viewpoint since the purpose of the aiming point reports was to determine the most vulnerable point of each German plant or installation.272! In generating nearly 285 aiming point reports, the EOU became experts on the German industrial complex and were prepared to assist USAAF planners with target selection and prioritization.  The EOU took an effects-based approach in identifying and prioritizing targets. Lacking a robust air capability at the beginning of 1943, the EOU understood the need to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of US airpower using limited available bomber assets to