urate. The analysts correctly projected that Hitler would resume the offensive in the south in order to capture the Caucasus oil fields, vice a move on Moscow. The analysts also correctly identified German rail transportation as the critical limiting factor and that German strength on the Eastern Front was significantly less in the spring of 1942 than it was in the summer of 1941.2! The accuracy of this study gave great credibility to the R&A Branch and highlighted the value of economic analysis to military decision makers as well as national policymakers. The R&A Branch’s accurate portrayal of the German logistic situation on the Eastern Front garnered the branch much attention resulting in additional requests for products and support. One of these requests was to provide support to the Allied bombing campaign in Europe, and that became one of the most important contributions made by the branch during the war.  The Eighth Air Force deployed to Great Britain in June of 1942.{% Colonel Richard Hughes, Chief Planner for American Air Forces in Europe, recognized the USAAF lacked detailed intelligence analysis and the capability to analyze and recommend bombing targets.2! He reached out to the OSS, asking for personnel to assist with the target selection process. In response to this request, General Donovan ordered a team of R&A Branch economists to London and established the EOU. The team members began arriving in London in September 1942. While formally assigned to the Economic Warfare Division of the US Embassy in London, for practical purposes, the team worked for Colonel Hughes. {! In this capacity, the only individuals with access to the EOU were the American Ambassador and a few designated USAAF officers.22! The mission given to the EOU was to study German infrastructure and its industrial complex in order to determine the best methods for execut- ing the strategic bombing campaign.  Initial Responsibility of the EOU  Colonel Hughes’ experience and education made