le the EOU took into account the strategic and economic importance of particular industries to Germany, the primary factor when looking at German industries was the military indispensability of an industry’s products.“ This overarching theory provided the foundation from which the EOU developed a detailed methodology to analyze and assess the feasibility and suitability of different target systems.  In analyzing and assessing the merits of competing target systems, the EOU was careful to avoid long-term specialization.“! The EOU did not want its members to become wed to the targets they studied, which could produce biased recommendations. Therefore, the members migrated from one target system to another to develop a more well-rounded appreciation of the enemy’s industrial capabilities.  Nevertheless, when studying a target system, the EOU expected its members to become experts on that particular system. Specifically, the team examined eleven different factors, listed below, for each target system.  1. Importance of the product to war production. . Specialization of use pattern. . Importance of individual plant.  . Importance of indirect effect.  2 3 4 5. Tightness of supply situation. 6. Ease of repair.  7. Possibility of substitution.  8. Vulnerability of plant.  9. Size of target.  10. East of locating target.  11. Strength of defenses at target and en route.{!  With respect to the second factor, specialization of use pattern, the EOU worked under the assumption that it is better to target those industries where the output goes into essential uses vice a wide variety of uses.{! For the fourth factor of importance of indirect effect, the EOU favored those industries that, if targeted, would produce widespread effects rather than a single isolated effect“! The sixth and seventh factors addressed the amount of redundancy, or ‘cushion’ as the EOU coined it, in a particular German industry. If the Germans could repair the industry quickly or another plant could quickly