tastrophe in enough cities simultaneously to create national disruption and grind the German war economy  Page 14 of 52 26%  heavy losses they were taking. However, many in RAF Bomber Command, including Air Marshall ‘Bomber’ Harris, believed night-time area attacks against German cities would destroy German mor- ale and bring an expedient end to the war.  The second philosophy centered on the idea of striking the major plants in a variety of industries“! This ‘Gross National Product’ theory was short lived. This method proposed that precision attacks would lower Germany’s Gross National Product and thus the theory focused on the civilian economy rather than the German war effort{2! Additionally, the USAAF and the RAF lacked the bombers necessary to create the intended effects on the German economy. As a result of these circumstances, air planners discarded this theory before application.  The third philosophy focused on concentrating bombing efforts on whole target systems.{§! Rather than striking major targets from multiple industries, this approach pursued persistent attacks on multiple targets from a single industry. To achieve the greatest effect, analysts studied German industries to determine which industries, if attacked holistically, would have the greatest impact on the German war effort. Recognizing that the German economy was extremely robust with much redundancy built in, the analysts searched for those industries where the destruction of the minimum number of targets would have the greatest effect.{©5! As with the second philosophy, limited numbers of Allied aircraft forced air planners to consider only those industries they could persistently strike in its entirety. With a preference of targeting industry and infrastructure over cities and people, US military leadership stood behind this philosophy rather than the area bombing philosophy used by the RAF. This philosophy became the foundation from which the EOU built their methodology for selecting targ