dérs maintained this position even when faced with evidence to the contrary.  Colonel Carl Spaatz, later to become the commander of Eighth Air Force and then commander of USAAF in the European Theater of Operations, travelled to England in 1940 to observe Royal Air Force operations against Germany.“ Despite British and German experience, Colonel Spaatz remained convinced that self-defended bombers could effectively strike targets without the aid of escorts. Spaatz’ reports reinforced Army Air Corps thinking at the time and influenced how the service spent its money. The production of bombers remained the Air Corps’ top priority while prominent airpower leaders viewed fighter escorts as an unnecessary capability. Thus, in June 1941, when the Air Corps became the United States Army Air Forces, airpower doctrine centered on high-altitude, daylight, precision bombing.  While the RAF entered the war with this same philosophy, early results dictated a change in philosophy. From the outset of war, the RAF struggled to employ their bombers effectively against German targets. Not only were the bombing raids failing to have any significant impact on the German industrial base, the RAF’s small force size could not sustain the losses they were taking.4“2! To preserve the force, the RAF transitioned to a philosophy of night-time area bombing of cities hoping to undermine the German workforce’s productivity and morale.2! This change in philosophy set the stage for the establishment of the Combined Bomber Offensive after the United States entered the war.  While the RAF had switched to night-time area bombing against cities, the USAAF remained steadfastly committed to high-altitude, daylight, precision bombing. When President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill met in Casablanca on January 14, 1943, the two parties agreed on a combined approach to keep the pressure on Germany.“! The Casablanca Directive endorsed a “sustained and unremitting air offensive, calling for a Combined