2. How quickly would the effect be felt in frontline strength?  3. How long the effect would last?  4. What the attacks direct military, as opposed to economic, consequences would be?!7%  Answering these questions demanded rigorous intellectual work. As Walt Rostow recounted from his time in the EOU, “It required taking fully into account the extent to which the military effect of an attack could be cushioned by the Germans by diverting civilian output or services to military purposes or buying time for repair by drawing down stocks of finished products in the pipeline.”& The team had to anticipate Germany’s response, appreciating that they were facing an adaptive enemy with a robust industrial complex.  Overall, the EOU’s methodology to select targets for aerial bombardment was time intensive but thorough. This approach allowed the EOU to assign a value to each target and the various target systems. While these numerical values provided the basis for comparison and facilitated discussion on the merits of one industry vice another, EOU members knew the final decision on which targets to attack and in what prioritized order had to be made based on judgment. 81!  The production of the aiming point reports and the analysis that went into the assessment of various German industries provided the EOU a solid understanding of the German industrial base. Additionally, the team knew and supported the USAAF doctrine of daylight, precision bombing. The EOUs knowledge of USAAF doctrine coupled with their experience gathered generating aiming  naint renorte laid the faiindationn far davelaning a mathadalaoy ta celact and nrinritize tarcate Althaich FOTT mamhere wara aeanamicte thew did nat caak tarcate far aeanamic ar noalitical nurnacac  Page 22 of 52 39%  OO  limitation of quantifying each targets’ potential, the scores provided a source of discussion and a means to compare various targets and target systems.  od re Pt  The EOU members not only needed to be experts on each tar