rial infrastructure did not exist. As a result, different organizations had conflicting ideas about which targets provided the greatest effect. The EOU, using their backgrounds in economics, were able to succeed in this uncertain environment. Through in-depth research, cooperation with outside organizations, and a sound methodology, the EOU developed prioritized targets for USAAF leadership that aligned with national strategic guidance.  In Chapter 4, the monograph explains how the integration of the EOU with USAAF leadership and their planning staffs ensured that targets selected aligned with military and national strategic objectives. The paper discusses the habitual relationship and constant coordination that occurred between the EOU and military planners and leaders. This relationship and constant collaboration pro- duced a common understanding of why the EOU selected specific targets and how those targets supported political objectives.  Chapter 5 demonstrates the interaction between the EOU and the USAAF leadership through the review of three case studies. First, the paper examines the selection of targets following the Casablanca Conference, particularly targets selected in support of Operation POINTBLANK. A quick reflection on the methodology used by the EOU to select targets precedes a close examination of the interaction and collaboration that occurred between the EOU  and air force leaders. The paper highlights how this cooperation and integration produced a check and balance system to align aerial bombardment targets with political and military objectives. The second case study explores the Oil Plan recommended by the EOU. An in-depth review of the priorities identified by the EOU, and how these priorities aligned with strategic guidance follows. The third case study investigates the targets selected and the prioritization of targets in preparation for Operation OVERLORD. The paper emphasizes the EOU’s effects-based approach and specifies how this ap- pr