or maintaining air superiority over Germany and were responsible for many friendly losses. In order to prosecute targets in other industries, the United States had to marginalize the German single-engine fighter force. Additionally, in order to conduct a landing on the continent, the Allies required air superiority. Through their analysis, the EOU determined aircraft engines stood as the best target system to reduce German aircraft production.414  From the EOU’s analysis on essential German war industries, the ball bearing industry stood out as a key industry that could affect German war production as a whole.{445! The ball bearing industry did not appear to be robust and thus provided an economically, feasible target. Without a robust bomber force in theater, the Allies needed to attack those industries where the fewest number of targets would create the greatest effects. For this reason, ball bearings became an important target. In early 1943, the Allies did not have the forces in place to attack the vast number of transportation and oil targets. Both of these target systems were beyond the operational grasp of the Allied bomber force.“ With these assessments, the EOU began developing an alternative approach for the Allies.  On February 26, 1943, the EOU produced an informal draft air plan that emphasized targeting German fighter aircraft.412 Colonel Hughes lobbied hard for the EOU’s plan and convinced military leaders of its validity. As proof, the POINTBLANK Directive released on June 7, 1943 closely reflected the recommendations presented by the EOU.“18! Operation POINTBLANK, its military codename, sought to sustain attacks on the Luftwaffe, with the aim of drastically reducing the strength of the German Air Force and its production capability. With aircraft as the top priority, ball bearings received a secondary priority since they played a large role in aircraft production. “12 The wording in the POINTBLANK Directive highlighted the importance of aggressively