rs lacked military experience, Colonel Hughes assigned liaison officers to work inside the EOU and foster the relationship between the two organizations. The liaison officers proved extremely beneficial. Not only did they relay mili- tary guidance and help the EOU members understand USAAF doctrine, but they also facilitated the interaction between EOU members and senior USAAF leaders and planners.  Overall, it was this integration and constant collaboration between the EOU and USAAF leadership that resulted in a shared understanding of political and military objectives and ensured EOU’s target recommendations and priorities supported strategic goals. Both the POINTBLANK  Directive and the “Oil Plan” support this assertion. The incorporation of the EOU’s proposed targets into the POINTBLANK Directive demonstrated that the EOU’s recommendations aligned with military and political aims. With respect to the “Oil Plan”, the fact that the text in the final version of the plan closely resembled the EOU memorandum and used the EOU appendices in their entirety illustrates how successful the EOU was in selecting targets that aligned with military and political objectives. The extensive collaboration and coordination between the EOU and USAAF leaders re- sulted in synchronized planning and ensured EOU’s selected targets supported strategic goals.  As in World War II, collaboration and coordination remain critical in today’s operating environment to synchronize efforts and align operations with political objectives. The US fields the world’s best army, navy, marines, and air force, yet the ability of these services to integrate and conduct joint operations truly makes the United States the world’s greatest military power. While interaction and collaboration between the military services has been mostly excellent, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have highlighted the need to improve coordination and integration between the Department of Defense and other US departments, particul