l objectives. Not only did the EOU develop relationships with the US and British air planning staffs, but they also worked closely with USAAF leadership.  Page 24 of 52 43%  eT ee eine a eee ne ee ieee ee ie eee VV AREER E WEEE Et RAL EWEED SEE VWIE VE 28k LEE SER WEEE EEE SOE Oe  The EOU aggressively sought to develop relationships with all organizations, both US and British, involved in the Allied bombing campaign. Not only did the EOU need to pursue these relationships to obtain the intelligence date needed to generate the aiming point reports, and select and prioritize targets, but they also saw this as a great opportunity for like organizations to share and test their ideas. The EOU members and their channels of communication reached out all over London.® In fact, there was no Allied ‘air war discourse’ in which the EOU was not a participant. This interaction with other organizations coupled with the professional aiming point reports they produced gave the EOU a good reputation. US air and ground leaders requested the presence of EOU members on their staffs.  Operation Octopus  Having established credibility, the EOU assigned its analysts to branches of the US air and ground staffs to help guide the execution of the air offensive! Additionally, the EOU sent members to the British Air Ministry to share information and synchronize efforts. The EOU members coined this effort Operation Octopus. This operation was critical for the EOU as it allowed EOU members to de- velop close ties with planners and leaders in the USAAF and planners in the British Air Ministry.22  Allin all, besides the umbilical ties to Eighth and Fifteenth Air Force, EOU personnel were sent to Twenty-first and Twelfth Army Group, Allied Expeditionary Air Force Headquar{xrs, the intelligence branch of Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force, Mediterranean Allied Air Forces Headquarters, and the British Air Ministry.22! According to Walt Rostow, one of the EOU members, “... EOU probably ha