uld provide and do it in a fashion that left a favorable impression with the public and civilian leadership.2#! The sinking of the German battleship Ostfriesland accomplished that goal. This demonstration illustrated that airpower could fulfill the role of coastal defense.@4! In addition to demonstrating the value of airpower in the defense, the sinking of the Ostfriesland also fos- tered the belief that aircraft could precisely strike enemy targets.  While Douhet, Trenchard, and to a lesser extent, Mitchell viewed attacks on cities as the primary means for airpower to force the capitulation of the enemy, this perspective did not sit well with the US population. Many Americans viewed the intentional bombing of civilians as an immoral act that was unacceptable on ethical and humanitarian grounds.2# Americans stood comfortably behind the use of airpower to attack machines and industry, but not people. This sentiment led to an airpower strategy centered on precision strategic bombing versus an area bombing strategy targeting population centers. With the decision made to pursue precision bombing rather than area bombing, the next debate for the Air Corps centered on whether low altitude or high altitude bombing was more effective.  In the mid to late 1920s, when the question on high versus low altitude bombing arose, common sense led many to believe that low altitude bombing was superior. Although the low altitude bombers faced greater risk from enemy anti-aircraft artillery, the perceived improvement in accuracy more than made up for this risk.27 However, with improvements in technology and the modern- ization of Army bombsights, accuracy improved at higher altitudes. Airpower advocates asked the question: was low altitude bombing truly more accurate than high altitude bombing?  After conducting tests in 1931, results indicated that, in fact, high altitude bombing proved more effective than low altitude bombing. At higher altitudes, aircraft were less susceptible to en