ndersqn, went to Italy and saw first-hand that a modest number of bombers could successfully destroy bridges.2”2! Upon returning from the trip, General Spaatz was strongly behind the bridge plan even thet it was a tactical vice strategic target. He took the view that attacks on marshaling yards would not provide the lasting effects needed to prevent German reinforcements from reaching Northern France. In early May, General Spaatz presented General Eisenhower an alternative to the marshaling yards plan and recommended experimental attacks to prove the effectiveness of bombers against bridges.273!  On 7 May 1944, the Ninth Air Force conducted experimental attacks on six Seine bridges with less than fifty P-47 fighter-bombers.74! The attacks proved unexpectedly successful with three bridges badly damaged and a fourth dropped into the river." Air planners placed pictures depicting the bridge dropped into the river on the desk of every major figure concerned with the bombing business and shortly thereafter, the bridge campaign began in earnest.275!  The bridges turned out to be extraordinarily efficient objectives and made a major contribution toward obstructing the German war effort. By D-Day, the interdiction of the Seine was complete, significantly impeding Germany’s efforts to reinforce its forces in Normandy from the Calais area and elsewhere.#74 Additionally, as the EOU intended, the effectiveness of the bridge campaign enabled the heavy bombers to pursue the oil targets.78  Once again, the EOU took higher guidance, conducted thorough research and analysis, and developed a plan outlining targets that best aligned with higher objectives. While in this instance the EOU focused on tactical rather than strategic targets, they understood the strategic importance of establishing a beachhead in Northern France, and thus sought to identify the target system that would best support that operation. To ensure their recommendations aligned with military and political objective