n of war, the United States began mobilizing the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) sending the Eighth Air Force to England in 1942. The initial strength of the Eighth Air Force was not sufficient to strike all desired enemy targets. Furthermore, the German Air Force was extremely capable and posed a significant threat to Allied aircraft flying over the continent. Thus, the lack of a robust air force and the lack of air superiority complicated air planners’ efforts to select targets. To assist with this problem, Colonel Richard Hughes, the Chief planner for American Air  Location 4 of 1279 1%  ABSTRACT  In June of 1942, Eighth Air Force deployed to Great Britain and began preparation for a bombing campaign. However, during the initial planning efforts it became apparent the staff lacked the expertise needed to analyze and recommend bombing targets. Colonel Richard Hughes, the Chief Planner for American Air Forces in Europe, recognized this deficiency and requested a team to assist with target selection. The Enemy Objectives Unit (EOU), a team of civilian economists, began arriving in London in September 1942 to support the Eighth Air Force.  While formally assigned to the United States Embassy in London, for practical purposes the team worked for Colonel Hughes. Using their economic expertise, EOU members studied the German industrial complex to identify vulnerabilities and then recommend to planners and senior leaders those industries the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe should target. Taking an effects- based approach, the team sought to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of United States’ airpower to produce the greatest effects on Germany’s war economy. IN  The EOU’s target selection methodology required intelligence data on enemy targets, an awareness of United States Army Air Forces bombing capabilities, and most importantly an understanding of military and political aims. To ensure selected targets aligned with military and political aim