bing?  After conducting tests in 1931, results indicated that, in fact, high altitude bombing proved more effective than low altitude bombing. At higher altitudes, aircraft were less susceptible to enemy anti-aircraft weapons. Furthermore, in a surprise, the test results indicated that low-level bombing was not very effective. At low levels, the bombs tended to ricochet off the ground and miss their targets. Additionally, the low angle of impact made the fuzes more liable to fail or the bombs tended to detonate on their side, which reduced the effectiveness of the explosion and resulting fragmen- tation.2®! Conversely, the tests illustrated that the best destruction occurred from the “mining effect” achieved when a bomb buried itself in the earth.2% Dropping from higher altitudes provided the kinetic energy needed to penetrate the earth, increasing the effectiveness of the bombs. Consequently, high altitude, precision bombing was adopted into Army Air Corps doctrine during the interwar years.  Army Air Corps leaders codified this doctrine under the pretense that the bomber would always get through. The thought was that by flying at high altitudes the bombers would avoid most enemy anti-aircraft weapon systems while the built-in defenses of the bomber formations would prevent the bombers from falling prey to enemy fighter aircraft.4% Army Air Corps leaders maintained this position even when faced with evidence to the contrary.  Colonel Carl Spaatz, later to become the commander of Eighth Air Force and then commander of USAAF in the European Theater of Operations, travelled to England in 1940 to observe Royal Air  Page 5 of 52 12%  more effective.  In the mid to late 1920s, when the question on high versus low altitude bombing arose, common sense led many to believe that low altitude bombing was superior. Although the low altitude bombers faced greater risk from enemy anti-aircraft artillery, the perceived improvement in accuracy more than made up for this risk.27! Ho