tegic bomber force following “Big Week,” the EOU received a tasking from Colonel Hughes to determine how best to use allied tactical air power to support Operation OVERLORD.!! In particular, Hughes wanted the EOU to review Professor Solly Zuckerman’s, Air Chief Marshal Tedder’s scientific advisor, plan for attacking marshaling yards. Professor Zuckerman believed marshaling yards offered the greatest opportunity to degrade the flow of German resources and limit Germany’s ability to move forces to counter the Allies’ invasion.25* Air Chief Marshal Leigh-Mallory, who controlled the tactical air forces as the commander of Allied Expeditionary Air Force, also supported the marshaling yard plan. Air Chief Marshal Tedder, Air Chief Marshal Leigh Mallory, and Professor Zuckerman felt a combined effort by strategic and tactical forces on marshaling yards would have the greatest effect on the German transportation network. Thus, there was a lot of momentum behind the marshaling yard plan. Nonetheless, with Colonel Hughes’ guidance, the EOU entered the tactical arena and immediately con- ducted in-depth research to determine if there were more advantageous targets than marshaling yards.  During their initial analysis of the marshaling yard plan, the EOU identified two main weaknesses. First, the excess capacity that existed in marshaling yards would allow the Germans to manipulate civilian rail to ensure higher priority military traffic made it through. Second, with all this excess capacity, it only took a short time to repair the bombed tracks.2=4 Therefore, the slack in the rail yards prevented the yards from being great targets. Hitting the rail yards, the EOU argued, would not significantly affect the German war effort since the Germans could fix the lines relatively quickly in order to allow essential military trains to get through. To support this claim, the EOU looked to operations in Italy.  The EOU read the “Sicily Report” in detail in February 1944 and discovered tha