ary leadership stood behind this philosophy rather than the area bombing philosophy used by the RAF. This philosophy became the foundation from which the EOU built their methodology for selecting targets for aerial bombardment. iN  EOU’s Target Selection Methodology  Operations research and EBO stand at the core of the EOU’s target selection methodology. In simplified terms, the EOU sought to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of US airpower using limited US bomber assets in order to produce the greatest effect on Germany’s war economy. While the EOU garnered a great understanding of specific targets during the production of aiming point reports, that assignment did not provide the members a systemic understanding of the German industrial complex. Thus, in adopting a targeting philosophy centered on conducting persistent attacks on multiple targets within a single industry, the EOU needed to develop a better understanding of German industrial systems to create a formal methodology that helped the unit prioritize targets.  To improve their knowledge on German industry and be able to compare one industry versus another, EOU members engaged British intelligence agencies to collect the necessary data. In particular, the EOU needed a quantitative grasp of stocks, production, and consumption of key war elements from multiple industries! Since perfect information was unavailable, the EOU produced order of magnitude estimates that facilitated the systematic comparison of target systems.©% With a more complete understanding of German target systems, the EOU generated their theory of target selec- tion. In general, the EOU functioned as the bridge that connected intelligence and operations.  The EOU, in agreement with US bombing strategy, preferred precision bombing to area bombing. The EOU did not think area bombing would produce decisive results nor did it align with military and political aims. Specifically, they felt the Allies lacked the capability to create socia