wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have highlighted the need to improve coordination and integration between the Department of Defense and other US departments, particularly the Department of State. The collaboration, cooperation, and integration between the EOU and the United States Army Air Forces in World War II stands as the gold standard that US government agencies should emulate today.  REQUEST FROM THE PUBLISHER IN  Thank you!!!  Can I ask a favor?  Page 48 of 52 82%  of Defense and other US departments, particularly the Department of State. The collaboration, cooperation, and integration between the EOU and the United States Army Air Forces in World War II stands as the gold standard that US government agencies should emulate today.  REQUEST FROM THE PUBLISHER  Thank you!!!  Can | ask a favor?  Page 48 of 52 82%  Thank you!!! Can | ask  a favor?  Thank you so much for reading our book, we hope you really enjoyed it.  As you probably know, many people look at the reviews on Amazon before they decide to purchase a book. If you liked the book, could you please take a minute to leave a review with your feedback?  60 seconds is all I’m asking for, and it would mean the world to us.  Thank you so much,  Pickle Partners Publishing  BIBLIOGRAPHY Air Force Doctrine Document 2. Operations and Organization. 3 April, 2007. Berg, Paul D. “Slow Airpower Assessment: A Cause for Concern?” Air and Space Power Journal 18, no. 3 (Fall 2004): 75-84. Biddle, Tami Davis. Rhetoric and Reality in Air Warfare: The Evolution of British and American Ideas About Strategic Bombing, 1914-1945. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2002. Central Intelligence Agency. “The Office of Strategic Services: Research and Analysis Branch.” Central Intelligence Agency. https://www.cia.gov/news-information/featured-story- archive/2010-  featured-story-archive/oss-research-and-analysis.html (accessed August 5, 2010).  Danteal Tatallinnnan Nanna (TRA APR An AF Obentacin Onertinan: Dananen Land Analernin De