ir doctrine for target selection.22 However, without military backgrounds it was important for EOU members to collaborate regularly with military officers to get a better understanding of their mission. Therefore, Colonel Hughes assigned USAAF officers to work inside the EOU.  The purpose of these military liaison officers was to foster the relationship between the EOU and Eighth Air Force.88! These liaison officers were critical for many reasons. The liaison officers helped the EOU members transform their perspectives on industry as an economic system to industry as a target system. Further, they educated the EOU on the USAAF’s doctrine of high-altitude daylight precision bombing so that EOU members understood the capabilities and limitations of Allied airpower. Third, as the EOU members became more comfortable with USAAF doctrine and developed a better understanding of German industry as a target system, the liaison officers provided the necessary sounding board to ensure the targets selected by the EOU aligned with military guidance. Fi- nally, the liaisons helped the EOU establish points of contact within other organizations involved in the Allied bombing campaign.  The EOU aggressively sought to develop relationships with all organizations, both US and British, involved in the Allied bombing campaign. Not only did the EOU need to pursue these relationships to obtain the intelligence date needed to generate the aiming point reports, and select and prioritize targets, but they also saw this as a great opportunity for like organizations to share and test their ideas. The EOU members and their channels of communication reached out all over London. In fact, there was no Allied ‘air war discourse’ in which the EOU was not a participant. This interaction with other organizations coupled with the professional aiming point reports they produced gave the EOU a good reputation. US air and ground leaders requested the presence of EOU members on their staffs.  Operation Oct