m examined eleven different factors, listed below, for each target system.  1. Importance of the product to war production. 2. Specialization of use pattern.  3. Importance of individual plant.  4. Importance of indirect effect.  5. Tightness of supply situation.  6. Ease of repair.  7. Possibility of substitution.  8. Vulnerability of plant.  9 Size nf target  Page 18 of 52 32%  AllG political alllls. opeCiliCadlly, Ley LEit LE AIMES lACKEC UIE Capability LO Cleal€ sOCidl CalastlOpile if) CMOUETI CUES SUTUILATICOUSLY LO CLEale flatlOllal GisfUPLIO! die ELI Ue GEriflall Wal CCOMOIY to a halt. Accordingly, the EOU committed to precision, daylight bombing attempting to identify those targets that would have the greatest effect on Germany’s military power and would affect Germany’s war effort in a reasonably brief period of time.{©* The relatively slow build-up of forces pressed the EOU to focus on efficient targeting to create the biggest effect. It was this shortage of resources that compelled the EOU to pursue those German industries where only a small number of targets needed to be attacked to achieve the desired effects. While the EOU took into account the strategic and economic importance of particular industries to Germany, the primary factor when looking at German industries was the military indispensability of an industry’s products.!“% This overarching theory provided the foundation from which the EOU developed a detailed methodology to analyze and assess the feasibility and suitability of different target systems.  In analyzing and assessing the merits of competing target systems, the EOU was careful to avoid long-term specialization.“! The EOU did not want its members to become wed to the targets they studied, which could produce biased recommendations. Therefore, the members migrated from one target system to another to develop a more well-rounded appreciation of the enemy’s industrial capabilities.  Nevertheless, when studying a target system, the EOU exp