on until 1944. Even though there would be no cross channel invasion in 1943, the Casa-  blanca Directive provided guidance for the execution of bombing operations from the United Kingdom  Prior to the Casablanca Conference, British military leaders tried to convince Churchill to pressure the USAAF to change from precision daylight bombing to area bombing, as carried out by the RAF. Part of the reason this argument gained steam is that the US bomber force had failed to drop a single bomb on the German homeland in the thirteen months since joining the war.2%! However, at the conference, General Eaker, the new Eighth Air Force commander, convinced Churchill of the merits of daylight bombing. Churchill agreed to give the USAAF more time to prove their case.2°5! The Casa- blanca Directive stated,  “You should take every opportunity to attack Germany by day, to destroy objectives that are unsuitable for night attack, to sustain continuous pressure on German morale, to impose heavy losses on the German day fighter force, and to contain German fighter strength away from the Russian and Mediterranean theaters of war.”{1061  The Casablanca Conference then, established a joint concept for the Allies’ bombing offensive. The directive implied day-night cooperation between the RAF and USAAF; this became known as the Combined Bomber Offensive. The directive provided some overarching guidance. “  Your primary object will be the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial, and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.”{07  The Casablanca Directive went on to announce the five primary targets for air attack, prioritized as follows: 1. German submarine construction yards and bases.  2. The German aircraft industry.  3. Transportation.  4. The German oil industry.  5. Other targets in enemy war industry.)  The directive purposely did not stipulate speci