With the establishment of the OSS, the United States, for the first time in its history, had a single intelligence service engaged in all intelligence activities  One of the first branches General Donovan established in the OSS was the Research and Analysis (R&A) Branch. General Donovan tasked the R&A Branch to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the Axis powers. To fulfill this tasking and develop a comprehensive understanding of the Axis powers and their capabilities, the R&A Branch sought scholars from many different disciplines. At full  Page 1 of 52 5%  BACKGROUND OF STUDY  Establishing the Enemy Objectives Unit  In May 1941, nearly two years after President Roosevelt convinced Congress to revise the Neutrality Law so the United States could provide materiel support to the Allies, seventy-nine percent of the American populace favored isolationism. Fortunately, this popular sentiment did not prevent the President and Congress from preparing the US defense establishment for war. Beginning in 1938, the United States ramped up defense spending to address the shortfalls in the defense sector. This foresight was critical and gave industry a two-year head start to improve its military industrial base. While the US Government was taking action to remedy its military equipment and manpower shortfalls, President Roosevelt confronted another problem--the lack of a centralized system of intelligence.  The Office of Naval Intelligence, the Military Intelligence Division, and the State Department maintained their own empire of knowledge.! No central organization existed to collect and evaluate information collected. The lack of a centralized intelligence organization that synthesized intelligence data frustrated President Roosevelt. He felt blind to the situations in Europe and the Pacific, which made it difficult for the President to provide strategic guidance. These paralyzing uncertainties forced President Roosevelt to establish a national organization that could mee