re, the members migrated from one target system to another to develop a more well-rounded appreciation of the enemy’s industrial capabilities.  Nevertheless, when studying a target system, the EOU expected its members to become experts on that particular system. Specifically, the team examined eleven different factors, listed below, for each target system.  1. Importance of the product to war production. MS . Specialization of use pattern. . Importance of individual plant.  . Importance of indirect effect.  2 3 4 5. Tightness of supply situation. 6. Ease of repair.  7. Possibility of substitution.  8. Vulnerability of plant.  9. Size of target.  10. East of locating target.  11. Strength of defenses at target and en route.  With respect to the second factor, specialization of use pattern, the EOU worked under the assumption that it is better to target those industries where the output goes into essential uses vice a wide variety of uses.{! For the fourth factor of importance of indirect effect, the EOU favored those industries that, if targeted, would produce widespread effects rather than a single isolated effect! The sixth and seventh factors addressed the amount of redundancy, or ‘cushion’ as the EOU coined it, in a particular German industry. If the Germans could repair the industry quickly or another plant could quickly make up for the loss, then it was not as attractive a target. Factors eight through ten addressed the ease of striking the target. Would the USAAF be able to find the target and if found and struck, would the attack significantly damage the plant? The last factor addressed the risk associated with pursuing a particular target. This essentially became a cost-benefit analysis of whether strik- ing a certain target was worth the risk to aircrews. A thorough understanding of each of these factors provided the source of comparison between target systems.  To compare the different industries the EOU members assigned a score (e.g. anumber from 0 to 10)