their headquarters with the goal of improving the effectiveness of their strategic bombing campaign.  At the tactical level, operations research analysts provided many significant contributions that increased the effectiveness of bombing operations. Within Eighth Air Force, the Operations Research Section analyzed different aspects of aerial bombardment to include bombing accuracy, bombs and fuses, general mission analysis, radar and radio countermeasures, and loss and battle damage.*! Of particular interest to Major General Ira Eaker, the Eighth Air Force commander, was improving bombing accuracy and minimizing loss rates.  The Bombing Accuracy Subsection in Eighth Air Force assumed responsibility for improving bombing accuracy and immediately challenged existing procedures. Entering the war, standard operating procedures dictated that each bombardier chose his own drop point.% Nevertheless, after thorough analysis, the operations research analysts concluded that to improve accuracy only the lead aircraft in the formation should perform a sighting operation. The rest of the bombardiers in the combat box released their bombs when the lead bombardier released. Eighth Air Force used this approach during the attack on Vegesack and achieved remarkable results.&% Bomber Command adopted this procedure immediately.  In addition to improving accuracy by changing procedures to have all bombers drop on the lead bombardier’s command, operations research analysts discovered that evasive action over a target negatively affected bombing accuracy. Colonel Curtis Lemay, Commander of the 305th Bombardment Group, understood that evasive maneuvers over the target were negatively affecting accuracy resulting in crews having to restrike a target.) He ordered his pilots to ignore the threat of flak and approach the targets straight and level in their group formations. Through their analysis, the Oper- ations Research Section proved this approach was more effective and greatly improved bo