he commander of US Strategic Air Forces in Europe believed the Allies’ success during “Big Week” signaled that the destruction of other German industries was not only feasible, but also desirable.426! The EOU, hearing this guidance, began looking at alternative target systems to determine which industry the strategic bombing campaign should pursue next. Specifically, Colonel Hughes directed the EOU to review existing directives and evaluate target systems that fall within that guidance.{24 From their research, the EOU decided on oil as the most lucrative target system that could substantially hinder the German war effort.  The Allies always viewed oil as a worthwhile target system, but before 1944, the oil target system lay beyond the air force’s capacity.428! By February 1944, the Allies had a sufficient number of aircraft to attack the German oil industry and significantly degrade the German war economy in a relatively short time.22% With the oil industry now within the realm of USAAF capabilities, the EOU recommended a way ahead for the strategic bombing campaign. IN  The EOU proposed the following priorities for the strategic bombing effort: 1) completion of POINTBLANK and the destruction of the German Air Force; 2) tactical support if absolutely required; 3) execution of the attack on the oil target system since among the remaining targets, oil offers the best opportunity to bring the German war effort to a close.!13°! The EOU recognized the importance of continuing to put pressure on the German Air Force to ensure the Allies had air superiority for the invasion of Europe. Thus, Operation POINTBLANK remained the number one priority. Secondly, to support the amphibious landing and assist soldiers on the ground, tactical support received the next priority. Oil was the logical next step.  Not only did oil affect all German war production, but it also limited the fighting capacity of German air, ground, and sea forces.424 In the EOU’s view, destruction of oil refin