effect on the German war-making effort.  The question this monograph addresses is how did the EOU, in making these recommendations, ensure targets selected for aerial bombardment during World War II supported the political purpose of the war? The integration and constant collaboration between the EOU and USAAF leadership generated a common understanding of political and military objectives and ensured selected targets supported operational and strategic aims. This monograph demonstrates this integration by discussing the collaboration that occurred during the target selection process in support of the Casablanca Directive and Operation POINTBLANK, the development of the Oil Plan, and in preparation for Operation OVERLORD.  Specifically, Chapter 2 of this monograph provides a background for the study. First, it explains the historical context leading to the establishment of the EOU. Then, it provides an overview of the initial tasking given the EOU. Since the EOU members did not have military backgrounds, the first task was to introduce the EOU members to the military viewpoint and induce the EOU to look at the German industrial complex from a military perspective. The third part of this chapter examines US airpower strategy and doctrine entering the war to show the framework from which the EOU tackled their problems.  Chapter 3 of this monograph begins with a discussion of the advent of operations research in military affairs during World War II and the important role operations research played in shaping military operations. At the tactical level, analysts used operations research to maximize the effectiveness of weapon system employment, while at the operational and strategic levels, planners em- ployed operations research techniques during planning to identify enemy vulnerabilities. This paper discusses the effects-based approach used by the EOU to identify and select Axis targets for aerial bombardment. The difficulty in this selection stemmed from the United St