vulnerabilities. This paper discusses the effects-based approach used by the EOU to identify and select Axis targets for aerial bombardment. The difficulty in this selection stemmed from the United States’ lack of intelligence. A common, thorough understanding of Axis vulnerabilities or of German industrial infrastructure did not exist. As a result, different organizations had conflicting ideas about which targets provided the greatest effect. The EOU, using their backgrounds in economics, were able to succeed in this uncertain environment. Through in-depth research, cooperation with outside organizations, and a sound methodology, the EOU developed prioritized targets for USAAF leadership that aligned with national strategic guidance.  In Chapter 4, the monograph explains how the integration of the EOU with USAAF leadership and their planning staffs ensured that targets selected aligned with military and national strategic  Location 42 of 1279 2%  the lack of a robust air force and the lack of air superiority complicated air planners’ efforts to select targets. To assist with this problem, Colonel Richard Hughes, the Chief planner for American Air Forces in Europe, assembled a team of economists in London, the Enemy Objectives Unit (EOU), to assist the Eighth Air Force in prioritizing target lists and selecting targets to strike. Using their eco- nomic expertise, the EOU recommended strategic targets to the Eighth Air Force that the team projected would have the greatest effect on the German war-making effort.  The question this monograph addresses is how did the EOU, in making these recommendations, ensure targets selected for aerial bombardment during World War II supported the political purpose of the war? The integration and constant collaboration between the EOU and USAAF leadership generated a common understanding of political and military objectives and ensured selected targets supported operational and strategic aims. This monograph demonstrates this integra