struction yards and bases.  2. The German aircraft industry.  3. Transportation.  4. The German oil industry.  5. Other targets in enemy war industry.)  The directive purposely did not stipulate specific methods of cooperation between the RAF and USAAF nor did it list specific targets.4° Instead, it left a good deal of latitude for interpretation to the field commanders. The RAF Commanders felt it endorsed their night-time area raids while the United States understood the guidance as an endorsement of its philosophy of precision daylight bombing. Nonetheless, the directive prescribed the purpose of the air offensive against Germany and governed both its planning and prosecution. As the Eighth Air Force commander, General Eaker understood the success of this plan hinged on achieving air superiority. Taking into account General Eaker’s priority of achieving air superiority, the EOU began examining the guidance in the directive.  Upon inspection, the EOU felt the priorities required modification in order to fit with political and military aims and USAAF capabilities.42" Understanding the strategic goals, the EOU thought changes were necessary to achieve those goals. For one, the attacks on the submarine yards needed to be drastically reduced or eliminated. Not only were the Allies successfully dealing with German submarines at sea, but attacks on production and bases were not making a significant difference.!12! Since the submarines had an extremely long production interval, effects from bombing submar- ine production would not be felt for months.!"43! Conversely, attacks on aircraft production would have a more immediate effect.  The EOU determined attacks on aircraft industry should focus on single-engine fighters. The single-engine fighters were Germany’s primary hope for maintaining air superiority over Germany and were responsible for many friendly losses. In order to prosecute targets in other industries, the United States had to marginalize the German single-eng