ture and its industrial complex in order to determine the best methods for execut- ing the strategic bombing campaign.  Initial Responsibility of the EOU  Colonel Hughes’ experience and education made him the perfect choice to lead the EOU. He grew up in Great Britain and served as an officer in the British Army. As a graduate of Wellington and Sandhurst, Colonel Hughes trained in the principles of concentration of effort at the enemy’s most vulnerable point and in the prompt and maximum follow through when friendly forces achieved breakthrough.{4! However, upon marriage, his promising career in the British Army ended as he followed his wife to the United States. He became a US citizen and eventually joined the Army Air Corps at the onset of war. Colonel Hughes became the chief planner on General Carl Spaatz’ staff, which led him back to London in 1942.45! Colonel Hughes recognized that the air planning staff lacked targeting expertise and thus, aspired to build a team that could meet this operational need. He needed a team that could skillfully analyze enemy targets for the strategic bombing campaign in order to determine which enemy targets would have the greatest impact on the German war effort. What was the enemy’s greatest vulnerability and could the Allies exploit that vulnerability? The team Col- onel Hughes received possessed the economic skills Colonel Hughes needed, but lacked military experience.  Tharafara hofnra tacking the FOI ta davalan taraate far the Allied hamhing camnaion Calanal Huchac diracted tha taam tn davalan aimine-naint renarte 16} Tha nurnaca nf tha aiming-naint renarte  Page 2 of 52 6%  the roreign information service falling under the Office of War Inrormation while the remainder or CO! became the Office of otrategic services (Oso) under the direction of General Donovan.” Witn the establishment of the OSS, the United States, for the first time in its history, had a single intelligence service engaged in all intelligence activities.  One