n order to allow essential military trains to get through. To support this claim, the EOU looked to operations in Italy.  The EOU read the “Sicily Report” in detail in February 1944 and discovered that the Allies achieved success attacking bridges in Italy in October and November of 1943 {158 Specifically, the results from Operation STRANGLE, the systematic interdiction of supply lines north of Rome, highlighted that the best way to cut lines of communication was by attacks on bridges.!45% These findings led the EOU to favor bridges over marshaling yards. They felt bridges were superior because it would accomplish the disruption of military supply movements more thoroughly than attacks on marshal- ing yards. The EOU teamed with operations research units to determine if bombers could effectively target and destroy bridges. {46%  The findings from this research indicated that bridges were not as difficult to hit as originally thought, especially when using medium rather than heavy bombers.“®! Second, whereas it only took days to repair marshaling yards, it took weeks to repair bridges. The EOU focused on effects rather than bombing efficiency. They reasoned, if only one bomb out of a thousand hit a bridge and dropped it, that was more preferable than having every bomb hit a marshaling yard and leaving a single line intact.2®! The objective was to stop trains and bridges provided the best opportunity to achieve that objective. Finally, since medium bombers were the best asset to use to strike bridges, this would free the heavy bombers to pursue strategic targets such as oil.463! Therefore, the EOU argued for a bridge campaign as they felt it provided the greatest opportunity to fulfill policy objectives.  From the EOU’s perspective, the best hope for the Allies to seal off the invasion area was the complete destruction of the bridges leading to northern France.!18! This required a major effort by the EOU to gather intelligence on the different routes and bridges in Fra