iary attacks that their neighboring cities had experienced. Some believed, for example, it was because there were so many Chris- tians. Many Japanese Americans came from Hiroshima; the city was a famous beauty spot; others, however, felt that their city was being saved for "something big". The final surge for peace began on the 26th of June, 1945 at the Imperial Conference with the Emperor. He took an ac- tive part and stated his desire to develop a plan to end the war as well as one to defend the home islands. This effort led to renewed efforts to involve the Soviet Union to intercede with the U.S. for peace. These efforts led to the Potsdam Declara- tion issued on 26 July 45. Russia declared war on 9 August 45. The atomic bomb permitted the army to state that no army without the weapon could possibly resist an enemy who had it, thus saving "face" for the army. In the Supreme War Council, voting still remained divided with Gen. Anami and the two Chiefs of Staff unwill ing to accept unconditional surrender. Studies showed that "the will to resist" was higher prior to 1 July 1945 in Hiroshima and Nagasaki than in other areas of Japan. Almost 40% testified to varying degrees of defeatism induced by the atom bomb. As a result of the atom bomb, 20% of those interviewed stated they hated the Americans for using the bomb. For Japan as a whole, the feelings were similar but less intense. Fear and terror, anger and hatred against the us- ers, admiration for the scientific achievement, these were some of the feelings of the Japanese people. The peace effort culminated in an Imperial Conference on the night of 9 August 1945 and continued into the early hours of 10 August 1945 for which the stage was set by the second atomic bombing and the Russian declaration of war. There is evidence that members of the Cabinet were worried by pros- pects of further atomic bombing especially on the remains of Tokyo. At this meeting, the Emperor stated he wanted accep- tance of the Potsdam te