since they were dug into the side of hills or below ground. On the ground, the air burst was described as (7) " ... a tremendous roaring sound was heard and a crushing blast and intense heat were felt. People of Nagasaki, even those on the outer edge of the blast, all felt as though they had sustained a direct hit and the whole city suffered damage as would result from direct hits everywhere. " ... we were amazed at the extent of destruc- tion, block after block had been flattened as if by a tornado. Strangely, however, I saw no sign of death. There was not many people on the streets in the heart of the city, and we saw none who had been wounded. The reason was never explained, but I assume that the survivors with, an efficiency characteristic of the Japanese, had done a swift clean up job and that the injured were being cared for Ground zero immediately below the detonation point in the Urakami area, was almost completely wiped out. For a short while after the explosion, no report came out of that area. People in adjacent areas reported conditions as if they received a direct hit ... " Outside the area where damage was heaviest, life was proceeding in an almost normal manner. The people were polite and didn't seem to think it unusual that American airmen were there so soon after the long war. Their attitude was an amazing reversal of the one that had prevailed so recently, when frenzied mobs had been known to attack and kill downed American airmen ... " Urakami area houses the Urikami tribe who converted to Catholicism in the 16th Century and were persecuted continu- ously since then by the Japanese authorities down to 1900 for practicing a foreign "cult" religion. Their cathedral received a direct hit and was shattered (See Fig 8). No fire storm was generated in Nagasaki and damage was confined to the Urakami River Valley which flows through the center of the city. The area of complete devastation was 1.8 sq. mi. The various esti- mates of persons killed and injur