e atomic bombings and they should peti- tion the Emperor to accept the Potsdam Declaration, an un- likely occurrence based on the Japanese psyche. In the Supreme War Guidance Council, a sort of inner cabinet, Gen. Anami's position was supported by the army and navy chiefs of staff who were represented on the Council. This body, therefore, was evenly divided with Gen. Anami, Gen. Umezu, Army chief of Staff and Adm. Toyoda, Navy Chief of Staff wanting to continue the war and Adm. Suzuki Prime Minister, Mr. Togo Foreign Minister and Adm. Yonai, Navy Minister for ending the war. At any time the military, especially the army, could bring down the government and possibly liquidate the antiwar members. The problem thus was to surrender despite the opposition of the three military members. How this was done without violent reaction from the army was to involve the Emperor. Since the military had fostered and lived on the idea that the Emperor was divine and required obedience, they could not effectively rebel if the Emperor wanted to surrender. For the inhabitants of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the prin- ciple reaction to the bomb was fear, uncontrolled terror, strengthened by the sheer horror of destruction and suffering witnessed and experienced by the survivors. Two typical reac- tions were: "aimless, even hysterical activity or flight from city to shelter and food". The effect of the atomic bomb on the inhabitant of Hiroshima and Nagasaki arose not only from its enormous power but also from the total surprise of the attack. The weather plane flights over both cities had the unintended effect of caus- ing lax air raid precaution procedures when the actual strike aircraft were over the target. The inhabitants of the cities had wondered why they were spared to date from the incendiary attacks that their neighboring cities had experienced. Some believed, for example, it was because there were so many Chris- tians. Many Japanese Americans came from Hiroshima; the city was a famo