ion for the 73rd BW (4). Flying in the lead plane of a formation at 32,000 feet were Col. R. T. King, Com- mander of the 500th BG and Col. Byron E. Brugge, A-3 Deputy Chief of Staff of the 73rd BW as observer, an unusual combi- nation for combat. The formation was met by 15 single en- gine Japanese fighters on their flight path, doubly unusual since it was quite rare to see a single engine Japanese fighter at that altitude, but by now the Japanese were well aware of the tar- get and had presumably a great deal of warning. The lead plane was hit and lost altitude and seven to eight crew mem- bers bailed out. Both colonels were captured; Col. Brugge died in captivity and Col. King was liberated at the end of the war. Another plane was destroyed leaving the target and four were missing. The toll on the B-29 engines flying in formation from Saipan to the edge of the Empire and then climbing to over 30,000 feet was very evident on this mission. Ten Japanese fighters were claimed, shot down by B-29 gunners, 13 B-29s were damaged. An unreported jet stream with 200 mile per hour winds was encountered at the bombing altitude. As de- scribed by Rust (8), another plane had an engine shot out with another engine losing oil and was being attacked by fighters. No other word was heard from this plane. Another plane, pi- loted by Capt. Francis J. Murray, was shot up over Tokyo but managed to elude the fighters and struggled back to within 300 miles of Saipan where it ditched. All but the co-pilot got out onto three life rafts on which they spent 10 days before being spotted by a PB4Y after they had fired their last flare. A de- stroyer picked them up the next day. Two other planes were damaged over Tokyo and ditched on the way back but no sur- vivors were recovered. Another plane was rammed by a Tony which damaged the No. 3 engine and had to drop out of the formation. The plane survived 131 fighter attacks and made it back to Isely Field. Some references give six planes lost on thi