y. Reading some of these books, one gets the impres- sion that an individual service or specialty won the war single-handedly. This is not my intention. Cooperation among the services was necessary to win, especially since we en- tered World War II (WWII) with fewer military resources than the enemy. It was our last Total War. Wars since have been limited, although at times vicious and lengthy. Going into WWII, air theorists stated wars could be won through air power and in Europe a strenuous effort was made in this direction, but it failed. The will of the Germans did not break and a full scale land invasion of Europe had to be mounted to confront the German army head on. Consequently, General Hap Arnold, Commander of the Army Air Force could not make a convincing argument that air power would defeat Japan. In fact, the army planned a land invasion for 1 November 45 on Kyushu Island, the southernmost of the Japanese home islands and a Spring 1946 invasion of the Kanto Plain - on which Tokyo is situated. But air power did defeat Japan although all services contributed to this effort. The Navy and Marines invaded and captured the Mariana Islands of Saipan, Tinian and Guam and finally Iwo Jima from which the B-29 campaign was launched. The B-29 effort can be broken down into six campaigns as follows: Precision bombing campaign, major fire raids, anti-Kamikaze campaign, mining campaign, minor fire raids and atom bomb. The main thrust of these campaigns was a strategic effort to undermine Japan's war-making capabilities. Their successes are recorded in archives and show that, before the atom bomb was dropped, there were no strategic targets left. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The author expresses gratitude for the assistance of the staff at the Air Force Historical Research Agency, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, especially Marvin Fisher and Mickey Russell. Their friendly support provided access to the extensive documents and photographs of the Air Force archives. The staff of the U