he Iwo Jima landing, the island selected for invasion in the Bonins-Volcano island group, was delayed until 19 February 1945 and Okinawa landing, the island selected in the Ryukyus group for invasion, was delayed until 1 April 1945. Since Okinawa was 300 miles from Kyushu, it was within the range of Japanese fighters and bombers. Japanese planes on Formosa were also within the range of Okinawa. Conse- quently, the Japanese bases on both Formosa (now Taiwan) and Kyushu would have to be neutralized before the attack on Okinawa. According to Craven and Cate (2), a meeting was held at Hollandia on New Guinea during November 1944 among the services to coordinate the atta . Colonel Willian Ball represented the Twentieth Air Force, Adm. Forre Sherman, POA (Pacific Ocean Area), M Gen. S. J. Cham berlain, SWPA (South West Pacific Ar ea), Brig. Gen. W. B Out of this conference Stone, IBC (India-Burma-China Area). ce would conduct the it was agreed that the Twentieth Air following operations for the coming Okinawa invasion: 1) photo reconnaissance of Okinawa by the XX and XXI Bomber Com- mands. 2) strike against the airfields on Formosa and Kyushu Arnold agreed but stated that airfields were not considered an appropriate target for a B-29 effort. He was presumably reluc- tant to decline since the Twentieth Air Force was in the Mariannas, in large measure thanks to the Navy's central Pa- cific axis of attack toward Japan. It was agreed that the XXI BC would hit the Kyushu airfields since no other airplane could hit the airfields until air bases were developed in the Ryukyus. The only exception was occasional strikes by carrier task force but during the invasion these carriers would be providing air cover and ground support during the first few weeks of the Okinawa campaign. wanted to conserve resources; men, planes and ammunition, for Operation Ketsu (Decisive Operation), the defense of the inner zone. The Navy, on the other hand, wanted to hit the Americans at the outer fringe