aki and damage was confined to the Urakami River Valley which flows through the center of the city. The area of complete devastation was 1.8 sq. mi. The various esti- mates of persons killed and injured are summarized in Table 2 and Reference 13. Under wartime conditions - fire, flight of entire families, destruction of official records, mass cremations - identifica- tion of dead and accurate count of casualties was impossible Despite the heat and absence of sanitary measures, no epidemio broke out. A census taken on 1 November 1945 found a popu- lation of 142,700 persons living in Nagasaki. In the town, the scene of destruction was greater than in Hiroshima although the actual area damaged was smaller. The built up city area was 4 sq. mi. The Nagasaki Prefectoral report states (7): Fortunately, the actual ground zero probably spared the POW camp which was in the downtown dock area and all but one prisoner survived. The aiming point may have been changed since some documents give the aiming point as the commercial district east of the harbor. The Mitsubishi ship yards, electrical equipment works, arms plant and steel works were the main industries in Nagasaki and employed 90% of the population. The Mitsubishi plants manufactured torpe- does for the Japanese navy, including those used so success- fully at Pearl Harbor. Despite directives from the USAF HQ not to hit Nagasaki, a "loose cannon" in the Far East Air Force scheduled five small raids by the 5th Air Force which dropped 270 tons HE, 58 tons IB and 20 tons of fragmentation bombs on Nagasaki. Altogether, 276 residential buildings and 21 industrial buildings were destroyed. The USSBS reported that, when the atom bomb hit, Nagasaki was comparatively intact. The main damage from the atom bomb was confined to the Urakami Valley (see Fig 9). Over 80% of the city's hospital beds and medical college were located within 3000 feet of ground zero and were completely destroyed. Reinforced build- ings in this range were st