aterials from her erstwhile Empire. As "terror raids", they may have been successful. One documented case involv- ing the attack on Sendai, witnessed by American POWs, was noted above. Certainly, the raids must have drove home even for the most isolated Japanese citizen, the hopelessness of their Greater East Asia War, despite a lifetime of propaganda re- garding the invincibility of the Japanese fighting forces. The raids themselves showed that there was to be no let up in the B-29 effort despite the reduced effectiveness, in a strategic sense, of the raids. Whether this had any effect on the Inner Circle deciding Japan's fate 20 feet below the Imperial Palace in Tokyo is problematical. Most of these individuals were con- vinced that the war was lost 12 to 18 months previously and were grappling with trying to build a consensus on the best way out of the war. As Westerners have learned in the last 50 years, the Japanese consensus building process is long and ar- duous and sometimes involving bloodshed. This was happen- ing in the rarefied atmosphere in the Emperor's presence, the god-man to most Japanese in that age. Debating surrender terms on one hand was Foreign Minister Togo who stated that Japan needed one victory, Okinawa was a hope, in order that he could bargain from a somewhat more advantageous position. The Imperial Army, on the other hand, with 2,000,000 men under arms untried in Japan, still wanted to fight, but Douhet had it right and the Emperor understood the situation. Douhet stated if you lose control of the air, your industrial bases and civilian population are at the mercy of air bombardment (14). And this is what it came down to! 14/15 August 1945 Normally, on 10 or 11 Aug 1945 the B-29's would be over the Empire, but word was that the Japanese had accepted the Potsdam Declaration. However, they were haggling over the peace terms, especially the status of the Emperor (12). The average B-29 crewman was unaware of all these developments and it too