res as described by Ugaki(10): " ... Army Headquarters re- connaissance aircraft dropped radar-deceiving tapes to the east." The mission summary table in Rust (5) indicated that on Mission No. 60 on this date, the 73rd BW hit Kanoya A/F with 29 A/C. Also on 8 April 45, Mission 60 - 61 from the same reference indicated that the 73rd/313th BW hit the Kyusha A/ F with 48 A/C. Combat Chronology (9) states that a mission of 48 B-29s was flown against Kanoya, Kanoya East and Kokubu airfields this date. All of this is true if the missions went as planned but, as noted above, they did not. During the onslaught, the American fleet lost or sustained damage to the carrier Hancock and battleship Maryland and 12 destroyers. The destroyers were doing picket duty (radar warning) around Okinawa (see Table 3). These losses were sufficient for Nimitz to consider the situation an emergency and required further B-29 strikes against Kyushu airfields. But, as the US Strategic Bombing Survey stated, there were over 50 airfields on Kyushu and, at best, the B-29 effort could only disrupt, but not completely stop, the Kamikaze strikes. lows: Adm. Ugaki described the attack on the A/F (10) as fol- "However, several enemy Groups approached from southeast of Toizaki around 1000 and dropped about 30 small bombs on a village a little distance from the airfield, hitting a farmer in the field and a schoolmaster of a grade school carrying the Emperor's portrait. It was a coor- dinated attack of enemy large type aircraft, an attack which should have been anticipated as our airplanes here were inflicting damage to the enemy invasion attempt of the southwest is- lands." These raids represented the death throws of the Japanese Navy. On 6 April 1945, the battleship Yamato sallied forth from its berth at Kobe Naval Base. It was spotted by a B-29 plane and reported to the Navy. Since Shimoneski Straits had been blocked by mining on 30 March 1945, the Yamato ven- tured out Bungo Strait, the southeast exit f