sh, Conant, Thomas, Lawrence (the physicist) and Laurence (New York Times reporter) at the base camp and most of the senior Los Alamos staff located on Campania Hill, 20 miles from ground zero. The Plutonium bomb went off at 5:30 a.m. on 16 July 1945. The sound rumbled through the New Mexico hills and could be heard 50 miles away. The light flash could be seen as far away as El Paso, Texas. To maintain security on the device, a cover story was released stating an ammunition dump had exploded. The message to Sec. Stimson was sent by Gen. Groves stating: "Operated on this morning. Diagnosis not yet complete but results seem satisfactory and already ex- ceed expectations. Local press release necessary as interest extends great distance. Dr. Groves pleased. He returns tomor- row. I will keep you posted." large release of energy. This was the gun-type bomb. The other principle was the implosion principle in which a com- pressive wave, initiated by shaped charges, forces the fissile material into a critical mass. The compressive wave generated in an implosion device brings together the subcritical masses faster than is available in a gun-type ordnance. The advan- tages of the gun-type bomb were that the technology was de- veloped and could be ordered "off the shelf", this was basically an engineering problem. The implosion device required more research and development before it could be used in a bomb. In the March 44 meeting, Groves told Arnold that the ap- proximate dimensions were about 2 feet in diameter and 6 foot long and was initially dubbed "Thin Man" (later renamed "Little Boy") and a shorter, stubbier gun-type bomb for Pu-239 dubbed "Fat Man". The expected bomb delivery dates were: one U- 235 bomb in January 1945 and one Pu-239 bomb in March of 1945. These were somewhat earlier than the official estimates but Groves presumably wanted the Air Force to be able to deliver the bomb when it was available. Groves, at that time, still be- lieved that the Germans were c