tegy in the secondary theater, the Pa- cific Theater. The Pacific war progressed in grand strategic terms along two axes: one, up New Guinea to the Philippines and, thence, Japan. The second axis was through the central Pacific from the Gilberts, Marshalls, Caroline Islands, Marianas and Formosa and, finally, Japan. If the Mariana Islands: Guam, Saipan and Tinian were captured, this would place us within bombing range of Japan in the shortest time. This axis was, in fact, the preferred one by Naval planners. Constantinople (now Istanbul) is an example of a city state that withstood many sieges from the Turks due to its superior provisions with large underground cisterns which could pro- vide it with water through long sieges. Gen. MacArthur, however, had other ideas which he pre- sented directly to President Roosevelt, an old friend whom he knew from his days as Chief of Staff in Washington, DC from 1932 to 1934. He stated we could not go back on our word to the Philippine people since he had stated upon leaving "I shall return". We must retake the Philippines which would also cut off the Japanese oil supply from the Netherlands East Indies (now Java). President Roosevelt agreed, but the central Pa- cific push under Adm. Nimitz went forward as well with the full support of the AAF since it would provide bases for the B- 29 thrust against Japan. Early Air Corps doctrine, as enunciated at the Air Corps Tactical School, was straightforward. The Air Corps would be comprised of four components: a pursuit component to clear the enemy skies; a bomber component to deliver bombs on selected targets; a fighter component to ward off the inevitable enemy reaction; and finally a reconnaissance component to survey the bombing damage. The Air Corps entered WWII with this broad scheme in place but, for various reasons, the pursuit/fighter component was not developed vigorously until late in WWII and almost cost us the air war in Europe since no pursuit/fighter plane was of sufficie