he implosion firing device unit on the night of 7 August by himself with an army technician to make the final connec- tions. He discovered that the cable was put in reverse with two male-to-male connectors and two female-to-female con- nectors. To reverse the cable would have required partly disassembling the implosion sphere and require a full day's operation. The window of good weather would be missed. He decided to improvise by exchanging the female and male connectors on the cable but this required using a soldering iron near the detonators, a clear safety violation. After checking the continuity at least five times to be sure he had connected the correct wires to the correct pins on the plugs, he connected the radar units to the firing units. The next day the implosion device was placed inside the two steel outer ellipsoids and bolted together (See Fig 3). The box tail assembly sprouted the radar antennae for the ground sensors. hospital with my father and mother. When I was tested, the number of white cells had gone down to 1900. I learned that the normal figure is about 7000. I thought I was dying but, since late fall, I gradually recovered and now I am fine". This is a classic hemopoietic symptom following a dose of about 100 to 300 rem, a sublethal dose. The white cells drop pre- cipitously and, if you can survive past the 30 to 35th day, you will generally recover. The ongoing study of atomic bomb survivors indicates there is an increasing chance of develop- ing solid cancer tumors later on in life from exposure to radia- tion. Nagasaki Bombing Mission 9 August 1945 The planning of the second atom bomb mission followed closely to that of the Hiroshima mission, furthermore, for maxi- mum psychological impact for the new weapon, it was desir- able to deliver the second atom bomb as close to the first as possible also to give the impression that there were many more to follow. However, at that time, there was fission- able material for only one plutonium (Pu)