down here after all our troubles, were set on fire and destroyed on the ground. These planes can't stay aloft longer than one hour and in a long raid are apt to be caught on the ground. He also states significantly that this point should be considered in bringing out the newly designed, rocket equipped interceptor, the debut of which is being awaited a great deal. He also stated an effective way of disposing of time-fused bombs had not yet been found. Airfields are said to be covered with small red flags indicating the existence of these bombs. They can't be disposed of as a dud too soon for some are time-fused for as long as 72 hours. He further stated that seven B-29s were shot down and more than twenty were damaged in the attack. 30 April 1945 It now mainly became an effort to keep the airfield run- ways pitted and the flyers in the air-raid shelters. Each airfield was hit in squadron strength with 10 to 12 aircraft. As summa- rized in Table 6, 56 aircraft hit the following air fields: Tachiarai, Kanoya, Kanoya East, Kokubu, Oita, Tomitaka, and Saeki. All air fields were previously hit. In total, 296 tons HE were dropped, averaging 42.3 tons per air field and 5.3 tons per air- craft. The latter figure is a high value considering the assem- bling in formation, but it indicates that the air crews were learn- ing how to conserve fuel on these 3,000 mile missions. On this day Ugaki sent his special attack corps against the US fleet between 1620 to 1745 and eight reported rammings on carriers and 11 on other vessels. He felt keen delight with this attack but it was completely erroneous as was most of the Kamikaze attack reports that he received as noted in Table 2. On 29 April 1945, two destroyers were damaged and a LCS 137 was damaged by a suicide boat. On this date we claimed to have shot down 30 Japanese fighters and our claims may have been inflated as well. It the case of the 330th BG, 13 aircraft were scheduled to attack Kanoya airfield. Nine aircraft were airbo