ining, as follows: Phase 1 Jan. 45 1400 Apr. 45 Training a) 15 February to 15 March 1945 b) 16 March to 31 March 1945 Partial blockade with stan- dard magnetic and acoustic mines Complete blockade with new type mines c) 1 April to 31 May 1945 d) 1 June to August 1945 Additional mining 440 3 99 This was impossible with the number of B-29s initially available to Hansell unless one should forego the earlier direc- tives from the Joint Target Committee which recommended the following: first priority -aircraft industry, second priority - urban areas and third priority - shipping. It would make sense to invert this listing only if no invasion of the Japanese Home Islands was planned. This was not the case and, furthermore, the winter months were supposed to provide the ideal weather for daylight raids. But, Arnold realized he owed a debt of grati- tude to the Navy for backing the Strategic Air Force concept and taking the Marianas and he might have believed, as re- counted by Craven and Cate (5), that if the Air Force did not supply the planes for mining that the Navy might develop their own long range air capability for this purpose. Arnold issued an order to Hansell on 22 December 1944 stipulating that, starting March 45, the XXI Bomber Command was to supply the B-29s for a mining campaign to blockade Japanese home islands. The Navy was to supply the mines and technical ex- pertise for assembling and arming the mines. First, the air crews had to be trained in mining techniques. All air mining by the XX Bombing Co mand was done at night but on many of these missions the mines were dropped visually on moonlit nights, as was more common in that the- ater. This was a limitation and an added hazard over the Em- pire. Consequently a radar drop technique was developed with an initial point and aiming point as given on a radar scope with the mines released in a timed sequence. In addition, the ballis- tics of the mine drops were entirely different since the mines were dropped b