age and casualties, the 13 March raid was the most effective as noted in the Table. But, in strategic terms, that is damage to the industries, the latter strikes were more effective according to the USSBS (13). The March attack fell on the administrative and public service sector of Osaka and the 1, 7 and 15 June raids were most effective against the in- dustrial capacity of the city. The initial March attack hit the regional office of the munitions industry had a paralyzing ef- fect from which the region never fully recovered. Disrupted by the initial attack, was the commercial center including many small subcontractors, but the major production factories re- mained intact. This can be verified by the energy usage in the Osaka region which was still at 50 million kW-hr in April and May but dropped dramatically to 7 million kW-hr in July or 10%.of the January 1945 value. Through-rail facilities were undamaged and practically all port facilities were untouched after the March raid. The ensuing 75 day hiatus until the re- newed attacks in June provided time for recovery and prepara- tion for further attacks. The level of damage, while not as great as the March attack damage, the industrial damage was much greater as a result of the June attacks. If the larger war plants had not depended on small factories for components and could have coped with the indirect effects of the raid such as absenteeism, they would have been able to meet their produc- tion schedule. It was stated by the USSBS (13) that the de- cline was far beyond the physical damage to the factories. 14. Carter, Kit C. and Robert Mueller, Combat Chronology, 1941 - 1945, Center for Air Force History, Washington, DC, 1991. 15. Togo, Shigenori, The Cause of Japan, Translated and ed- ited by Togo Fumihiko and Ben Bruce Blakeney, Simon and Schuster, New York (1956). Fig. 1 - Nakajima Aircraft Co. Subcontractors THE DISTRIBUTION OF SUBCONTRACTORS FACTORIES OF THE KOIZUMI PLANT. NAKAJIMA AIRCRAFT S . BEFORE THE D