witz. The latter's theory dictated that for one country to impose her will on another country demanded the destruction of the other's military forces which, for many nations, meant its ground forces. But for a few island nations, such as Great Britain and Japan, it also meant its Naval forces. The great land armies surged back and forth over Europe during the 19th century resulted in a few notable land battles such as Napoleon's defeat in taking Moscow and our Civil War with Gettysburg being a memorable battle. Napoleon started for Moscow with 435,000 troops in June 1812 and returned with fewer than 10,000 able bodied troops. At Gettysburg, the Union Army had 23,049 casualties out of 88,289 troops en- gaged (26.1%) and the Confederate Army had 28,088 ca- sualties out of 75,000 troops (37.5%) engaged (Livermore). The Somme offensive in March 1918 caused 300,000 Brit- ish casualties during WWI. Altogether, all combatants had a grand total of 37,494,186 casualties. (See table on fol- lowing page.) to give one side or the other an advantage in the "chess game" between nations. The airplane was introduced on the Western Front in WWI. Together with the dirigible and balloons, these lighter-than-air and heavier-than-air craft were used for bombardment, intelli- gence gathering behind enemy lines and artillery spotting. Planes are still used for intelligence gathering and artillery spotting and dirigibles were found to be very effective in spotting German U- boats during WWII. Every weapon system brings with it a de- fense system. In the case of the spotter planes, fighter planes were developed to eliminate the intelligence gathering planes. The opposition's planes were then sent up to protect spotter planes. and thus ensued the more recently romanticized WWI air battles. During WWI, the Germans bombed London and Paris and. just as the war ended, the Allies were preparing to bomb Ber- lin. General Billy Mitchell commanded the American Air Corps and tactics were developed to