flets and 101,000 newspapers over Japan's heavily populated areas. July Fire Raids 1/2 July 1945 After a three day interval, B-29's bombed Kure, Kumamoto, Ube and Shimonoseki. Damage ranged from 20% to Kumamoto to 46% to Kure (See Table 2). The 58th BW History (3) stated that there was 8/10 cloud cover over Kure for the first two groups with accurate flak, but for the last two groups over the target the city was seen through The plane lost from the 73rd BW had on board Sgt. Kurt Hermann, a gunner from Long Island, NY, who was a veteran gunner from the air wars in Europe. He volunteered for an- other tour in the Pacific and, up to the Kochi mission, survived 107 combat missions. He was on his 32nd mission of his Pa- 99 83  PERFORATED PAPER PROUDY was reported to be moderate but inaccurate with one B-29 lost. Six planes received minor flak damage with one injured crew member. cific tour and had three more missions to go before returning to the States. In a letter to his father, quoted in the New York Times, he stated: " ... a bit tired of getting shot at. I hope to finish this tour of duty soon ... I might add, the war has lost most of its interest for me, as now it is just a question of time ... I can't help but think that it would be sort of silly of me to get killed now." USSBS (8) states that 73rd BW attack on Sakai urban area caused extensive damage to the Kawasaki aircraft plant. According to the 314th BW History (7) the night was clear over the target, Gifu, and 98 aircraft bombed visually after the target was marked by pathfinder planes. Damage and destruc- tion was estimated to be 74% of Gifu. Nine attacks by Jap aircraft damaged one B-29. One plane caught fire between Rota and Saipan and the crew bailed out and everyone was rescued by the Air/Sea Rescue Service. 12/13 July 1945 Sensing that the Japanese may be "on the ropes", LeMay sent his crews out again three nights later to raid Utsunomiya, Ichinomya, Tsuruga and Uwajajima. One plane from the 58th BW dit