p and was one of only a very few in the bomb group that knew some of the ac- tual facts regarding the new ordnance. A unit was added to accomplish in the field the various specialized tasks that were needed to assemble the bombs. Specialist in machining, weld- ing and munitions handling were obtained from the entire Army roster and were assigned to the composite group. The com- posite group was designed to be a self sufficient group with its own transport element, the 320th Troop Carrier Squadron that could ferry personnel and equipment between the Marianas and the U.S. The 603rd Air Engineering Squadron and the 1027th Air Material Squadron provided aircraft maintenance supply and modification where it was necessary. The 1 Tech- nical Detachment, War Department, Miscellaneous Group was He took several months assembling a staff for the com- plex task of delivering the atomic bomb on the enemy. In ef- fect, a bomb of unknown explosive power had to be assembled from scratch 10,000 miles from Los Alamos, New Mexico where the fissionable material was assembled. This necessi- tated the assembly of specialists on Tinian from various disci- plines. "Tibbets participated in the first American bombardment raid against Nazi-occupied Europe on 17 August 1942. This raid was against the railroad marshallino yards in Rouen, France initiating the American daylight precision bombing campaign in Europe. He rose to be Group Operations Officer of the 97th Bombardment Group which participated in the European and North African campaigns. His pilot skills were recognized early and he ferried Gen. Mark Clark on his famous mission to Vichy-French officials in an attempt to keep them out of the North African campaign and he piloted Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower to Gibraltar for the North African campaign, code named Torch. He rose to 12th Air Force Staff Operations Officer but crossed swords with Col. (at the time) Lauris Norstad, Chief of Operations and was transferred back to the States by Gen