jects. However, it is according to the dictate of time and fate that We have resolved to pave the way for a grand peace for all the generations to come by enduring the unendurable and suffering what is insufferable. "To our good and loyal subjects: After ponder- ing the general trends of the world and the actual conditions obtaining in our Empire today, We have decided to effect a settlement of the present situation by resorting to an extraordinary measure. We have ordered our government to communi- cate to the Governments of the United States, Great Britain, China and the Soviet Union that our Empire accepts the provisions of their Joint Declaration. To strive for the common prosperity and happi- ness of all nations, as well as the security and well being of our subjects in the solemn obligation which has been handed down by our Imperial ancestors, and in which We lay close to heart. Indeed, We de- clared war on America and Britain out of our sincere desire to ensure Japan's self preservation and stabi- Having been able to safeguard and maintain the structure of the Imperial State, We are always with ye, Our good and loyal subjects, relying upon your sincerity and integrity. Beware most strictly of any outburst of emotion which may engender needless complications, or any fraternal contentions and strife which may create confusion, lead ye astray and cause ye to lose confidence of the world. Let the entire nation continue as one family from generation to generation ever firm in its faith of the imperishable- ness of its divine land and mindful of its heavy bur- den of its responsibilities and the long road before it. Unite your total strength to be devoted to the con- struction of the future, cultivate the ways of recti- tude, foster nobility of spirit and work with resolu- tion so as ye enhance the innate glory of the Imperial State and keep pace with the progress of the world." 105  Fig. 3 - Plutonium bomb dubbed "Fat Man." PAPER PRODUST . Unit History, 509th Comp