what earlier than the official estimates but Groves presumably wanted the Air Force to be able to deliver the bomb when it was available. Groves, at that time, still be- lieved that the Germans were close to getting the bomb and they had to accelerate every part of the project to beat the Germans. Laboratory tests had confirmed the theory on the gun type Uranium-235 ordnance. No actual test of the Uranium-235 bomb was necessary. The only problem was getting it to the 509th BG on Tinian and it was transported in two parts. One part was sent by plane to Tinian. The other part was taken to San Francisco and placed on board the heavy cruiser India- napolis. This ship was completing repairs from a Kamikaze attack off Okinawa (6). The Uranium-235 in the bullet assem- bly and the Little Boy gun assembly were delivered to Tinian on 26 July 1945. The Uranium-235 target assembly was sent in three parts by C-54. The Indianapolis continued on to Leyte Gulf. She was to be part of training maneuvers under Admiral McCormick preparatory for the Kyushu invasion. In a twist of fate, a Japanese sub I-54 shot six torpedoes at the ship on 29 July 1945 and she went down within minutes. The cruiser was an old warship and lacked sonar. Approximately 800 survi- vors made it into the water but due to a lapse in naval proce- dure the ship was never reported missing. A naval patrol plane spotted some survivors on the 2nd of August about 80 hours after the sinking and 318 survivors were picked up. 500 stranded men lost their lives to the sharks, ocean depths and Naval ineptitude. A court-martial accused the Captain Mac Vay of not zig zagging but the Jap sub commander brought from Japan for the trial stated he would have gotten the cruiser whether she was taking evasive action or not. What was obvi- ous was a lapse in procedure. She was to have become part of a task force which was out on training exercises. When the ship did not show up the task force commander assumed she was de- layed en rout