n formation and then encounter- ing clouds over targets and generally poor bombing results was having an effect on morale (8). Initially, there was concern about sending planes in individually and how well the crews would do was a concern but it evaporated with the impressive results. Placing more responsibility on each crew member es- pecially the navigator, radar operator and bombardier who were better trained than one might have supposed with the poor re- sults achieved on the precision target missions to date. Part of the blame could be placed on formation flying and wing crew members relying on the lead crew navigator and bombardier. Wing bombardiers and navigators were not attentive to details and, if the formation broke up, there was considerable confu- sion and generally poor results. On the ground there was bed- lam. The area hit was a mixed industrial, commercial and resi- dential area. Eighteen percent of the industrial district includ- ing 22 plants with assigned target numbers, 63% of the commer- cial district and the entire residential area were destroyed (See Fig 6). Over 26,7000 buildings were destroyed, about 25% of Tokyo's buildings. It was estimated that 83,000 persons were killed as a result of this fire raid, the highest single day death toll during the war, exceeding even the number killed in the 6 August 1945 atom bomb attack on Hiroshima of 70,000. Crews landed between 7 am to 12 noon on Saturday morning 10 March 1945 and the planes were made ready in about 32 hours for the next mission, Sunday night 11 March 1945, to Nagoya. tion in 1945. Intervelometer settings were returned to 50 foot interval and all three BW's were instructed to put all planes over the target as close together as feasible. With no lag be- tween the waves of planes it is estimated that in the first two hours two planes per minute were over the target. Osaka was generally cloud covered and most runs were made by radar although 314th BW had nine pathfinder planes. The damag