bomb- ing in formation (4). In accordance with the precision bombing theory it is de- sirable to select a component of an industry which is highly concentrated at a few selected targets. The most famous at- tempt in this direction was the Schweinfurt raid by the 8th Air Force against the ball bearing plant upon which so much of the German rolling stock was dependent. In Japan, the equivalent case was thought to be the aircraft engine production. The two major producers of aircraft engines were Nakajima Aircraft Co. which produced 30% of all aircraft engines in 1944 at their Musashino (Target No. 357), Omura and Hamamatsu plants totaling 3,550,000 sq. ft. (0.13 sq. mi.). Mitsubishi produced 33% of all aircraft engines, half of which were produced in a Nagoya plant (Target No. 198) totaling 3,800,000 sq. ft. (0.14 sq. mi.). The aircraft propeller production was also highly con- centrated in four plants but, initially, were not as vigorously attacked. Subcontractors and small cottage industries accounted for 29% of the total production of these major plants. Precision daylight bombing had its detractors. British Bomber Command (3), after an initial go at daylight bombing, gave it up due to excessive losses. Bomber losses over 10% of the committed force were assumed to be unsustainable for an extended period. British BC, therefore, turned to night area bombing by single planes. They used a so-called Pathfinder plane technique to mark the target with flares and follow on bombers would drop on these flares. The Pathfinder crews were more highly skilled in night navigation and target identi- fication. Coming in at night permitted the planes to be lightly armored and fly at lower altitude which yielded a higher pay- load. Consequently, urban areas were firebombed with greater efficiency. This meant that the ultimate target was the morale of the civilian population. Hansell selected the Musashino aircraft engine plant for the initial strike against the Empire. This was the f