u. All these cities had numbered industrial targets important to the Japa- nese war effort but, more importantly, these attacks might have a demoralizing effect on the Japanese population and reduce their "will to resist". This was in keeping with Douhet's doc- trine and also Air Force bombing doctrine that in the late stages of a bombing campaign, morale is a legitimate target. In Eu- rope, the AAF took the high ground and stated that all its bomb- ing was aimed at legitimate industrial or transportation targets, hit in daylight raids. "Bomber" Harris stated explicitly that his area bombing had German morale as a target, sometimes called "terror raids". He also disdained any specific target system, he called them "panacea targets" (such as oil, aircraft or ball bear- ings), beloved by planners who avowed that their elimination would shut down the enemy's war economy (1). require multi-Wing efforts and consequently were attacked in single Wing effort and occasionally in multi-group efforts. In June and July, the fire raids were scheduled every second or third night. It was realized that at such a rate all available crews would be used up and, therefore, the effort could not be sustained for many months. Implementation June Fire Raids 17/18 June 1945 The first in this series of fire raids against minor Japanese cities occurred on the night of 17/18 June 45 when the four BWs attacked Kagoshima, Omuta, Hamamatasu and Yokkaichi. The particulars of these raids are summarized in Table 1. Each of these minor cities had populations over 100,000 and urban areas from 3.51 to 5.39 sq. mi. Damage to Hamamatasu was 70% of the built up area. Hamamatsu was a target of opportu- nity for many missions since the start of the XXI BC effort. It was an easily identified radar target since it sat close to the coast with good urban area contrast with the surrounding re- gion. It was continually plastered until the end of the war. LeMay complained (2) to Halsey that it was not necessary to