dence that members of the Cabinet were worried by pros- pects of further atomic bombing especially on the remains of Tokyo. At this meeting, the Emperor stated he wanted accep- tance of the Potsdam terms. It is believed in the atomic bomb- ing the Japanese found the opportunity which they had been seeking to break the existing deadlock in the government over acceptance of the Potsdam terms and, in fact, the Imperial re- script and the Prime Minister Suzuki's proclamation accepting surrender terms explicitly mentioned the atom bomb as one of the reasons for capitulation. The feeling of defeatism ran as high as 40% in the atomic bombed cities but only 28% of Japan outside these cities at- tributed defeat to the bombings. This is understandable since 74% of the Japanese in general prior to 1 July 1945 had doubts about a Japanese victory; 47% were convinced that a Japanese victory was impossible and 34% felt they could not go on with the war; other factors contributed to this attitude. Other raids over Japan were more important; the defeat at Saipan, Philip- pines and Okinawa, food shortages and attendant malnutrition. It was the opinion of the USSBS that the atomic bomb had more effect on the thinking of government leaders than on the morale of the general population outside the target cities. It Comparison of Atomic Bombing with Incediary Attacks Table 3 shows the comparison between damaged caused by the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the in- cendiary attack of 9/10 March 1945 on Tokyo, and the average effect of 93 fire raids by the Twentieth Air Force. To effect comparable damage in a conventional B-29 raid would have required for Hiroshima 400 tons HE, 1200 tons IB and 500 tons of fragmentation bom bombs and Nagasaki would require 675 tons of HE, 225 tons IB and 300 tons of fragmentation bombs. Each B-29 carried a maximum load of 7 tons, it would require a force of 300 B-29s for Hiroshima and 1 and 171 B-29s for Nagasaki to effect comparable damage. The 2