during this strike four hours prior to strike time and four hours subsequent to strike time, except for one routine weather plane of this command. In no case will any friendly A/C fly at any time in the smoke column resulting from this strike. 2. An incipient storm developing southeast of Iwo Jima and moving west, concurrent with the current strike by other aircraft of this command, necessi- tates scheduling this strike A/C west of Iwo Jima on the route to the target. 3. Primary target: Kokura arsenal and city. Secondary target: Nagasaki area, Mitsubishi Steel and Arms Works. 4. Force involved: Strike force three aircraft Spare: one A/C to standby on Iwo Jima in case of abort. Weather: two A/C, one to each target; broadcast weather over each target between 0915 K to 0945 K. 5. Bombing altitude: 28,000 to 30,000 feet A young naval ensign, B. O'Keefe on the implosion as- sembly team, stated " ... with the success of the Hiroshima weapon, the push to be ready with the much more complex implosion device became excruciating. We sliced off another day, scheduled it for August 10. Everyone felt that the sooner we could get off another mission the more likely it was that the Japs would feel that we had a large quantity of devices and would surrender sooner. We were certain that one day saved would mean that the war would be over one day sooner. Liv- ing on the island with planes going out every night and people dying and not only the B-29s shot down but in naval engage- ments all over the Pacific, we knew the importance of one 6. Post strike photos: two, F-13 A/C will enter target area 4 hours after bombs away and will not pass Iwo Jima without clearance. If they do not re- ceive notice of which target has been bombed, they will photograph each target, in case of Kokura, plane will also get post strike photos of Yawata. Field Order issued by Lt. Gen. Twinning, 20th AF. 100 The assigned aircraft are given as follows: AIRCRAFT NO. VICTOR NO. (Weather mission) 232 347 APCO TAR