A picture of Krantz dangling from the plane is shown in Figure 2. Preliminary Raids 4 February 1945 One of the reasons that Gen. Haywood Hansell was canned was that he stuck to his bombing philosophy despite urging from Washington Headquarters to vary tactics and do more area bombing. Hansell believed, based on 8th Air Force re- sults compared to the British Bomber Command (BC) results, that the 8th Air Force had a much greater effect on German ability to prosecute the war. The results of Bomber Harris' tactics, therefore, were on Hansell's side but Arnold wanted more bombs on target. But as one analyst put it, weather was the Japanese' most effective weapon against the B-29s preci- sion raids. This was a daylight fire raid in formation with two Bomb Wings participating, the 73rd BW and the inaugural combat mission for the 313th BW. Sixty-nine planes deposited 159 tons IB and 14 tons of fragmentation bombs on Kobe's urban area from 24,500 to 27,000 feet. Two B-29s were lost, one from the 313th and one from the 73rd. As described by Rust (4), the latter plane was jumped by Japanese fighters, killing the pilot and injuring the radar operator. But, the plane got away from the Empire and limped back, first on three engines, then two and finally ditched 60 miles from Saipan. Everyone got out of the plane before it sank with the pilot. Enemy fighter attacks were vigorous with claims of four downed, 20 prob- able and 39 damaged. Burned out was approximately 57.4 acres of Kobe. General Curtis E. LeMay, however, was more flexible and prepared his crews through additional training for area incen- diary bombing. Several preliminary raids were run with the object of de- termining the most suitable tactic to be employed. One tactic involved high altitude daylight bombing in formation. This was being used with high explosives (HE) against industrial targets with little success and was tried against urban area tar- gets with incendiary bombs (IB). 25 February 1945 Mission No. 38 w