ar attention to the problems of securing a sup- ply of uranium ore for the United States. t present being car- b) to speed up the experimental work, which is a ried on within the limits of budgets of University laboratories, by provid- ing funds, if such funds be required, through his contacts with private per- sons who are willing to make contributions for this cause, and perhaps also by obtaining the co-operation of industrial laboratories which have the necessary equipment. I understand that Germany has actually stopped the sale of uranium from the Czechoslovakian mines which she has taken over. That she should have taken such early action might perhaps be understood on the ground that the son of the German Under-Secretary of State, von Weizaecker, is attached to the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut in Berlin where some of the Ameri- can work on uranium is now being repeated. Yours very truly (signed) A. Einstein fukuokao Kobe "voto o Nagoya G. · Osak Yokohama Nogasek SHIKOKU KYUSHU EAST OSUMI ISLANDS CHINA SEA ASLANDS PACIFIC OCEAN VOLCANO ISLANDS THE ATOMI OF JAF August 15 Hiroshima bomza Nagasaki bombını Site of bomb dros MARIANA ISLANDS Saipan Tinian Guam Fig. 5 - Atomic bombing strike routes. 107 106  Fig. 4 - Authorization to use Atomic Bomb Fig. 6 - Hiroshima Post-Strike Photo TO: General Carl Spaatz Commanding General United States Army Strategic Air Force 1. The 509 Composite Group, 20th Air Force will deliver its first special bomb as soon as weather will permit visual bombing after about 3 August 1945 on one of the targets: Hiroshima, Kokura, Niigata and Nagasaki. To carry military and civilian scientific personnel from the War Department to observe and record the effects of the explosion of the bomb, additional aircraft will accompany the airplane carrying the bomb. The observing planes will stay several miles distant from the point of impact of the bomb. 2. Additional bombs will be delivered on the above targets as soon as made ready by the project staff. Fur