1,911 feet (580 meters) above and almost in the center of the city and the flat terrain made the expanding blast and heat waves vaporize everything within one mile of ground zero (see Figure 6). The only exceptions were reinforced concrete buildings which remained standing but their contents were, in most instances, destroyed. Several Japanese on the ground saw the initial blue flash of the atomic explosion. Those in the open received flash burns and their skin peeled off in big pieces and was hanging from their face and necks. Fires started and merged and a fire storm devel- oped about 2 to 3 hours after the explosion with in-rushing wind velocities of 30 to 40 mph resulting in a circular shaped burned out area. The blast wave caused many wooden struc- tures to collapse, trapping people. In many instances, the struc- ture burned before a person could be rescued. The 12.5 kilo- ton TNT equivalent explosion totally devastated an area 1.7 miles from ground zero and damage buildings in an arc 1.7 miles (2.8 km) to 2.5 miles (4 km). Flash burns occurred out to about 1.9 miles (3 km) from ground zero. Persons in this zone also received high doses of radiation. Many persons in the city at the time were trapped in collapsed buildings, plus the fire storm which ensued, leading to the high casualty rate. Casualty estimates range from 66,000 to 80,000 dead or miss- ing. This was approximately 32% of the population in the city at the time (See Table 2). As described by A. Hiroguki's daughter (9) who was on a trolley in Hiroshima and saw re- flections of the blue flash, was uninjured but felt sick on 9/10 August 1945. She had "atomic disease symptoms". "Spots broke out here and there on my skin, my body felt dull. I had fever. I lost appetite. For a long time, I commuted to the .. it is an atomic bomb. We are now prepared to obliterate more rapidly and completely every pro- ductive enterprise the Japanese have above ground in any city ... Let there be no mistake, we shall compl