in place but, for various reasons, the pursuit/fighter component was not developed vigorously until late in WWII and almost cost us the air war in Europe since no pursuit/fighter plane was of sufficient range to accompany the bombers. The bomber component was pushed vigorously and provided the Air Corps with the B-17s, dubbed the Flying For- tress due to its armament. The presumption being that its ar- mament was sufficient to protect it against the fighters which proved to be inadequate in the face of formidable fighter oppo- sition. Originally, B-29s were to be stationed in India and flown on missions to Japan from forward bases in China. The base were located in Cheng-Tu, but the major industrial centers of Osaka, Nagoya and Tokyo were out of reach of the B-29s with their approximately 1,500 mile combat flying radius. This operating radius brought only the island of Kyushu and cities such as Yawata, a steel making town, within range. Aerial bombing, as a weapon system, can be pursued at two levels: precision target bombing or area bombing. Area bombing normally means bombing population centers. To be effective, populations centers should also be command and control centers as well as economic and transportation centers. Consequently, first London and then Berlin and finally Tokyo were leveled or attempts were made to level these centers dur- ing WWII. The Marianas provided the operating base for the XXI BC which was located on Guam and directed the air offensive against Japan. It was also used as a base for neutralizing by- passed island chains such as Truk Island and Marcus Island The Marianas were invaded in June 1944 following directives from the JCS on 12 March 1944. The purpose was primarily to provide a base for the air offensive against Japanese home is- lands of Kyushu, Honshu and Shikoku and a base for the west- ern naval thrust. Based upon European experience it was as sumed that fighter escort would be needed and therefore Iwo Jima was captured to prov