ing this separation had been many deaths due to radium poisoning but the fission byproducts from a Pu production reactor were estimated to be in the range of millions of curies - this was the problem. Du Pont was given the job of building the facilities, both the production reactors and the hot cells for separating Pu from uranium. Meanwhile, the letter led to the initiation of a nuclear pro- gram. A modest grant was provided and nuclear physics re- search picked up at Columbia University, Princeton Univer- sity, University of Chicago and University of California at Berkeley. Nothing dramatic happened until Pearl Harbor and we were involved in a two front war. Nuclear research led to the establishment of some salient facts that had only been speculation previously. First, fission occurred in natural uranium in several isotopes. Uranium- 235 fissioned with fast and thermal neutrons. Uranium-238 fissions with fast neutrons only. Plutonium-239, a man made isotope, also fissioned with fast and thermal neutrons. Most dramatically, fission itself is a self sustaining reaction since one - two neutrons are released per fission. By controlling The availability of fissionable material drove the sched- ule for the delivery of the ordnance. In March 44, when Gen. Groves met with Gen. Arnold on the status of the atomic bomb, two types of ordnance were under consideration. The first type consisted of a long barrel in which two chunks of fissile mate- rial are slammed together to form a critical mass causing a 99 94 95  PAPER PRODUCTS ROAKTIE and stated that the test might be run on 16 July 1945. Most of the principle players assembled at the test site in southern New Mexico. Farreil, Oppenheimer, Bainbridge and Hubbard were located in the 10,000 yard observation bunker and Groves, Bush, Conant, Thomas, Lawrence (the physicist) and Laurence (New York Times reporter) at the base camp and most of the senior Los Alamos staff located on Campania Hill, 20 miles from ground zero. The Pl