b Wing (composed of four BG in the MPI 20th Air Force; three BG in the 8th Air Force) M.Sgt. Master Sergeant Naval Seaplane Pacific Ocean Area POA POW Prisoner of War Radio Detecting And Ranging Radar Countermeasures Sergeant Sgt. S.Sgt. Staff Sergeant Serial Number Super Dumbo B-29 Air-Sea rescue plane South West Pacific Area SWPA T.Sgt. Technical Sergeant Enemy Aircraft TO Target of Opportunity Early Warning USS United States Ship Fighter Command USSBS U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey Fire of an anti-aircraft gun derived from the German Fliegerabwehrkanone VH Very Heavy (sometimes used to designate a B-29 unit) Women's Air Service Program World War I 1914-1918 World War II 1939-1945 (for U.S. 1941-1945) tude, sometimes called Zulu Time) WWII Zulu Time (same as Greenwich Mean Time) 2 3  FOREWORD This is the story of the B-29 effort toward the defeat of the Japanese in World War II. The bombing campaign was concentrated in the last 7.5 months of the war from 1 January to 15 August 1945. Germany was not defeated until 9 May 1945 and, consequently, in terms of grand strategy during World War II, the Pacific was considered a secondary theater until victory in Europe was attained. The Pacific Theater was mainly a naval and air cam- paign. Over the last 50 years, all military branches have published extensive reports on their contributions toward winning the war. One of the outstanding contributions was cryptoanalysis which broke the Japanese codes. Radar was a major contribution and has been detailed by Harold Guerlac. The Corps of Engineers published a volume on the Man- hattan Engineer District and the atom bomb. Samuel Eliot Morison published the Navy's story in 14 volumes. Craven and Cate published the Air Force story, mainly in terms of command structure and grand strategy. Reading some of these books, one gets the impres- sion that an individual service or specialty won the war single-handedly. This is not my intention. Cooperation among the services was necessary to