of other na- tions or to embark on territorial aggrandizement. But now the war has lasted for nearly four years. De- spite the best that has been done by everyone - the gallant fighting of military and naval forces, the dili- gence and assiduity of our servants and the devoted service of Our one hundred million people - the war situation has developed not necessarily to Japan's advantage, while the general trends of the world have all turned against her interest. Moreover, the enemy has begun to employ a new and most cruel bomb, the power of which to do damage is indeed incalcu- lable taking the toll of many innocent lives. Should We continue to fight, it would not only result in an ultimate collapse and obliteration of the Japanese nation, but also it would lead to the total extinction of human civilization. Such being the case how are We to save the millions of Our subjects or to atone Ourselves before the hallowed spirits of Our Impe- rial ancestors? This is the reason why We have or- dered the acceptance of the provisions of the Joint Declaration of the Powers. We cannot but express the deepest sense of re- gret to our Allied nations of East Asia, who have consistently cooperated with the Empire toward the emancipation of East Asia. The thought of those officers and men, as well as others who have fallen in the fields of battle, those who died at their post of duty, or those who met with untimely death and all their bereaved families, pains Our heart night and day. The welfare of the wounded and the war-suf- ferers and of those who have lost their homes and livelihood are the subject of Our profound solicitude. The hardships and sufferings Our nation is to be sub- jected hereafter will be certainly great. We are keenly aware of the inmost feelings of all ye, Our subjects. However, it is according to the dictate of time and fate that We have resolved to pave the way for a grand peace for all the generations to come by enduring the unendurable and suffering what i