ial point and aiming point as given on a radar scope with the mines released in a timed sequence. In addition, the ballis- tics of the mine drops were entirely different since the mines were dropped by parachute presumably because the mecha- nisms were so sensitive that a free fall drop would damage these mechanisms. Training began with four to eight flights involving five radar approaches on each flight. On the last radar training flight, actual mines were dropped. More than the air crew, the ordinance crews needed training in loading the mines. All of this training took place from Jan 1945 to Mar 27, 1945, when the first mining mission occurred against the Empire by the 313th Bomb Wing, Brig. Gen. Davies, CO. To increase bomb load, Le May removed 50 caliber machine gun ammunition except for tail guns and two crew members. flown at lower altitudes. This brought to a close the Okinawa support phase of the mining campaign. The initial mining phase caught the Japanese flatfooted. While mines were used by the Allies: American, British and Australian, in the ports especially around Sumatra and Borneo to bottle up their tanker fleet from 1942 onward, countermea- sures were handled locally and Japanese Naval High Command was totally unprepared to counter a sophisticated mining cam- paign. Initially, the vital Shimoneseki Straits was closed com- pletely for two days and the other ports were closed preventing the sending of reinforcements to the Okinawa garrison. Orders On 11 March 1945, LeMay ordered Davies to conduct two missions at Wing strength designated appropriately Starvation I and II between 22 March through 27 March 1945. This was later changed to 27 March through 1 April 1945. The object was to close Shimoneseki Straits to shipping traffic and also to close the ports of Kure, Hiroshima, and Sasebo. These three ports would be important in supplying naval ships and army troops for any support operation to the Japanese garrison on Okinawa, which was to be invaded on