it is an atomic bomb. We are now prepared to obliterate more rapidly and completely every pro- ductive enterprise the Japanese have above ground in any city ... Let there be no mistake, we shall completely destroy Japan's power to make war. .if they (Japan's rulers) do not now accept our terms, they may now expect a ... rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been seen on this earth ... " The statement had been prepared in advance and released by President Truman's press officer as the President was on the Atlantic en route from the Big Three meeting in Pottsdam. Estimates of the bomb's explosive force, height and loca- tion of detonation have been the object of several studies. These estimates are summarized in Table 2. Fig. 6 shows ground zero approximately 530 feet (160 meters) southeast of the fa- mous Hiroshima Peace Dome (See Fig. 7). Post strike photo analysis on 11 August 1945 indicated the following: Built up area 4.1 sq. mi. destroyed, 0.6 sq. mi. damaged and total area destroyed and damaged 4.7 sq. mi. for 68.5% of the Hiroshima built up area(7). Specific targets de- stroyed or damaged: Army food depot 25% damaged, east Hiroshima railroad station and yards minor damage, Army Division HQ 100% destroyed, Taikoku textile mill 100% dam- aged, Signal Corps 2nd Company 12% destroyed and 55% damaged,(7). 99  PAPER PRODUCTS day. The Indianapolis' sinking also had a strong effect on us. But, cutting two full days increased the probability of a mis- hap." O'Keefe stated further "the scientific staff, dog tired, met and warned Parsons that cutting two full days would pre- vent us from completing a number of important checkout pro- cedures but orders were orders". He was also responsible, on the midnight shift, to connect the four radar ground sensors to the implosion firing device unit on the night of 7 August by himself with an army technician to make the final connec- tions. He discovered that the cable was put in reverse with two male-to-male conne