ey were ineffective. This was attributed to the RCM ship over the target which jammed enemy radar. Average altitude for the attack was 13,400 feet. August Fire Raids Major strikes were flown against Hachioji, Toyama, Nagaoka and Mito. On this night, one plane was lost from the 58th BW, attacking Kachioji (see Table 3). Hachioji was an important rail center controlling practically all Tokyo rail traffic headed north and a dense housing center for out- lying industrial plants which now were assumed to have increased importance with dispersal of industry from dev- astated Tokyo. One hundred sixty nine planes from the 58th BW dropped their incendiaries from an altitude of 15,000 feet meeting meager flak and only eight fighter attacks. Radar countermeasures (RCM) and weather planes were used to support the strike. RCM crew reported that the Japanese radar operators changed frequency and seemed confused. This was believed to be due to the radar jam- ming by RCM planes and dropping of chaff. 57.1% of the target was wiped out (3). 1/2 August 1945 One aircraft from the 73rd BW ditched and three suffered flak damage. One might note that Imbari is 50 miles, Saga is 140 miles and Nishimomya is 140 miles from Hiroshima which wa scheduled for the atom bomb on 6 August 1945. The Manhat- tan District of the Corps of Engineers had originally requested 1000 B-29's to escort the Enola Gay with its Uranium-235 bomb up to Hiroshima, but this was laughed off by LeMay (2). These diversionary strikes were planned instead. On this night, the 73rd BW claimed to have burned every- thing flammable including bridges and scattered industries outside Toyama city (see Figure 1). The 20th Air Force Sum- mary (16) claimed that 99% of the town was incinerated. The BW summary estimated 71.4% of the built up area was burned down. Results were exceptional and the town itself had im- portant strategic targets including aluminum production, ball bearing and specialty steel production plants. Attack altitu