mi Valley (see Fig 9). Over 80% of the city's hospital beds and medical college were located within 3000 feet of ground zero and were completely destroyed. Reinforced build- ings in this range were still standing but gutted by fire; build- ings of wooden construction were completely destroyed by fire and the blast wave. Mortality rate in these structures was 75 to 80%; 600 out of 850 medical students were killed and most of the others injured; 12 killed and 4 injured out of 20 faculty members. Electrical power distribution was destroyed in the area of heaviest damage but power to the remaining part of the "within a radius of 1 km (0.62 mi.) from ground zero men and animals died almost instantly from tremendous blast pressure and heat; houses and other structures were smashed; crushed and scattered and fires broke out. The strong complex steel members of structures of the Mitsubishi Steel Works were bent and twisted like jelly; and roofs of reinforced concrete national schools were crumbled and collapsed indicated a force beyond imagination. Trees of all sizes lost their branches or were uprooted and broken off at the trunk. Outside one kilometer from ground zero and within a radius of two kilometers from ground zero, some men and animals died instantly from the great blast and heat but the great majority were severely or superficially injured. Houses and other struc- 102 tures were completely destroyed while fire broke out everywhere. Trees were uprooted and with- ered by heat. Outside the two kilometer and within four ki- lometers from ground zero, men and animals suf- fered various degrees of injury from window glass and other fragments scattered about by the blast and many were burned by intense heat. Dwellings and other structures were half damaged by blast. and victims expired, some within two to three days after the onset of these symptoms. The majority died within a week. These persons probably received radiation doses in the range of 800 to 1000 rem. Other i