s successful in its effect on the war effort since there was no crude oil or oil in storage at most refineries making it a futile effort. The ton- nage was being dropped on refineries that were already shut down with only a trickle of oil in storage. USSBS states that the Japanese transportation system would have been a more fruitful target system to attack which, in fact, was underway when the war ended. 9/10 August 1945 Eagle Mission No. 14 on 9/10 August 1945 was also a return visit, this time to the Nippon Oil refinery in Amagasaki by 95 B-29s depositing 918 tons HE leaving it completely destroyed. In post war analysis by the USSBS the value of hitting the transportation system was debated. It appears that the Japa- nese suspected that the Kyushu would be invaded in the fall and had in fact redeployed over one million men from the Kanto plain to counter this invasion (15). Many Japanese scientists and military men visited Hiroshima within a day of the atomic bomb attack. The transportation system, therefore, still func- tioned fairly well and might have been a more fruitful target to have hit than either the later strikes at aircraft or oil industry. In any case, with Gen. Carl Spatz in charge of a new strategic Air Force, effective July 20th, and with an invasion immi- nent, the transportation system would have certainly been sys- tematically attacked in the next few months to isolate the in- vasion zone just as was done so successfully with Normandy before D-Day. An analysis of the Japanese transportation sys- tem was prepared by Col. Storrie citing its advantages and disadvantages as a target system. Many of the urban area in- cendiary bomb raids were against towns with important rail- road centers. 14/15 August 1945 Eagle Mission No. 15, on the night of 14/15 August 1945 - the last night of the war - was mounted by 132 B-29s depos- iting 959 tons HE on the Nippon oil company plant at Tsuchizaki. This was a 3,740 mile round trip mission from Guam and was cond