ct criticism from the charge that these incendiary raids against Japanese urban areas were terror raids is not known. The ques- tion was raised later by many authors (4). That these were in fact "terror raids" was never mentioned in the grand strategy discussions. Such charges were definitely raised against the British BC and the 8th Air Force for their Berlin raids and es- pecially for the Dresden and Hamburg raids. "Bomber" Harris never denied the fact, but the US waffled stating that "we aimed at the German transportation system such as marshalling yards and locomotive repair shops and damage to civilian residences was 'collateral damage, unavoidable in war'". There appeared to be little opposition to these fire raids, certainly not by mili- tary planners of the air campaign, and very little from civilian bosses of the military. The Okinawa campaign was fresh in everyone's mind as was the upcoming Kyushu invasion. The most effective use of LeMay's 900 B-29's was pushed by ev- eryone and, at this time, urban area incendiary raids were con- sidered the most efficient use of this combat resource based on the area damage per bomb ton. The 73rd BW and 314th BW each lost one plane. Due to the mining operations by the 313th BW in the Shimonoseki area, the 314th BW struck from an altitude of 15,000 feet to stay above the increasing concentration of antiaircraft batter- ies in the area. Due to cloud cover, most planes bombed by radar (7). The 314th BW Unit History states that one plane was damaged by flak and one plane was lost en route when the plane could not maintain altitude and the crew had to bail out. Of the 11 crewmen bailing out, nine were rescued and two were lost. Average bomb load for the 314th BW planes on this mission was 6.6 tons which resulted in 833 tons on the target. 3/4 July 1945 It is ironic that such urban area bombing should be un- leashed on Japanese cities in this late stage of the war since the Japs initiated such bombing tactics against civilian