wn against the Mitsubishi Nagoya aircraft engine plant (Target No. 198) with 73 planes up, but only 28 bombed the primary target. Poor weather en route and over the target resulted in poor radar bombing of this in- land target from a high altitude. Thirty-two planes bombed secondary targets or TO and 13 planes aborted. Post strike photos showed four GP bombs and some IB hitting the target area. Fighter opposition was vigorous with 691 passes and claims of 33 Japanese fighters destroyed. One B-29 was shot down by the fighters and one was lost on takeoff with five crewmen rescued. Thirty-two B-29s suffered battle damage. 27 January 1945 To close out the month of precision daylight bombing, Target 357 was again selected and for this raid the Japanese were ready and well aware of the target. As usual the primary target was cloud covered and 56 planes hit the Tokyo urban area and dock area by radar from 24,500 to 29,600 feet. About 190 Japanese fighters, mostly twin engine Tony, Tojo, Jacks, Nick and Irving attacked the formations. The 497th BG which led the attack was subjected to 554 fighter attacks. The battle reports read like the 20th Air Force Schweinfurt-type raid. As described by Rust (8) the formations were spotted by Japa- nese patrol boats about one hour from landfall. Japanese fight- ers were waiting for the 17 planes of 497th BG as it made landfall. Japanese fighters made a few passes at formation and radioed ahead information regarding altitude, speed and direction. This alerted the fighters and antiaircraft batteries. Before reaching Kofu, the turning point into Musashino plant, the formation leader "Hayley's Comet" was hit by flak and fighters and dropped out of formation and headed for a cloud to elude enemy fighters. Two men got out of the burning plane and survived the war as POWs. Another plane was hit, flames developed, dropped back out of formation and exploded. Another plane, "Shady Lady" was hit and dropped out of for- mation and was never seen ag