ttack. Watch and see how powerless they are to protect you. June Summary In summary, June 1945 saw the initiation of a bombing campaign against 11 minor Japanese cities. While these cities had smaller populations, they contained some important stra- tegic targets (See Table 4). Finally, the Bombing Campaign was in Bomber Harris' tradition by hitting at the enemy's mo- rale. In addition, this change in tactics again caught the Jap defenses off guard since four B-29's were lost or 0.28% of the planes participating; a great improvement over the losses sus- tained during the first three months of the bombing campaign from the Marianas. We give the military clique this notification of our plans because we know there is nothing they can do to stop our overwhelming power and our iron determina- tion. We want you to see how powerless the military is to protect you. Systematic destruction of city after city will continue as long as you blindly follow your military leaders whose blunders have placed you at the very brink of oblivion. It is your responsibility to overthrow the military gov- ernment now and save what is left of your beautiful coun- try In June 1945, Gen. Harold "Hap" Arnold visited the Marianas and Gen. LeMay. He asked LeMay when he felt the war would be over. LeMay asked for 24 hours and stated he would ask his staff for an answer based, presumably, on the remaining strategic targets. The next day LeMay stated that the war would be over by 1 October 1945. Since the Kyushu invasion was planned for 1 November 1945, Arnold sent LeMay back to Washington to talk to the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) to convince them that air power would defeat the Japanese with- In the meanwhile, we urge all civilians to evacuate at once." "Civilians! Evacuate at once!" a hole in the clouds and inaccurate flak was reported. The BW sent up four radar countermeasure (RCM) aircraft carrying no bombs and were considered very effective. Gun-laying radar as well as radar control search ligh