and 300 tons of fragmentation bombs. Each B-29 carried a maximum load of 7 tons, it would require a force of 300 B-29s for Hiroshima and 1 and 171 B-29s for Nagasaki to effect comparable damage. The 22,200 tons HE equivalent of the Nagasaki bomb was not as effectively distributed as it might have been if the area was flatter. Of course, no conven- tional B-29 raid could produce the ionizing radiation effects which Hiroshima and Nagasaki experienced and has excited the world ever since. Contribution to Ending WWII 104 Conventional wisdom is that the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were directly responsible for Japan's surrender. As we now know, and persons reading the "magic intercepts", the atomic bombings were only one factor. The Japa- nese were slowly moving through the normal consensus building process leading to Japan's eventual surrender. It was a traumatic decision for Japan. Many in Japan believed that the Emperor was divine and to die for him and the country was a glorious deed. One Kamekazi pilot's wife and family killed themselves so that he would be eligible for a Kamekazi mission. Such fa- naticism is what the US military was concerned about in their preparations for the invasion of Kyushu - Operation Olympic. Also, Japan had the tradition of never being defeated. In the consensus building process, the fire raids, atomic bombings, star- vation and Russia's entry into the war and what that would mean in the occupation of Japan, convinced Emperor Hirohito to step into the deliberations and accept the unconditional surrender terms as stated in the Potsdam Declaration. His acceptance was broad- cast to the Japanese people at 12 noon, 15 August 1945. He stated: lization of East Asia, it being far from Our thought either to infringe upon the sovereignty of other na- tions or to embark on territorial aggrandizement. But now the war has lasted for nearly four years. De- spite the best that has been done by everyone - the gallant fighting of military an