s would be made uninhabitable and there could be no winner in the former military or political sense. It is the ulti- mate terror weapon and the great fear now is that fissionable material will fall into the hands of terrorists. We will review how it all began, in the military sense, in the 1940 to 1945 period. A Treaty banning nuclear testing in the atmosphere, in outer space and underwater was signed on 5 August 1963 by the United States, Britain and the Soviet Union. The test ban did not prohibit below ground testing which had continued up to recent times. Radioactive fallout concerns were accompa- nied by the realization that nuclear war was unwinnable on either side. Not only was the initial destruction so devastat- ing, the 9/10 March 1945 fire raid on Tokyo, one of the most devastating bomber raids of WWII, consumed 15.8 sq. mi. of Tokyo. A present day nuclear device of one megaton TNT equivalent is capable of starting fires over an area of 314 sq. Background According to Gen. Arnold (1) he was approached by Gen. Groves in the spring of 1944 regarding the delivery of a spe- cial bomb then under development. The general characteris- 99 93  PAPER PRODUCTS composed of both military and civilian personnel from the Man- hattan Project. Since the nature of the ordnance was developed at great expense and secrecy, a military police company was as- signed to the group to maintain security. The whole B-29 project was developed with a relatively high security clas- sification, the additional security was not noticed at least initially. ties were that it would weigh about 10.000 lbs. (5 ton). At that time there was no regular ordnance of that size in the U.S. arsenal and no American plane was designed to carry this size bomb. The British Bomber Command was experimenting with an 8.000 lb. (4 ton) bomb to be carried in the Lancaster, the standard British bomber used in their night bombing cam- paign against German cities. There was some thought given to using the Lancaster