ntually overcame the military's reluc- tance for peace. The Japanese military could not stomach the term "unconditional surrender" which was part of the Allied rhetoric. So, the Japanese consensus building process took an additional five months to coalesce into the 15 August 194 surrender statement by Emperor Hirohito. One might ask the question: Were these terror raids in the Bomber Harris tradition? It is obvious, even in 1945, that this was a touchy subject and there were outright denials in the reports that they were terror raids. The civilian casualties were great (noted in Table 1) but, even more important was the grea loss of housing with no chance for replacement. In Osaka alone. over 1,000,000 inhabitants were homeless. The 73rd BW Mis- sion Summary explicitly lists numbered strategic targets in the burned out area (see Table 7). A case can be made that the intermingling of small contractor plants in urban areas made the area bombing necessary. The fire storm created by this incendiary raid trapped and burned untold numbers of Tokyo residents as graphically shown in Figure 12. Surgical bombing was not possible, but, on the other hand raids caused great suf- fering to the civilian population and certainly lowered their will to resist, but not their desire to take revenge on those caus- ing their suffering. The summary of operations of the Twentieth Air Force stated on 1 October 1945 (16): References Chapter II - Major Fire Raids 1. Harris, Sir Arthur, Marshall of the RAF, Bomber Offensive, Macmillan Company, New York. 2. Analysis of Incendiary Phase of Operations 9 through 19 March 1945, prepared by DC/S Operations, XXI Bomber Command, 20 May 1945. 3. Greer, Thomas H., The Development of Air Doctrine in Army Air Force, 1917-1941, U.S. Air Force Special Studies, Reprint 1985, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washing- ton, DC, 20402. Raid Protection and Allied Subjects in Japan. Volume II. U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC. Unit History, 314th Bo