ds and inaccurate flak was reported. The BW sent up four radar countermeasure (RCM) aircraft carrying no bombs and were considered very effective. Gun-laying radar as well as radar control search lights were detected and jammed by the RCM. Kure, an important naval base and naval arsenal. was last attacked in a precision daylight raid by the 73rd BW (See Chapter I). At that time the flak was described as intense and accurate so there was good reason for the four RCM planes. In addition, the aircrews presumably dumped chaff (strips of aluminum foil) to confuse enemy radar. LeMay states that in the first three towns on the list which we hit, the Japanese civilians assumed we were bluffing. But, following these raids, the remaining cities " ... were practically depopulated in nothing flat" . There is some collaborative evidence from American POWs regarding this statement. On the other hand, some cap- tured Japanese soldiers claimed that leaflets dropped on front line troops generally ignored the leaflets and laughed at them. Definitely, the combat crews did not think too highly of this forewarning of the enemy but, with American losses so low, there was no big complaint from the B-29 crews. Ube and Kure are on the Inland Sea; Shimonoseki was a major city on the Shimonoseki Strait and Kumamoto was a hub in the transportation network on Kyushu. Whether fire bombing urban areas is more effective than selectively hitting the transportation system has been argued (5). Weather was the determining factor in hitting the urban areas. It was stated that the Japs were well aware of the planned Kyushu invasion (2) and had transferred over 1,000,000 troops from the Kanto Plain around Tokyo to Kyushu to confront Gen. MacArthur (6) How much of this psychological warfare was run to de- flect criticism from the charge that these incendiary raids against Japanese urban areas were terror raids is not known. The ques- tion was raised later by many authors (4). That these were in fact "terr