ine warfare at the School of Applied Tactics in Orlando, Florida, and had become a mine enthusiast (6). Cdr. Johnson, initially a mathematician at the Carnegie Institute in Washing- ton, D.C., was assigned to the Naval Ordnance Lab in 1939 where he became a mining enthusiast. This was an anomaly in the U.S. Navy at the time, because there were few mining en- thusiasts in the Navy at that time or since. These two spear- headed the mine warfare campaign from the Marianas. Com- mand channels and logistics channels were complex. Le May requested mines from Commander Navy Task Force 94, Tinian who in turn sent the request for mines to Commander Mine Craft, Pacific Fleet, Oahu. The latter sent the request to the Chief of Naval Operations, Washington D.C. who in turn sent the request to the Bureau of Ordinance, Washington D.C. The Bureau sent the mines to the Navy Mine Assembly Depot Num- ber 4 on Tinian. To respond quickly to Japanese mine counter- measures, the XXI BC had a mine modification unit attached. located also on Tinian. This unit could request the assistance from the Bureau of Ordnance for modifying the arming and actuating devices. Yangtze Field No. 1. 3 planes mining the lower Yangtze Field No. 2 and 3 planes hitting Taisung Reach Field with 36 mines. One plane hit the secondary mining target, the Yangtze River, between Hsin-Ti and Yo Yang Ling with 12 mines. The pri- mary target was hit at night from an altitude of 2,000 feet with one plane receiving slight damage from 50 caliber machine gun fire. Seven aircraft mined the primary target "visually" and four by radar and the secondary target was mined by radar. Average tonnage per aircraft was 6.4 tons. Results were de- scribed as excellent for Field No. 1 and Taisung Reach Field and good for field No. 2. No aircraft were lost. XXI Bomber Command Mining Missions Background The XXI Bomber Command mining missions were car- ried out against a high stakes background of the best and most effective use of the B-29 a