il taken into custody by the Kempetai - the Japanese equivalent of the German Gestapo. After the 9/10 March 1945 Tokyo fire raid, he was put on display, naked, in the Tokyo zoo to show that the B-29 airmen were not supermen. He was down to 80 pounds when liberated on 29 August 1945. He stated that B-29 airmen were brutally treated as special POWs by the Japanese and were not entitled to protection afforded to POWs under the Geneva Convention. When his angst, re- sulting from his treatment, stayed with him for 40 years, he returned to Japan in 1985 and spoke to his captors. This has had a therapeutic effect on him. He now stated that he has many Japanese friends and, since his 1985 return, he has had no more nightmares. Phase One Results no fighter escorts. Radar bombing had been the policy all along when weather did not permit daylight precision bomb- ing. What were the results of the Phase One campaign? Ob- jective evidence, based on photo analysis, indicated that Phase One was a dismal failure. The 73rd BW had hit the Target 357 six times and lost 27 B-29s in the effort and many more were badly damaged with little visible damage to the plant (see Fig. 1). In fact, a Japanese newspaper in January 1945 published an analysis that purported to show that the Japanese were win- ning the air war. It summarized the grim statistic for the AAF as follows: PRODUCTION: 135 B-29s produced per month. But were the results that awful? In fact, they were dra- matically different from what the objective evidence of bombs on target indicated. As described in the U.S. SBS Volume 15 (5), Japanese industrialists started to disperse their aircraft plants after the Marianas were captured and engaged in an almost panicky dispersal effort after the first raids in November 1944. This dispersal effort dramatically affected aircraft engine and aircraft production from November 1944 on and never recov- ered (See Figures 2 and 3). Phase Two: Precision Bombing LOSSES: 30 B-29s lost in transit to