t sat close to the coast with good urban area contrast with the surrounding re- gion. It was continually plastered until the end of the war. LeMay complained (2) to Halsey that it was not necessary to hit Hamamatsu in his last series of strikes against the Empire during July and August since it had already been plastered, but the Navy hit it again. After the war the Navy claimed that the damage to the city was caused by Naval bombardments. The most efficient use of the B-29 strategic bomber force in terms of area damage per ton of bombs was incendiary at- tacks against Japanese urban areas. Therefore, a systematic campaign was waged against secondary Japanese urban areas utilizing incendiary bombs which were again coming back into stock in the Marianas. The size of these urban areas did not Omuta was missed by most of the 58th BW planes: 769 tons of incendiaries damaged only four percent of the urban area. The 58th BW history (3) states that the urban area was covered with 4/10 to 10/10 clouds; Omuta is on the west coast of Kyushu on the Ariake Sea (see Fig. 1) and probably the radar navigation to the target was difficult. The urban area 14-15 August 1945 8 Johnson, E.A. and D. Katcher, Mines Against Japan, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C., Table 7-2, p.130. 99 80 81  PERFORATED PAPER PRODUS 82 On the reverse side, it states: contained chemical, oil and coke industries and was hit again on 26/27 July 1945 by the 314th BW. out an invasion. According to LeMay (2), his Washington re- ception was lukewarm at best. In fact. Gen. Marshall slept through part of the presentation. Probably, this ennui for the airman's dictum "victory through air power" was the result of the Army's experience in Europe where, despite many prom- ises and a fantastic investment of men and material in air power, a land invasion was still necessary. The same was expected in the Pacific. 19/20 June 1945 Two nights later. fire raids were run against Toyohashi. Fukioka and Shizuoka.