men and material in air power, a land invasion was still necessary. The same was expected in the Pacific. 19/20 June 1945 Two nights later. fire raids were run against Toyohashi. Fukioka and Shizuoka. Fifty percent of Toyohashi and sixty- six percent of Shizuoka were burned out in the onslaught. Two planes from the 314th BW on the Shizuoka strike were lost on this night. Psychological Warfare Effort in June 1945 Both sides engaged in psychological warfare to undermine the morale of the other side. On the Japanese side, they had Tokyo Rose, famous throughout the Pacific and considered by many GIs to have the best radio show with popular American tunes in the Pacific. Coming back from the Empire, some B- 29 crews listened to her as she complained in her commentary about the schools and hospitals which we had just bombed One GI commented that "you won't be able to strike us in the back again and, since you started it, we will finish it". The 58th BW history (3) states that their aircraft over Toyohashi received 11 attacks from Jap fighters with minor damage to one aircraft. Flak was encountered but it was rated meager and inaccurate with two B-29's hit causing minor dam- age and two crewmen injured. The important port of Fukuoka, on the northwest coast of Kyushu, now receiving imports from Korea (see Chapter IV), was hit by the 73rd and 313th BWs, destroying 20% of the built up area. The American psychological warfare efforts toward the Japanese were no more effective than those of Tokyo Rose. Broadcasts were beamed to the Japanese but the results were ineffective. There was, of course, a prohibition on the Japa- nese side about listening to such broadcasts, but in addition, the content was not believable. Starting in May, the XXI BC tried their hand at psychological warfare. LeMay states that he reviewed the leaflet's content and had them revised (2) and the 73rd BW combined the leaflet bombs and regular bombs with their weather missions. Whether a combination of leaf