lizabeth of Belgium whom he knew, but they believed that the energy po- tential from nuclear fission must be first brought to the atten- tion of the U.S. government. It was suggested that a letter be sent to o President Roosevelt bringing these facts to his atten- tion The letter was composed by Einstein, Szilard and the New York financier Alexander Sachs who periodically saw the President and stated he would deliver the letter - signed by Albert Einstein - and explain the potential of fission (See Fig. While the letter was dated 2 August 1939, Sach could not get an appointment with President Roosevelt until 11 October 1). 1939. In the interim, World War II had started. After bluffing England and France out of the Rhineland, Austria and Czecho- slovakia, Hitler invaded Poland on 1 September 1939, but this time England and France called his bluff. The Americans on the other hand had something else in mind. Three fissionable isotopes were identified: U-235, Pu- 239 and U-233. To obtain usable quantities of U-235 was te- dious and we were studying various methods - gaseous diffu- sion, electromagnetic separation and thermal diffusion. The two most promising methods were gaseous diffusion and elec- tromagnetic separation but these enrichment processes were slow, however, gaseous diffusion remains the dominant method to this day. On the other hand, if one could use the neutrons in a pile, one could obtain fairly large quantities of Pu-239 through the reaction of Uranium-238 capturing a neutron to produce Plu- tonium-239. The catch to this reaction was to separate Pu from uranium and all the fission byproducts. Since the dawn of the nuclear age in 1898 and Madame Curie's identification of ra- dium in 1903, only about 2000 curies or grams of radium had been isolated. Accompanying this separation had been many deaths due to radium poisoning but the fission byproducts from a Pu production reactor were estimated to be in the range of millions of curies - this was the problem.