tims expired, some within two to three days after the onset of these symptoms. The majority died within a week. These persons probably received radiation doses in the range of 800 to 1000 rem. Other individuals, at greater distance, did not show symptoms from one to four weeks after the explo- sions and after a day or two of mild nausea and vomiting ap- parently improved and persons felt quite well until symptoms reappeared in 30 to 35 days. Outside of the four kilometer (2.5 mi.) and within a radius of 8 kilometers (5 mi.) from ground zero, living creatures were injured by material blown about, the majority were only superficially wounded. Houses were half or only partially dam- aged." Psychological Warfare and Psychological Effects of the Atomic Bomb As the ultimate area bombing ordnance and in accord with Douhet principle for strategic bombing campaign that morale is a legitimate target in the late stages of the campaign, the US tried to make as great a psychological use of the weapon as possible. Before the Hiroshima bomb was dropped, the city was given the standard psychological warfare treatment prior to an ordinary incendiary attack. Leaflets were dropped on Hiroshima, indicating, along with several other cities, that they were to be fire bombed within a few days and to evacuate the city. The leaflets are on display in the Peace Museum in Hiroshima and were dropped on the city several days prior to the atomic bombing. Unfortunately, most Japanese, even if they read the leaflet, ignored the warning. Japanese citizens were in- structed to turn such leaflets into their local police station. The blast effect, resembling a hurricane, was the most notable effect in Nagasaki. Concrete buildings had their sides facing the blast stove in like boxes (See Fig 8). Of 52,000 residential units in the city on 1 August 45, 14,145 (27.2%) were completely destroyed; 5441 (10.5%) partially burned or destroyed. In Nagasaki, only the Mitsubishi Dockyards were remote enough to esc