20th AF was con- ducted on the night of 5/6 August 1945 by 602 B-29s striking a variety of targets including the urban areas of: Saga, Maebaski, Nishinomiya, Imabari, the oil refinery at Ube and various min- ing targets. (See Chapters I, IV and V). The biggest effort by 250 planes was against Nishinomiya, a town close to the In- land Sea and about 140miles east of Hiroshima. This effort was in lieu of the initial request by the Corps of Engineers to Gen. LeMay for 1000 B-29 to accompany the atomic bomb to 98 chutes falling and led to the assumption that there were several bombs and that they had descended by parachute. All three planes had cameras. In the escort planes, Maj. Sweeney and Capt. Marquardt described what happened. The flash after the explosion was deep purple, then reddish and reached to almost 8000 feet. The cloud, shaped like a mushroom, was up to 20,000 feet in one minute at which time it broke from its stem and went up to 30,000 feet. The stem, one minute after the explo- sion, stood upon the whole city "like a grave marker" (2). The column was thick white smoke interspersed with deep red stripes. About 15 miles slant range from Hiroshima, all three aircraft ex- perienced two shock waves as expected based on the physics of an atomic detonation. The first shock wave was the direct wave and the second shock wave, presumably, was a reflected wave. Col. Tibbets, in the Enola Gay, landed back on Tinian at 1458 K (1358 Hiroshima time). Two F-13s (converted B-29s for photo reconnaissance) were detached from the 3rd Photo Recon Squadron to the 509th BG for the strike. Due to the subsequent fires ignited by the atomic bomb, photo coverage was initially poor. These stark statistics do not convey the horror on the ground. The atomic bomb was designed to detonate above ground with the fission energy released as follows: Blast and shock waves 50%, thermal radiation (UV, visible and IR) 38%, residual nuclear radiation (fission products) 10% and initial nuclear ra