ale was now also a strategic objective. As was suspected, Japanese cities burned but the results in area burned per ton of incendiary bombs never equaled the Tokyo raid value. An analysis by the XXI BC indicated there were several factors involved in a successful fire raid. Some of these were: concentration of the IB in space and time, ground wind and precipitation. Concentration in time can be controlled by scheduling planes over the target but getting the proper con- centration in the target area was a variable that was not solved On the Nagoya raid only one B-29 was lost and none from the 314th BW. Eight AC suffered minimal damage from flak and enemy AC opposition was weak and ineffective. As noted in Fig 7 , there were over 100 separate areas damaged but these individual area fires never coalesced as they did two nights before in Tokyo. Eighteen industries were estimated to have been destroyed. 13/14 March 1945 (Tuesday night) Two nights later, Mission No. 42 was run against Osaka, Japan's third largest city with an estimated 3,000,000 popula- 9 35  by a single solution. Precipitation turned out to be a non prob- lem. Rain or snow had fallen 48 hours before the Tokyo raid; no rain had fallen before Nagoya I raid; rain fell 12 hours after the Osaka raid and did not effect fires already started. Conse- quently, it was concluded that precipitation had little effect on a good fire once it was started. Ground wind speed, on the other hand, can contribute greatly to the spread of fires and was a contributing cause of the fire storm in the Tokyo raid. The Tokyo fire raid had a lasting effect on the Japanese government officials. The Emperor went to see the devastation on 18 March 1945 and it is believed that this convinced him that the war was lost (9). From that day forward a consensus building process was initiated to end the war. In conclusion, 1,434 sorties by B-29s from bases on Saipan, Tinian and Guam placed 8,595 tons IB on four major indus- trial and commercial