mally, the anti- aircraft guns were only effective up to about 17,000 feet. No plane was lost from the 73rd BW on these three missions (6). Analysis of photos described the results of bombing as good on Oita and Usa airfields, but poor results on Tachiarai airfield (7). The 313th BW attacked the Kanoya East and Kokubu airfields with 30 planes each and Izumi airfield with 13 planes (8). No B-29 was lost but, flak over Izumi damaged The Raiden Squadron may have supplied fighters for an aggressive attack against a Bomb Group from the 73rd BW that made a second run over Izumi airfield. Due to the failure of the lead plane's bomb sight, the bombardier could not get course corrections from the bomb sight so he did not drop his bombs and relinquished his position to the deputy lead plane for another run. The second run resulted in failure of the bomb drop since the deputy lead bombardier did not take into con- sideration the length of the train nor his maximum point of impact and sighted for his first bomb only resulting in the MPI for the bomb pattern was approximately 3,000 feet from the MPI. Gunners on this run claimed the following (6): 99 55  The 313th BW hit Kokubu with 18 aircraft depositing 398 general purpose (GP) bombs on the air field and 14 aircraft depositing 360 bombs, or 90 tons, on Miyakonojo. These planes averaged 5.5 tons and 6.4 tons per aircraft respectively. No planes were lost this day from the 313th BW but 35 enemy aircraft attacked the formation over Kokubu. There was no flak over this field. Over Miyakonojo, flak damaged five planes. No planes were lost from this Wing (8). 1 Nick - enveloped in flames 1 Nick - fire and smoke from engine 1 Irving - parts seemed to fly off, smoke and fire from engine 1 Irving - uncontrolled spin, smoke and fire from engine 1 Irving - heavy black smoke from engine 1 Irving - fire from engine The 314th BW attacked the Kushira and Kanoya East air- field. One plane from this Wing was lost (7). In addition, the Combined F