fficiency. This meant that the ultimate target was the morale of the civilian population. Hansell selected the Musashino aircraft engine plant for the initial strike against the Empire. This was the first raid in the Tokyo area since the Doolittle raid of 18 April 1942. The 73rd BW made seven prior missions against the Truk Island, a major bypassed Japanese naval base in the Caroline Islands and three missions against Iwo Jima, 600 miles north of Saipan. Iwo Jima was part of the Volcano Island chain comprising Kita Jima, Iwo Jima and Minami Iwo (Jima), the latter a favorite formation assembly point for daylight missions against the Empire after Iwo was captured. These missions were prima- rily for training of crews, many of which as described by Gen. Hansell (6) were sadly lacking many of the skills necessary for daylight precision bombing in formation. Implementation Phase One: Precision Bombing On 12 October 1944, with Brig. Gen. Haywood Hansell, Commanding General of the XXI BC, and Maj. Jack J. Catton as co-pilot brought the first B-29 to the Marianas to start the strategic bombing campaign against the Empire. The plane was aptly called the "Joltin' Josie, The Pacific Pioneer" and was part of the 73rd BW. This Wing bore the brunt of the strategic bombing campaign until the 313th BW arrived in Janu- ary 1945. In contrast, the 73rd Wing History (4) indicated that the average crew was well trained as is summarized in Table 2. A major deficiency was in completing radar bombing missions. Only 12 of the required 40 training missions were completed. But raw training statistics in the States were probably a poor clue to the true performance of crews in combat. The actual performance during combat bombing missions were recorded in the Unit Histories of the Bomb Wings on a daily basis as follows: Hansell, as a major in 1940, helped to write AWPD-1, the planning document for the strategic air offensive of WWII. He commanded a Bomb Wing and Division in the 8th Air Force and