the most important ingredient in American plans, Japanese island outposts, which could be neutralized by bombardment and isolated from sup- plies, were bypassed. Only islands were taken which could serve to advance the thrust to the home islands of Honshu, Kyushu, Shikoku and Hokkaido. Gen. MacArthur was com- ing up from the South Pacific to the Philippines and hit Leyte on 20 October 1944 and Luzon on 9 January 1945. Adm. Nimitz was moving directly across the Pacific taking Tarawa in the Gilbert Islands and Eniwetok and Kwajalein in the Marshall Islands and Saipan, Tinian and Guam in the Marianas and, fi- nally, Okinawa in the Ryukyus preparatory for the final assault on the home islands. American Plans After many discussions between MacArthur's and Nimitz' staffs, decisions were reached, backed by the President. This led to the 2 October 1944 directive issued by the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), the last directive of the war (1). 1. Gen. MacArthur will seize and occupy Luzon, target date 20 December 1944 and provide sup- port for subsequent occupation of the Ryukyus by Adm. Nimitz' forces 2. Adm. Nimitz, after providing cover and sup- port forces for liberation of Luzon, will occupy one or more islands in the Bonins - Volcano group, target date 20 January 1945, and one or more positions in the Ryukyus, target date 1 March 1945. 3. Both Commanders in Chief (CIC) will arrange for a coordination of forces and resources be- tween themselves and with Commanding Gen- erals of the XX Army Air Force and of the China-Burma-India area. Due to the tight shipping schedules in the Pacific in the last few weeks of 1944, Gen. MacArthur reluctantly agreed to delay the Luzon invasion, the landing to take place at Lingayen Gulf, to 9 January 1945. This set back Nimitz' invasion plans. The Iwo Jima landing, the island selected for invasion in the Bonins-Volcano island group, was delayed until 19 February 1945 and Okinawa landing, the island selected in the Ryukyus group for invasion,