n. This was being used with high explosives (HE) against industrial targets with little success and was tried against urban area tar- gets with incendiary bombs (IB). 25 February 1945 Mission No. 38 was the first three-Wing mission and in- volved 229 B-29s taking off with Tokyo urban area as the pri- mary target. The mission was a daylight one and involved 22 planes from the 314th BW. The experience of the 22 planes from two Bomb Groups (BG) from the 314th BW was typical. The 22 planes assembled and flew in loose formation for sev- eral hours when the point of climbing was reached. At this point the formation encountered a weather front of consider- able height and broke up. Five planes made landfall at the briefed point by radar and proceeded over the initial point (IP) and bombed the aiming point (AP) by radar. Thirteen planes also managed to assemble on the IP and bombed the AP by radar. Two planes bombed Osaka, one bombed Nagoya and one, which developed engine trouble, bombed an island off the Honshu island coast. But in total, 172 planes dropped 453.7 tons of incendiary bombs and fragmentation bombs on Shitayku area of Tokyo as reported by the Tokyo radio. Five planes were lost, two because of enemy action, two were lost due to a col- lision in the assembly area and one landed with wheels up on Isley Field. Results from later reconnaissance photos revealed that 643 acres, about one mile square, were destroyed. At the time of the raid it was snowing in Tokyo. The results astounded Gen. Thomas S. Power who led one 314th BW formation over the target. At this stage in the war, with results from incendi- ary raids in the European theater available, what was needed for a conflagration was well known. Incendiary bombs had to be concentrated in a given location in as short a time as pos- sible. The Tokyo fire raid, despite the extremely poor weather conditions and broken up formations, was still able to burn one square mile of Tokyo. Gen. Power reasoned that a change i