ust have sent reports back on what had happened to Hamburg and what was happening to Berlin and other German Cities. Japa- nese believed they were ready. Since 1929, Japanese cities were supposed to be preparing for enemy air raids. Drills and precautions increased as the Allies advanced across the Pa- cific. They knew that air raids were coming when Saipan, Tinian and Guam were captured in June, July and August 1944. The Japanese had created fire breaks in all the major cit- ies. This involved clearing all buildings and combustible ma- terial in block-wide areas. Japanese fire departments were under the control of the police department and many of their actions during these fire raids were unprofessional according to the USSBS (6) and could be explained by the fact that the police officers in overall charge were incompetent in fire control pro- cedures. Most Japanese housing was of wooden construction and closely spaced. Most cities had no air raid shelters for the population. Each household was instructed to construct a shal- low depression in which the family members were to lie in case of an air attack. But the cost was high: 4.7% or 14 planes of the 299 planes reaching the Empire were lost. None to enemy fighters; one to flak; five ditched, seven were missing and one plane landed so badly damaged it was scrapped. Altitude and experience had some bearing on the losses. The green 314th BW crews com- ing in between 5,000 to 5,800 feet lost seven planes (this was 14% of the 49 planes from this Wing reaching the target); the 313th BW coming in 6,000 to 6,700 feet lost six planes and the experienced 73rd BW coming in between 7,000 to 7,600 feet lost only one plane. Gen. Power was in an observation plane and stayed over the target for about 1.5 hours making observa- tions on the extent of the conflagration and effectiveness of t tactics used. Japanese Civil Defense Organization consisted of two sepa- rate entities: one was a national organization controlled from Tokyo