ults reported as effective. A ninth plane was scheduled to participate but, prior to takeoff, the five-ton "pumpkin" bomb broke loose from its bombay hangers and dropped to the pave- ment, fortunately not injuring anyone. This was the only acci- dent that occurred during the 509th BG overseas operations to 15 August 1945 (2). This was not entirely accurate since one technician was killed by a Japanese soldier when he ventured with friends on an excursion into a nearby cave on Tinian. Preliminary Combat Missions 20 July 1945 At 0200 on this date, ten B-29s were airborne to five se- lected industrial targets, in or near Koriyama, to be hit with a five ton, high explosive (HE) bomb dubbed the "pumpkin". The missions were planned to simulate an actual atomic bomb drop, so two planes went over five separate targets. The strikes were planned as precision daylight bombing runs but weather interfered. Five aircraft bombed their primary targets, three visually and two by radar. Four secondary targets were bombed by radar and one plane jettisoned its "pumpkin" and returned to base due to an engine failure. Results were reported as fair to unobserved. The mission brought home the obvious to any- one who had been in the theater for a time and that was the importance of weather in precision daylight bombing over the Empire. (See Table 1) These four missions brought to an end the preliminary combat missions of the 509th BG. No planes were lost and only one plane received slight damage as a result of enemy action. These missions are summarized in Table 1. However, two additional pumpkin strikes were run on 8 and 14 August 1945 with 6 and 7 B-29s respectively. 8 August 1945 Mission Nos. 14 and 15 saw six B-29s aloft to drop their pumpkin bombs on the Empire. One plane was piloted by Capt. Lewis, co-pilot with Tibbets on the Hiroshima strike. One plane aborted. Results were termed effective. One B-29 finding the primary target cloud-covered dropped his "pumpkin" on Tokyo. Tokyo Rose