bove ground with the fission energy released as follows: Blast and shock waves 50%, thermal radiation (UV, visible and IR) 38%, residual nuclear radiation (fission products) 10% and initial nuclear radiation (beta, gamma and neutron) 5% (8). The blast and shock wave energy 50% and thermal radiation 35% were experienced in high explosive and fire raids, although not at the intensity in an atomic bomb. The 15% nuclear radiation was new but probably contributed little to the initial death toll. Capt. Eatherly's weather plane caused an air raid alert at 0809 K (0708 Hiroshima time) and an all clear was sounded 0830 K (0730 Hiroshima time) as the B-29s left the area. Many persons were on their way to work; others were at work many in the open. Since Hiroshima was one of the last remaining cities not hit by fire bombs, the populace and town leaders were aware that their time might be near. With total mobiliza- tion, nearly all school children not evacuated and many work- ers were out in the open on a program of building demolition to provide fire breaks in case of an incendiary raid and re- moval of industrial equipment as part of an industry dispersal program. Hiroshima Atomic Bomb Damage and Casualty Assessment President Harry Truman announced to the world the atomic bomb explosion: The nuclear explosion came 45 minutes after the "all clear"; there was no warning and everyone was caught by surprise. Many Japanese state that they heard the B-29 and, in a few instances, saw the B-29 but the populace had become indiffer- ent to single B-29s which were a common sight over the Em- pire at that stage of the war. "Sixteen hours ago, an American plane dropped one bomb on Hiroshima, an important Japanese army base. The bomb had more power than 20,000 tons, TNT. The bomb exploded at 1,911 feet (580 meters) above and almost in the center of the city and the flat terrain made the expanding blast and heat waves vaporize everything within one mile of ground zero (see Figure 6). The o