contaminated a Japanese fishing boat, the Lucky Dragon, resulting in heavy radiation doses to its crew. In the same test, activity dumped on Rongelap Island led to the evacuation of the island's natives by the U.S. These incidents and the wide contamination of the U.S. by Russian weapons testing and also by some above ground tests at the Nevada test site, led to the realization by politicians that it may be in the best interests of world wide safety to ban above ground testing. mi. from the initial blast and, in case of a ground blast, a lethal radiation dose at 20 miles in one hour post detonation; if one did not get out of the fallout pattern, one could receive a lethal dose in 16 hours at 140 miles from ground zero assuming a 15 mph ground wind. In addition, a large area would be unin- habitable for years after detonation due to radioactive fallout. No one wins in a nuclear exchange, it is MAD, mutually as- sured destruction. The devastation resulting from the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki was great, approximately 4.7 sq. mi. and 1.8 sq. mi. respectively. But in the early 1950's, the new principle of thermonuclear fusion added to the destruc- tive capability of nuclear weapons. Splitting uranium 235 or plutonium 239 nucleus led to fission weapons but joining hy- drogen nuclei, hydrogen 2 and hydrogen 3, lead to fusion weap- ons. The combination of fission - fusion principles lead to nuclear weapons of much greater power and combined with additional fission material leads to vast quantities of so-called fission products which, when spread over the landscape, make the area uninhabitable for generations. Political leaders, be- fore many military strategist, came to the conclusion that nuclear war was unwinnable, since in a nuclear exchange both countries would be made uninhabitable and there could be no winner in the former military or political sense. It is the ulti- mate terror weapon and the great fear now is that fissionable material will fall i