re. LeMay states that he reviewed the leaflet's content and had them revised (2) and the 73rd BW combined the leaflet bombs and regular bombs with their weather missions. Whether a combination of leaflet and regular bombs would have an appropriate effect was hard to state. In June, they started to drop just leaflet bomb loads which were dropped on heavily populated areas. 28/29 June 1945 Nine days elapsed before another series of urban fire raids were launched. Consistent with LeMay's plan in the interven- ing days, bomb crews were not idle but, due to clear skies over the Empire, they were engaged in daylight precision target raids (See Chapter I). On this night the cities of Okayama, Sasebo (which adjoins the large Sasebo Naval Base on Kyushu Island), Moji and Nebaoka were hit. Damage ranged from 17.9% to Sasebo to 63% to Okayama. Three of these targets, Sasebo, Moji and Nebaoka, were on Kyushu and all were on or close to the coast. This was probably part of the softening up cam- paign for the Kyushu invasion code named Olympic. The 58th BW (3) lost one plane over Okayama. Some crews from this Wing reported a new type of flak over the town but since no aircraft received flak damage it was assumed that some of the flak bursts could be attributed to incorrect fuse settings on the incendiary bombs causing early explosions. The leaflets' content as described by LeMay (2), listed 10 towns which would be hit and warned the populace to evacu- ate. The message was stated thus: "These leaflets are being dropped to notify you that your city has been listed for destruction by our powerful air force. The bombing will begin within 72 hours. This advance notice will give your military authori- ties ample time to take necessary defensive measures to protect you from our inevitable attack. Watch and see how powerless they are to protect you. June Summary In summary, June 1945 saw the initiation of a bombing campaign against 11 minor Japanese cities. While these cities had smaller