mentioned that Kasanohara was bombed, but it might have been either what we called Nittigahara or Kushira (10). On 19 April it rained on Kyushu and on 20 April there were dust storms, according to Ugaki (10). No B-29 raids were scheduled. But, on 21 April 1945, LeMay launched his heavi- est assault on Ugaki's airfields hitting nine of them. These included the six already hit plus Oita, Usa and Kushira air fields. Usa was famous in depression-American since it was the ob- ject of scorn and ridicule. Products came in stamped MADE IN USA, literally true but the town was in Japan. These sorties deposited 1,071 tons of HE on nine airfields, which averaged 119 tons per airfield (see Table 5). The raids were highly successful and 13 Japanese planes on the ground at Tachiarai were damaged or destroyed, however, the potholes on the runways could be easily repaired in a few days so, to be effective, the raids had to be repeated every few days. To ex- tend the effectiveness of the bombs, they were fused from in- stantaneous up to 36 hour delay. 22 April 1945 Bomb Wings continued their attacks. It was a cloudy day over Kanoya airfield, but the three The 313th BW struck Kushira and Kanoya airfields. Kushira was attacked by nine aircraft and Kanoya by 26 air- craft. Sixty enemy fighters were sighted resulting in two coordi- nated attacks, but no B-29 was lost. The total bomb load on these airfields was 369 tons HE, averaging 74 tons per airfield (8). In addition, while the averages looked good, some air- fields received far fewer tons. Of the 31 aircraft taking off to bomb Oita airfield from the 73rd BW, only 17 aircraft bombed the airfield depositing 31 tons of HE bombs with varying fuse delays (6). Twelve aircraft bombed Kagoshima, Shimizu and Tomitaka. Strike photos of the Oita strike showed an excel- lent bomb path with many hits on hangars and administra- tive buildings and several planes visible on the ground were destroyed. No flak was encountered over this airfield. The b