se wheel collapsed and scraped along the runway out of control. The No. 1 engine burst into flames, a wing caught an embank- ment, spun around and the burning engine falling off and the plane slammed to a halt. There were two wounded men on the plane. The tail gunner became unconscious in his com- partment when it was decompressed following the ramming and the subzero temperatures in the decompressed compart- ment led to frostbite since it took crewmen over one hour to get the tail gunner out of his position. He was unconscious but fortunately had donned his oxygen mask, a standard pro- tection procedure over the Empire. Due to the length of time at subzero temperature, the tail gunner lost both hands. The radio operator was also wounded in the air battle. In addition, two planes from the 498th BG were lost. One plane was shot down by fighters after leaving the target and another ditched on the return trip with no survivors. One plane from the 499th BG was shot down over Tokyo and another plane, so badly damaged that it was scrapped after landing at Isley Field. This brought to a total of nine planes lost on Mis- sion No. 24, the costliest of the war for the 73rd BW. It expe- rienced 984 aggressive fighter attacks but the central fire con- trol systems proved their worth. Gunners claimed 60 enemy planes down, 17 probable and 39 damaged. This mission brought to an end Phase One of the Strategic Bombing Campaign against Japan as directed by Gen. Hansell Gen. LeMay took over as head of the XXI BC on 27 January 1945 and immediately took the strategic bombing campaign in a different direction. Lt. Harold Halloran, navigator on the 499th BG plane shot down over Tokyo, bailed out at 27,000 feet and landed in a shopping mall and was kicked and beaten severely by civil- ians until taken into custody by the Kempetai - the Japanese equivalent of the German Gestapo. After the 9/10 March 1945 Tokyo fire raid, he was put on display, naked, in the Tokyo zoo to show that the B-29 a