pt. Lewis, co-pilot with Tibbets on the Hiroshima strike. One plane aborted. Results were termed effective. One B-29 finding the primary target cloud-covered dropped his "pumpkin" on Tokyo. Tokyo Rose was reported to state "the tactics of raiding enemy planes have become so compli- cated that they cannot be anticipated from experience or com- mon sense gained so far. The single B-29 which passed over the capital this morning dropping bombs on one section of Tokyo metropolis, taking unawares slightly the people of the city and these are certainly so-called sneak attacks aimed at confusing the minds of the people". A more experienced crew would probably not have chanced flying over the usually heavily defended Tokyo area if not required to do so. 14 August 1945 Seven planes were out on Mission Nos. 17 and 18. All planes dropped their pumpkins visually with results ranging from poor to excellent. These were the last pumpkin strikes of the war. Hiroshima Bombing Mission On 20 July 1945, there was another of the periodic com- mand reshuffles so beloved by Washington. This was in antici- pation of the coming invasion of the Japanese home islands and the redeployment of the 8th Air Force to Okinawa. There was established a United States Strategic Air Force under General Carl Spaatz with two Air Forces. The 20th Air Force in the Mariannas commanded by General Nathan Twinning and the 8th Air Force in the recently secured Okinawa under General James Doolittle. 23 July 1945 The next strike was set for 23 July; ten planes were di- rected to ten separate targets with weather cooperating on this mission. Nine planes bombed visually and one by radar. Seven 9 97  PAPER PRODUCT the Empire. Gen. LeMay convinced General Farrell, General Groves deputy on Tinian, that the Japanese were accustomed to seeing single B-29s over the Empire and normally the planes would not be molested and, in fact, none were attacked. In the European theater in the recently ended air campaign, the Allied Air