r. Training Missions Overseas hit their primary targets and three, their secondary targets. Results were described as "effective and successful". Photo interpretation bore out the initial impressions and was indica- tive of the high proficiency of the outfit. Col. Tibbets received a congratulatory TWX from Gen. Davies, CO 313th BW. It read "interpretation of strike photos taken on your mission yes- terday reveals outstanding bombing capabilities ... Such results as these are indicative of an organization with good leader- ship, high degree of training and determination to achieve out- standing results. Congratulations to you and your men." (2). After arrival on Tinian in June 1945, all crews received training at the 313th BW Lead Crew Ground School. Cur- ricula included: Air-Sea rescue, ditching, bail out, survival, Japanese people, radar bombing methods, Wing and AAF regu- lations, weather, cruise control, emergency procedures, cam- era operation and dinghy drill. 26 July1945 Two more "pumpkin" strikes closed out July of 1945. Ten B-29s hit ten secondary targets (all primary targets were cloud- covered) on 26 July 1945 with seven planes bombing visually and three by radar. Targets were in the Nagaoka and Toyama areas. Results were reported as fair. The 393rd Bombardment Squadron conducted the stan- dard training missions consisting of overwater flights to Marcus Island and other nearby Jap-held islands. The excellent per- formance of the crews in these training exercises testified to their extensive Stateside training, especially in comparison to most crews entering the theater. 29 July1945 Eight planes participated on this date with four planes bombing visually the primary target while four found breaks in the clouds to bomb the secondary targets visually with the results reported as effective. A ninth plane was scheduled to participate but, prior to takeoff, the five-ton "pumpkin" bomb broke loose from its bombay hangers and dropped to the pave- ment, fortunately