lowered priority for offensive electronic programmes. A Bomber Command appreciation prepared in 1941 concluded that an attack  File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 8 --- 152 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE by night on small military targets using visual methods not only was ineffec足 tive, but probably would become impossible in the near future. The solution was to make use of radar aids to night navigation. The impetus came with the 1941 Butt Report, which was highly critical of Bomber Command accuracy. Its examination of RAF night bombing missions in June and July 1941 found that of total sorties only one in five arrived within five miles of the assigned target. It prompted high-level interest, including that of Prime Minister Winston Churchill, who gave British development and production of naviga足 tion aids for bombing a very high priority. A variety of aids were introduced to facilitate navigation, each with the hope that it also would improve bombing accuracy at night or in non-visual conditions. Although each improved bombing accuracy to the extent of a significant increase in the percentage of bombs plotted within three miles of their aiming point, none proved adequate for precision bombing; essentially they were navigation and area target-finding devices. All entered service within a short time: Gee, on 8 March 1942; Oboe Mark I in December 1942; Gee-H, 3 November 1943; Oboe Mark II, October 1943; Oboe Mark III, April 1944; H2X (lOcm), 30 January 1943; H2X (the 3cm US version), 2 November 1943; and the x-band H2S Mark III (British 3cm version), 18 November 1943. Their introduction was an integral part of the build-up of Allied bomber forces. Each had its limitations, some by range and suscepti足 bility to enemy countermeasures (Gee, Oboe), others by complexity of crew training and operation (H2S/H2X).'7 The device in which the greatest expectation was placed was H2S ground足 mapping radar, an unlimited range device that used the echo of radar waves to show th