2X bombing not be characterised as 'blind bombing'. Spaatz substituted the terms 'overcast bombing technique', 'bombing through overcast', or 'bombing with navigational devices over clouds extending up to 20,000 feet'. Thereafter resort to a selective form of area attack increased markedly. Targets designated for attack by mission planners largely were dependent upon weather at the target. Area bombing targets -railroad marshalling yards and industrial areas-ranked first and fourth, respectively, in overall tonnage delivered by Eighth Air Force in its strategic offensive. From November 1943 to April 1945, marshalling yards ranked first in weight of bombs among 12 target categories in 8 of the 8 months. Industrial areas were first in five  File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 10 --- 154 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE months, even though the overall weight of bombs was less than oil, chemical and rubber targets. Of the 194,928 tons directed against marshalling yards, 124,865 tons (64 per cent) were delivered by blind bombing; of the 69,865 tons directed against industrial areas, 37,814 tons (54 per cent) were delivered by blind bombing.19 The US Strategic Bombing Survey was candid about the spin Eighth Air Force was putting on its operations:20 In many cases bombs dropped by instruments in 'precision' raids fell over a wide area comparable to ... [an] area raid. If the specific target was, for example, a marshalling yard located in a German city, as often happened, such a raid had a practical effect of an area raid against that city, but on the basis of the declared intention of the attackers it would go into the air force records as a precision attack on the transportation system. As Spaatz's biographer Richard Davis correctly concluded, '"Marshalling yards" was a USAAF euphemism for city areas. '21 As the war continued, blind bombing of marshalling yards increased sub­ stantially (Figure 1), in part because USAF statistical summaries following the February 1945 at