truction in many industries'. General attack was based upon a belief that 'there really were no key points in the German war economy whose destruction could not be remedied by dispersal, the use of stocks or the provision of substitute materials.' These alternatives differed from area bombing and precision bombing, either of which might be employed in selec­ tive targeting.2 The distinction in forces' practice was clear in concept, if not necessarily in practice.  File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 2 --- 146 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE USAAF use of 'precision' and like terms was misleading or at least lack­ ing in necessary clarity. 'Precision' bombing is an artful expression. Precision is defined as the quality or state of being precise; the degree with which an operation is performed or a measurement stated (e.g., the number 2.42 shows a higher precision than 2.4, but is not necessarily more accurate); contrast with accuracy. Accuracy is defined by the same source as the quality, state or degree of being accurate, e.g., the accuracy of a firearm is its ability to deliver a close group of hits on target. Any distinction that may have existed between precision and accuracy was blurred in the American description of its strategic bombing operations against Germany, to the extent that the terms became synonymous. For example, the current Oxford English Dictionary defines precision as the fact, condition or quality of being precise; exactness ... accuracy ... Usually implying an intended or actual precision or performance [or] execution ... e.g., strategic bombing as carried out by the American 8th and 15th Air Forces in Europe was 'precision bombing' ... ' The difference in definitions of accuracy suggests the confusion that has surrounded this subject, while also identifying a point of competition that existed between RAF Bomber Command and the heavy bomber units of the US Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces. The image sought by the latter air forces and their sup