F euphemism for city areas. '21 As the war continued, blind bombing of marshalling yards increased sub­ stantially (Figure 1), in part because USAF statistical summaries following the February 1945 attack on Dresden ceased to refer to 'industrial areas', lumping those attacks under 'marshalling yards'. 22 From September 1944 to VE Day marshalling yards were the most heavily bombed target in every month but one. 'Marshalling yards' accounted for 28.4 per cent (194, 928 tons) of the total USAAF heavy bomber tonnage (679, 392 tons), more than twice that of any other target category; blind bombing predominated by a wide margin. In contrast, 83 per cent (21, 865 tons) of the 26,479 tons directed by Eighth Air Force against aircraft factories were released visually, indicating the desire to direct the most effective bombing against targets requiring greater precision. Ninety-two per cent of the total bomb tonnage that fell within 1,000 feet of the aiming point was the result of visual bombing. The effectiveness of the two bombing methods can be discerned from US Strategic Bombing Survey estimates that of the tonnage delivered visually against marshalling yards, 25.19 per cent fell within I ,000 feet of the aiming point; of the tonnage delivered by blind methods, two per cent hit within 1,000 feet of the aiming point. The USAAF leadership knew blind attack was an inaccurate method of bombing. But it was a way in which pressure could be maintained on Germany, and they believed it was better than no bombing at all. Visual bombing remained the preferred method of attack, but blind bombing, how­ ever inaccurate, took on an increased emphasis. 2' Initial employment of H2X in the USAAF was directed against (in the words of the official history) 'German industrial cities'. Bomb patterns were highly scattered, resulting in no more than accidental damage to any given  File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 11 --- FIGURE I TONS OF BOMBS RELEASED ON MARSHALLING YARDS BY MONTH by Met