d and Eighth Air Force. Each RAF designee received a rigorous six-month training course in which he was taught by experts in navigation and radar bombing. Before participating in Pathfinder missions, he had to obtain specified accuracies on a test of practice missions. In the Eighth Air Force, H2X operator training consisted of a four-week course conducted by homeward bound personnel, their overseas tours extended for one to three months so that they could train their successors. These extensions seriously affected the morale of most, and few were of value for more than a few weeks. Quality suffered further in that training was not as comprehensive as that for bombardiers, even though the H2X equipment was more complicated than the Norden bombsight and required a greater degree of skill if it was to be exploited to its maximum potential." Within the USAAF structure, there was enthusiasm for H2X at the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Force command level, and a like enthusiasm at the operator level. But enthusiasm and interest suffered at levels above the Eighth and  File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 14 --- 158 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE Fifteenth Air Forces, and in the echelon between their commanders and operators. Efforts to enhance H2X performance, such as development of a synchronous bombing method for co-ordinating information acquired through the H2X with the Norden bombsight (for use where some visual acquisition was possible), and a radar-mapping programme to produce target overlays, failed to improve US blind-bombing accuracy. Throughout the European War, US blind-bombing accuracy remained at approximately five per cent of the forces placing their bombs within 1,000 feet of the aiming point. Mission failures and gross errors increased, but remained uncounted in accuracy figures; thus the five per cent figure does not accurately represent actual performance. 32 RAF Bomber Command Selective Attack Accuracy Through 1943 RAF Bomber Command remained committed t