Casablanca Conference, Eighth Air Force commander Major General Ira C. Eaker declared ... [D]ay bombing is more accurate; small targets like individual tar­ gets can be found, seen, and hit ... The truth of the matter is that night bombing is area bombing, good for destruction of cities. Day bombing is point bombing, effective in destroying factories and other key targets ... It is easier to locate the target by day, easier to hit it because the  File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 4 --- 148 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE image can be clearly seen in the bombsight and the accuracy is at least five times the best that can be done at night.' A WPD-1, the 1941 USAAF air war plan, reflected Air Force doctrine and public statements by emphasising daylight visual attack against selected targets in order to destroy the industrial and economic infrastructure of Germany. But the USAAF blueprint suffered the experience of a 'reality check' in its execution. Bombing accuracy had to be balanced against force survival, and offensive objectives against defensive requirements. American bombers flew to their targets in formation, attacking in combat boxes (generally 18 to 21 aircraft). Early bombing procedure was for the combat wing to split into combat boxes at the Initial Point, complete the bomb run in a combat box, then reassemble the combat wing at the Rally Point. The lead aircraft in each combat box controlled the direction and path the formation took to its target; the bombardier in each plane, sighting visually, was responsible for delivering his bombs on to the target. Formations were not maintained on the bomb run, as each aircraft manoeuvred for accurate sighting. For defensive and other operational reasons individual sighting was abandoned; the combat box maintained its tight formation, with each aircraft dropping its bombs on signal from its lead aircraft. This practice of 'bombing on leader' was tested on 3 January 1943, and generally adopted by all groups over th