File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 1 --- 'Precision' and 'Area' Bombing: Who Did Which, and When? W.HAYSPARKS In the April 1945 issue of Impact (an official US Army Air Forces [USAAF] publication), an article entitled 'RAF is a Potent Bombing Partner' offered this back-handed praise of the Royal Air Force's Bomber Command: Where American bombers in 1943 and 1944 were the pin-point specialists and the RAF employed their saturation tactics, the two forces now operate in a much similar fashion. The successful joint oil and aircraft production campaign now permits the RAF to operate around the clock with relative impunity and to practice daylight bomb­ ing as devastating as Eighth Air Force's best.' The quote reveals an underlying desire among USAAF leaders to compare themselves favorably to their British allies, and to pronounce their bombing methods superior. The USSAF was anxious to identify itself as the practitioner of 'pin-point' bombing methods in the European campaign. In large measure, it was successful in creating this image during and after the war. Today, most people with a passing familiarity with World War II bomb­ ing in Europe tend to characterise the British as the 'city busters,' and the Americans as the 'precision bombers'.' Such an overdrawn distinction conceals many of the realities of the campaign. When it existed, the distinction in RAF Bomber Command and USAAF bomber emphasis was between a general area offensive and selective bomb­ ing. Selective bombing concentrated on a group of related targets, all of which were associated with the same activity; that is, a target system. The philosophy of selective attack was that it was believed preferable to 'cause a high degree of destruction in a few really essential industries than a small degree of destruction in many industries'. General attack was based upon a belief that 'there really were no key points in the German war economy whose destruction could not be remedied by dispersal, the use of st