n homing as well as location of targets by radio means.' The first step taken by US experts was to familiarise them­ selves with British radar programmes of possible benefit to heavy bomber operations. Trial installation of H2S was requested, followed by a request for eight H2S units in March 1943. When British commitments to furnish H2S in adequate numbers for Eighth Air Force could not be met, a crash programme began in June 1943 at the Radiation Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology yielded the improved 3cm American H2X. Two B-17s equipped with British H2S flew their first mission on 27 September 1943, leading 244 B-17s against a cloud-covered Emden. This began a change in bombing practice: aircraft bombed by wing (three or more combat boxes) on signal of the H2S/X-equipped Pathfinder aircraft, breaking into combat boxes only if it was possible to bomb visually. Wing formation bombing increased the bomb pattern over the target area, and reduced accuracy; average circular error on the Emden mission was more than five miles." The USA leadership underwent a philosophical change of heart in October 1943. Impressed with the results of the combined attacks on Hamburg in late July 1943 and the disastrous losses suffered by Eighth Air Force in its 17 August attack on Schweinfurt-Regensburg, area attacks on city centres gained appeal at all levels of command. Further heavy losses in the 14 October return to Schweinfurt-Regensburg and the anticipation of winter nudged decision-makers closer to RAF Bomber Command's area bombing philosophy. On 1 November 1943 Army Air Force chief General H. H. Arnold ordered heavy bomber forces to execute area attacks against selective targets when visual bombing was not possible. Mindful of public image, Arnold directed that H2X bombing not be characterised as 'blind bombing'. Spaatz substituted the terms 'overcast bombing technique', 'bombing through overcast', or 'bombing with navigational devices over clouds extending u