erating indi­ vidually at night, RAF Bomber Command crews became instrument and navigation-aids proficient, and were able to operate under a greater variety of weather conditions than their counterparts, who fundamentally remained a daylight visual bombing force. Eighth Air Force bombers had an overall weather abort rate of 10.4 per cent, and Fifteenth Air Force 12.9 per cent, in contrast to RAF Bomber Command's 1.3 per cent. Weather affected accuracy in that only about one-half of Eighth Air Force bomber sorties were able to bomb their targets visually; as will be shown, its non-visual accuracy figures were not good. Visual bombing ranged from 94 per cent of missions in August 1944 to 10 per cent in November 1944, to illustrate the seasonal variation that occurred. Weather also varied between day and night by season. In winter months RAF Bomber Command (bombing at night) had an approximately three times greater chance than Eighth Air Force (operating by day) of bombing a target visually, while Eighth Air Force had a 1.5 times better chance of bombing visually than Bomber Command in the summer months." Any cloud cover decreased bombing accuracy, and cloud cover of 5/10 or more became a primary cause of error. It was virtually impossible for the Eighth Air Force to bomb visually if cloud cover exceeded 5/1 0; an accurate attack was possible only when skies were clear and bombs could be aimed visually. Alternative bombing techniques, such as offset aiming, met with mixed results; crews tended not to want to bomb offset, hoping instead for a lucky visual acquisition of the target. 16 Non-Visual Bombing Aids The RAF tested a radar navigation device in 1936-37, and identified a need for aids to non-visual navigation and bombing as early as 1938. But air defence requirements lowered priority for offensive electronic programmes. A Bomber Command appreciation prepared in 1941 concluded that an attack  File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 8 --- 152 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PR