mmand's night-time attacks, nor as accurate as the latter under limited visibility -which was the majority of the time. Conclusion One cannot help but speculate on why the USAAF leadership went so far out of its way to distinguish American bombing from that of RAF Bomber Command, and to mischaracterise the effort of its ally (and its own) in the process. The USAAF leadership was anxious to distance itself from Bomber Command's general area offensive. The Royal Air Force gained its indepen­ dence in 1918, while this remained an unobtained (and perhaps unobtainable) goal for the Americans. USAAF leaders knew that the role of airpower would be re-examined in any postwar debate over military service roles and mis­ sions, and in fighting for its independence. They did not wish to be tarred with the same brush as Bomber Command should there be postwar reappraisals of the strategic bomber offensive. In this they were prophetic; RAF Bomber Command was denied postwar honors, and the US Air Force gained its independence in 1947. Certainly there were other reasons. The American air leadership was under considerable pressure from senior British officials and the US Navy to join hands with Bomber Command in a general area offensive, an operation they recognised as less efficient and for which they had neither prepared nor trained. Moreover, they sincerely believed in what they sought to achieve. USAAF emphasis on precision bombing undoubtedly was necessary, too, as a leadership tool to encourage crews to 'press on regardless', and do the best job possible under difficult circumstances. There were differences in the approach to strategic bombing of the Americans and British. Neither was necessarily all right, or completely wrong, at the time each embarked upon their respective paths. Each was subject to operational constraints, not the least of which were the tenacity of the German air defences and the vagaries of weather. The crews of each risked their lives, day after day, or n