nificantly: only 0.2 per cent of bombs fell within 1,000 feet of the assigned aiming point. The percentage improved to only 4.4 per cent where cloud cover was 4/10 to 5/10. Distribution effort and results are illustrated in Figure 3!" While many of the US attacks were entered into the records as directed at selective targets, such as oil plants, rail centres, marshalling yards, or factories within urban areas, appreciating the degree of accuracy possible -particularly using H2X in 10/10 cloud from the higher altitudes at which the USAAF preferred to operate -these missions were, for all intents and purposes, general area attacks!' Eighth Air Force tonnage delivered blind against industrial areas, heavy industry, marshalling yards, and oil, chemical and rubber between September and December 1944 constituted 52.9 per cent of its tonnage for that period, a figure comparable to the 53 per cent dedicated by Bomber Command to its general area offensive.'2 Most, though not necessarily all, of these targets were in urban, populated areas. Given American blind bombing accuracy, it is difficult to distinguish between Bomber Command's general area offensive and USAAF's blind (area) bombing of selective targets." The Oil Offensive On 8 June 1944 General Spaatz directed that the 'Primary strategic aim of US Strategic Air Forces is now to deny oil to enemy air forces.' The first four heavy attacks had taken place in May. The offensive against oil targets received increased emphasis in the autumn of 1944; November was the prime month of the entire war for the offensive against Gennan oil production. Heavy flak defences, fighter opposition, effective smoke screening, and bad weather took a toll on USAAF accuracy; weather had a particularly harsh  File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 19 --- FIGURE 3 DISTRIBUTION OF EFFORT AND RESULTS EFFORT • arH BOMBER COMMAND (1 SEP 31-DEC 1944) TONS ON PRIMARY TARGET 140,807 r---------- MICRO H.' GEE H H-,2X VISLAL 0 ISTRIBUTION.. 125•332 181,