using H2X. Yet neither the 10 em H2S nor the 3 em H2X/H2S Mark III presented as clear a picture as attributed to it by some. Over large urban areas the entire screen was filled with an 'intense blaze of response' that precluded identification of specific targets or aiming points, except for certain targets with pronounced radar features, such as the shoreline of a large body of water. The problem was exacerbated as altitude increased. 25 The suggestion that Eighth and Fifteenth Air Force Pathfinder aircraft could detect and accurately attack a marshalling yard in a major urban area (such as Berlin) using H2X through 10/lOths cloud from 25,000 feet or higher assumes target acquisition and bombing accuracy capabilities beyond those that existed.26 For example, the 29 April 1944 Eighth Air Force attack on Berlin by 570 B-17s and B-24s pur­ portedly aimed at railway facilities in the Friedrichstrasse section in the city centre. Only one of the eleven combat wings placed its bombs closer than five miles from the assigned aiming point.27 Although operational unit emphasis on use was high, the US H2X program never experienced the high-level or scientific enthusiasm and support H2S enjoyed in the United Kingdom. Early British H2S results could not be dupli­ cated in American tests, leading to strong US opposition to H2S development. As the British were completing its development in June 1942, they were diverted from their work by an American allegation that H2S research was the result of 'personal irresponsibility for a mad enterprise which was unscientific.' The US recommendation was that all H2S work cease. 2" Even after H2S had proved itself, there remained considerable scepticism about H2S at the highest US levels. In Washington, HQ USAAF halved Eighth and Fifteenth Air Force requests for H2X; even with these reductions, manufacturing schedules remained behind demand.29 RAF Bomber Command had equipped more than 90 per cent of its aircraft with H2S by the time of the  Fi