f crew training and operation (H2S/H2X).'7 The device in which the greatest expectation was placed was H2S ground­ mapping radar, an unlimited range device that used the echo of radar waves to show the target area on a scope inside the bomber. Its development and employment by Britains and the United States followed fundamentally different paths, leading to very different results in bombing accuracy by the two heavy bomber forces. The RAF introduced H2S in 1942 as an aid to navigation and as a low­ precision radar bombsight. Its first operational use by Bomber Command was on the night of 30-31 January 1943, against Hamburg. H2S-equipped Pathfinder aircraft dropped target-indicator bombs and improved sky-marker flares on the target area; follow-on aircraft bombed visually and individually on the flares. Bomber Command efforts also benefited from measures taken by No.5 Group to develop off-set marking, whereby a datum point up-wind from the target was marked and used by the main force as its aiming point, with a 'false wind' setting on the bomb sights being made so that the bombs could be brought on to the true aiming point. Accuracy was enhanced by overall control of 'an attack by a Master Bomber, who directed progress by radio. The US authorities became interested in bombing-through-overcast  File: --- parks_preciscion.pdf --- Page 9 --- 'PRECISION' AND 'AREA' BOMBING 153 possibilities in 1940. Long-range contracts were awarded to RCA, Sperry and Bell in 1941. The need for such equipment for the European Theater of Operations remained unanticipated until 1942, and lacked emphasis until late in that year, when radar-equipped (Pathfinder) aircraft leading heavy bomber formations were considered. On 23 October 1942 General Eaker ordered a 'study of navigational aids used in homing as well as location of targets by radio means.' The first step taken by US experts was to familiarise them­ selves with British radar programmes of possible benefit to heavy bomber operations