OR database of American bombing operations, and archivist Maranda Gilmore at the Air Force Historical Research Agency, who doggedly tracked down 455th Bomb Group information for me. Tami Bid- dle provided some more insights to fine-tune the manuscript. I also must express gratitude to the leadership of US Army War College and US Army Heritage and Education Center for giving me sabbatical time to do the nec- essary update. My family had to accept all the time I took away from them to complete another writing project. Although my sons now have their own lives to lead, unlike in 1993 when they had to tolerate my writing obsessions in person, my wife has again had to live with a husband literally and figura- tively with his mind in the clouds. I hope this result is worth all the time and faith they and others have invested in me, and a worthy account of the hard decisions made by brave American airmen immersed in the boiling cauldron of the most terrible war the world has ever seen. The views expressed herein are those of the author and do not purport to reflect the positions of the Army War College, Department of the Army, or Department of Defense.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 19 --- 11. INTRODUCTION There is no doubt in my mind that the RAF want very much to have the US Air Forces tarred with the morale bombing aftermath which we feel will be terrific. —General Carl Spaatz1 If you want to overcome your enemy you must match your effort against his power of resistance, which can be expressed as the product of two inseparable factors, viz. the total means at his disposal and the strength of his will. —Carl von Clausewitz2 Allied strategic bombing during World War II has generated considerable controversy among historians, regarding both results and motivations. Per- haps the most heated debate has focused on the intentional bombardment of civilians to break their morale, a practice called morale bombing or terror bombing. Basil Liddell Hart, the noted British mili