leaders less committed to precision doctrine would go to almost any lengths to end the war and still be comforted by the belief that any expedient against civilians at this critical phase of the conflict would save many more lives in the long run. Once the precedent for such at- tacks was established in Europe, Todestoss inevitably would be sought against Japan as well.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 164 --- 1469. DELIVERING THE DEATHBLOW TO GERMANY If the time ever comes when we want to attack the civilian populace with a view to breaking civil morale, such a plan as [ CLARION ] is probably the way to do it. I person- ally, however, have become completely convinced that you and Bob Lovett are right and we should never allow the history of this war to convict us of throwing the strate- gic bomber at the man in the street. —Lieutenant General Ira Eaker to Lieutenant General Carl Spaatz1 The reactions of the people of Berlin who have been bombed consistently will be very different from the people of London who have not experienced a heavy raid in years. Terror is induced by the unknown. The chances of terrorizing into submission, by merely an increased concentration of bombing, a people who have been subjected to intense bombing for four years is extremely remote. We will, in what may be one of our last and best remembered operations regardless of its effectiveness, violate the ba- sic American principle of precision bombing of targets of strictly military significance for which our tactics were developed and our crews trained and indoctrinated. —Lieutenant General Jimmy Doolittle to Lieutenant General Carl Spaatz2 Your comments on the decisiveness of results achieved by air power lead me to believe that you might be following the chimera of the one air operation which will end the war. I have concluded that it does not exist. —Lieutenant General Carl Spaatz to Gen. H. H. Arnold3 While Americans in Washington discussed contingency plans for Todestoss , the Britis