uncurbed bestial instincts a wider field of expression, leaving only humanity and common sense to dictate limitations. Law cannot limit what physics makes possible. We can depend for moderation only upon reason and humane instincts when we exercise such a power. We believe that we are using those curbs to the proper extent in our application of Air Power, but I can well understand your confusion in the light of propaganda and misguided reports of air operations. The fact that no adequate explanation has ever been offered has likewise confused others in a much better position to understand. All of us have seen the result of air power as used by the beast. To one such as he, any horror is justified so long as his end is accomplished, but he fails to realize that even his purpose could be better accomplished if he used methods which are more efficient and which happen, at the same time, to be most humane. This can best be illustrated by our own concept of the proper role of air  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 236 --- 218  APPENDIX power in war. It works on the principle of the old adage to the effect that for the lack of a nail the house fell down. We take away the nail. It has always been recognized that armies can be defeated through the killing of men; but are not modern armies as futile without weapons and equipment? The armored force is nothing without a tank, and we can take the tank by killing its occupants and, at the same time, suffering casualties on our part. But we can also take the tank away, in effect, “before it is born,” thereby saving the casualties on both sides. We can hit the factory where it is built, the steel plant where the armor is made, or the refinery from which it gets its fuel. We do not mean the cities containing the factories, but by exercising the precision which is the keynote of America, we mean that we carefully select and, to the best of our ability, hit the precise spot which is most vital to the enemy. We hold no brief for terr