our missions in March 1945. On average, one or two aircraft assigned to each mission failed to bomb because of mechanical problems. H2X malfunctions also contin- ued. In the attack on the Ingolstadt marshaling yard on the 1st, both lead and deputy radar sets failed, requiring the twenty-one group planes to bomb using smoke markers from earlier formations. Rothensee was again the tar- get on the 2nd and 3rd. Overcast forced another diversion to the Magdeberg marshaling yard on the first day, but on the second the smokestacks of the complex peeking up over smoke screens allowed twenty B-24s to bomb vi- sually, causing great damage to docks and storage areas. On the 4th, dense contrails and thick haze foiled attempts to attack the tank factory at Aschaf- fenburg, so twenty-two aircraft bombed scattered marshaling yard targets of opportunity, mostly in visual conditions. An H2X attack the next day by eleven bombers on the Harburg oil refinery was again affected by overcrowd- Narrow transportation targets such as this railroad viaduct at Bielefeld were difﬁcult to hit with unguided bombs from 20,000 feet, even by large formations. The craters from many misses are evident. Modern-day precision munitions from single aircraft make quick work of such objectives. (44th Bomb Group Collection, USAMHI, USAHEC)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 72 --- 54  CHAPTER  THREE ing on the bomb run by some of the other 120 planes on the raid, which diverted the approach of the 44th Group airmen. On the 6th and 9th, the group stood down, and it only sent out three planes to bolster other formations on the 7th. The 8th featured another series of confused radar-directed attacks on marshaling yards. Twenty-six air- craft were sent out; thirteen bombed Betzdorf with Gee-H, ten hit what they thought was Frankfurt using H2X but were unsure, and two attacked what they thought was Siegen with H2X but turned out to be Limburg instead. All results were unobserved. Thirty-six group bombers attacked