ve fire raid, code-named Operation MEETINGHOUSE , on the night of 9 March 1945. The selected zone of attack covered six important industrial targets and numer- ous smaller factories, railroad yards, home industries, and cable plants, but it also included one of the most densely populated areas of the world, Asakusa Ku, with a population of more than 135,000 people per square mile. This fact was noted in the Bomber Command Target Information Sheets, which acknowledged, “Primary purpose of this type of attack is to capitalize on the fact that many of Japan’s industrial and transportation facilities lie within or immediately adjacent to known highly inflammable sections of her principal cities.”33 Despite these claims, it appears that another consideration for this  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 193 --- TORCHING  JAPAN   1 7 5 first raid of the new air campaign was to attack an especially dense urban area to provide the best possible chance for a spectacular result. That would be achieved. Before Operation MEETINGHOUSE  was over, be- tween 90,000 and 100,000 people had been killed. Most died horribly as intense heat from the firestorm consumed the oxygen, boiled water in ca- nals, and sent liquid glass rolling down the streets. Thousands suffocated in shelters or parks; panicked crowds crushed victims who had fallen in the streets as they surged toward waterways to escape the flames. Perhaps the most terrible incident came when one B-29 dropped seven tons of incen- diaries on and around the crowded Kokotoi Bridge. Hundreds of people were turned into fiery torches and “splashed into the river below in sizzling hisses.” One writer described the falling bodies as resembling “tent cater- pillars that had been burned out of a tree.” Tail gunners were sickened by the sight of hundreds of people burning to death in flaming napalm on the surface of the Sumida River. A doctor who observed the carnage there later said, “You couldn’t even tell if the objects floating by were