ball-bearing plants at Schweinfurt that same week. Whether LeMay was trying to evade effective fighter and antiaircraft defenses that shot down 29 of his 119 bombers or just trying out a new bombing technique is unclear. He may have been experimenting with tactics used by the British in their devastating bombardment of Hamburg. Mission briefings from his intelli- gence personnel stressed that both primary and secondary target areas were “densely populated areas” where all the workers lived, “and the idea was to wipe out the built up areas and disrupt the people as much as possible.” A remark in the intelligence briefing material that stated, “This is definitely an area bombing job instead of a precision target job” was crossed out—by  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 186 --- 168  CHAPTER  TEN whom and when is unclear. Someone in authority obviously did not want such a policy openly admitted. Such purposeful area attacks on city centers solely to “wipe out the built up areas” and “disrupt people” were not re- peated by the AAF in Europe, but LeMay would make such objectives more commonplace in the fire raids against Japan.18 The vulnerability of Japan to firebombing was common knowledge. In 1939 an Air Corps Tactical School course taught that “large sections of the great Japanese cities are built of flimsy and highly inflammable materials. The earthquake disaster of 1924 bears witness to the fearful destruction that may be inflicted by incendiary bombs.” In June 1941 the US government agreed to provide the Chinese with some bombers to attack “Japanese in- dustrial areas,” and Arnold told Lovett that the Chinese planned to use in- cendiaries to maximize the damage.19 Shortly before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, General George Marshall threatened to send Flying Fortresses “to set the paper cities of Japan on fire,” though whether this was actually planned or just a remark to deter Japanese aggression is unclear. Articles in the press at that time conjectured a