o treated differently from those in other countries, with more pressure to deliver bombs there in poor weather condi- tions. In the Pacific, the evolution toward total war went much further. The strategic air campaign targeted factories and military facilities, but normal precision tactics did not seem to work. In order to destroy these objectives, LeMay resorted to incendiary attacks on urban areas that were bound to kill thousands of civilians. If European air commanders were showing less concern for noncombatant casualties in 1945, then Pacific air leaders were demonstrating none at all. Proponents of precision bombing had long ar- gued that it was both the most efficient and humane way to fight a war. However, once LeMay became convinced that pinpoint tactics were no lon- ger effective, morality alone was not enough to prevent the firebombing of Tokyo. In both theaters, air operations were also influenced by growing pressure to end a war that seemed to be increasingly bloody at the same time ene- mies should be close to collapse. The Battle of the Bulge in Europe and the  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 27 --- INTRODUCTION   9 invasions of Iwo Jima and Okinawa in the Pacific were shocking portents of possible future costs. At the same time, prodigious American industrial output created vast fleets of bombers that could not just sit idle, despite poor weather, at the same time enemy air defenses were depleted so as to be almost nonexistent. It must be noted that even in the Pacific, the primary focus of bombing strategy remained eliminating military and economic ca- pacity, not targeting civilian will. OTHER  INFLUENCES  ON COMMANDERS It is usually difficult to identify moral considerations in the decision making of key US commanders in World War II. Their primary objective was to win the war in the shortest time with the most efficient use of resources and the fewest possible American casualties. Mission requirements usually prevented any sense of morality fr