else” and did sometimes carry out “pattern bombing,” which could be used to break morale, though that was really not a preferred AAF objective.30 In order to support his desire for a postwar independent air service Ar- nold wanted to avoid alienating the public with an improper image, but he also needed impressive results to prove the effectiveness of air power. Though he was not really involved in running day-to-day combat operations, his authority to relieve field commanders gave him leverage to influence their actions. Poor health limited his effectiveness late in the war, however, and after he suffered his fourth heart attack in January 1945 his involvement in key decisions was especially limited.31 However, his pressure for more raids despite bad weather led to increased use of less accurate radar-directed bom- bardments in Europe, and his demand for increased efficiency in Japan in- spired the use of fire raids. His main goal was to make the largest possible contribution to winning the war and to ensure that the AAF received credit for it through proper publicity.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 88 --- 70  CHAPTER  FOUR Thus he demanded much from his field commanders in the area of public relations. He wrote to commanders in 1942, “Within the borders of continental United States, two most important fronts exist, namely, aircraft production and public opinion.” He thought that the American public was entitled “to see pictures, stories and experiences of our Air Force in combat zones,” and he sent out personnel from his staff to gather such informa- tion. A year later he complained to his commanders that too much infor- mation was being withheld because of secrecy; it was more important that the people be kept informed of the major impact the Air Force was making on the enemy’s war effort—an impact that could save millions of lives in ground combat. “For whole-hearted and official support of our Air Forces in their operations, . . . the people [must] underst