ocket bursts, of kills and fallen comrades, of headings and checkpoints.” Surviving to complete “the magic number of twenty-five” missions was his primary goal. More cynical than most airmen, he believed that precision bombing was a “semi-fiction,” but he also believed that any terror was permissible in response to German terror and that the Allies’ just cause set them apart from the Axis, no matter what tactics were used. He surmised that Eighth Air Force crews would have attacked cities as did the British if trusted AAF leaders had said that in their judgment this was the best way to win the war and to get home safely. Yet like most of his comrades, he preferred “a surgical technique by which we could excise the vital organs of Nazi Germany with- out unnecessary bloodshed.”23 Except for Stiles, however, in writing about their experiences these other  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 112 --- 94  CHAPTER  FIVE airmen had the benefit of considerable hindsight in their judgments. A good example of a navigator’s attitudes untainted by editing or rethinking can be found in the letters of Earle C. Cheek. He wrote to his girlfriend about every two weeks from March 1944 until his death near the end of the war, and his descriptions uniquely portray the European air war through a navigator’s eyes. He constantly mentioned crews dying in crashes, even in training, and his consuming goal was to complete his quota of missions quickly and safely. He even arranged a transfer from the Fifteenth Air Force in the Mediterra- nean to the Eighth because it lowered his required missions from fifty to thirty. He showed little loyalty to any crew and was continually switching planes to get in more missions. For his thirtieth mission in April 1945, he hooked on as an extra navigator on a plane dropping supplies to British paratroops. He was killed when it was downed by ground fire.24 Cheek was a “technician and professional” more than he was a warrior. Trained on new radar navigational ge