ed by the message Norstad sent to Spaatz on 8 August: “It is understood that the Secretary of  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 204 --- 186  CHAPTER  TEN War in his press conference tomorrow will release a map or photostat of Hi- roshima showing the aiming point and the general area of greatest damage. . . . It is believed here that the accuracy with which this bomb was placed may counter a thought that the CENTERBOARD  [A-bomb] project involves wanton, indiscriminate bombing.”60 If an atomic bomb dropped on a city could be construed as a method of precision bombing, then that doctrine had evolved to the point where civilian casualties were no longer taken into consider- ation at all.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 205 --- 18711. STRATEGIC AIRPOWER IN LIMITED WARS I regret the necessities of war have compelled us to bomb North Vietnam. We have carefully limited those raids. They have been directed at concrete and steel and not at human life. —President Lyndon Johnson1 For the men who dropped bombs on Japan, there was little difference be- tween destroying cities with incendiary bombs and with atomic ones. Spaatz abhorred both means, and LeMay wrote of the new weapons, “Nothing new about death, nothing new about deaths caused militarily. We scorched and boiled and baked to death more people in Tokyo on that night of 9–10 March than went up in vapor at Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined.” The attack on Hiroshima was followed by the same psychological campaign that had been used for the fire raids. Leaflets emphasized that the new bomb was to be used “to destroy every resource of the military by which they are prolonging this useless war” and ended with the demand, “Evacuate Your Cities!”2 The atomic bomb would be used as its predecessors had been, to de- stroy urban industrial and military centers and to terrorize city dwellers into fleeing to the countryside. From the perspective of those airmen dropping bombs on the Japanese, the decision to use an atomic weapon