would be. With the diminishing number of good strategic targets, the large number of available bombers, and the constant pressure from the ground forces, such a shift was inevitable. As Tami Biddle notes, during the month of February that included the raid on Dresden and pre- ceded the launching of the incendiary campaign against Japan, Time maga- zine reported US casualties on all fronts numbered 49,689 killed, 153,076 wounded, 31,101 missing, and 3,403 prisoners. The war was far from over.38 However, USSTAF did resist the temptation to attack morale directly and to kill civilians to attain that end. The lack of Todestoss in Europe had important repercussions in the Pa- cific. The momentum for such an operation continued, and advocates for an independent air force saw their last chance to prove its value against Ja- pan. The Twentieth Air Force had the opportunity to bring about enemy surrender there almost completely on its own. This emphasis on the Pacific was clear to Spaatz as early as November 1944, when he became distu rbed over the increasing diversion of strategic air units to the Pacific to the neglect of Europe. Lovett explained, “It seems to me that we ought to be shot if we don’t have more than we can deploy in the Pacific and not try to balance the thing out to the last penny, thereby losing the possibility of exerting such overwhelming air power on the enemy as to give us a chance to find out whether air power can bring a nation to its knees or not. I don’t see how we can make a bear rug until we have killed the bear.”39 Many Japanese civilians would be killed as well.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 179 --- 16110. TORCHING JAPAN From the practical standpoint of the soldiers out in the field it doesn’t make any difference how you slay an enemy. Everybody worries about their own losses. . . . But to worry about the morality of what we were doing—Nuts. A soldier has to fight. We fought. If we accomplished the job in any given battle without extermin