extremely problematic. The technology allowed USSTAF to maintain pressure on the collapsed transportation sys- tem and contributed to the virtual elimination of oil production by March. Neither of these bomb groups perceived themselves as involved in any sort of attacks on enemy morale, even in the February CLARION  attacks. When they did get visual bombing conditions, results were usually superb, helped also by the almost total disappearance of the Luftwaffe. However, there was much less concern about civilian casualties in Ger- many compared to other sections of Europe. This situation was exacerbated by the drive to continue to mount maximum air efforts as enemy opposition declined and final German collapse seemed near. Clausewitzian friction was very evident. The Eighth Air Force had much trouble with its H2X equip- ment, as well as with managing so many bomber formations in crowded skies. The Fifteenth seemed to avoid most of those difficulties. They had more H2X sets assigned to units, allowing bombing by smaller formations, and they appear to have had better maintenance of their radars. The Fif- teenth Air Force was not as large as the Eighth, and the 455th often sent out its bombers in two separate waves to avoid overcrowding. Both air forces experienced considerable attrition on missions from mechanical failures. The two bomb groups described above averaged between 5 percent and 10 percent of their launched planes turning back before reaching their objec- tives. Fifteenth Air Force formations often brought their bombs back to base, something the Eighth Air Force never did. Often at the limits of their range, perhaps Fifteenth Air Force bombers had less fuel to waste looking for secondary targets, as well as fewer secondary targets along their flight routes. In addition there was not the same incentive to expend bombs on northern Italy or the Balkans as there was on Germany, and with the speed of the Russian advance, the front lines were often indistinct. The