of the RAF attacks, however. He rightly believed that the fear of another Hamburg “apparently has the Germans in a great dither,” and he wanted to exploit the situation with a similar attack on Berlin with the RAF. Some American command- ers perceived that Hamburg had affected the will of the German people and wanted to mount spectacular precision raids to further demonstrate Nazi weakness. Anderson, then commander of Eighth Bomber Command, thought an American daylight attack on the capital would increase German panic and demonstrate the power of the AAF in the European theater. Yet the mass raid on Berlin did not occur. During the remainder of 1943 Eaker and Anderson mainly focused on other ways to prove the worth of preci- sion daylight bombardment, and Eaker was reassigned to the Mediterranean by the end of the year. Arnold’s emphasis remained on precision attacks, especially on German aircraft factories and facilities. Spaatz and Doolittle had been engaged in Sicilian operations at the time of the Hamburg attacks and seemingly took little notice of them. Hamburg did not move the AAF toward carrying out similar attacks on civilian morale; key leaders in the European air war remained committed to the ideas of precision-bombing doctrine against enemy capacity.26 This commitment was evident in the response of American air leaders to the British proposal to attack German civilian morale. It produced “di- verse reactions,” but most of them at AAF headquarters in Washington were negative. Kuter echoed Spaatz’s fears when he wrote to Anderson that “we should consider whether the recent buzz-bomb attacks have not instilled in the British government a desire for retaliation in which American air units will be called upon to share with RAF Bomber Command the onus for the more critical features of night area bombing.” He reiterated that it had been American policy to bomb military and industrial targets in accordance with the precision doctrine he had helped develop. Apathy