ore in accordance with operations that Bomber Command could actually carry out. USSTAF continued with business as usual. Arnold said he was satisfied, though he emphasized that he would not accept “the promiscuous bombing of German cities for the purpose of causing civilian confusion”; it was acceptable to bomb transportation targets in those cities, however.33 The same attitude was evident on the USSTAF staff. Brigadier General George McDonald, director of intelligence, published a memorandum for Anderson, “Target Value of Berlin, Cottbus, Dresden, Chemnitz,” on 19 February, stating, among other  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 176 --- 158  CHAPTER  NINE points, that Dresden was an important railway center and military supply point and therefore a valuable target. Yet two days later, after reviewing the interim directive from Bottomley, he protested strongly that its emphasis on bombing cities to cause civilian confusion would be ineffective or coun- terproductive, as it had been in the Balkans, and linked USSTAF “to indis- criminate homicide and destruction.” He argued that if the air forces were to adopt such a strategy, then “it follows as a corollary that our ground forces, similarly, should be directed to kill all civilians and demolish all buildings in the Reich.”34 Arnold’s concern intensified even more when, as the result of a press conference after the Dresden attacks, nationwide headlines appeared such as “Terror Bombing Gets Allied Approval as Step to Speed Victory.” Howard Cowan, an AP reporter, based his story on a briefing in Paris by Air Com- modore C. M. Grierson of the SHAEF Air Staff. Grierson did not mention morale attacks by name but pointed out that recent heavy-bomber attacks on population centers such as Dresden had caused great need for relief sup- plies and had strained the economic system. Arnold was appalled at the negative publicity and immediately demanded an explanation from Spaatz. Spaatz was in the Mediterranean, but Anderson repl