y overcast. Considering the directive about not bringing bombs back from the Reich, it must be assumed the aircraft turned back before reaching their objective in southern Germany, or else they just ignored those instructions. On the 25th, twenty-eight Vultures participated in a successful attack on the marshaling yard at Linz, Austria. The month ended roughly for the 455th. On the 27th, twenty-eight B-24s headed for the marshaling yards at Augsburg, Germany. Despite H2X problems shared with two other bomb groups on the mission, twenty-one bombers did achieve marginal results there, while six others hit alternate targets. Flak was intense, and effective. The group thought this increasingly dangerous antiaircraft fire was a result of the enemy “circling the wagons” to defend the homeland for the final stages of the war. Three aircraft had to land in Switzerland, while nineteen others returned with noticeable damage, four severe. The next day, thirty-five Vultures attacked the railroad bridge at Isarco–Albes, Italy, in two waves, part of a larger attack force of 226 Fif- teenth Air Force B-24s. The first bombed poorly and lost another plane to flak. The second put 60 percent of its bombs within 1,000 feet of the aiming point. The bridge’s center span was cut, abutments were damaged, and all approaches were blocked. It is worth noting that modern airmen would have taken out the same target with a few precision-guided munitions dropped from a single aircraft. March would feature better weather eventually, a primary focus on trans- portation targets, and the continued absence of the Luftwaffe. Heavy over- cast still interfered with missions during the first half of the month. Being able to fly between fronts did not provide much relief. Four of the twenty-six May missions would have to be completely aborted, while many others were partially affected by the poor weather. Sometimes just a half hour could make a difference. To open the month, eighteen B-24s launched against