ght (the first combat loss of the month), sixteen landed in France, four more landed at other airdromes, and another ran out of fuel before it could find anywhere to land. Even after such a debacle, the group got eleven bombers in the air the next day to partic- ipate in a successful visual attack on the oil refinery at Harburg. Recovery time and weather allowed only three more missions that month. On the 21st, eleven Liberators bombed the Pforsheim marshaling yard. The H2X equipment on the lead aircraft failed during the bomb run, but the deputy assumed control and managed to find visual conditions at the tar- get for excellent results. On the 28th, twenty-eight B-24s from the 44th led the Fourteenth Wing, a subsection of the division, against the coking plant at Dortmund. The bombing was disappointing, however, because the lead bombardier was wounded on the bomb run through haze, and aiming had to be done hastily using Gee-H. One Liberator had the misfortune to take a direct flak hit in its bomb bay as it opened those doors. On the 29th, thirty aircraft were dispatched to hit Altenbecken, but clouds forced diver- sion to an H2X attack on the marshaling yard at Hamm. One squadron’s lead aircraft had H2X malfunctions, so those planes moved on to bomb the marshaling yard at Munster when the set was operating correctly. No results were observed. A mission on the last day of the month to the steelworks at Hallendorf was recalled before reaching Germany. February opened with a little excitement, as crews were briefed for pos- sible big raids on Berlin or Dresden, a spin-off of the plans for Operation THUNDERCLAP  that will be covered later. When weather cleared on the 3rd, however, and the Eighth Air Force launched almost 1,000 bombers against Berlin, the 44th was instead sent against the Rothensee oil refinery at Mag- deburg. Thirty-three aircraft were launched, and twenty-nine bombed the last-resort target of the marshaling yard there after the lead plane’s bomb- sigh