ilt-up areas were still allowed to help ground assaults. When Arnold cabled Spaatz for comment, Anderson wrote a testy reply emphasizing that the USSTAF “have not at any time had a policy of making area attacks upon German cities.” Anticipating such directives, USSTAF had already cut back operations on 15 March and was concentrating on oil targets, oil-supply routes, and German airfields and training installations. The AAF also assisted ground troops, though the Army continued to request attacks that the airmen considered excessive. Spaatz maintained that a town would be bombed only “when the Army specifically requires the action to secure its advance and specifically requests each town as an individual target in writing.” Major General David Schlatter, deputy chief of Air Staff for SHAEF, noted that Spaatz’s policy was so restrictive because “he is determined that the American Air Forces will not end this war with a reputation for indiscriminate bombing.”37 The search for the single aerial deathblow against Germany was unsuc-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 178 --- 160  CHAPTER  NINE cessful. USSTAF’s heart was never really in the effort, mainly because of the attitudes of its commander, Lieutenant General Spaatz. The Americans had resisted getting involved in the attempt to bomb Balkan cities, and Spaatz’s Operation CLARION  evolved into an attack on transportation and not on morale. He had acquiesced in Eisenhower’s desires and permitted THUNDER - CLAP, but Doolittle managed to direct that attack at military targets as best he could. The increased emphasis on transportation attacks, especially on marshaling yards in German cities, did signify a relaxation of the standards limiting civilian casualties. The larger the target, the more widespread the bomb spillover would be. With the diminishing number of good strategic targets, the large number of available bombers, and the constant pressure from the ground forces, such a shift was inevitable. As Tami Biddle no