units engaged in the attack did not purposely target morale in any way. The subject was not covered in lower-level plans, and no information on it was available in poststrike air force intelligence assessments. Even fighter-bomber pilots were briefed to stick to communications targets for bombing or strafing. Reports from participating units concentrated on the destruction of railways and rolling stock. Situation maps in Roosevelt’s war room primarily highlighted bridges and marshaling yards.24 German observers stated after the war that the February air attacks “had been indistinguishable from any others.”25 Re- ports on the operation were mixed; even today studies differ radically in their assessments of CLARION . Not surprisingly, Portal and the British Joint Intelligence Committee perceived little serious damage and recommended total suspension of such operations. SHAEF was pleased and the USSTAF summary called it “a spectacular success.” Doolittle made a film showing that CLARION  “materially aided in the break-through of the armies to the Rhine.” The official American history claims Spaatz also thought CLARION was useful, but when the operation was scheduled again for 3 March, he personally stopped it.26 THE RAID  ON DRESDEN  AND ITS AFTERMATH The basic focus of CLARION —attacks on enemy transportation—was not a departure from precision-bombing doctrine. Even AWPD/1 planned to attack transportation objectives but recognized that large facilities such as marshaling yards, because of their dispersed nature and easy reconstruction, required a type of repeated area bombing. The American method of area bombardment differed significantly from RAF attacks on major residential zones. Still, the selection of such a large objective within a city usually re- sulted in predictably increased civilian casualties, as evidenced in the earlier raid on Bucharest. As explained in chapter 6, American formation-bombing techniques often covered a wide zone, a tactic that kept format