- bility, and the eleven days of LINEBACKER  II had unsettled its urban populace. Despite harsh criticisms in the American press, Nixon had continued attacks on Hanoi and Haiphong until the North Vietnamese agreed to return to the peace table. The aerial operations against cities that had to be defended had William Westmoreland, the new Army chief of staff (right), confers on strategy with President Lyndon Johnson (center) and Walt W. Rostow (left) in 1968. Rostow, perhaps Johnson’s most hawkish adviser on the Vietnam War, had analyzed bombing targets during World War II with the Enemy Objectives Unit of the Economic Warfare Division of the US embassy in London. The economy of North Vietnam presented different problems for strategic bombing from those encountered in Germany, however. (Westmoreland Collection, Special Collections Division, US Military Academy Library, West Point, NY)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 218 --- 200  CHAPTER  ELEVEN depleted North Vietnam’s supply of surface-to-air missiles as well as military and civilian food stocks; thus leaders decided to negotiate to stop further bombing. Air Force proponents used the results of LINEBACKER  II to claim that political constraints had prevented them from winning the war, and retired generals Curtis LeMay and William M. Momyer echoed that sentiment by as- serting that unrestrained airpower could win any war. Yet as Mark Clodfelter has pointed out, “Most air commanders fail to understand that the ‘Elev- en-Day War’ was a unique campaign for very limited ends.” It did not cause the North Vietnamese army or nation to surrender; it simply furthered Nix- on’s political goal for a negotiated settlement and delayed final victory for his enemies. Linebacker did not vindicate precision tactics or the selection of urban targets. In fact, there is an installation in Hanoi called “The Museum of Victory over the B-52” that asserts that the December 1972 downing of fifteen B-52s in a “Dienbienphu of the air” led t