ddition there was not the same incentive to expend bombs on northern Italy or the Balkans as there was on Germany, and with the speed of the Russian advance, the front lines were often indistinct. The Mediterranean [128.59.222.107]   Project MUSE (2024-10-07 01:45 GMT)  Columbia University Libraries  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 81 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   6 3 Allied Air Forces conducted increasing coordination with their allies during this time to ensure maximum support and a minimum of confrontations. There is need for a good comparative study of the two major USSTAF air forces. However, their common objective, contributing to winning the war through the destruction of the enemy’s economic and military means to resist, remained consistent. Precision bombing, as envisioned in the 1930s and even in AWPD/1 and AWPD-42, however, became much more of a sledgehammer than a rapier—and eventually, in its execution against Japan, a rain of fire. The following chapters will look in more detail how this process happened, and why.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 82 --- 644. ATTITUDES OF LEADERS AND THE PUBLIC Last month my son Ted won his wings at Randolph Field. He is now going through a bombardment school, and in a short time expects to go to the front. Will you tell me—has he become what our enemies call him, “A Hooligan of the Air”? Is he expected to scatter death on men, women, children—to wreck churches and shrines—to be a slaughterer, not a fighting man? I remember so well when you and Frank Lahm, and Tommy Milling won your wings. We all thought it was a new day in chivalry, bravery, manhood. What do Air Force wings mean today? In winning his wings, has Ted lost his spurs? Please tell me. —Katharine A. Hooper to H. H. Arnold , 3 May 19431 This letter from a concerned mother in Massachusetts to the Army Air Forces commander raised some of the same questions being debated by modern historians. When it was written in May 1943, American daylight bombers h