of hundreds of people burning to death in flaming napalm on the surface of the Sumida River. A doctor who observed the carnage there later said, “You couldn’t even tell if the objects floating by were arms and legs or pieces of burnt wood.” B-29 crews fought superheated updrafts that pasted crews to seats with violent g-forces while destroying at least ten aircraft, and wore oxygen masks to avoid vomiting from the stench of burning flesh. As- signed by LeMay to observe the raid, Brigadier General Thomas Power of the 314th Bomb Wing and his intelligence officer circled the city and sketched the growing conflagration, noting that smoke rose over 25,000 feet and “the glow from the fires was clearly visible 150 miles away.” By the time the attack had ended, almost sixteen square miles of Tokyo were burned out, and over one million people were homeless. Survivors of the city remembered that terrible night as “The Raid of the Fire Wind.”34 Newspaper accounts of the incendiary attacks, mirroring Air Force intel- ligence on bombing results, concentrated on physical damage rather than on civilian deaths. Articles on the Tokyo raid were typical. They noted the heavy population density but emphasized that in the area destroyed, “eight identifiable industrial targets lie in ruins along with hundreds of other in- dustrial plants.” One account, quoting LeMay, mentioned thousands of “home industries” destroyed, and another claimed that the raid’s purpose was realized “if the B-29s shortened the war by one day.” Accounts did not estimate civilian casualties, but they did proclaim that the many thousands made homeless posed an immense refugee problem for the Japanese govern- ment. Deaths were not mentioned, and of course there were no pictures of the destruction, just maps of the destroyed zone.35 The lack of reference to noncombatant casualties by the press resulted from a similar oversight in  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 194 --- 176  CHAPTER  TEN AAF accounts of the incendi