crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 26 --- 8  CHAPTER  ONE Air Forces (USSTAF) commander Spaatz worked closely with the theater commander, General Dwight Eisenhower, to synchronize air and ground op- erations. The Pacific theater had no such unified command or such a unified strategy. However, while strategic air operations against Japan were primarily conducted by the Twentieth Air Force, both the Eighth Air Force and the Fifteenth Air Force were bombing Germany, and they operated differently. Certainly air operations in the European and Pacific theaters had come to accept more risks for noncombatants by 1945. In both cases, this evolution came about as planners and commanders in the field interpreted doctrine and searched for optimum bombing strategies. In Europe, the change re- sulted to a large extent from an increasing resort to attacks on transportation targets as higher-priority industrial objectives were destroyed or dispersed. Such operations assisted ground advances by restricting the movement of reinforcements and supplies, by putting extra burdens on a transport system already strained by the destruction of oil targets, and by facilitating wide- spread attacks that used the increased air assets present in the theater. Large transportation objectives could also be discerned by radar used for nonvisual bombing through overcast, a technique that allowed American bombers to increase their missions significantly during German winter weather but that also contributed to an acceptance of less accurate bombing results. Preci- sion doctrine recognized the validity of transportation targets as a means to weaken the enemy’s economy, but attacks on marshaling yards in cities were bound to increase the number of noncombatant casualties from errant bombs. Targets in Germany were also treated differently from those in other countries, with more pressure to deliver bombs there in poor weather condi- tions. In the Pacific, the evolution toward total war went much further. The strat