ployed in the Pacific. The JCS was alarmed by reports of unrest, irritability, and ignorance about the continuation of the war, fears shared by President Truman. In Europe it had been fairly obvious when the end of the war approached and targets disappeared, but air attacks on Japan had to continue in preparation for the invasion of the home islands. The Japanese had never been forced to surrender to a foreign power, and planners had no way to predict their behavior. Resistance seemed fanatic; the Japanese  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 198 --- 180  CHAPTER  TEN people appeared to be prepared to die for their emperor. When the Japanese organized a People’s Volunteer Corps, making all men from fifteen to sixty and all women from seventeen to forty liable for defense duties, the Fifth Air Force intelligence officer declared, “There are no civilians in Japan,” a policy that contributed to at least two cases of fighters strafing civilians. American battle casualties in the Pacific increased dramatically as the average monthly rate of deaths quadrupled to nearly 13,000. The desperate fighting on Oki- nawa during the spring and early summer foreshadowed the consequences of invasion and increased doubts as to whether the American people had the stamina and will to achieve unconditional surrender.42 Grim G-2 estimates predicted that 200,000 regular troops and 575,000 reservists would defend Kyushu, and Japanese reinforcements might be able to overcome planned American local superiority. Intelligence experts expected 350,000 regulars and up to 600,000 reservists to resist subsequent operations on the Kwanto Plain of Honshu.43 In this atmosphere leaders pursued any idea that held hope of speeding victory and reducing losses and believed that the public expected them to do so. The tortured ethical calculus involved in deciding the conduct of the war and leading to the use of the atomic bomb could also be applied to enemy ca- sualties. A successful siege could avoid the co