firsthand or talk to air-raid victims.14 Unfortunately, few diaries or memoirs to verify these impressions were left behind by the crews who carried out the fire raids. Many reasons are possible for this scarcity of sources. The incendiary campaign was relatively short, lasting less than five months. In contrast, the American daylight-bombing offensive over Europe lasted almost three years. Possibly the shorter Pacific air campaign, with its more boring missions, did not provide the material or the inspiration for published memoirs, or perhaps B-29 crews were indeed aloof technicians and therefore less likely to express their feelings in writing. Another factor could have been the B-29 itself. Different crews often shared the same aircraft, and few airmen seem to have felt close to an airplane with so many technical problems. The best explanation, however, may be that  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 108 --- 90  CHAPTER  FIVE the crews who carried out the fire raids did not want to remember them or had little pride in the destruction of Japanese cities and the deaths of Japa- nese civilians their bombs caused. LeMay wrote extensively about his recol- lections, but he never seemed to be bothered by the results of his campaign. On the other hand, Wilbur H. Morrison, another veteran of the Twentieth Air Force who has written about its experiences, relates that crews often watched the holocausts they had created “in utter horror.”15 The emphasis in LeMay’s after-action reports that the object of the incendiary attacks “was not to bomb indiscriminately civilian populations” but to destroy “industrial and strategic targets” might have been intended to ease the troubled con- sciences of airmen sickened by the stench of death lingering in their planes.16 OTHER  INFLUENCES  ON ATTITUDES  TOWARD BOMBING  CIVILIANS Just as varying factors of combat and technology in each theater could influ- ence airmen’s attitudes toward bombing civilians, so too could their individ- ual t