gol liking for looting, arson, massacre, and rape.” They could live on almost nothing and were guaranteed a place in paradise for dying in the service of the emperor. Those who thought the Japanese would be a “pushover as soon as Germany falls” were due “for a rude awakening.” Kenney predicted that it would take a “crusading spirit or religious fervor” to win and that there was no time to train gradually for such an effort. “There are no breathers on this schedule. You take on Notre Dame every time you play.”7 Japanese civilians on the home islands were seen to be just as fanatic as their soldiers; everyone supported the war effort. In contrast to commonly held views on Nazi Germany, Japan was not perceived as a police state or as a society containing impressed workers.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 181 --- TORCHING  JAPAN   1 6 3 The Japanese were also regarded as a direct threat to the continental United States. Early in the war, Californians feared that San Francisco could be firebombed into a conflagration such as the one caused by the 1906 earth- quake, a fate destined for Tokyo instead. Authorities in Washington worried that any actual air raids on the Pacific Coast could bring a public outcry to divert more assets into continental air defense.8 The Japanese did in fact drop incendiaries on the United States Pacific Northwest as a seaplane launched from a submarine unsuccessfully tried to start forest fires in Ore- gon in September 1942. Somewhat more dangerous was the A-Go project, balloons carrying small bombs launched into the jet stream from Japan. One killed a family in Oregon, and others exploded as far east as Texas. Arnold expected the Japanese to use the balloons for biological warfare.9 Other pressures toward escalation in the Pacific did not exist to the same degree in Europe. American leaders feared that the public could not sustain its war fervor for a long conflict and became particularly apprehensive as V-E Day approached. Admiral Ernest K