ess to embrace blind-bombing techniques meant his airmen also devoted more time and ef- fort to develop them, meaning that the Fifteenth Air Force was the best in the AAF at such missions. They also had an advantage over the Eighth in navigating weather patterns, as aircraft flying from Italy could fly between passing fronts while those coming from England had to fly through them.32  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 67 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   4 9 Similarities and differences between the two air forces’ operations can be illustrated by a detailed analysis of some individual bomb groups. The influence of weather and important reliance on radar-assisted bombing tech- niques were very evident during the closing months of the air campaign, as Allied flyers exploited their supremacy and smashed the remnants of Ger- man capacity. In addition, the friction of war, primarily through mechanical failures and enemy countermeasures, continued to degrade accuracy. The 44th Bomb Group of the Eighth Air Force, known as the “Flying Eight Balls,” consisted of four squadrons of B-24 Liberator bombers, the 66th, 67th, 68th, and 506th. Although it had first made its mark in August 1943 on a temporary deployment to North Africa to participate in the first great Ploesti raid, a legendary one-time early attack on oil, it was back in England by the end of the year and carried its full mission load during Big Week and after. As 1945 opened it was operating out of its usual home air- fields at Shipdham in Norfolk. The first mission of the new year targeted the Koblenz–Lutzel railroad bridge. To show the extent of Eighth Air Force bombing on 1 January, thirty-six different objectives were struck that day. Twenty-seven of the dis- patched thirty-one group aircraft attacked, with one squadron dropping its bombs four miles short because the leader launched his load prematurely as a result of battle damage to his bomb racks. Though bombing results were reported to be excellent, thirty-