ee- day combined operation with the RAF against the city to compound the  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 166 --- 148  CHAPTER  NINE effects of the firestorm on Hamburg; in early 1944 Arnold’s staff had pre- pared an inconclusive study of the effects on morale of bombing the enemy capital.7 Berlin was a unique target with much symbolic value. Seversky’s predictions of the possible benefits of bombing cities had been realized in Berlin; daylight attacks on the enemy capital harmed German prestige, forced the Luftwaffe to defend it, and demonstrated Allied might. American planes had participated in a giant raid on Berlin as recently as 21 June 1944. (The British also were supposed to provide heavy bombers but withdrew because of insufficient fighter support.) The British intended the attack to achieve the goals of THUNDERCLAP , which was still being developed; but with Eisenhower’s support, Spaatz targeted only military objectives: aircraft facto- ries, railroad facilities, and government areas. Forty-four bombers were lost, a high casualty rate typical of such deep-penetration raids. Resistance to THUN - DERCLAP  from the rank and file of USSTAF was bound to be fierce. Eaker was in the minority with his enthusiasm for such attacks. Airmen did not like the long and dangerous Berlin raids, and most agreed with the commander who said, “[Hitler] has made the morale of the German civil population highly invulnerable to either propaganda or morale attacks.” Part of the opposition of American air commanders in Europe to THUNDERCLAP  stemmed from the realization that their subordinates had no desire to attack such a dangerous target for the vague and probably unachievable objectives of breaking morale and destroying the German will.8 The plan was also causing a stir in Washington. In mid-September the Combined Chiefs of Staff deferred a British proposal to endorse morale bombing after Admiral William Leahy, Roosevelt’s chief military adviser, said it would be a mistake to