o the night of 9 March, was preceded by eighteen pages of articles describing Japan’s economy and society, emphasizing that weather limited precision bombing and that concentrated industries and workers were more vulnerable to satu- ration raids. The proliferation of home industries, “small, feudal-type” fam- ily workshops creating “sub-contracting area complexes,” necessitated area bombing to reinforce precision attacks by “interrupting the flow of compo- nents into final assembly.” A common theme was that the fire raids were “de- stroying Japan’s big industrial areas.” Later issues of the magazine added that the low-level night raids were also safer for B-29 crews. When burned-out areas were shown, the destruction of individual factories was emphasized. One article pointed out 111 “small and medium-sized plants” ruined in one small area of Tokyo. In the summary of the campaign, Impact acknowledged that the objectives of incendiary attacks “were basically the same as those of British area bombing,” but they were necessary to save lives and end the war. The fire raids were also legitimized as consistent with American prac- tice and as increasing the effectiveness of precision attacks. Airmen were reminded that area bombing and precision bombing were both types of stra- tegic bombing and were told, “Against Germany, the American doctrine was pinpoint precision bombing against key factories in key target areas. Against Japan, the American doctrine is the same plus the complementary incendi- ary program.” Significantly, although the fire raids dominated actual B-29 operations during the last months of the war, precision attacks on Japan continued to receive equal coverage in the pages of Impact.35 The editors of Impact and the military bosses who approved their work obviously had an image of American airmen consistent with their view of the American public. Airmen were seen to support the precision doctrine taught in service schools and emphasized in unit lectures. Are