ks in the Battle of the Bulge ran out of diesel, and new pilots could not get aviation fuel for training. By December German freight car traffic was only half of the previous year’s, and only half the coal needed by industry could be provided. German military logistics practices also made the Wehrmacht vulnerable to supply disruptions caused by air attacks. Richard Overy has pointed out that the early years of the air campaign also had important effects, putting a ceiling on German production and diverting significant resources into air defenses. This final onslaught carved Germany up “into isolated economic regions.” There were plenty of bombers to attack other elements of the econ- omy as well, like steel and munitions. On 30 January 1945 Speer sent Hitler a memorandum declaring, “The war is over in the area of heavy industry and armaments.”27 Like the invasion, such an expansive air campaign could not have been carried out before the defeat of the Luftwaffe, but once the intensive bom- bardment began, its effects became inexorable. However, although the results tended to reinforce the tenets of American doctrine, its application during typical German fall and winter weather was far from the envisioned ideal of precision. There were many reasons for this. As Churchill knew, it was diffi- cult to limit collateral damage when bombing marshaling yards in the midst of cities. These were especially attractive targets in periods of poor visibility, when primitive radar aids could pick out city outlines for guidance. Target- ing directives were much more lenient about hitting targets in Germany than those in occupied countries. After prodding from General George Marshall, in October 1944 both the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces issued guidance that considerably lessened restriction against so-called blind bombing of the  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 65 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   4 7 Reich. A new Eighth Air Force directive on “Attack of Secondary and Last Res