fort against industrial targets within Germany and Poland during the second week in October. From 8 to 10 October, eighty-eight bombers were lost in attacks on Bremen, Vegesack, Gdynia, Danzig, Marienberg, Anklam, and Munster. Several hundred more aircraft were damaged. Then Mission 115 was set for 14 October, a return to Schweinfurt. Again the frictions of war were evident. Longer-range P-38 fighters had arrived, but they were not ready to fly until the next day. Weather at the air bases was again a problem, and B-24s from the Second Bombardment Division never could get assembled to carry out their part of the operation. The weather also interfered with the ability of escort fighters to link up with returning bombers. The Luftwaffe used new weapons and tactics, firing rockets into the bomber formations, mauling them severely. Two hundred twenty-eight of the 291 dispatched B-17s suc- ceeded in bombing their target, achieving the most damage of any of the sixteen raids on Schweinfurt during the war. However, the cost of damag- ing 10 percent of the key machinery was sixty bombers lost on the mission (with ten-man crews), seventeen more damaged beyond repair, and 121 B-17s with damage that could be fixed. Reich Minister of Armaments and War Production Albert Speer reported that he was told the raid cost 67 percent of production. He was able to substitute slide bearings to make up for some shortages, but he was out of reserves. He was saved by the cessation of the attacks until February. When they did restart, he claimed that he faced an- other crisis, but again the Allies furnished a reprieve by abandoning attacks on ball-bearing facilities in April 1944. He agreed with the Committee of Operation Analysts opinion about the vulnerability of that target system, claiming that adequate decentralization never did occur. He thought the Allies threw away a great opportunity to bring German military industrial capacity to the brink of collapse.14 Allied intelligence initially