d. Eventually, despite protests from Doolittle and Spaatz, “chair- borne” leaders in Washington insisted that the Eighth Air Force test the GB- 1, an unguided and unpowered 2,000-pound bomb with stubby wings. On 28 May 1944 the 384th Bomb Group launched a strike with the glide bombs against targets in Cologne. None of the GB-1s even hit the city, and the only significant effect of the attack was to increase the confidence of German flak gunners who were sure that the glide bombs exploding throughout the countryside were really downed B-17s. Engineers at Wright Field in Ohio Two GB-1 glide bombs slung under a B-17 for testing. The results of experimental attacks on Cologne with these munitions in 1944 were disappointing, and the GB-1s were never used in combat again.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 143 --- BETTER  BOMBS   1 2 5 continued to work on improving the GB-1, but the Eighth Air Force never again had to test them.23 Eaker retained his interest in such technology, which eventually produced a bomb guided in azimuth by radio, a system used in APHRODITE . A transmit- ter emitted signals that varied the pitch of the bomb’s stabilizing fins, allow- ing the bombardier to reduce deflection errors. In May 1944 Eaker arranged for a test raid on the narrow Avisio Bridge, a difficult target that bombs usually straddled but key in the Brenner Pass rail system. Four special B-17s dropped twenty-four 1,000-pound Azon bombs and took out a seventy-foot stretch of the bridge with four direct hits. There was some dispute about these results, however, and European tests were generally disappointing. Kenney also used these weapons in the Pacific, and the 7th Bomb Group in the China–Burma–India theater destroyed about forty bridges with them, estimating that Azon bombs were ten times more effective than conventional munitions against such targets. Azon bombs were not widely used in World War II because the technology was limited in availability and reliability and because pilo