egensburg force could not delay and headed for the target. Brigadier General Frederick Anderson, commander of VIII Bomber Command, decided to hold the Schweinfurt force for three and a half hours, to allow the weather to clear over their airfields and the escort fighters to regroup. However, that respite also allowed Luftwaffe fighters to rearm and reorganize. Further, the Allied Spitfires and Thunderbolts did not have the range to cover the bombers all the way to their targets. Consequently, both bomber forces had to face well-prepared German fighters over their objec- tives without the cover of their own “little friends.” Still, bombing results, especially at Regensburg, were very good. At Schweinfurt, bombing was less accurate, and the bombs used were too small to destroy important machine tools on factory floors—a common problem with US Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF) operations throughout the war. However, there was enough dam- age to spur German efforts to find other sources of ball bearings and to better disperse production facilities.12 Losses were horrendous. LeMay lost twenty-four of his 146 bombers over Germany, and after scrounging repair parts, fuel, and bombs in North Af- rica, he got about eighty of the remainder to fly back to the United King- dom. Typical of the feisty LeMay, he insisted on bombing Bordeaux on the way back with fifty-seven of them. However, at least half of the planes he took to Regensburg never flew again. The Schweinfurt force also took a beating, losing thirty-six planes on the mission. Such casualties were unsustainable, and everyone knew it.13  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 56 --- 38  CHAPTER  THREE The Eighth Air Force spent most of the next three months bombing eas- ier coastal and French targets before mounting a sustained effort against industrial targets within Germany and Poland during the second week in October. From 8 to 10 October, eighty-eight bombers were lost in attacks on Bremen, Vegesack, Gdynia, Danzig, Marien