ws in a number of revisions and articles until his death in 1930.17 Douhet foresaw that attacks of high explosives, gas, and incendiaries on cities would produce effects on morale exceeding material damage. Like in- tense artillery bombardments, air raids would subject the people in the tar- get area to significant shock and stress. German and British airmen during World War I had noticed the decreases in factory production and the in- creases in public discontent that had resulted from their primitive attempts to strike targets in urban areas. Trenchard estimated that the psychological yield of his air attacks on Rhine towns was twenty times greater than the damage from actual physical destruction.18 Other recent precedents existed for attacking civilian morale with distant bombardment. In 1871 the Prus- sians had decided that the quickest and ultimately the most humane way to conquer Paris was to shell the civil population so that they would force the garrison to surrender. Douhet expanded on that idea to predict the collapse of whole nations. People would panic at the mere sight of airplanes and demand an end to the war, “driven by the instinct of self preservation.” He argued that such wars could not last long, “since the decisive blows will be directed at civilians, that element of countries at war least able to sustain them.” Douhet also espoused the principle that some writers have called the “Airpower Ethic”: such future wars would be more humane because “they may in the long run shed less blood.” Never strong on hard data to back up his claims, Douhet seems to have based his conclusions on incidents such as the one at Brescia during the war, where mourners at a funeral for bombing victims panicked when a bird was mistaken for an airplane. He was also supposedly impressed by the reported effects of German bombing on the population of London.19 Douhet’s effect on the development of American bombing doctrine has been hotly debated, with skeptics of its precisi