wer for his opinion. In Marshall’s view, the main problems with using the JB-2 were “logistical not tactical”—and seemingly not moral either. Eisenhower proposed a plan to produce 100 JB-2s a day and to launch 300 a day, ten days a month. Arnold’s staff called this wasteful of manpower on idle days and developed a counter plan to fire 300 every day of the month; this increased possible conflicts with other production, however. The Air Staff’s final plan proposed the expenditure of 1,000 JB-2s per month.29 Meanwhile, Lieutenant General Barney Giles, Arnold’s chief of Air Staff, wrote to Vannever Bush of the Office of Scientific Research and Develop- ment to garner support for the AAF plan and rightly prophesied, “We be- lieve the JB-2 to be representative of a new family of very long range weapons whose capabilities will profoundly affect future warfare.” But he still could not overcome the office’s “lack of interest” in the project.30 Arnold’s and Lovett’s scientific advisory group in Europe was slightly more successful. They presented a paper to Spaatz explaining their plans to  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 145 --- BETTER  BOMBS   1 2 7 apply Weary Willie control technology to the JB-2 along with ground control by SCR-584 radars,31 which would bring the weapon “into the class of very flexible, extremely long range artillery.” When Spaatz found out that JB-2s could not be deployed until September, he agreed to support the program then. This shift did not signify any weakening on his part; rather, he rea- soned that if the war was still going on in Europe in September it would be because “some new developments by the Germans have made it impossible for us to continue to operate the VIII Air Force on the present scale.” If that were the case, drastic measures such as the JB-2 might be needed, but he did not really believe this would happen. His acquiescence in a later date was also a convenient way to appease Washington at no real cost. Ground commanders Omar Br