ably increased civilian casualties, as evidenced in the earlier raid on Bucharest. As explained in chapter 6, American formation-bombing techniques often covered a wide zone, a tactic that kept formations tight for defense and increased chances of hitting the objective but that also pro- duced a bomb pattern dispersed according to the arrangement of aircraft and spread out by varying intervalometer settings. Planners and command- ers reasonably expected that most bombs would fall on or near the target,  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 173 --- DELIVERING  THE DEATHBLOW  TO GERMANY   1 5 5 but results, as air force leaders knew, were never as precise as articles on the home front claimed. Rail centers were also popular nonvisual targets because large marshaling yards could be discerned on H2X radar screens. As large industrial targets were destroyed or dispersed and more heavy bomb- ers became available, strategic attacks on transportation objectives increased significantly. Such air strikes also helped the rapidly advancing Russians. Alfred C. Mierzejewski argues convincingly that the bombing of marshaling yards was actually the decisive factor in creating a “moribund” economy in Germany by the end of the war. Disrupting marshaling “severed the coal/ transport nexus, demolished the division of labor, and contributed heavily to the disorganization of [Albert] Speer’s administrative system.”27 An example of the deadly effect of formation bombing on such a target within a major city occurred a week before CLARION  during the 14–15 Febru- Ruins of Johanne Strasse in central Dresden after the controversial raid of 14–15 February 1945. This picture was taken more than a year later, reﬂecting not only the interest of the press in the bombing of the city but also Russian and German desires to exploit the destruction through propaganda. (Special Collections Division, US Military Academy Library, West Point, NY)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 174 --- 156  CHAPTER  NINE