his letter, but by the time Churchill reluctantly agreed, Roosevelt was dead and the war in Europe was almost over. “Due to the tone of the message [from Churchill] and the circumstances on the Western Front,” Truman directed that the project not be “pressed further” in Europe. Arnold’s staff continued experi- mentation in the United States, but nothing came of it.21 Kenney never did get the support he had requested for the Pacific, but the plan JAVAMAN  was later devised using Weary Willy technology to guide robot boats with B-17s. The boats were designed to destroy the Kammon tunnel in Shimonoseki Straits in September 1945, isolating the area in Japan to be invaded, but of course they were not needed.22 AMERICAN  GLIDE  BOMBS  AND BUZZ  BOMBS The record shows a considerable difference between the views of General Arnold and the opinions of his field commanders in Europe on the employ- ment of Weary Willy. Their intent was to use the war-weary aircraft as a tac- tical or strategic missile of some precision, not as an indiscriminate weapon of terror. A similar gap between Arnold and his field commanders can be seen in his other attempts to force new weapons particularly on Spaatz, be-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 142 --- 124  CHAPTER  SEVEN ginning as early as 1942 when the AAF chief of staff tried to get Spaatz to use a new “stabilized glide bomb” that could hit “an area the size of Dayton, Ohio, from 25,000 feet” while the bomber stayed out of flak range. Unim- pressed with the new weapon’s accuracy, Spaatz declined. Even Kuter, who worked for Arnold, believed it was “a bomb to do indiscriminate bombing the hard way.” Yet during Eaker’s command of the Eighth Air Force in 1943, he arranged with Arnold to test it. When Spaatz returned, the trials were discontinued. Eventually, despite protests from Doolittle and Spaatz, “chair- borne” leaders in Washington insisted that the Eighth Air Force test the GB- 1, an unguided and unpowered 2,000-pound bomb with stubb