ght was Frankfurt using H2X but were unsure, and two attacked what they thought was Siegen with H2X but turned out to be Limburg instead. All results were unobserved. Thirty-six group bombers attacked the railroad viaduct at Bielefeld with Gee-H on the 10th, and then thirty-three used H2X to hit the Kiel docks the next day. Though all results were unobserved, the land–water contrast for Kiel provided optimum conditions for radar screen images to guide the bombing there. The group avoided disaster on the 14th in a good visual attack on the Gutersloh marshaling yard with thirty-six B-24s. One squadron overran the approach for their bomb run and while attempting to turn back into posi- tion found themselves on a collision course with another wing. They adeptly pulled into the other formation and bombed with it. The group continued to avoid battle losses; for the fourth straight mission they did not even have damage to any aircraft. On the 15th thirty-three group aircraft led its wing on a raid against the German military headquarters at Zossen. Though weather was good, ground haze and bomb smoke obscured the target, so most bombs fell short. After a day off, the 44th sent twenty-five aircraft against the Munster marshaling yard. They bombed by Gee-H, and as a result of equipment failure one following squadron had to use smoke markers for guidance. On the 18th, thirty-three B-24s participated in a long mission against the Rheinmetall Borsig Arma- ment Works in Berlin. Over 1,000 Eighth Air Force bombers hit Berlin that day, and poor weather, along with the contrails of preceding groups, made navigation and maintaining formation integrity difficult. Two squadrons hit the primary target visually and the third bombed the city with H2X; all three achieved excellent results. In contrast to the previous week, seventeen aircraft sustained significant battle damage on this raid, mostly from flak. The group finally lost an aircraft in combat on 19 March. Thirty-three bombers led