res to act as night beacons for the RAF, and to burn down cities “when the occasion warrants.” He directed his staff to determine the effectiveness of incendiaries on industrial targets, and they provided a rather dismal as- sessment of the bombs’ capabilities against German factories. However, re- search and development went into high gear, motivated especially by the CWS, which built a five-square-mile complex of German and Japanese towns at Dugway Proving Ground that included authentic furnishings. Dropping bombs on this site led to the development of special incendiaries that could penetrate German roofs. A small, delayed-action incendiary called a Brad- dock was even invented, designed to be dropped into Germany and used for sabotage by disgruntled workers. Thousands were dropped, along with leaflets advertising them, but their main contribution to the war effort seems to have been in keeping Nazi security forces busy picking them up.40 The most innovative use of incendiaries, or the most bizarre, depending on your perspective, was Project X-RAY, the bat bomb. It was the brainchild of Lytle S. Adams, a practicing dentist from Pennsylvania who also dabbled in aerial inventions. He was also president of Tri-state Aviation, which eventu- ally became US Airways. He had acquaintances at high levels of government, including Eleanor Roosevelt, whom he had flown around to demonstrate a rural air mail pickup system. She delivered a letter to the president from Ad- ams in January 1942 that proposed bats could be used to deliver firebombs in vulnerable Japanese cities that would sow terror and cause great destruc- tion. Roosevelt sent a note to his coordinator of information, Colonel Wil- liam “Wild Bill” Donovan that actually began with the words, “This man is not a nut,” and encouraged support for the idea. Although that personnel evaluation could be questioned, eventually the project was picked up by the CWS and the AAF. Initial experiments to determine the load-carryi