uld have to be completely aborted, while many others were partially affected by the poor weather. Sometimes just a half hour could make a difference. To open the month, eighteen B-24s launched against the marshaling yards at Maribor, Yugoslavia. Bad weather prevented getting to that objective, so eleven aircraft bombed the secondary target, rail yards at Jesenice, while the other seven brought their loads back. The sixteen Vul- tures that took off thirty minutes later in the second wave reached Mari- bor and bombed visually with good results. The next day only nineteen of twenty-eight aircraft could get through to bomb their primary target of the marshaling yard at Linz, Austria, but they had to use H2X through overcast. On the 4th, seventeen group B-24s bombed the marshaling yards at Wie-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 78 --- 60  CHAPTER  THREE ner-Neustadt with H2X with poor results, while twenty-one heading to Brod, Yugoslavia, had to turn back with their bomb loads. Frustrated by the continuing bad weather, the whole Fifteenth Air Force stood down for the next three days, hoping for improvement. How- ever, when forty-two Vultures launched on the 8th to attack the marshaling yards at Novezamke, they could not even find a target of opportunit y to bomb. Three aircraft ran out of fuel before they could get home, two found a friendly airfield in Yugoslavia, and the third crash-landed behind Soviet lines. Missions on the 9th were a little better. Although the following blue force could find no targets and had to return with full loads, the leading red force at least could identify a secondary target at the Graz marshaling yard with H2X. One aircraft had to abort because of an oil leak, but eighteen oth- ers dropped their bombs there, causing moderate damage. The next day the Fifteenth sent 192 bombers after the Parona railroad bridge at Verona. Of twenty-one participating Vultures, two returned early as a result of mechan- ical difficulties; the other nineteen p