us as the new targeting directive took effect. On 14 January the 44th dispatched thirty-two bombers to lead their combat wing in an assault on the oil refinery at Hemmingstadt. Two squad- rons had excellent results in visual conditions, but the third bombed poorly because it was crowded off course during the bomb run by another group. It was much harder to get a large number of bombers over a target in day- light formations than with nighttime bomber streams. The next day’s mission against the aircraft component factory at Bounheim was scrubbed, but on the 16th, thirty-three B-24s of the group led the whole Second Bombardment Division in an attack of the synthetic oil plant at Ruhland. There were plenty of jinxing gremlins flying with them that day. Just after crossing the German Although the danger posed by Luftwaffe ﬁghters was much reduced for USSTAF bombers in 1945, ﬂak, weather, and accidents still took their toll. This B-24 Liberator from the 466th Bomb Group crashed while trying to make an emergency landing at Shipdham on 8 January. All crewmen survived, though some were injured. (44th Bomb Group Collection, USAMHI, USAHEC)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 69 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   5 1 border, the lead plane had a malfunction of its H2X radar set, so the deputy had to take over to guide the formation to the target. When they arrived, it was obscured by a smoke screen and low clouds, so the aircraft had to shift to the secondary objective of the marshaling yards at Dresden. One squadron bombed over the target because of a rack malfunction of the leader. Another bombed short because the lead bombardier’s viewing panel was frosted up. The third missed right because it was again forced off its run by another group. One damaged plane was abandoned in flight (the first combat loss of the month), sixteen landed in France, four more landed at other airdromes, and another ran out of fuel before it could find anywhere to land. Even after such a debacle, t