n the western flank. Frontline enemy conscripts were demoralized by the bomb- ing and were starving from lack of supplies. Farther to the rear, Republican Guard units were better protected and provisioned, but the degraded Iraqi command-and-control system hampered reactions to the coalition’s envelop- ing attacks. Contrary to initial reports, some strong enemy ground resistance occurred as coalition forces drove deeper into Iraq, but superior troops, equipment, and training were decisive in those engagements. Although weakened by air attacks, the Republican Guard did maneuver units to try to stop VII Corps. Although newscasts implied that the USAF had been the main destroyer of enemy armored vehicles, figures from General Nor- man Schwarzkopf’s Central Command showed that ground forces destroyed 2,162 tanks out of total Iraqi losses of 3,847, and those figures may actually be too low. Lieutenant General Frederick Franks claims that his VII Corps troops, carrying out Schwarzkopf’s main attack, destroyed over 1,300 tanks on their four-day sweep into Iraq and 600 more in mopping-up operations.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 220 --- 202  CHAPTER  ELEVEN US Marine forces alone claimed about 1,000 tanks.33 One of the most widely circulated stories among army officers returning from the war concerned an Iraqi regimental commander in the Republican Guard who admitted to his captors from the Second Armored Cavalry Regiment that after losing only seven of his thirty-nine tanks during a month of bombing, he decided it was time to quit when he lost the other thirty-two tanks after only thirty minutes of combat against VII Corps forces. Despite this quibbling, no one could deny that American airpower had wreaked impressive havoc on the Iraqis. Apparently the most significant ef- fects of the air campaign were to break the morale of the second-rate troops in frontline defenses and to seriously damage Iraqi command, control, com- munications, and intelligence systems. The gro