- kan cities. In September 1944 the International Red Cross protested AAF bombing attacks on Romanian civilians in Bucharest. Eaker had already vis- ited the city and discovered that as a result of a series of unforeseen occur- rences, 12,000 people had been killed in one attack. Six thousand foreign workers had died in trains passing through the marshaling yards, and many Romanians had ignored air-raid sirens because of an advertised practice drill shortly before the raid. Surprisingly, the people showed no resentment to- ward the Americans, perhaps because of recent German dive-bombing at- tacks on city streets. Romanians and Russians described American bombing accuracy as remarkable and obviously “after purely military objectives.” Eak- er’s perceptions were seconded by his inspector general and incorporated into Stimson’s reply to Secretary of State Hull concerning the Red Cross charges. The secretary of war expressed his regrets over any civilian deaths  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 157 --- THE LURE  OF THE DEATHBLOW  IN EUROPE   1 3 9 and reiterated his assurances “that the Army Air Forces has not condoned, and will not condone, any wanton slaughter of non-participants in the war.”15 The 1944 attacks on Balkan cities did not influence American airmen to adopt terror tactics. Though the campaign was perceived as a British at- tempt to divert valuable strategic bombers to attain questionable political objectives, the AAF believed that it had attacked primarily military objectives with the maximum precision possible. The only legacy from these attacks for future operations was the reinforcement of the belief that marshaling yards in cities were viable precision targets. PURSUING  A DEATHBLOW  AGAINST  GERMANY Meanwhile, other plans to deal an aerial deathblow to the Axis were being pursued against Germany. The Americans had been reluctant participants in such operations in the Balkans, but they could not resist the temptation to try to end the war against t