o structure forces for a war but not to fight it. Human and political factors, along with the chance and friction of actual war, were incompatible with operations research and systems analysis, and plans and strategies developed through the process were too inflexible to deal with alternatives.25 Yet this process had influenced the development of USAF doctrine in the 1960s as well as the plans developed for “Victory through Airpower” over North Vietnam. Even before major United States forces were committed to South Viet- nam, the USAF had already developed a scheme to shock Hanoi quickly and decisively with American firepower and resolve. Chairman of the JCS Gen- eral Earle Wheeler presented McNamara with a plan to strike ninety-four key targets in sixteen days, an operation designed to convince North Vietnam to abandon its support of the insurgency in the South. Primarily for political reasons, President Johnson decided to apply pressure gradually, in the cam- paign called ROLLING  THUNDER . Target lists grew to 240 and then 427 fixed objectives, and priorities ranking interdiction, oil, industry, and electrical power fluctuated. Johnson prohibited attacks on many targets near cities, and Wheeler was sensitive about the prospect of civilian casualties. Military advisers repeatedly tried to expand and accelerate air attacks on North Viet- nam throughout Johnson’s presidency, including asking for permission to destroy rice crops, but with little success.26  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 216 --- 198  CHAPTER  ELEVEN American fighter-bombers roamed the skies over Vietnam, but any bomb- ing near urban areas was strictly controlled. Enemy tactics and propaganda forced extraordinary measures. Rules of engagement required air strikes to be preceded by warnings with leaflets or loudspeakers; pilots could not fly over friendly populated areas when armed. Despite precautions, friendly troops or villages were hit, mostly through technical failures or poor com- munication.