yed zone.35 The lack of reference to noncombatant casualties by the press resulted from a similar oversight in  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 194 --- 176  CHAPTER  TEN AAF accounts of the incendiary attacks. This omission was not an example of AAF censorship because the mission reports also neglected such statistics; such figures were difficult to determine even by civil defense authorities on the ground and were not normally included in AAF intelligence assessments that relied primarily on aerial photography. The resort to fire raids marked another stage in the escalation toward total war and represented the culmination of trends begun in the air war against Germany. Although target selection, especially of transportation objectives, late in the European campaign showed less effort to avoid civilian casualties, LeMay’s planning ignored such considerations even more. His intelligence officers and operations analysts advised him that massive fires were essential in order to jump the fire breaks around factories, and residential tinder fed those conflagrations. Precision bombing was no longer more effective than urban area bombing when applied to combat conditions over Japan; concerns for humanity could not override the desire for efficiency. Noncombatant deaths were unavoidable in order to destroy Japanese industry and forestall an invasion of Japan, which LeMay feared would cost many American lives. The success of the new tactics at producing obvious results also “salvaged the morale and fighting spirit” of LeMay’s crews and proved to them that the B-29 was “an efficient and reliable combat aircraft.”36 Although areas of in- dustrial concentrations remained primary targets, the concept of workers as belligerents that had surfaced in European combat once again justified civil- ian casualties. In addition, all Japanese were perceived as manufacturing for the war effort, often in their homes. LeMay defended burning Tokyo: We were going after military targets. No p