everything from the air defense command-and-control network to the country’s banking system. It demonstrated NATO’s strength and dom- inance to the political leaders and the civilian population. Knocking out the electric system also took away power from hospitals and water-pumping stations. Military lawyers made the moral implications clear to Clark. One recalled, “We’d have preferred not to have to take on these targets. But this was the Commander’s call.” All major Serb cities experienced extended power disruptions until a settlement was reached on 10 June after a seventy- eight-day (and night) campaign.47 Despite European attempts to restrain attacks, a less than final settlement was achieved by the same sort of “imposed cost” strategy applied in Korea and Vietnam, resulting in massive destruction of the civilian infrastructure of Yugoslavia. Pentagon spokesman Ken Bacon sounded like Giulio Douhet by speculating that the main factor in Milosevic’s acceptance of terms “was  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 225 --- STRATEGIC  AIRPOWER  IN LIMITED  WARS   207 the increasing inconveniences that the bombing campaign was causing in Belgrade and other cities.” As in all strategic air campaigns against states, the list of acceptable bombing objectives expanded as the conflict continued. A broad definition of the term “dual use” opened up a wide array of targets for NATO airmen, including bridges, heating plants, and television stations. Black humor in Belgrade determined that even bakeries were valid targets because “soldiers also eat bread.” Serb propaganda videos of the damage and casualties wreaked by NATO airpower in attacks on cities, factories, and power plants gained some international sympathy, but the same images that fanned anti-NATO and anti-American sentiments may have also reinforced a sense of futility in the besieged civilian population because their own air defenses seemed powerless to do anything to stop the mounting devastation. When the conflict ende