hat the Poles were violating the rules of war- fare by resisting in open cities and shelling their own people, thus justifying retaliation from the air.21 Roosevelt’s true feelings are probably better demonstrated by a statement he made to Henry Morgenthau on 4 August 1941 about defeating Hitler: “Well, the way to lick Hitler is the way I have been telling the English, but they won’t listen to me. . . . I have suggested again and again that if they sent a hundred planes over Germany for military objectives that ten of them should bomb some of these smaller towns that haven’t been bombed before. There must be some kind of factory in every town. That is the only way to break German morale.”22 Although factories would be the technical targets, Roosevelt’s actual objective was to smash civilian will, not the economy. (Op- eration CLARION , similar in concept, was mounted in 1945 and generated much controversy over its aims.) Roosevelt revealed as early as 1938 that he believed the morale of the German people could be cracked by the terror of aerial bombardment.23 The president did emphasize the distinction between obliteration and precision bombing in his message to Congress in 1943, but he revealed no such awareness during the controversy over Brittain’s pamphlet. Stephan Early, Roosevelt’s secretary, responded to “Massacre by Bombing” with a letter on behalf of the president. Although Roosevelt was “disturbed and horrified” by civilian air-raid casualties, “the bombing is shortening the war, in the opinion of an overwhelming percentage of military authorities.” Brit- tain replied that the president’s response was “irrelevant, unjustified, and destructive of the very ideals with which the American people went to war.”24 A bit later, Roosevelt sent a note to Secretary Stimson taking an even harsher  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 87 --- ATTITUDES  OF LEADERS  AND  THE PUBLIC   6 9 stand, stating that “the German people as a whole must have it driven home to them tha