untered winds of only twenty-five to thirty-five knots and fewer clouds; scope definition on radar was better also. Such attacks took advantage of the lack of effective Japanese night fighters or low-level antiaircraft fire. These factors all improved bombing accuracy. Additionally, low-altitude flying reduced engine strain considerably so that less maintenance was required and there were fewer aborts. With the elimi- nation of the need to climb to high altitudes or to fly in formation, less fuel was needed, and a greater bomb load could be carried with the bomb bay gas tanks removed. To increase the bomb load further, LeMay also dispensed with all defensive weapons and ammunition except for the tail guns, and only one or two gunners instead of four went on the mission. Selected ur- ban target areas contained numerous industrial objectives. Mission reports emphasized that “it is noteworthy that the object of these attacks was not to bomb indiscriminately civilian populations. The object was to destroy the industrial and strategic targets concentrated in the urban areas.” This wording could have been designed to counter any criticisms of the fire raids or per- haps to strengthen the resolve or to ease the troubled consciences of airmen who might have questioned the value of the missions or who felt guilty about the stench of charred flesh that lingered in their bomb bays. That line of argument was reinforced by messages from Washington concerned about ed- itorial comments referencing “blanket incendiary attacks upon cities.” It also emphasized again the AAF focus on destroying enemy capacity to resist.32 RESULTS  OF THE FIRE RAIDS That objective of American bombardment was not evident to people in tar- geted Japanese cities, particularly in Tokyo, during that first massive fire raid, code-named Operation MEETINGHOUSE , on the night of 9 March 1945. The selected zone of attack covered six important industrial targets and numer- ous smaller factories, railroad yards, h