f sup- plies and had strained the economic system. Arnold was appalled at the negative publicity and immediately demanded an explanation from Spaatz. Spaatz was in the Mediterranean, but Anderson replied that the report had exaggerated the briefing officer’s statements and had never been cleared by censors. He reiterated that USSTAF’s mission remained to destroy Germa- ny’s ability to wage war and that the Air Force did not consider attacks on transportation centers terror attacks: “There has been no change in policy, . . . there has been only a change of emphasis in locale.” Anderson also wrote to Kuter and told him that because an RAF officer had caused the trouble, it had “led some people to say that it was intentional in an effort to tar us with the same brush with which British Bomber Command has been tarred.” Anderson disagreed: “I believe it was a shear [ sic] case of absolute stupidity by an incompetent officer.” Eisenhower confirmed that the briefer had gone beyond his knowledge and authority.35 Spaatz’s cable to his commanders on the eve of CLARION  was probably also inspired by concerns over the adverse publicity after the Dresden raid. Despite AAF fears of US public reaction to the announcements of terror bombing, none came. Arnold was satisfied by 20 February that “the whole matter is now definitely in hand,” but on 5 March the secretary of war asked for an investigation of Dresden: “An account of it has come out of Germany which makes the destruction seem on its face terrible and probably unnec- essary.” He did not want Dresden destroyed because he hoped the capital of Saxony could be “a portion of the country which can be used to be the  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 177 --- DELIVERING  THE DEATHBLOW  TO GERMANY   1 5 9 center of a new Germany which will be less Prussianized and be dedicated to freedom.” Typically, Stimson found out about the incident long after the fact and probably not through regular channels. He seems to have read the account