eneral Mark Clark, also tried to attack the capital for negotiating leverage. Operation PRESSURE  PUMP on 11 July 1952 involved a con- centrated assault on thirty military objectives in Pyongyang, though Brigadier General Jacob Smart, FEAF deputy for operations, also intended to exploit the psychological effects of airpower. In a statement reminiscent of the early concept for Operation CLARION , he directed, “Whenever possible, attacks will be scheduled against targets of military significance so situated that their de- struction will have a deleterious effect upon the morale of the civil population actively engaged in the support of enemy forces.” Warning leaflets were also used to demonstrate the omnipotence of UN airpower and disrupt indus- try with fleeing workers. As with the emphasis on bombing Berlin in World War II, mass raids on the North Korean capital had the highest priority and included attacks in August 1952 designed “to cause a noise in Moscow” by destroying all public offices. By 1 September no worthwhile precision targets were left in Pyongyang. The campaign caused much damage and dislocated many civilians, but the resolve of enemy leaders was unshaken. Chinese dip- lomats dismissed the air attacks as “19th century gun boat tactics.” FEAF leaders were not even certain which decision makers they were trying to in- fluence—in Pyongyang, Beijing, or Moscow—and how their minds worked.20 FEAF planners did not rely only on European precedents from World War II. In a move that resembled LeMay’s psychological operations, in July 1952 Fifth Air Force Commander Lieutenant General Glenn Barcus an- nounced to press and radio the names of seventy-eight North Korean towns containing targets to be bombed. Although the USAF considered these warnings “humanitarian and utilitarian” and Radio Seoul warned residents to evacuate, the State Department complained that the American campaign would be exploited intensely by communist propaganda as well as harm the UN positio