gton. In mid-September the Combined Chiefs of Staff deferred a British proposal to endorse morale bombing after Admiral William Leahy, Roosevelt’s chief military adviser, said it would be a mistake to “record” such a decision,9 an apparently diplo- matic way to avoid offending the British and endorsing a distasteful proposi- tion. However, pressure for THUNDERCLAP  began to mount after the Battle of the Bulge in December. General Marshall, already concerned with American staying power for the war with Japan still ahead, began “pressing for any and every plan to bring increased effort against the German forces for the pur- pose of quickly ending the war.” He suggested that Munich also be bombed as part of THUNDERCLAP , to demonstrate to civilians evacuated to that city “that there is no hope.” By the end of January, Bradley’s headquarters staff, facing a bloody assault into Germany, were also pressing for THUNDERCLAP . Arnold acknowledged that these pressures were causing him to stress “some very marginal projects,” but “we will not know just where the breaking point may be.”10 With improving weather and the availability of more fighter escorts, a  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 167 --- DELIVERING  THE DEATHBLOW  TO GERMANY   1 4 9 reluctant Spaatz could delay no longer. Acceding to Marshall’s and Eisen- hower’s desires, he scheduled the operation for 3 February 1945. He also ordered the Fifteenth Air Force to plan to bomb Munich, as Marshall had wanted.11 Though without British participation the operation was techni- cally not THUNDERCLAP , that is how the Eighth Air Force perceived it, and they would have executed the same mission with the RAF. Leaders in Wash- ington also used that term to describe the coming operation as late as 2 Feb- ruary. True to form, Doolittle resisted to the end. On 30 January he sent a long message to Spaatz explaining his reservations. Besides the dangers to his crews, he complained, there were few “important strictly military target