adar. The H2X campaign against marshaling yards did have a major impact on the German economy, especially regarding coal transpor- tation. Developments in Europe also contributed significantly to strategic successes in the Pacific. Equipped with new Eagle radars and using special training learned from missions over Germany, the 315th Wing managed to obtain results with nonvisual bombings on Japanese oil refineries that were 98 percent as accurate as visual bombings.31 Yet the use of nonvisual techniques did contribute to the escalation to- ward total war that would culminate in the Pacific. Although Spaatz and Doolittle did not like radar bombing, they acknowledged the need for it to keep pressure on the enemy and to win the war. Accepting less accurate bombing methods also meant accepting increased risk for civilians. While in Europe the majority of American strategic air attacks were still in daylight under visual conditions, in Japan the opposite would be true. B-29 crews deployed to the Pacific were trained in night radar-bombing methods sup- posedly perfected in Europe, and it proved difficult to revert to daylight pre- cision methods.32 Eventually LeMay would devote his main effort to night fire raids on cities portrayed on radar scopes and marked by radar Path- finders. Whereas the adoption of nonvisual bombing techniques in Europe signified that civilian casualties were a matter of decreasing concern, by the time such methods were applied against Japan, civilian casualties were of no concern at all.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 134 --- 1167. THE LURE OF TECHNOLOGICAL INNOV ATION: BETTER BOMBS It seems to me that this whole project [ APHRODITE ] is put together with baling wire, chicken guts, and ignorance. —Lieutenant General Jimmy Doolittle1 Developing better techniques for more accurate bombing was not the only way to improve bombing effectiveness. Research on better bombs with more accurate guidance or with greater destructive power was also pursue