etter techniques for more accurate bombing was not the only way to improve bombing effectiveness. Research on better bombs with more accurate guidance or with greater destructive power was also pursued in a series of projects that would climax in World War II with the development of the atomic bomb. Except for nuclear developments, however, and to some extent incendiary bombs, these projects did not contribute significantly to the escalation to total war. Examining them in detail emphasizes the per- sistence of the belief in precision bombing among USSTAF leaders and how that commitment sometimes clashed with the attitudes of leaders in Washington. They also reveal much about the roots of contemporary drone programs and precision-guided munitions. According to Ronald Schaffer, one of the programs that “appeared to con- flict with the official policy against indiscriminate air attacks” was the War- Weary Bomber project, a plan involving the use of explosives-laden, worn-out aircraft as guided missiles against European targets. “AAF leaders recognized that War-Weary planes would fall on the Germans indiscriminately,” but the leaders wanted to use them anyway. Indeed, only British fear of retalia- tion stopped the program.2 The AAF official history acknowledges that the project was a sign that “opposition in the AAF to area bombardment had actually weakened” by early 1945.3 These observations are generally accurate if one considers only the attitudes of leaders in Washington, but an exam- ination of the actual testing and use of the war-wearies in Europe provides  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 135 --- BETTER  BOMBS   1 1 7 more evidence that the belief in precision bombing remained strong at both the operational and tactical levels. It is not surprising that the main force behind the project was General Henry “Hap” Arnold. Along with his interest in new gadgets, he was in- trigued by the idea of pilotless flying bombs like the German V-1s. During World War I, Arno