h lone-wolf raids by single bombers or small groups (as Anderson had proposed) and was especially successful with attacks on oil refineries. His surprise attacks, often at night and in bad weather, “hit the refineries when they are working and more vulnerable.”25  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 130 --- 112  CHAPTER  SIX Eaker proclaimed his successes to USSTAF and Washington, whose at- titudes he thought were too “gloomy” about radar bombing. He pointed out that during ten days of bad weather, Lieutenant General Nathan Twin- ing’s Fifteenth Air Force had shut down all synthetic oil refineries within its range. He admitted that his Pathfinder techniques were not as accurate as visual bombing; “However, enemy smoke screens are becoming increasingly effective making blind bombing attacks mandatory even in good weather.” Such concealment was especially effective on a target such as an oil refinery or an important factory. Eaker gave the credit for his success to “an empha- sis on training that it does not appear has been duplicated elsewhere.” His commanders at all levels were “absolutely enthusiastic about this technique and their ability to do a worthwhile job employing it.” Neither this training nor this faith in nonvisual techniques seemed to exist in the Eighth Air Force, with the possible exception of Curtis LeMay’s Third Bombardment Division.26 The Army also apparently had faith in nonvisual bombing, perhaps be- cause of Ninth Air Force successes. The ground forces also remembered the contributions of heavy bombers to the breakout from Normandy during Operation COBRA . Though Spaatz was no longer under Eisenhower’s direct control, the airman preferred working with Ike to the British, and there were abundant air assets available to support Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expe- ditionary Forces, when called upon. Arnold also wanted to stay friendly with the ground forces so that he could count on their support in his drive for an independent service. Airmen someti