r own explosives-laden, war-weary Junkers 88 bombers in attacks on shipping. These robot bombs were guided strictly by automatic pilot, but captured Al- lied technology could have been used to improve their performance. When Major General Lawrence Kuter assailed Sir Charles Portal for “Indian giv- ing,” the British airman blamed “politicoes” for the decision against using the Weary Willies.17 A few weeks after presenting his plan to the JCS, Arnold sent a prelim- inary report to Spaatz on the results of war-weary tests at Eglin Field. He seemed to ignore the outcome of Spaatz’s tests and gave a general outline of his plan to use the Weary Willies “as an irritant and possibly a means of breaking down the morale of the people of interior Germany.” Arnold saw “very little difference” between this operation and British night area bomb- ing (as if that were a justification for the project) and asked for the USSTAF commander’s reaction to the proposition. In his reply, Spaatz was diplomatic but presented his position clearly. He described the problems of APHRODITE and concluded that the use of the robots for strategic deep-penetration raids “had good chances of success against Japanese targets” despite their failure in Europe, presumably because of better weather there and because long flights could be made over open, undefended waters. As for WILLIE  ORPHAN , Spaatz wrote that he could “see no reason why we should not attack towns if they have military targets or industries associated with them.” However, he was referring to robots guided by ground stations of limited range into targets near the front, a tactic to assist the ground advance and not necessarily to attack civilian morale. He argued that limitations on aircraft and trained per- sonnel would prevent any volume of war-weary aircraft from being launched and that the AAF had to “be reasonably sure of hitting the target” to achieve any significant effect. Arnold’s plan to “turn them loose to land all over Germany