ell. One bombardier wrote to his parents about his concerns regarding Flak hits could be catastrophic. This unlucky B-17 had its nose shot off just after completing its bomb run on a target near Budapest, Hungary. Accompanying aircraft watched helplessly as it crashed and counted only ﬁve parachutes from its ten-man crew.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 106 --- 88  CHAPTER  FIVE being wounded at high altitudes: “The pressure inside your body is so much greater than outside that you bleed profusely.” Crewmen also worried about mechanical failures of their aircraft or human failures from fatigue.9 These factors affected bombing accuracy, focusing the airmen’s attention on the airspace around them and not necessarily on the target. Commanders found, however, that the best way to bolster morale when the crew returned to base after the mission was to produce immediate photographic results of their attack to show the worth of the hell they had just been through. Per- sonnel reporting to the Eighth Air Force in spring 1943 were told that B-17 and B-24 aircrews completed only an average of five and a half missions. A study done for Spaatz in early 1944 indicated that of 1,000 airmen assigned to the Eighth Air Force, only 216 could be expected to finish twenty-five mis- sions. This figure may have been optimistic; data from the Office of the Air Surgeon for the European theater during the first half of 1944 revealed that AAF battle-casualty rates for heavy-bomber crews were 712 killed or missing and 175 wounded out of each 1,000 men who served for six months. This 89 percent casualty figure matches the finding of William Fili, a B-24 crewman in Europe, that only twenty-seven of the 250 men in his July 1943 gunnery class completed their quota of missions. The average airman’s prayers con- sisted of a simple, constant repetition of the words, “Please God, I don’t want to die.”10 Because of the high casualty rate, American airmen in the European the- ater were critical of m