ng to eliminate the remnants of the Bulge. There was no way that air commanders could have avoided bombing in poor visibility while they had so many aircraft and soldiers were dying on the ground. In the end airmen were trying to do everything they could to win the war as soon as possible, and they were willing to risk German civilians to save American soldiers. After a significant diversion of USSTAF assets to tactical targets in December had eased pressure on German oil and industry, Spaatz gained permission from Eisenhower in early January to refocus two-thirds of his force back on oil, with tank and jet production the next priorities. Fears of the new Messerschmitt 262 jet fighters were mounting among the Americans, but the British did not think the war would last long enough for the new weapon to have much effect. Spaatz and Air Marshall Bottomly agreed on a new targeting directive on 12 January that reemphasized oil, transportation, and industrial targets but that also allowed diversions against jet and U-boat facilities—the latter an especially good objective for radar-directed attacks be- cause of the land–water contrasts of coastal targets.30 One key aspect of the success of this final air campaign is often over-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 66 --- 48  CHAPTER  THREE looked. That is the significant contribution made by the British to sustain the pressure on precision target systems. Many oil facilities were small refin- eries, often well defended and camouflaged. Not only did British intelligence services provide key information about target characteristics and bombing re- sults but also the RAF’s skill at blind bombing, honed during years of night raids over Germany, was essential in keeping oil production suppressed during periods of bad weather. British bombers also dropped larger payloads and could deliver crushing punishment that the Americans could not. It is worth noting that while USSTAF conducted 347 separate missions against oil targets, th