He announced, “That statement is no longer in effect” and directed that a new poster be put up that said, “The First Duty of the Eighth Air Force Fighters is to Destroy German Fighters.” Doolittle considered that his most important decision of the war. The fighter pilots loved it. The bomber crews, who would eventu- ally come to see themselves as bait, hated it, and some of their leaders told Doolittle “in polite terms of course” that he was a “murderer.” Although the new policy did indeed cause major cracks in bomber crew morale before its positive effects became fully apparent, Adolf Galland, chief of the German fighter forces, considered the day the American fighters were unleashed as the day Germany lost the air war.19 Eighth Air Force bomber crew morale was further affected when pres- sure from Arnold persuaded Doolittle to raise the required number of mis- sions before rotation from twenty-five to thirty. The force was ready for a big push. Maintenance and supply systems were fully staffed and stocked. Over 1,000 bombers were available for daily missions, and another 1,000 were in depots or being serviced. There were enough fighters on hand to unleash whole groups on sweeps to catch the Luftwaffe on the ground. The CCS had narrowed POINTBLANK ’s priority objectives to fighter and ball-bearing produc- tion. The CBO was now purely a counterair campaign. A plan code-named ARGUMENT  had been developed by the RAF-AAF Combined Operational Planning Committee in England in 1943 that called for an all-out offensive against German fighter, synthetic rubber, and ball-bearing factories. These attacks were also designed to lure enemy fighters into bloody air battles, all in the hope of creating a situation where German fighter production could not keep up with losses. USSTAF now had the force to execute the plan. All it needed was a period of good weather.20 Major General Fred Anderson, now deputy commander for operations, persuaded Spaatz to launch ARGUMENT  on 20 Februar