e evident in ineffective campaigns against precision target systems such as oil and electric power. As McNamara came to realize that the agrarian economy and guerrilla forces of the North Vietnamese would never collapse from bombing, USAF leaders chafed to be free of political restric- tions to strike harder at key targets in Hanoi and Haiphong.28 A new president, Richard Nixon, gave the Air Force its chance with Op- eration LINEBACKER  I and Operation LINEBACKER  II, which included sending strategic bombers against objectives in North Vietnamese cities. Earlier at- tempts to destroy small factories with B-52 bombers had just highlighted their “inability . . . to hit a small target without damage to the surrounding civilian population,” a result that brought a halt to such missions. Nixon al-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 217 --- STRATEGIC  AIRPOWER  IN LIMITED  WARS   1 9 9 lowed even more extensive targeting of urban storage and transportation fa- cilities. Once again, American aircraft pounded an enemy capital. Accuracy was relatively good, and evacuations helped keep casualties low. Though 730 B-52 sorties attacking urban targets during LINEBACKER  II in December 1972 caused only 1,318 civilian deaths, considerable public outcry arose against the operation, and world opinion quickly compared the attacks with area bombing raids such as those against Dresden. The operations did appear to fulfill the commander in chief ’s goal to bring the North Vietnamese back to the peace talks, however, and helped persuade them to accept a cease-fire in January 1973. Nixon also intended LINEBACKER  II to impress the South Viet- namese and to gain their support for the results of the negotiations as well.29 Five months of LINEBACKER  I had crippled North Vietnam’s military capa- bility, and the eleven days of LINEBACKER  II had unsettled its urban populace. Despite harsh criticisms in the American press, Nixon had continued attacks on Hanoi and Haiphong until the North Viet