sful or not, eventually diverges from those precision ideals, or at least stretches their boundaries.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 32 --- 142. DEVELOPING DOCTRINE The consensus of world opinion is not only opposed to the employment of air power in direct attacks against civilian personnel, but such attacks cannot be justified on the basis of efficiency. —Draft , 1935 Air Corps Tactical School text1 During June 1918 the director of military aeronautics in the United States prepared a study on strategic bombardment for the chief of staff, General P. C. March, proposing the development of a “long distance independent bombing force” intended “to operate on a bombing campaign against Ger- man industrial centers.”2 Despite this growing interest in an official doc- trine for strategic bombing, aircraft production could not support it. The July 1918 “202 Squadron Program” for the American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) Air Service allocated sixty pursuit squadrons, 101 for observation planes and only forty-one for bombers. This decision, based on industrial capacity rather than doctrine, had significant repercussions. The American air arm had no operational organizations to determine the course of engi- neering development or doctrine, and AEF end-of-war reports were generally written by ground-oriented staff officers in the field with little understand- ing of air warfare or its potential. As a result of the limitations on production that plagued the air service’s structure and performance, postwar US Army staff schools taught that “strategical bombing is . . . a luxury.”3 Nevertheless, some studies would influence the development of future doctrine. These were compiled for Major General Mason M. Patrick, chief of Air Service, AEF, and would eventually be deposited at the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) at Maxwell Field in Alabama. In December 1918 he directed his assistant chief of staff, Colonel Edgar S. Gorrell, to prepare a history and final report on US air activi