ic objectives. As the war continued, such a trend would become more evident, and the description of actual missions in chapter 3 demonstrates how much USSTAF relied on nonvisual techniques in the first quarter of 1945. Perhaps the most important contribution of radar bombing to the war was in Ninth Air Force tactical support for ground troops, but there were significant strategic benefits as well. An assessment of Eighth Air Force op- erations concluded that nonvisual methods permitted many extra visual mis- sions by guiding aircraft through overcast to targets, that these methods were fairly accurate when H2X was combined with some visibility and beacon  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 132 --- This photograph for bomb-damage assessment shows the potential of perfected nonvisual bombing methods. Using Eagle radar techniques, the B-29s of the 315th Wing destroyed 95 percent of the oil reﬁnery at Maruzen, Japan, in only two raids in July 1945. [128.59.222.107]   Project MUSE (2024-10-07 01:45 GMT)  Columbia University Libraries  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 133 --- BOMBING  AIDS   1 1 5 guidance, and that the technology permitted bombing of targets through total overcast or smoke screens that would otherwise have gone unbombed. Even the poorest H2X missions against isolated oil plants like Leuna eventu- ally produced significant results that airmen felt were worth the many wasted bombs. In addition, operating in bad weather caused severe problems for responding German fighters, which had no instruments for blind flying, no cockpit deicers, and little training for such conditions. Adolph Galland, general of the Luftwaffe fighter arm, admitted that his winter losses were “ap- palling.” Hitler himself attributed Allied air superiority to the development and use of radar. The H2X campaign against marshaling yards did have a major impact on the German economy, especially regarding coal transpor- tation. Developments in Europe also contributed significantly to stra