n December 1943 and at that time had generally indicated that he was willing to use such tactics if the Ger- mans did it first. By May, when he was asked to provide recommendations  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 147 --- BETTER  BOMBS   1 2 9 to SHAEF on this course of action, Spaatz had considered his position in more detail. He advised Eisenhower that despite governmental threats, “we should assume no obligation to conduct retaliatory gas attacks.” Even if the Germans used gas, the most effective response would be determined by the “situation at the moment.” Spaatz believed “a strong effect on morale could be obtained through the continuance of the threat alone. Punishment might be meted out more strongly through other bomb loads.” With the number of strategic targets he had to hit and the few good bombing days he had available, Spaatz did not want to waste missions on relatively ineffective gas attacks on cities. His logic was not completely pragmatic because he strongly emphasized that the use of gas by the Germans “on military personnel does not justify our unrestricted use of it” on civil populations. He was especially adamant about the use of gas in occupied areas: “The repercussions of gas use against satellite populations would outweigh the slight advantages to be gained.” He did acknowledge, however, that a threat of use in those areas might tie down defensive equipment. It is clear from Spaatz’s recommenda- tions to SHAEF that he did not favor gas warfare, and because Hitler never resorted to it and Churchill’s military advisers forced him to yield on his plans for first use, the USSTAF commander never had to face a challenge to his convictions.37 Only one aspect of the search for better bombs in Europe actually con- tributed to the escalation toward total war in World War II, and its effects would come to fruition in the Pacific: the development and use of incendi- ary bombs for American strategic bombing. Ironically, the impetus for this new bomb ca