f vertigo could quickly interfere with the ability to coordinate controls properly. Most British bombers did not have copilots after 1942, increasing the psychological stress on their pilots even more.21 Copilots lacked the overall command duties of pilots, but they felt responsible for their aircraft and could be especially frustrated if forced just to ride along while everyone else kept busy. Perhaps the best account of a copilot is found in Serenade to the Big Bird by Bert Stiles, who was killed in 1944 after transferring to fighters when he had completed thirty-five bomber missions in Europe. After his first bombing mission, he could think only about how fatigued he was, how lousy his flying had been, and how close he was to his crew, concerns that dominate his writings. Once he did muse about the “senseless ugliness” of bombing Berlin through over- cast, questioning why the AAF wanted “to knock hell out of some city with the vague hope that some day that city will be rebuilt for some people we can get along with,” but in general he seemed not to care about specific targets. After the D-day landings, his primary focus was to win the war “and win in a way so there is never another one.”22 The most self-centered and individualistic aircrew officers seem to have been navigators. They plotted courses and kept a log of events; someone else flew the plane and dropped the bombs. The memoirs of Elmer Bendiner, a navigator on the Schweinfurt raids, differ from the accounts of pilots or bombardiers and resemble the image of the technician in combat. Bend- iner writes less about the rest of the crew and more about his own experi- ences, noting that while planes fell all around him in combat he remained detached, “scribbling in the log the time, place and altitude of flak, of rocket bursts, of kills and fallen comrades, of headings and checkpoints.” Surviving to complete “the magic number of twenty-five” missions was his primary goal. More cynical than most airmen, he belie