ch will end the war. I have concluded that it does not exist. —Lieutenant General Carl Spaatz to Gen. H. H. Arnold3 While Americans in Washington discussed contingency plans for Todestoss , the British in Europe were pushing their own proposals. They developed a new plan for a combined effort to destroy the Ruhr, Operation HURRICANE , to go along with Operation THUNDERCLAP , the attack on Berlin. The name Hurricane caused some confusion because Spaatz had chosen the same des- ignation for the plan he was developing. As a result, the operations were initially known as HURRICANE  I (British) and HURRICANE  II (American) until the Americans changed theirs to CLARION  late in 1944.4  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 165 --- DELIVERING  THE DEATHBLOW  TO GERMANY   1 4 7 The detailed plan for Thunderclap came out on 20 August, and imme- diately USSTAF commands complained. Cabell wrote a scathing letter to Hughes, sarcastically calling the plan “the great opus” and “a combination of retaliation and intimidation for the future.” Cabell thought that German morale was still very strong but realized that USSTAF needed its own “morale plan ready to offset the baby killing schemes.” He proposed that widespread objectives be selected for attack that were symbolic of German industrial, economic, or military strength. Reflecting his subordinates’ concerns, Spaatz wrote to Arnold outlining his own opposition to the British proposal: “I feel that a case may be made on the highest levels for bombing of the city of Ber- lin.” Any deviation from policies of precision bombing of military objectives, “even for an exceptional case,” would be “unfortunate” because “there is no doubt in my mind that the RAF want very much to have the US Air Forces tarred with the morale bombing aftermath which we feel will be terrific.” Spaatz also pointed out that his position “so far has been supported by Eisen- hower,” who still had overall direction for strategic air forces.5 Spaatz informed Eisenhower