may have also reinforced a sense of futility in the besieged civilian population because their own air defenses seemed powerless to do anything to stop the mounting devastation. When the conflict ended, 45 percent of Yugoslavia’s TV broadcast capability was degraded and a third of military and civilian radio relay networks were damaged. Petroleum refining facilities were completely eliminated. Seventy percent of road and 50 percent of rail bridges across the Danube were down. The whole regional economy was degraded for many years afterward.48 It is still unclear exactly why Milosevic gave in to NATO demands. He did get a better deal than the Rambouillet accords offered in March. We will probably never know exactly what the Russians advised him. Despite their vocal opposition to the bombing campaign, they did assist NATO by not up- grading outdated Yugoslav air defense systems. Open discussions about the possibility of a NATO ground invasion and an apparent growing willingness to gather peacekeeping forces in the region probably had some influence on Yugoslav leaders. However, in the end, the air campaign did achieve the adjusted political goals. Postwar analysts highlighted growing fears among Serb leaders that the aerial assault would eventually escalate to the level of World War II city bombing; they also noted that the air attacks increasingly threatened the holdings of Milosevic’s most important political supporters. However, there was no systematic official evaluation conducted like USSBS or GWAPS. In October 1999, Secretary of Defense William Cohen did pre- sent the findings of a Kosovo after-action review conducted by his office, but the review does not represent a conclusive analysis of the impact of airpower. In fact, the written report submitted to Congress in January 2000 was so devoid of hard facts that Pentagon officials jokingly labeled it “fiber-free.”49 As the new millennium opened, American airpower advocates were in ascendance. Secretary of Defense