or public relations. The result, however, was the same. Although theory did exceed technology, Amer- ican airmen in Europe did the best they could with what they had. Air op- erations during DESERT  STORM  again demonstrated the difficulty of achieving accuracy with “dumb bombs” of the kind used by the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces against Germany, and their practices generally must be seen as an attempt to halt or at least to slow the rush to unlimited warfare. Although it is difficult to separate efficiency from ethics in AAF doctrine and practice, a limitation on the “uncurbed bestial instincts” of war did emerge. Objective The devastation caused by Major General Curtis LeMay’s ﬁre raids on Tokyo. Images such as this have inspired critics to question American sensitivity to civilian casualties.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 232 --- 214  CHAPTER  TWELVE observers can still perceive a definite difference between AAF strategic bomb- ing focused on capacity in Europe and the British area raids on cities or the German Blitz on London, focused instead on breaking morale. The moral tenets of World War II AAF doctrine are still present in cur- rent American military manuals on the law of war. Military necessity for ae- rial bombardment is defined in terms of precision bombing. One case study explains that the destruction of a city is not justified because of warehouses or transportation routes; only recognized military targets can be attacked. Another emphasizes that the rules of war prohibit attacks that cause “unnec- essary suffering and destruction” or attacks against “the civilian population or against cultural, historical, religious, or other protected objects.” A third study, inspired by Cassino, asserts that cultural protection can be forfeited if the structure is used for military purposes. The emphasis throughout focuses on the military or economic justification for targets and the protection of ci- vilians as much as possible. The issue of workers as be