asizing the efficiency of precision bombing and how it complemented British area bombing. Like Spaatz, An- derson was another strong proponent for an independent air force equal to the other branches. He believed “that for the efficiency of our fighting forces a reorganization is needed.”55 Achieving an independent air service was also of paramount importance to Lieutenant General Ira Eaker, who commanded both the Eighth and the Fifteenth Air Forces at different times during the war and eventually be- came Arnold’s deputy. Favorable public opinion was essential for this goal, and Eaker was deeply concerned about the AAF’s image, both current and future. He warned the assistant chief of Air Staff for intelligence to keep criticism of operations out of official exchanges because “we have a mass of historians at both ends watching all this correspondence and these things cannot but creep into the official documents unless we are all on guard.” He supported Arnold’s drive for publicity about the importance of air power, promising, “We are making certain that every American newspaperman we can get our hands on has these facts hammered home to him.”56 Eaker was extremely intelligent; he had a journalism degree and had taken some law courses at Columbia. Among the AAF leaders he came closest to being a true public-relations expert. After serving as the records custodian for Brigadier General Billy Mitchell’s court-martial, he saw the dangers of confrontation and “deliberately set out to become army air’s most persuasive spokesman.” He worked hard to develop his writing and speaking skills, and  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 96 --- 78  CHAPTER  FOUR his efforts paid off at the Casablanca Conference in January 1943. Plagued by a slow buildup of forces in Europe, lack of proper fighter escorts, and poor selection of target systems, American daylight bombers in 1942 had not been able to match the night efforts of RAF Bomber Command, which included 1,000 plane raids. Eaker