t adequate decentralization never did occur. He thought the Allies threw away a great opportunity to bring German military industrial capacity to the brink of collapse.14 Allied intelligence initially greatly exaggerated the results of Mission 115. Anderson and Arnold proclaimed in official and public documents that the ball-bearing works were out of action. However, that is not the reason no Allied bombers would return there for four months. On the same day that German fighters were chewing up VIII Bomber Command, Arnold cabled Eaker that according to information in Washington, the Luftwaffe  appeared ready to collapse, and that possibility needed investigation. Indeed, a lot of evidence about the state of the German air force had been gathered in that second week of October. The resulting verdict was a bitter one for the AAF. Even the official history acknowledges that the Eighth Air Force had lost air  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 57 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   3 9 superiority over Germany. Whether they had ever really had it is worth ques- tioning. They would launch no more deep-penetration missions the rest of the year, initially because of the need to replenish losses and the now-recognized requirement for long-range escort fighters, then in December because of foul weather. The Luftwaffe could now concentrate on defeating RAF Bomber Command, and by the end of the year, “Bomber” Harris was well on his way to losing the equivalent of his entire frontline strength in attempting to unsuccessfully destroy Berlin. An argument could be made that at the begin- ning of 1944 the Allies had not just lost air superiority over Germany but were also losing the air war, especially in light of the recognized requirements for a successful May invasion.15 TURNING  THE TIDE By the time that D-day occurred, the issue in the air war was no longer in doubt. The back of the German air force had been broken not by precision bombing to cripple its supporting industrial st