t day the Fifteenth sent 192 bombers after the Parona railroad bridge at Verona. Of twenty-one participating Vultures, two returned early as a result of mechan- ical difficulties; the other nineteen put 75 percent of their bombs within 1,000 feet of their aiming point with good visibility. Two spans of the bridge were dropped and all approaches blocked. On the 12th, the Fifteenth went back after its favorite target of Vienna, at- tacking both oil and transportation targets. The 455th sent forty-two aircraft against the Florisdorf refinery. Thirty-eight used H2X through overcast to drop their bombs, but all missed the target. The next day over 500 Fifteenth Air Force bombers had to drop their loads on the Regensburg marshaling yards with H2X through heavy overcast. Of twenty-eight Vultures on the mission, three had to return early, but the others contributed to fair results that further demonstrated that marshaling yards were much more suitable objectives for blind-bombing methods than smaller refineries. On the 14th, forty-two B-24s had to use H2X to bomb the secondary target of marshaling yards at Wiener-Neustadt, with unobserved results. The 15th of March fea- tured dual missions again. The initial red force included twenty aircraft, thir- teen bombed their fourth alternate target, rail yards at Bruck-Leitha, Austria, and the other seven hit Wiener-Neustadt again. The following twenty planes of the blue force were also plagued by the overcast; they attacked a number of different targets of opportunity with little impact. Bad weather forced another diversion the next day, as thirty-seven Vultures achieved fair results against secondary marshaling yards at Amsteten, Austria, when they found a hole in the clouds there. After poor conditions canceled all heavy bomber operations for two days, the weather finally started to clear on the 19th, when the Fifteenth Air Force  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 79 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   6 1 delivered its largest d