ons center, Kurata claimed that Americans are insensitive to civilian casualties because they have never been bombed themselves, a charge that brings to mind Vera Brittain’s writings during World War II. He invoked images of Dresden and Tokyo, describing his own memories of the latter raid in graphic detail, and accused the US military of a tendency to dismiss the loss of life as “collateral damage,” an “inevitable byproduct of aerial warfare. . . . Carpet bombing by B-52s is the US Air Force’s stock in trade. The huge aircraft can destroy entire cities from 30,000 feet; the collateral damage can well be imagined.” He also con- demned the use of fuel-air explosives against Iraqi troops as well as the entire American strategy of air superiority and bombing. He implied that Asians  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 229 --- LEGACIES   2 1 1 and Europeans, sensitized by their own experiences of being bombed, were opposed to the air war against Iraqi cities but that Americans remained ig- norant of the costs of such aerial bombardment and did not seem to care.2 It is easy to criticize Kurata’s position. Americans did not ignore the tragedy in Amiriya. It received extensive media coverage, and command authorities from the president on down took action to ensure that such incidents did not recur. The experience of being bombed did not stop British or German raids during World War II, nor did it affect European support for the effort to dislodge Iraq from Kuwait. B-52s have never carpet-bombed cities, though Kurata seems to imply that Americans are uniquely preoccupied with urban area attacks. Obviously this is a distortion of history; he could be reminded that Japanese aircraft conducted the first air war against population centers when they bombed China in the 1930s. Yet one should not completely dis- count Kurata’s perceptions. Fears of massive retaliatory American air raids on Baghdad may have deterred Saddam Hussein from using chemical or bi- ological weapons in the G