y and night bombing. Targeting chemical plants would cut artillery shell out- put, and bombing aircraft engine plants would limit airplane production. He stated: “The object of strategical bombing is to drop aerial bombs upon the commercial centers and the lines of communications” in order to “cut off the necessary supplies without which the armies in the field cannot ex- ist.” Also cognizant of the psychological effects of air raids, he proposed concentrated attacks by all available aircraft on single cities, expecting to shatter “the morale of the workmen” as well as the factories. Some towns’ morale seemed especially vulnerable, and he surmised from press reports that bombing Cologne “would create such trouble that the German Gov- ernment might be forced to suggest terms.” Gorrell also projected that fire protection in undermanned German villages would break down under a lengthy bombardment, “and therefore the results would be out of propor- tion to the immediate effect of the bombs.” The advantage of this new aerial warfare would be to break the stalemate on the ground and thus save lives and material.6 Gorrell’s collection also included a short paper, “Area vs. Precision Bomb- ing,” from the organization responsible for providing bombsights for the Air  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 34 --- 16  CHAPTER  TWO Service. French and British bombardiers favored area-bombing techniques using outboard sights that allowed them to stay at their guns, but the Amer- icans developed a formation technique in which a chosen bombardier pro- tected by other planes climbed inside the fuselage, used his better sight, and picked the bombing point for the whole formation. This practice of using a lead bombardier and the perception of superior American bombsights and technique would appear again in World War II.7 As Gorrell accumulated material for General Patrick, the colonel realized that he needed a more systematic analysis of the effects of aerial bombing on the enemy. Air Se