ration. Despite this recommendation, the section was told to prepare a plan to attack German transportation. Using SHATTER  as a guide, they looked at 100 cities with trans- portation targets to destroy but again presented objections, emphasizing that transportation was best disrupted through attacks on oil. Such an attack on so many cities “might subject our commanders to the criticism of having espoused a combination of morale and terror bombing.”17 There were many forces at work that would produce the final American plan, Operation CLARION . The realization of the limitations of tactical fighters and of Bomber Command focused USSTAF’s attention on transportation. Although transportation systems had been low on the list of precision- The shadow of a B-24 over the shattered marshaling yard in Munich. Such transportation objectives were included in AWPD/1 and targeted as a means to weaken the German economy, but their location within urban areas meant increased risks for enemy civilians. (Northwest and Whitman College Archival Collections, Penrose Memorial Library, Whitman College, Walla Walla, WA)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 170 --- 152  CHAPTER  NINE bombardment objectives, many leaders in SHAEF believed that widespread attacks might collapse the German economy and assist the ground forces as well. Tedder emphasized that the biggest dividends were to be gained by bombing small railroad stations because of the effects on railway personnel and the signaling system. Major General Elwood Quesada of the Ninth Tac- tical Air Command had also impressed the Advisory Specialists Group with his plans to loose fighter-bombers across Germany, an idea transmitted to the War Department. Lovett became an especially avid supporter of these “Jeb Stuart” units. Transportation targets such as trains were especially vul- nerable to strafing.18 “The General Plan for Maximum Effort Attack against Transportation Objectives” was published by USSTAF on 17 December. It was designed