by political or other means.”37 Such figures and analyses should not detract from the impressive suc- cesses of the air campaign. Careful targeting ensured that few misses caused collateral damage in urban areas, and one must realize that the psycholog- ical effects of a miss can be as devastating as a hit. Many vital targets were destroyed by the 26,000 tons of accurate bombs, but the most important result of the air campaign was to destroy the morale of the Iraqi troops man- ning the defenses of the “Saddam line” in southern Kuwait. Iraqi prisoners reported that B-52 saturation raids on their positions had especially devas- tating psychological effects, and intelligence sources estimate that from 20 percent to 40 percent of frontline troops had deserted before the ground campaign.38 Contrary to McPeak’s claim, some precedent does exist for such a result, and it comes from an earlier conflict in the same region. Interestingly, some commentators have looked at the relative casualties between the coalition forces and Iraq and compared DESERT  STORM  with exam- ples of colonial warfare, such as Omdurman, where technologically superior armies devastated ill-equipped local contingents. These pundits are more correct than they probably realize. During the 1920s, as part of its search for missions to justify its independence, the RAF developed a doctrine of air control for British colonial mandates in the Middle East. Principles and tactics were perfected in countering an Iraqi insurgency that involved at least 131,000 armed rebels. As in DESERT  STORM , bombing and psychological war-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 222 --- 204  CHAPTER  ELEVEN fare were used to generate a sense of helplessness and to induce many deser- tions and surrenders. In actions foreshadowing occurrences in DESERT  STORM , rebels often gave up at the mere sound of aircraft approaching. In 1920 Britain needed 135,000 troops to maintain order in Iraq; by 1930 it had only four RAF squadrons and on