isioned attacks against the social sphere.36 The influence of Wilson, George, and Webster was more apparent in the next year’s text. Stating that “loss of morale in the civil population . . . is decisive,” it also recognized that direct attacks on civilian personnel are in- efficient as well as opposed by world opinion. Whether a strategic air attack  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 43 --- DEVELOPING  DOCTRINE   2 5 aims “to deny the enemy the means that are essential for the prosecution of the war” or to so dislocate normal life that people are willing to surrender to regain it, “transportation facilities and sources of energy and raw materials are the vital elements in a nation upon which both the welfare of the pop- ulation and the ability to wage war depend.” The authors of this 1935 text recognized that attacks on some target systems would degrade both capacity and will, recognizing the shock effect implicit in any aerial raid on a modern society. By 1939 ACTS lesson plans bluntly stated: “Direct attack of the civil populace . . . is rejected as an air objective due to humanitarian consider- ations.” The text concentrated on precision-target systems, although terror attacks were considered “as a possible means of retaliation.”37 In his concise analysis of the emerging unescorted high-altitude daylight precision doctrine, Peter Faber identifies nine faulty assumptions, many common to other airpower theories before and after. First, it assumed that war could be scientifically managed—that the mechanistic and prescriptive approach could impose precise controls over complex activities. Second, technology was perceived as a panacea to overcome any problem, including weather. Third, it forgot that the enemy has a vote; they would react to what- ever actions were applied against them to recover from attacks and develop countermeasures. Wars would be so much easier if people were not involved. The fourth bad assumption is a spin-off from the previous one, as the ove