. Ironically, such incidents might have reduced the will to continue on both sides. Media images and accusations motivated UN war  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 230 --- 212  CHAPTER  TWELVE crimes prosecutors of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to begin assessing evidence in December that NATO command- ers had violated the laws of war with their air attacks. (They decided not to pursue formal charges.) Other war crimes charges came from Amnesty Inter- national, and the British parliament’s top foreign affairs panel criticized the bombing as being of “dubious legality.” Michael Ignatieff has aptly pointed out that journalists’ accounts of the maneuvering of cruise missiles in Iraq and fascination with precision munitions have reinforced a myth in Western publics that war can now be thought of as laser surgery. In the dogged pur- suit of the ideal of precision bombing the USAF has improved its capabilities tremendously, but the term “surgical airstrike” remains an oxymoron. Some targeting errors and technical failures will always occur, and blast effects are often unpredictable. The errant raid on the Chinese embassy looks even more sinister when we claim perfection.5 Despite the controversy over that attack or the one on Amiriya, the USAF has demonstrated during numerous conflicts since 1990 that it has vastly im- proved its ability to apply precision tactics and technology to target capacity effectively without extensive collateral damage. The achievement of this goal was delayed partly because of the AAF’s hasty and insufficient historical as- sessment of its operations during World War II. Ethical and practical impli- cations of strategic air attacks were not adequately examined, and the lessons of victory through airpower gleaned from World War II did not apply to the conflicts in Korea and Vietnam. The industry and infrastructures in those Asian countries were unlike the systems in Germany, Japan, or Italy, and the international