es that shaped AAF bomb- ing doctrine. Military reports and news releases designed to demonstrate the accuracy and effectiveness of pinpoint bombardment in turn shaped public opinion. This use of information exemplifies a trend that can be traced to the American Civil War, and “management of, or compliance with, pub- lic opinion” has become “an essential element in the conduct of war.”18 In World War II, American leaders worked persistently to dispel any impres- sions of American terror bombing. This effort often caused men in high places to present different public and private positions on the bombing of enemy civilians; the commander in chief, Franklin D. Roosevelt, is a good example. When the Germans invaded  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 86 --- 68  CHAPTER  FOUR Poland on 1 September 1939, he immediately issued a plea to all belligerents to cease “the ruthless bombing from the air of civilians in unfortified cen- ters of population” that “has sickened the hearts of every civilized man and woman, and has profoundly shocked the conscience of humanity.” He asked for a public affirmation that all parties would avoid such acts, “upon the un- derstanding that these same rules of warfare will be scrupulously observed by all of their opponents.”19 This plea was largely a political ploy. A week earlier, Ambassador William Bullitt had proposed that such an appeal should be made at the start of hostilities. The assumption was that Britain, Poland, and France would agree but that Germany would not, thus showing the moral superiority of the Allies and swaying world opinion against Germany. After consultation with Cordell Hull, Roosevelt agreed to send the message.20 The Allies did indeed respond favorably, but so did Germany. The Germans were able to claim by 11 September that the Poles were violating the rules of war- fare by resisting in open cities and shelling their own people, thus justifying retaliation from the air.21 Roosevelt’s true feelings are probably better