g on the enemy’s war effort—an impact that could save millions of lives in ground combat. “For whole-hearted and official support of our Air Forces in their operations, . . . the people [must] understand thoroughly our Air Force precepts, principles, and purposes. . . . In short, we want the people to understand and have faith in our way of making war. ”32 Field commanders protested when Arnold tried to get them to replace a machine gun from their bombers with a camera to provide combat film footage, but their objections had little effect on his drive for media coverage. Arnold exerted even more pressure for publicity once the Allies invaded Europe and the war seemed to be winding down. He complained that ground and naval commanders such as General George Patton and Admiral William Halsey got the pub- licity but that the contribution of air power was ignored. He emphasized to the field that he considered “the whole subject of realistic reorientation of the public’s concept of the effect of air power upon the outcome of the war so important” that he would “scour the country” to find public relations experts to reinforce press representatives in the theater. Because of his push, by November 1944 fully 40 percent of the total film released by the Ar my to newsreels came from AAF combat camera units.33 Even this increased output did not please Arnold, who wanted more front-page stories and sent out to all commanders a list of fifty points applicable to writing proper news releases. Thinking ahead about the future of the AAF, he was determined that “through proper presentation to the press” the American people could get the facts necessary to make “a correct evaluation of the part air power has played in this war” so that “the United States should not make the mistake of allowing through lack of knowledge the tearing down in post-war years of what has cost us so much blood and sweat to build up.”34 Though Arnold did stress the advantages of precision bombing to his comma