tes for Arnold and Portal. Oil was the main priority of Directives 1 and 2, and in October 1944 transportation was elevated to second place in Directive 2. These remained basically as the top two priorities for Directive 3, issued on 12 January 1945. Though Spaatz was pleased that oil retained its importance, in reality air force commanders still possessed great latitude in choosing their targets. Weather was often the main arbiter in deciding whether to bomb an oil refinery, a marshaling yard, or a tank factory. The situation was muddled even more when the Allied air leaders meeting at Malta, prodded by Churchill while anticipating Russian needs and requests at Yalta, and with the approval of General Marshall, revised the directive on 30 January, as explained above. Second priority became “Berlin, Leipzig, Dresden, and associated cities where heavy attack will cause great confusion in civilian evacuation from the east and hamper reinforcements.” Attacks on communications came third.32 Kuter was visiting Eaker at the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces and im- mediately sent a copy of the directive to Arnold. Bottomley claimed correctly that Spaatz had agreed with the plan, and Kuter, another architect of preci- sion doctrine, was troubled by USSTAF’s apparent shift to city bombing. In response to Kuter’s cable, Giles sent a message expressing concern over the high priority given the bombing of cities and supporting Kuter in his queries to Spaatz on the issue. In reply, Spaatz assured Arnold, who was recovering from his fourth heart attack, that USSTAF was continuing to follow Directive 3 and that he had not issued a revision of it because he felt none was necessary. The Malta message basically “reflected the differences in capabilities” between the RAF and USSTAF and was more in accordance with operations that Bomber Command could actually carry out. USSTAF continued with business as usual. Arnold said he was satisfied, though he emphasized that he would not accept “th