onth of February the Luftwaffe lost more than one third of its single-engine fighters and almost a fifth of its pilots.22 Although USSTAF quickly made up its losses in men and matériel, this was not possible for the German air force. Big Week did not destroy it or even make it ineffective, but those operations started a long decline from which the Luftwaffe fighter force never recovered. Pilots especially were ir- replaceable. Over the next three months of bloody air attrition, as Spaatz struck targets he knew the Germans had to defend, they lost a total of twenty- eight of their best leaders and aces, responsible for destroying over 2,000 en- emy aircraft. Replacements never showed up in enough numbers, and they did not have the fuel or time to train properly. This created a vicious cycle where inexperienced pilots had to be thrown into combat against an Amer- ican force increasing in numbers and capability every day, and losses then forced the employment of even more hastily trained replacements. Many of them died in accidents. The most dangerous occupation of World War II was being a German fighter pilot. They had no twenty-five-mission rotation policy; they flew until they were killed or maimed. Between January and May 1944, their loss rate in the West was 99 percent. By July, the bulk of available pilots to confront USSTAF had between eight and thirty days’ experience. Less than 10 percent of German fighter pilots survived the war.23 Although USSTAF still suffered losses after Big Week, including sixty- nine bombers attacking Berlin in March and another sixty-three there on a raid in April, it was soon apparent that the AAF’s opportunity to truly prove the efficacy of precision bombing by destroying enemy capacity had arrived. That reality would make the debates over the best way to support the coming invasion with strategic air forces even more acrimonious. TRANSPORTATION  VERSUS  OIL As the German air force declined in capability and withdrew back into the Re