on- ally, these same field commanders have been given considerable freedom from strict command and control, far in the rear. Even the official AAF history of World War II admits that “air force commanders actually enjoyed great latitude in waging the air war and sometimes paid scant attention” to directives from higher up.19 This means that the attitudes of leaders in Washington do not always determine operations in far-flung theaters of war. As Schaffer and Sherry pointed out, the leader in Washington most concerned about moral issues, Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson, was either ineffective or isolated. His position was basically administrative, and unlike the president or the chiefs  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 25 --- INTRODUCTION   7 of staff, he was not deeply involved in making strategy. Whatever their public pronouncements to the contrary, neither Roosevelt nor Arnold had any aver- sion to terror bombing when it suited their purposes. However, the extent of their control over commanders in the field should not be overstated. At times Arnold’s shifts in commanders had considerable influence on bomb- ing policies, such as when he replaced Lieutenant General Ira Eaker with Major General Jimmy Doolittle and Brigadier General Haywood Hansell Jr. with Major General Curtis LeMay. In addition, Arnold’s consuming desire to justify an independent air service put pressure on AAF combat leaders to produce decisive bombing results. Yet whether because of distance, heart trouble, or the complexity of the war, Arnold rarely wielded a great deal of direct influence, especially in key operations late in the conflict. Sherry’s contention that he consistently exercised particularly strong direction of American strategic-bombing operations and units is not supported by the operational record.20 This loose doctrinal and command direction resulted in a bombing pol- icy that was shaped by the operational and tactical commanders who actu- ally dropped the bombs. To understan