in 1944 because it was not expected to be available before the end of the war, and the money would be more useful expended on a more promising enterprise called the MANHATTAN  Project.41 Despite CWS efforts and British successes such as the fire storm at Ham- burg in July 1943, American strategic air forces in Europe never embraced the incendiary as a replacement for high-explosive (HE) bombs. Airmen complained about wasted space in bomb bays that reduced the destructive power they could carry and about the difficulty of aiming the new bombs. Ballistic problems plagued the lighter munitions. Incendiaries also proved vulnerable to damage in shipment. The CWS solved these problems with aimable clusters and improved packaging procedures by 1944, even claiming in official histories that the AAF in Europe “began to scream for incendiar- ies,” an assertion not borne out by the record, however. Colonel Kellogg did persuade Curtis LeMay to use them in quantity and the British continued to push for increased use, but the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces dropped HE bombs predominantly, 87 percent and 98 percent of their total tonnage, respectively. In Europe, incendiaries remained supplements to HE bombs that could at times increase damage and presented a different threat to en- emy efforts to protect strategic precision targets. Even in raids on the center of Berlin, the AAF chiefly used HE bomb loads. The full effect of new devel- opments in incendiaries would become evident only when they were used in mass-area attacks on Japanese cities. Approximately two-thirds of the bomb tonnage dropped by the Twentieth Air Force in the Pacific would be incendi-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 150 --- 132  CHAPTER  SEVEN aries. Although Feiser mourned the demise of Project X-RAY in his memoirs, imagining that the winged warriors would have panicked and devastated To- kyo, he conceded that the M-69 incendiary gel bombs he helped develop did the job just as effectively.42 The fire rai