ally indiscriminate and widespread attacks on enemy civilians did not occur. One difference in attitude between the two theaters, however, disturbed American leaders: the feelings of AAF airmen about the enemy. Bombard- ment crews in Europe did not seem to hate the Germans enough; reports in Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s files complained that US flyers had “no particu- lar hatred of Germans.” Surveys showed that almost three-quarters of heavy- bomber crews harbored no vindictiveness toward the German people and wanted only to punish their leaders. This feeling matched the attitude Stim- son had complimented in Marshall. A commander wrote in an after-action  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 115 --- ATTITUDES  AND  PERCEPTIONS  OF AMERICAN  AIRMEN   9 7 report, “Like every American who flies to Europe for combat duty, I regret- ted my failure to get the desired crack at the Jap. I failed to possess any real enmity toward Jerry and sensed a certain repulsion to European bombings where non-combatant Axis life might be involved.” He claimed that he soon learned to hate the Hun, but others did not. Stiles wrote that he felt fighters and flak were just “shooting at whole formations. There’s nothing personal in it.”29 Psychological studies of the Eighth Air Force during its first year of operation revealed that only 29 percent of successful combat airmen had any personal hatred for the enemy, including the desire to kill enemy fighter pilots, and even then, “not always, but at least when they are in the air!”30 It was much easier to hate the enemy in the Pacific theater. Racism played a part, as did the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor and reports of Jap- anese atrocities. Perhaps hatred would have been more intense in Europe if more had been known about the concentration camps. When briefed on the Malmedy massacre, Roosevelt said, “Well, it will only serve to make our troops feel towards the Germans as they already have learned to feel about the Japs.” Airmen, however, again r