tle resisted to the end. On 30 January he sent a long message to Spaatz explaining his reservations. Besides the dangers to his crews, he complained, there were few “important strictly military targets in the designated area.” He argued that the chance of terrorizing Berliners was remote because they had been subjected to intense bombing for four years and were used to it. What would be “one of our last and best remembered operations” violated American doctrine and principles, and American crews were not trained for such area bombing. Doolittle pleaded with Spaatz to let the RAF hit the city while the Eighth Air Force bombed precision targets that would ensure effectiveness and lower losses. Spaatz cabled back some partial replies, emphasizing the priority of visual oil targets and redefining the purpose of the operation by telling Doolittle to stress in news releases the “effort to disrupt reinforcement of Eastern Front and increase adminis- trative confusion.”12 Not satisfied, Doolittle sent another message: “Is Berlin still open to air attack? Do you want priority oil targets hit in preference to Berlin if they definitely become visual? Do you want center of City in Berlin hit or definitely military targets, such as Spandau, on the Western outskirts?” Spaatz replied that Doolittle should hit oil targets if good visibility existed for them; otherwise, the center of Berlin would be the target. Spaatz would carry out his assigned operation but only when it would not interfere with his oil campaign. Just as Spaatz was interpreting his orders as he saw fit, so did Doolittle. He bombed the center of Berlin as he was told, but he still had his crews tar- get transportation facilities and government areas more in keeping with his concept of how Americans should bomb. Accuracy was fairly high, though aircraft did have to evade murderous flak that downed twenty-one heavy bombers. Nevertheless, the density of that part of the city led to reports of up to 25,000 civilian cas