-six, he took the time to dictate a reply to a letter from a young schoolgirl asking about his own heroism and famous people he had known. His son, John, typed for him, “The General does not consider himself to be a hero. He always has Major General Jimmy Doolittle in the cockpit of his plane in 1943. He often ﬂew his own aircraft to visit units under his command. Doolittle served under Carl Spaatz from 1942 until the end of the war in Europe and supported Spaatz in his efforts to restrict strategic bombing to precision targets.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 95 --- ATTITUDES  OF LEADERS  AND  THE PUBLIC   7 7 done those things that he felt should be or had to be done.” He opined that Winston Churchill was the greatest person he had ever known, and George Marshall the greatest American. Billy Mitchell, Hap Arnold, and Dwight Eisenhower were others whom he mentioned.54 Another of Spaatz’s key subordinates was Major General Frederick L. Anderson, eventually USSTAF deputy commander for operations, who was a proponent of efficiency. He was young, a 1928 graduate of West Point, having risen from first lieutenant to brigadier general in less than six years, and unlike Arnold, Spaatz, Doolittle, or Eaker, he had no experience from World War I or the 1920s to draw on. He was, however, the AAF’s leading bombardment expert. As a captain in 1939, he was put in charge of the bom- bardier school at the Air Force Technical School at Lowry Field, Colorado. He had not developed precision-bombing doctrine, but he trained bombar- diers to put it into practice. When the AAF needed someone to evaluate crew training and bombsights in England in early 1942, Anderson got the assignment. He helped develop the justification for daylight bombing when it was questioned early in the war, emphasizing the efficiency of precision bombing and how it complemented British area bombing. Like Spaatz, An- derson was another strong proponent for an independent air force equal to the other branches.