esident and the JCS were the increased use of psychological warfare and the use of poison gas. Arnold had ordered the preparation of AAF plans for the retaliatory use of poison gas against Japan as early as 1943, and he was not alone in his advocacy of first use of the weapon in 1945.45 Joseph Stilwell and Douglas MacArthur both favored the gassing of enemy troops to assist the invasion of the home islands.46 So did Marshall, in keeping with his tendency to favor more drastic measures to end the war as the conflict dragged on. He emphasized that the gas did not have to be the most potent, just enough to sicken and weaken enemy soldiers. The weapon would not be used “against dense populations or civilians,” but the matter of public opinion would still have to be considered.47 In June Marshall presented a study to Admiral Ernest King proposing that the JCS issue instructions to build up stockpiles of gas for the invasion of Japan and that “the question of the acceptance of the principle of initiating gas warfare against the Japanese . . . be informally discussed with the President.” If Truman approved, he could then take up the matter with Stalin and Churchill. Marshall believed that if faced with the possible costs of continuation of the war, the American people would approve the use of gas. After all, he argued, that weapon was not as terrible as others such as the flamethrower or the “petroleum bomb” that had set so many fires in Japan.48 There is no evidence that the JCS decided to pursue the use of poison gas against Japan, perhaps because of strong resistance from Leahy. They did consider in some detail the application of biological or chemical agents to destroy the Japanese rice crop, however. In January 1945 Stimson’s staff had requested a legal opinion on the use of “LN Agents” to destroy crops. The judge advocate general concluded that the use of such chemicals was legal as long as they were not toxic to humans. He added, “The proposed target of destruction,