pecially deadly because of the nuclear, biological, or chemical warheads they can carry. These extreme methods of warfare were all available in World War II as well, the use of any of them signifying a new escalation in the move toward total war, but they were never viable options for field commanders in Europe. Of course the atomic bomb was not ready before V-E Day, and apparently Spaatz and his subordinates were not aware of the biological warfare program spurred on in Britain and the United States by fears of Axis developments in that area.34 They did get involved in the issue of chemical warfare, however. The main impetus to use gas warfare in Europe came from the British, especially Winston Churchill. Roosevelt’s known opposition to such weap- ons contrasted sharply with his British counterpart’s attitude, especially af- ter German V-weapons began raining down on England in 1944. As early as January of that year, Brigadier General Charles Cabell of the USSTAF staff had participated in meetings of the British War Cabinet Inter Service Committee on Chemical Warfare. Committee members agreed that “the de- struction of an industrial city or area by incendiary or high explosive attack offers a more direct and lasting diminution of Germany’s capacity to make war than the more or less temporary contamination of the same locality . . . with . . . gas.” The group did propose a contingency plan for retaliatory use of gas, however, involving “six major area attacks with Mustard Gas and two with Phosgene Gas per month.”35 Arnold had already directed the preparation of such plans for retaliation against Japan, and he kept Spaatz informed about new developments in chemical bombs and agents.36 The USSTAF commander had first seen Brit- ish plans for gas attacks by air on Germany in December 1943 and at that time had generally indicated that he was willing to use such tactics if the Ger- mans did it first. By May, when he was asked to provide recommendations  File: --- crane_bo