d only forty-nine missions. Combined plan- ners had always realized that the Mariana Islands would be a much better platform to launch bombing operations against the home islands as part of a still ill-defined strategy to defeat Japan, and once the JCS decided in March 1944 to move up the invasion of Saipan to June, MATTERHORN ’s utility and priority was considerably reduced.26 Along with the rest of the JCS, Arnold expected the main strategic attacks on Japan to come from Brigadier Gen- eral Haywood “Possum” Hansell, who took command of the XXI Bomber Command in the Marianas about the same time LeMay arrived in India. Hansell had long been a planner for Arnold and was one of the primary ar- chitects of precision doctrine. Hansell’s XXI Bomber Command had better logistics and more secure fields, and was closer to Japan than LeMay’s XX Bomber Command and could concentrate its firepower against the heart of the enemy home islands. Arnold had high hopes that Hansell could exert decisive airpower against Japan’s homeland fortress and prove the worth of an independent air service. The AAF chief had staked a lot on the Very Heavy Bomber (or Very Long Range Bomber) program, and it looked as if it was finally going to pay off. However, Hansell faced significant problems, many of them stemming from the haste with which the B-29s had been rushed into combat. It was the largest and most complex aircraft built in any quantity by any belligerent in World War II. The weapons system still had many flaws, and the Wright R-3350 engines especially were prone to failure, resulting in a high abort rate and many accidents. LeMay later remarked, “B-29s had as many bugs as the entomological department of the Smithsonian Institution.” Training was also a major concern. XX Bomber Command was thought to be too small to fight its way through Japanese defenses in daylight. Because the first elements of XXI Bomber Command had originally been scheduled to go to China as well, crews were supposed