e dropping supplies to British paratroops. He was killed when it was downed by ground fire.24 Cheek was a “technician and professional” more than he was a warrior. Trained on new radar navigational gear, he was extremely confident in its ability to see through overcast, and he eventually became a Pathfinder naviga- tor leading missions. His letters rarely discuss the results of bombing, though “the high point of my combat tour” came when he led “the greatest raid of the war” on Berlin. When he did mention the effects of his work he empha- sized precision bombing of factories, oil, and transportation. He wrote in March 1944 that “the only men who can be said to be fighting this war are the men who constantly face death,” infantrymen in the front lines and “air- men flying combat missions.” He changed his views, however, after meeting some infantrymen from Patton’s Third Army, who had “nothing to look for- ward to except one action after another and living in the mud and cold. . . . They make me ashamed of any complaining I’ve done.” Such admiration for ground troops was common among airmen. Cheek said of enemy flak and fighter attacks, “There isn’t a thing you can do about it except fly through it at 30 degrees below zero with the sweat running off your face and freezing on your clothes and the exploding shells blowing the ship around like a cork in a stormy sea.” Only once did he mention bombing civilians, after he had viewed bomb damage in London: “I suppose that in modern war civilians must suffer.” But he rationalized what he was doing to Germany: “Civilians in countries under German occupation have endured much more than the English, of course.”25 American doctors conducting psychiatric studies of World War II airmen found that bomber pilots, concentrating on safety and on accomplishing their missions, bore an especially heavy burden of responsibility. Researchers were surprised to find that, contrary to the image of unfeeling technicians  File: --- crane_bombs.