ought to be too small to fight its way through Japanese defenses in daylight. Because the first elements of XXI Bomber Command had originally been scheduled to go to China as well, crews were supposedly prepared to bomb primarily at night by radar, but operators had received inadequate training in the United States “due to a shortage of equipment and early commitment dates.” Most  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 189 --- TORCHING  JAPAN   1 7 1 of the strategic targets in Japan assigned to XXI Bomber Command were not suitable for radar-directed bombing anyway because of terrain that provided poor scope contrast. Hansell planned to get around this shortcoming by bombing visually by day in accordance with precision doctrine and Arnold’s directives, but the shift in tactics necessitated that all crews be retrained. And no amount of training could prepare the crews for the weather over Japan, which made high-altitude precision bombing almost impossible.27 Towering cloud fronts off the Japanese coast broke up formations and increased their vulnerability to fighters. Even if planes arrived safely over the target, wind speeds exceeding 230 knots at bombing altitude created condi- tions that surpassed the capabilities of bombardiers and bombsights. Bomb- ing tables were not designed for the 550-knot ground speeds that tailwinds produced, and B-29s fighting headwinds were sitting ducks for antiaircraft fire. Wind speeds were highest from December to February but still excessive in other months, and during those periods with the lowest incidence of high winds, the cloud cover increased.28 As 1945 began, bombing results of XXI Bomber Command remained dismal and abort rates high. B-29 crews were losing faith in their planes and their tactics. Their precision attacks had little effect on Japanese industry be- cause of the dispersion of cottage industries as well as the woeful inaccuracy of high-explosive bombs dropped from high altitude. Hansell seemed unable to produce timely