or a gamble. Norstad seemed to imply that being unorthodox was acceptable to the AAF chief but would not “stick his neck out” with anything more definite, despite the fact he had encouraged disappointing experiments with high-altitude incendiary raids in February. With a sense of uncertainty, Le- May decided to switch his tactics without informing Arnold of the details. LeMay claimed that he did not want any of the responsibility for failure laid on Arnold, giving him a free hand to put in a new commander, if necessary, to salvage the B-29 program. LeMay did eventually send Washington notice of his rather radical plans on 8 March, but he knew that both Arnold and Norstad would be out of town that day.31 There is no evidence that LeMay feared any moral indignation from Washington over the firebombing; he never seemed to worry about ethical considerations anyway. He may have been afraid, however, that AAF headquarters would interfere in an attempt to change his tactics if they discovered that he was about to risk such valuable aircraft in dangerous attacks at low altitude with reduced defensive arma- ment. Given the dismal results of the air campaign so far, LeMay probably believed he had nothing to lose by trying something new. Many tactical reasons supported LeMay’s adoption of low-level night in- cendiary raids, though the crews feared having to engage more fighters or lacking enough altitude to ditch after a mechanical failure. Many on his staff have tried to claim credit for coming up with the idea, but their boss had to make the decision to implement it. His experimental raids in February  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 192 --- 174  CHAPTER  TEN with high-level firebombing, both in daylight and at night, had been failures. Planes at lower altitudes normally encountered winds of only twenty-five to thirty-five knots and fewer clouds; scope definition on radar was better also. Such attacks took advantage of the lack of effective Japanese night fighters or low-