ng yard at Nuremburg. In support of Operation CLARION  on the 22nd, twenty-nine of thirty-two group aircraft dispatched attacked their secondary target of the Gottingen marshaling yard, after ground haze prevented their picking out the primary objective of the choke point at Hohengandern. The visual bombing, from only 8,000 feet against depleted enemy defenses, was excellent, earning the group a commendation. But clear skies were rare that month. The next day thirty of thirty-one bombers used H2X to hit the rail center at Weimar through 10/10ths overcast, and on the 24th eleven group planes bombed the Misburg oil refinery the same way. In both cases, results were unobserved. In the last case of good weather for February, thirty-four of thirty-five B-24s pummeled the Aschaffenberg marshaling yard with clear visibility on the 25th. The next day feared Berlin was the target, but 10/10ths overcast over the whole route restrained enemy fighters as well as required H2X blind bombing, as twenty-two B-24s hit the Pankow rail yard with a mix of incendiaries and high explosives. Radar set malfunctions reared their head again on the 27th, as problems with the lead aircraft’s H2X set spoiled the run on the primary target at the Halle marshaling yard, but the same type of target at Bitterfeld showed up strongly, so twenty-one of twenty-two aircraft bombed it instead, again with unobserved results. On the 28th, twenty-three of twenty-four B-24s bombed the Siegen marshaling yard using Gee-H, with more unobserved results. As ground forces drove into Germany, and with the end of the war ap-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 71 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   5 3 pearing to be approaching fast, the pace of USSTAF air operations also picked up. The 44th Bomb Group would mount twenty-four missions in March 1945. On average, one or two aircraft assigned to each mission failed to bomb because of mechanical problems. H2X malfunctions also contin- ued. In the attack on the Ingolstadt m