he series of shocks that produced a surrender. Each separate blow, including the Soviet entry into the war, affected a different group of decision makers and added to the Emperor’s burden. Remove any one, and perhaps the end of the war is delayed. Even Hansell concedes that the chosen strategy of the fire raids was “decisively effective” and a “sound military decision,” especially with the time pressures that existed in the Pacific. The final result might also have been better for the Japanese, as terrible as it was. At the conclusion of a presentation I gave in Tokyo about the firebombing in 1995, a Japanese historian closed the session by postulating that without the blows of the fire raids and the atomic bomb, his country would have resisted at least into the fall, long enough for the Soviet Union to execute plans to invade Hokkaido. Stalin planned to initiate the operation in late August. The nation then would have been occupied like Germany, with a communist zone in North Japan. In addition to that Soviet threat, Japan also faced a complete break- down of its transportation system and mass starvation by the winter of 1945 that was mostly alleviated by MacArthur and American occupation forces.59 American leaders could not wait for XXI Bomber Command to experi- ment and train; the invasion was too close and looked too costly, and the will of the home front appeared to be on the wane. With the air resources available, the fire raids seemed to be the easiest and the quickest method for destroying the ability of Japan to wage war. Military and industrial targets were the primary objectives, but just as in Europe, as the war dragged on, civilian casualties from strategic attacks clearly were less of a consideration. Perhaps the culmination of this trend is best exemplified by the message Norstad sent to Spaatz on 8 August: “It is understood that the Secretary of  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 204 --- 186  CHAPTER  TEN War in his press conference tomorrow will re