hely, Hungary, on the 26th, six managed to find the target through the cloud cover, seven jettisoned their bombs over the Adriatic, and thirteen brought them back to base. No missions were con- ducted for three days, until four Vultures participated in lone-wolf attacks through cloud cover on the 30th. Two helped damage marshaling yards in Vienna; a third missed the tank factory at Kapfenberg. On the last day of the month, twenty-eight B-24s launched against the locomotive depot at Linz, Austria. Only eighteen were able to reach the primary target to bomb with H2X, and results were unobserved. Four aircraft brought their bombs back to base and three dumped their loads in the Adriatic. CONCLUSIONS  AND OBSERVATIONS Although this narrative only describes three months’ worth of missions by two bomb groups, there are many useful observations that can be made. Weather was the main opposition for the USSTAF during this period. Ex-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 80 --- 62  CHAPTER  THREE cept for rare appearances by jet fighters, the primary German resistance came from flak and occasional passive measures like smoke screens. With such little opposition, American bombers roamed freely over the Reich and occupied territories, with a broad choice of targets. Though Donald Miller has characterized this period of the air war as “Terror Without End” that did really break German civilian morale,36 the primary focus for USSTAF remained oil and transportation targets, with occasional diversions after jets or factory complexes. The use of radar-directed bombing methods was widespread and essen- tial to the conduct of the air campaign during this period. Although useful results were often obtained against marshaling yards, attacking more pin- point targets, like oil refineries, was extremely problematic. The technology allowed USSTAF to maintain pressure on the collapsed transportation sys- tem and contributed to the virtual elimination of oil production by March. Neither of the