fect on Japanese industry be- cause of the dispersion of cottage industries as well as the woeful inaccuracy of high-explosive bombs dropped from high altitude. Hansell seemed unable to produce timely improvements, and Arnold needed results, not only to prove the worth of airpower and the B-29s but also to keep from losing con- trol of them to MacArthur or Nimitz or even to Lord Mountbatten in the China–Burma–India theater. Hansell also did not help matters by admitting in a lengthy statement published in American newspapers in late December 1944 that his organization still had “much to learn and many operational and other technical problems to solve.” In late December Arnold decided to remove XX Bomber Command from China and India and consolidate all B-29s in the Marianas under one commander; as part of the reorganization he awkwardly relieved Hansell and replaced him with LeMay as the new year opened. Brigadier General Lauris Norstad, responsible for B-29 operations as Twentieth Air Force chief of staff under Arnold, was sent to Guam to super- vise the change of command. Norstad later said of the changeover, “General Arnold—and all of us, including, I think, Possum—now know that this LeMay is the best man for this particular job, the job of carrying out what Possum and the rest of us started. LeMay is an operator, the rest of us are planners.” Now it was this operator’s job to vindicate AAF planning in the Pacific.29 LeMay began with a total shake-up of personnel. The staff was “practically  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 190 --- 172  CHAPTER  TEN worthless,” and he needed to change some group commanders as well, so he brought over some of his people from China. Incomplete facilities and bases significantly hampered training, and he exerted pressure to complete them. He set new training programs in motion, especially concerning radar. For further assistance in operations and training, Norstad procured some radar lead crews from Europe. LeMay established a bett