ts or loudspeakers; pilots could not fly over friendly populated areas when armed. Despite precautions, friendly troops or villages were hit, mostly through technical failures or poor com- munication. Eventually pilots were ordered not to deliver ordnance unless they were completely sure of their target and equipment. By 1967 only 1 in 6,000 sorties involved accidental bombing of friendly units or towns, a circumstance reflecting sound training, “smart bombs,” and strict control.27 Much of this precision can be attributed to technical advances pioneered during World War II. However, improved accuracy alone was not enough to ensure a successful air war. As in Korea, a resolute enemy with a simple economy thwarted supe- rior technology in weapons. Operations such as ROLLING  THUNDER  (referred to by some Air Force officers in hindsight as “Rolling Blunder”) drew directly on precision-bombing doctrine to target North Vietnam’s vital economic and military centers and to destroy its capacity to wage war. A combination of political restrictions, gradualist tactics in the application of force, and the nature of the enemy’s will and infrastructure frustrated these grandiose plans. Perhaps because of an exaggerated opinion of American success with air interdiction in World War II and Korea, the USAF concentrated heavy bombing on enemy supply lines and sources in North and South Vietnam. In 1967 General Matthew Ridgway wrote, “There were those who felt, at the time of the Korean War, that air power might accomplish miracles of inter- diction. . . . The fact that it could not accomplish these miracles has not yet been accepted as widely as it should have been.” He believed that “some in high position” still failed to appreciate the “limitations” of airpower. These deficiencies were evident in ineffective campaigns against precision target systems such as oil and electric power. As McNamara came to realize that the agrarian economy and guerrilla forces of the North Vietnamese w