nventional bombing, or were really willing to examine its effi- ciency or effectiveness objectively. The Air Force concentrated primarily on precise data that could be applied to future target selection. To AAF lead- ers, the main lessons of the US Strategic Bombing Survey, prepared mostly by economists and scientists, apparently were that better analysis of target systems and an earlier focus on key industrial objectives such as oil would have collapsed enemy economies much sooner. In his detailed analysis of the conduct of the USSBS, Gian Gentile concludes that the process was carefully crafted to come up with results that would support AAF doctrine and its possible decisiveness as an independent service, both with the fram- ing of questions for analysis and the selection of personnel to do it. He asserts, “The civilian analysts of the USSBS accepted the American concep- tual approach to strategic bombing . . . made it the analytical framework for their evaluation, and wrote conclusions about air power in World War II that vindicated their conception.” Applying these lessons to the future, An- derson and Maxwell believed that the best way to prevent Germany from ever waging war again was to ensure that the country was rebuilt with an economic system and predesignated strategic targets “in a permanently vul- nerable position” to air attack.9 The use of the atomic bombs on Japan and the relatively short strategic air campaign there tended to obscure any lessons about conventional bomb- ing in the Pacific theater. As a result, those seeking justification for preci- sion-bombing doctrine focused on the European theater. This orientation was reinforced because Arnold’s next three successors as chief of staff of the Air Force—Spaatz, Vandenberg, and Twining—had gained their primary wartime experiences commanding major units in Europe. A good indication of their attitudes was revealed by the findings of a board Arnold convened in late 1945 to determine the implications o