ty bombers pummeled the Rheine marshaling yard on the 23rd. The next day again featured two missions. Twenty-seven group B-24s led the Fourteenth Wing on a critical supply drop for ground forces that had just crossed the Rhine. Sixty-nine tons of supplies were delivered accurately, but two planes were downed by ground fire and thirteen others received signifi- cant damage. In the afternoon twelve Liberators participated in an excellent wing attack on the landing strip at Stormede. On the 25th, two squadrons totaling twenty-two aircraft evaded high clouds to obtain excellent visual re- sults bombing oil storage facilities at Hitzacker. Then bad weather returned, and only two more missions were launched that month. On the 30th, thirty-three aircraft participated in a large at- tack on the docks and U-boat facilities at Wilhelmshaven. Two squadrons achieved excellent results bombing visually, but the lead bombardier of the third could not identify his target through the clouds and missed with H2X. On the 31st thirty-three group B-24s led the Fourteenth Wing against the Hoya ammunition depot. A 10/10ths cloud cover forced a diversion to the secondary target of the marshaling yard at Brunswick, where H2X bombing results were unobserved. Missions for the 44th Bomb Group in the first quarter of 1945 were plagued by crowded skies, bad weather, enemy countermeasures, and many problems with radar equipment. Accuracy suffered accordingly. Still, their B-24s had contributed to the constant pressure that USSTAF strategic bomb- ers were maintaining on the collapsing enemy military forces and economy.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 74 --- 56  CHAPTER  THREE THE 15TH ALSO  CONTRIBUTES The Fifteenth Air Force was also part of that effort. Its 455th Bom- bardment Group (Heavy) flew B-24s out of an improvised airdrome at San Giovanni, twenty miles southwest of Foggia, Italy, beginning in February 1944. “The Vulgar Vultures” consisted of the 740th, 741st, 742nd, and 743rd bomb squ