ian will. There was a similar list for Japan, though the plan recognized that it would be years before those islands would be within range of the AAF. Surprisingly, Japanese transportation and power facilities were not among the suggested targets. Top priorities were aircraft and engine plants, submarine yards, and naval and commercial bases.3 There were many assumptions evident in AWPD-42. There was little con- cern about fighter escorts because bomber formations were expected to be able to fight their way to the target with acceptable losses, which would de- cline as the German air force was depleted. Even against defenses, bombing accuracy would be only slightly worse than in practice runs, with a circular error of only 1,000 feet from an altitude of 20,000 feet, though as is evident from the quote opening the chapter, there was also an understanding that many bombs would miss, with resulting collateral damage. The report did not foresee the development of nonvisual bombing techniques, instead ex-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 51 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   3 3 pecting only five or six missions a month in Europe, ten over Japan. Most important, there was “no doubt that if the targets included in these systems were successfully destroyed, the effect would be decisive and Germany would be unable to continue her war effort.” Although that was a stark claim for the independent effectiveness of strategic airpower, AWPD-42 never denied the need for an invasion of Europe, arguing that the depletion of the Ger- man air force and economy was also necessary for its success.4 Struggling to meet his deadlines, Hansell sent the final product straight to the printing office. He soon found out that the president had approved it before Secretary of War Stimson or General Marshall got a chance to see their copy. Fearing the wrath of the Army chief of staff, Hansell asked Gen- eral Arnold to get him back to England immediately, and within an hour, the planner was airbo