NG  AIDS   1 0 5 rather than a hindrance” because it would enable Allied bombers to exploit conditions that severely hampered enemy defenses. Much of this enthusiasm was fueled by optimistic reports on H2S from military attaches in London. American versions of this device were called H2X; by fall 1943, enough were available to mount the first major raids to test the radar’s effectiveness. Con- sidering the continuing focus on eliminating capacity, as well as some signal successes, it is unfair, as Ronald Schaffer and Richard Davis have, to call the use of these nonvisual bombing methods “tantamount to urban area attacks,” but USSTAF planners did recognize that these techniques involved some compromise with precision tactics. Targets had to be carefully selected. At first leaders picked objectives in city areas on coastlines or estuaries be- cause of the verifiable distinction between water and land on radar screens. This technique allowed a large increase in raids during the testing period in late 1943 and early 1944 and thereby relieved much of the intense pressure Arnold applied for maximum bombing.8 The first H2X mission on Wilhelmshaven in October 1943 proved a re- sounding success, and in December the Eighth Air Force announced in a press release the “development of a new day bombardment technique em- ploying latest scientific devices enabling bombing through solid cloud cover. . . . While accuracy is not equal to that usually attained in high altitude attacks when the target can be seen, . . . accuracy is satisfactory and gives promise of improvement. . . . The new technique is regarded as a logical outgrowth of American bombardment doctrine made possible by scientific advances and does not involve any basic change in the American conception of bombardment.”9 Presumably a public that seldom questioned such mili- tary pronouncements accepted this position, but the release also seemed to be an accurate representation of Eighth Air Force beliefs. Arnold, however,