rew. He thought about civilians on the ground, but he also remembered the defenseless civilians the Germans had been bombing throughout the war. Stewart won the first of his two Dis- tinguished Flying Crosses for holding his formation together during a tough bombing run against Brunswick during the big attacks of February 1944. Later he lost some of his men during one of the bloody missions to Berlin. Badly shaken by the experience, he spent several weeks in the hospital and served the rest of the war in important ground duties. The memoirs of pilots like Philip Ardery are full of incidents in which pilot errors destroyed aircraft and crews. Haunted by the possibility of error, pilots did not seem concerned so much with the target they were attacking or with where bombs fell as with bringing their plane and crew back in one piece.20 The best reason to hit a target right the first time, especially the tough ones, was to ensure it would not have to be attacked again. Copilots shared the pilots’ burdens. Locked into uncomfortable postures on long flights, they suffered physical and mental stress along with the pilots.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 110 --- Squadron Commander Jimmy Stewart after receiving the French Croix de Guerre with Palm. Typical of pilots and leaders, Stewart worried about making a mistake that could harm the airmen under his command. (Northwest and Whitman College Archival Collections, Penrose Memorial Library, Whitman College, Walla Walla, WA)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 111 --- ATTITUDES  AND  PERCEPTIONS  OF AMERICAN  AIRMEN   9 3 Other crewmen could move around, but the pilot and copilot had to stay at the controls. They often had to switch positions during flight, especially while maneuvering into tight formations where the effects of vertigo could quickly interfere with the ability to coordinate controls properly. Most British bombers did not have copilots after 1942, increasing the psychological stress on their pilots even more