t every AAF commander faced are part of the problem that Bill Moyers has called “the great unresolved dilemma of our age: Will we go on doing what our weapons make possible?”11 However, that is not the only dilemma from such capability. Another re- mains, reflective of Ignatieff’s concerns. If warfare is considered less bloody, it is easier to consider it to be a viable policy option, and its threat is less of a deterrent to aberrant behavior. Fear of massed American airpower is evident in displays in military museums in Beijing and Hanoi. Chinese, North Vietnamese, and Iraqi veterans all remember the catastrophic blast and shock from the deadly loads of heavy bombers.12 One of the reasons for the relatively easy American advance on Baghdad in 2003 was that so many Iraqi soldiers had surrendered or deserted, many persuaded by one of more than forty million air-dropped psychological warfare leaflets noting that if the soldiers went home then they would avoid the destruction of mass airstrikes remembered from a decade before and being experienced again.13 Those remain the most fearsome conventional weapon in the American ar- senal and must be retained.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 234 --- 216  CHAPTER  TWELVE At the same time, in contemporary wars amongst the people, both state and nonstate enemies have become more adept at exploiting expectations of accuracy to turn every civilian bombing casualty into a political liability for those with dominant airpower. Few realize the painstaking care involved in contemporary targeting decisions, but war still remains a bloody and unpre- dictable business. One of the most important missions for today’s military leaders is to educate politicians and the public about that fact. We should continue to target carefully, but we must make the world realize that going to war will always have significant costs on both sides. If enemies prolong conflicts, those costs will only rise, especially for states. As one journalist wrote af