lied Expe- ditionary Forces, when called upon. Arnold also wanted to stay friendly with the ground forces so that he could count on their support in his drive for an independent service. Airmen sometimes had to restrain soldiers from calling for blind attacks on impossible targets, such as the time when General Jacob Devers demanded that Brissac and its bridge be heavily bombed, “blind or otherwise.” Spaatz’s deputy chief of staff had to go to the deputy supreme commander to keep the target’s priority for visual bombing only. Usually, however, USSTAF supported ground demands, and Doolittle complained to Washington that he “desired better aids from radar for bombing thru the overcast at front lines. At present we are killing too many of our own men.”27 The correspondence to Washington had some effect. Spaatz was sent a few new APQ-7 Eagle radars, but priority remained with air units assigned to bomb Japan. Lieutenant General Barney Giles, Arnold’s deputy commander and chief of Air Staff, cautioned Spaatz, however, that new radars probably would not solve his problems. The Air Staff knew that the Fifteenth Air Force was performing much better than the Eighth, and Giles told Spaatz to look internally for “the cause of the large errors in your present H2X bomb- ing.” To assist in lowering the risk to ground troops in bombing near their  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 131 --- BOMBING  AIDS   1 1 3 lines, Giles suggested that Spaatz look at SHORAN, another line-of-sight beaconing system that had been tested in Italy and that had been called “the real precision blind bombing system.”28 Spaatz accepted the advice. He soon acknowledged the superiority of SHORAN in bombing efficiency over self-contained units such as the APQ-7 Eagle. During the Korean War, the Circular Error Probable for SHORAN missions approached a remarkable 600 feet. Bombing accuracy increased significantly from February to May 1945, resulting from “improvement in weather, defeat of the German Air Forc