ish army officer who became an American citizen in the 1930s. He has been described by one of his subordinates as “one of those selfless men, of high intelligence, integrity, and dedication, who play major roles in great en- terprises but, operating at a middle level of authority, leave little trace in the formal records of history.” Hughes argued that Weicker based his proposals on questionable assumptions and that his plan pursued the same “Will of the Wisp” of morale that had been sought so long in the Balkans, deviated from fundamentally sound doctrine and diverted resources from more im- portant objectives. He also devoted great attention to morality: Hypocritically sometimes, Polly Anna–ishly frequently, but yet none the less fundamentally rightly, America has represented in world thought an urge toward decency and better treatment of man by man. Japs may order our prisoners to be shot, but we do not order the shooting of theirs. Hot blood is one thing—reason and the long view is another. As Mr. Lovett stated very strongly the other day, silly as it may seem to some of us real- ists here, there is definite and very genuine concern in both the Senate, Congress, and the country about the inhumanity of indiscriminate area bombing, as such.22 Weicker replied that Hughes had “a closed mind and a prejudiced point of view.” The deputy director thought the target selection was based on an orderly system of military requirements and necessity. He agreed that Ameri- cans wanted to use “Marquis of Queensberry’s rules” to protect civilians, but this approach was not feasible against the brutal Nazi regime. His program was not a new way to kill women and children, he contended, but a method to press home fundamental ideas to the German people about their defense- lessness that could end the war. He did argue, however, that if his program saved a few Allied lives, any price paid by the enemy should “not be a factor of sober and practical consideration.” When Colonel Charles