ely bloodless victory. He told his commanders that “when used with the proper degree of understanding, [the bomber] becomes, in effect, the most humane of all weapons.” He also real- ized the political costs of indiscriminate bombardment, writing in 1942 that “careless inaccurate bombing intensifies and spreads those hates which will be stumbling blocks to international amity for years after the war is over.”39 Yet as the war continued and he pushed more and more for decisive results to support his dream of an independent air service, considerations of hu- manity were never a priority with Arnold. In contrast, at least one leader in Washington, Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson, did consistently oppose the intentional killing or terrorizing of en- emy noncombatants. Repelled by the barbarism of indiscriminate attacks on civilians, he had been instrumental in US government protests against such raids during the 1930s and tried to keep a close watch on American strategic air operations during World War II. Stimson’s diary is filled with references to atrocities and war crimes and occasionally with concerns for enemy civil- ians. He was convinced that the Nazi leaders and the secret police, not the German people, caused the war. The same sentiment motivated those critics of strategic bombing who concluded that workers in Berlin were no more evil than the airmen ordered to bomb them.40 Stimson complained that only General George Marshall supported him in that view: “It is singular that the man who had charge of the Department which did the killing in the war,  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 90 --- Lieutenant General H. H. Arnold traveling with Secretary of War Henry Stimson. Unlike Arnold, Stimson consistently expressed moral opposition to indiscriminate attacks on enemy civilians.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 91 --- ATTITUDES  OF LEADERS  AND  THE PUBLIC   7 3 should be the only one who seemed to have any mercy for the other side.” The secretary of war belie