VIII Bomber Command mounted its first heavy bombardment mission against the continent on 17 August, when twelve Fortresses successfully attacked the marshaling yard at Rouen, an easy target along the coast that allowed the new force to display its daylight bombing skills without having to fight through much resistance.2 Such early raids were more a demonstration of a concept than part of an established combined war-fighting strategy, but that deficiency was soon rem- edied. The same month that the Eighth Air Force officially entered the war, President Roosevelt asked for another estimate of aircraft production, this time for 1943, “in order to have complete air ascendancy over the enemy.” The original members of the Air War Plans Division had been promoted and reassigned, but Hansell, a new brigadier general, was recalled from England by General Marshall to head the effort to develop an “immediate detailed war plan.” He and his team built on the precedent of AWPD/1. Though Japan’s vulnerability to aerial bombardment was recognized, the top priority remained defeating Germany. That would be accomplished by first destroy- ing the German air force, which was always recognized as the first require- ment for a successful strategic air campaign, through the targeting of aircraft and engine factories. Recognizing the political realities of working with the British, as well as the combined nature of the offensive described in the opening quote above, the next priority was submarine construction. Then German war-making capacity would be undermined with attacks on trans- portation, power, oil, aluminum, and rubber, in that order of importance. There was no mention of targeting morale, though there was an assumption that reductions in electric power would have some impact on civilian will. There was a similar list for Japan, though the plan recognized that it would be years before those islands would be within range of the AAF. Surprisingly, Japanese transportation and power f