yone else, they missed the target. The group finally got good weather on the 13th, and results were much better. Again two forces were sent out, designated “red” and “blue,” usually Vienna was not only heavily bombed but also heavily defended. This doomed B-24 has been ignited by enemy ﬁghters over that target. (44th Bomb Group Collection, USAMHI, USAHEC)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 76 --- 58  CHAPTER  THREE about an hour apart. Twenty-one B-24s in the first attack put 41 percent of their bombs within 1,000 feet of the aiming point to help cripple the rail- road yards at Vienna. Twenty-four in the second mission had similar results against the marshaling yards at Maribor, Yugoslavia. However, the clouds re- turned the next day for another dual-force mission by forty bombers headed back to the marshaling yards at Vienna. Both elements had to divert to sec- ondary targets, achieving good visual results and pummeling rail yards at Klagenfurt, Austria, and Maribor. Two waves of Vultures again headed for Vienna on the 15th, with H2X attacks through overcast one hour apart on the Korneuburg oil refinery, but the thirty-eight bombers caused no damage to their target. The Fifteenth went after airfields the next day. Thirty-nine Vultures headed for the Oberstraubling airdrome near Regensburg. Three aircraft had to return early with mechanical difficulties; the rest holed the field and its facilities under good visual conditions. Although the airfields around Foggia did not have the weather problems of those in England, the Fifteenth Air Force still had to deal with the same winter cloud cover over central Europe as the Eighth did. On the 17th, forty- two Vulture B-24s had to divert from their primary objective again. Two turned back with mechanical problems, another lost the formation, and thirty- eight achieved only fair results against their secondary target of the shipyards at Fiume, Italy. The next day’s weather was even worse, as twenty-eight bomb- ers headed fo