argets such as trains were especially vul- nerable to strafing.18 “The General Plan for Maximum Effort Attack against Transportation Objectives” was published by USSTAF on 17 December. It was designed to disrupt the enemy’s lines of communication and transportation system, thereby assisting the ground forces, depleting oil supplies for motor trans- port, and perhaps even precipitating a crisis among railway workers. As a secondary benefit, the attack would bring home the effects of the war to Ger- man industry and the people to push them “over the brink,” and perhaps cause the Germans to further spread their flak defenses. Targets included bridges, marshaling yards, railway stations, signaling facilities, and locks. Un- defended or lightly defended targets were to be selected, and they were to be attacked with bombs, machine guns, and napalm. Actual “development of a scheme which will insure a maximum efficiency in the use of forces” was delegated to air force commanders. It was hoped that RAF Bomber Com- mand would attack the Ruhr, but they would not participate directly in the operation. The Americans and the British were now pursuing their ideas of Todestoss independently.19 The plan raised violent objections from USSTAF commands, especially from key officers in the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces. Though in Octo- ber Cabell had proposed his own plan to cause German collapse by attacking their rail system, he penned on his copy of CLARION , “This is the same old Baby killing plan of the get-rich-quick psychological boys, dressed up in a new kimono. It is a poor psychological plan and a worse rail plan.” Lieu- tenant General Nathan Twining, commanding the Fifteenth Air Force, was confident that he could execute the plan, but he thought that low-altitude bombing and strafing by valuable heavy bombers was dangerous and un- sound. He also was concerned with “how the enemy and our own people will react to our attacking these types of targets and the resultant heavy lo