t bombing operations. Although President Truman and his advisers had discussed plans to destroy Russian Far East bases with A-bombs, and despite MacArthur’s suggestions, Truman’s misstatements, and Eisenhower’s hints, American leaders never seriously considered the use of nuclear weapons.23 Yet USAF doctrine after the Korean War still emphasized the use of strategic bombing with nuclear weapons in a total war against the war-making capacity of a modern indus- trialized nation; the 1964 doctrinal manuals had no provision for strategic bombardment using conventional munitions.24 The USAF did not appreci-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 215 --- STRATEGIC  AIRPOWER  IN LIMITED  WARS   1 9 7 ate that fears of the possibility of Russian retaliation or international con- demnation as well as more restricted political goals might require them to work with nonnuclear ordnance and to avoid total war. The next conflict, in Vietnam, would again highlight the inability of the USAF to act decisively in a limited war and would center attention on the increasing military, public, and diplomatic demands for accuracy in bombing operations in urban areas. MORE  FRUSTRATION  IN SOUTHEAST  ASIA By the time the United States was deeply embroiled in the war in Southeast Asia, the use of operations research and systems analysis (ORSA) that the AAF had pioneered during World War II had become almost a religion in the Department of Defense headed by Secretary Robert S. McNamara. In- stead of supplementing strategic and tactical objectives, as in World War II, the process was now to define these objectives. This rationalistic approach was characterized by “the pretension to universality of solutions, . . . quan- tification, simplification, and lack of flexibility.” The process proved useful to structure forces for a war but not to fight it. Human and political factors, along with the chance and friction of actual war, were incompatible with operations research and systems analysis, and pl