m World War II did not apply to the conflicts in Korea and Vietnam. The industry and infrastructures in those Asian countries were unlike the systems in Germany, Japan, or Italy, and the international climate during those limited wars was far different from that of the 1940s. Yet a thorough AAF analysis of the total effects of strategic bombing in World War II would have prepared the USAF for a better use of airpower in Korea or Vietnam. Another result of this incomplete assessment by the AAF, as well as con- temporary expectations for accuracy, has been the recent criticism question- ing the reality of World War II precision bombing. Beginning after the war, and sometimes based on distorted facts, isolated criticisms of individual missions such as the attacks on Dresden and Tokyo have now grown into general doubts about the ethics and practices of the entire strategic air cam- paign. Hopper’s prophecy has come true; the initiative in discussions of AAF performance has passed from participants to critical historians, who are not always as knowledgeable or as sympathetic. Although the ideal of pinpoint air attacks that could send bombs down industrial smokestacks was never  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 231 --- LEGACIES   2 1 3 achieved in World War II, the claim that adherence to precision-bombing doctrine was a myth ignores the operational record. In Europe, despite many pressures to do otherwise, American airmen con- sistently followed their doctrine. Precision advocates like Spaatz and Hughes at USSTAF headquarters, Cabell at Mediterranean Allied Air Forces, and Doolittle at Eighth Air Force seemed motivated at least partly by concerns for morality; other leaders in the European theater, such as Anderson and Eaker, were more concerned with bombing effectiveness or public relations. The result, however, was the same. Although theory did exceed technology, Amer- ican airmen in Europe did the best they could with what they had. Air op- erations during DESERT  S