will be less Prussianized and be dedicated to freedom.” Typically, Stimson found out about the incident long after the fact and probably not through regular channels. He seems to have read the accounts of Grierson’s briefing in the press. Arnold, recuperating in Flor- ida from a heart attack, was perturbed when informed that Stimson was concerned about the raid. Reflecting his exasperation with everyone who questioned AAF bombing policies, Arnold scrawled on a message from his headquarters dealing with Stimson’s request, “We must not get soft. War must be destructive and to a certain extent inhuman and ruthless.” However, the resulting AAF report by Arnold’s staff was not so callous and correctly blamed RAF incendiary bombs for most of the damage in Dresden. Trustful of his military advisers, Stimson seemed satisfied, and he let the matter drop. The whole controversy caused Arnold considerable strain and contributed to his declining health and numerous convalescent leaves and trips.36 Partly as a result of this controversy and partly because of the acciden- tal bombing of Swiss territory during CLARION , a new bombing policy was issued to USSTAF on 1 March. It emphasized that only military objectives could be attacked and was especially restrictive about attacks in occupied areas. As the number of strategic targets continued to diminish, operations became “more and more of a tactical nature,” designed to “help keep the break-throughs rolling.” On 9 April Portal sent a message suspending area bombing on “remaining German industrial centres” because the full effects would not be felt before the end of the war and requesting that bombing avoid the destruction of “housing and other facilities which will be needed for the accommodation of our occupying forces.” Attacks on built-up areas were still allowed to help ground assaults. When Arnold cabled Spaatz for comment, Anderson wrote a testy reply emphasizing that the USSTAF “have not at any time had a policy of making ar