ix and match. The result was to increase the number of psy- choneurotic casualties from stress. Flyers in the Fifteenth retained the pecu- liar burdens and attitudes of their positions on the crew without being able to rely on the strong bonds of comradeship existing among the members of a well-established combat team. Many Eighth Air Force airmen identified so much with their crew that they suffered more fear and tension “when they are on the ground and their crew is flying without them on a combat mission than when they are flying.”26 AAF leaders became especially concerned about the morale of Eighth Air Force bomber crews after Doolittle’s decision to release his fighters from strict escort duties and losses forced Spaatz to extend combat tours and even bring some crews back who had completed their quota. The battle for air su- premacy between January and May 1944 cost USSTAF 2,351 heavy bombers in combat, and another 254 from accidents and unrepairable battle damage. In the summer of 1944 the number of crews and aircraft interned because of landing in neutral counties more than doubled over previous months, with eighteen in May, thirty-eight in June, and forty-one in July. B-24s from the 2nd Bombardment Division, most likely to be assigned deep missions because of their longer range than the B-17s, were most prone to get in-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 114 --- 96  CHAPTER  FIVE terned. Those statistics alarmed Arnold, as did the results of interviews with crews in Sweden conducted by US diplomatic personnel. Spaatz defended his airman in a heated exchange of messages with the AAF Commanding General, who eventually sent Lieutenant Colonel James W. Wilson to the United Kingdom to investigate the situation in August. He had instructions to determine if there was truly a “deterioration of combat crew morale.” His report in September, based on over a thousand interviews with crew mem- bers, and the findings of a group of carefully selected USSTAF officers sen