litical objectives “except as the result of a careful estimate of the results to be accomplished, when weighed against the suffering of women and children, and the effect of public opinion in neutral countries.” The text emphasized that “some foreign authorities will advocate the direct attack of the enemy civil population to bring about a decision in war,” but it did not support such a position.35 In 1933 for political effect ACTS was distributing translations of a Douhet article, “La guerre de l’air,” to the House Committee on Military Affairs even as instructors were moving further away from his theories on bombing civilians. The 1934 text for the Air Force course described in detail attacking the “social sphere” and stated that “large urban populations and high stan- dards of living broaden the possible range of dislocation and add length to the lever that an air force can apply against morale.” Cities were vulnerable and hard to defend. Although it was “an undeniable fact that the consensus of world opinion is opposed to such employment of air power,” it was also “common knowledge” that “nearly all of the leading powers” were making plans and training civilians in order to minimize the effects of attacks on cities. Despite the “wrath of world opinion” that such attacks would incur, the threat of such action “will certainly exist in modern war” and might ac- tually prove more persuasive than the results from an actual attack. But, the text continued, “fortunately a more desirable and more effective approach is available to an Air Force, . . . [which] entails the careful selection of cer- tain material targets . . . upon which the social life of the nation depends,” such as food and power supplies. This text reflected a move toward precision bombing, but it still envisioned attacks against the social sphere.36 The influence of Wilson, George, and Webster was more apparent in the next year’s text. Stating that “loss of morale in the civil population . . . is decis