em. He set new training programs in motion, especially concerning radar. For further assistance in operations and training, Norstad procured some radar lead crews from Europe. LeMay established a better maintenance program B-29s dispersed at one of their bases at Isley Field, Saipan. Incomplete facilities had plagued Brigadier General Haywood Hansell’s efforts to improve his operations, and one of Major General Curtis LeMay’s ﬁrst projects in the Marianas was to ﬁnish building adequate airﬁelds.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 191 --- TORCHING  JAPAN   1 7 3 that put more planes in the air and lowered the abort rate. He even tried breaking the Russian codes to get their weather reports. The staunchly anti- communist LeMay also sent medical supplies to Mao Tze-tung in exchange for the right to establish a radio station in Yenan that provided information on weather and downed airmen. Crew morale rose and performance im- proved, but the results of daylight precision attacks remained disappointing. LeMay knew that he too could be relieved and began to search for a better way to accomplish his mission.30 Some planners on Arnold’s staff, wishing to exploit the psychological effects of the loss of the Philippines and further demoralize the Japanese people, recommended that the time was ripe for an incendiary assault on ur- ban industrial centers. However, pinpoint attacks on aircraft-engine factories retained first priority in Arnold’s directives. Hansell claims he was unaware of General Arnold’s “lively interest” in incendiary raids and was prepared to carry out urban area attacks only as a last resort. LeMay also believed that the AAF chief desired a continuation of precision-bombing methods and asked Norstad if Arnold, recuperating from another heart attack, ever went for a gamble. Norstad seemed to imply that being unorthodox was acceptable to the AAF chief but would not “stick his neck out” with anything more definite, despite the fact he had encouraged disappoint