ressed some views about the moral issue . . . moral constraints almost invariably bowed to what people described as military necessity,” another disputed concept.9 Sherry’s award-winning book focused on the development of American airpower, which ultimately led to the use of the atomic bomb. He concen- trated on the bombing campaign against Japan and contended that strategists adopted the policy of indiscriminate firebombing of cities after precision bombing against military and industrial targets proved only marginally effec- tive in 1944. Though racism made such tactics easier to adopt against Japan, firebombing was the inadvertent but inevitable product of an anonymous “technological fanaticism” of Allied bombing and airpower. The assumption that using everything available would lead to eventual victory was key in the decisions to firebomb and eventually to use the atomic bomb. The Ameri- can press and public at the time accepted such measures as retribution for war crimes or as preparation for invasion. Since 1945, concerned Americans have focused on the decision to use the atomic bomb as “the moment of supreme moral choice”; Sherry argued that the whole bombing campaign was the product of “a slow accretion of large fears, thoughtless assumptions, and incremental decisions.”10 DOCTRINE , COMMAND  AND CONTROL , AND OPERATIONS Certainly AAF leaders had varying motivations and opinions about terror bombing. But a sophisticated understanding of military processes, particu- larly of doctrinal development, command and control, and operational ex- ecution, is needed to evaluate American strategic bombing. Both Schaffer and Sherry judged that the AAF failed to live up to the letter and spirit of precision-bombing doctrine. Sherry was especially critical because doctrine was not inspired and shaped to a greater degree by technology. Because of the limitations of the bombers of the 1930s, when precision bombing was developed, he argued, wartime technology was “more demons