. The tortured ethical calculus involved in deciding the conduct of the war and leading to the use of the atomic bomb could also be applied to enemy ca- sualties. A successful siege could avoid the costs of assault for the Japanese as well as for the Americans, though considerations of friendly losses were far more important to decision makers and bomber crews. LeMay wrote in April 1945 that he believed he had the resources to destroy the enemy’s ability to wage war within six months. This was Clausewitzian calculus at its most bru- tal; with no capacity left in the equation, resistance had to go to zero. When Arnold visited Guam in June, LeMay’s staff presented a briefing describing how their bombers could bring Japan to the brink of defeat by destroying all industrial facilities by 1 October. Arnold was skeptical but wrote in his jour- nal, “We did it in Germany with much more difficult targets and much more intense antiaircraft. Why not in Japan? We will see.” Arnold had already received a message that President Truman wanted to meet with the JCS to discuss the invasion of Japan and whether the AAF could really win the war by bombing; and the AAF chief decided to send LeMay back to Washington to assist Eaker, now Arnold’s deputy, in presenting the Air Force’s position. Arnold saw this effort as “another opportunity to make military history.” LeMay’s staff went with their commander and repeated the briefing they had just given Arnold to the JCS. General Marshall slept through most of the presentation, and LeMay came away convinced that leaders in Washington were fully committed to invading Japan just as they had invaded Europe.44  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 199 --- TORCHING  JAPAN   1 8 1 Among the points that Arnold had wanted his staff to emphasize to the president and the JCS were the increased use of psychological warfare and the use of poison gas. Arnold had ordered the preparation of AAF plans for the retaliatory use of poison gas against Japan as ea