aircraft in leading bombing missions, calling them “the  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 125 --- BOMBING  AIDS   1 0 7 most critical need of the Strategic Air Forces.” In January he successfully defeated attempts by the Combined Chiefs of Staff to force him to cut back on radar attacks before OVERLORD , arguing that it would be “wasteful” not to use radar methods if cloud cover prevented visual bombing. He admitted in a March press conference that radar attacks were primarily made on “area ob- jectives” but stressed that they had “resulted in considerable pressure on the German Air Force, combined with the destruction of a number of his vital factories.”13 For USSTAF, area objectives meant concentrations of factories, shipyards, or marshaling yards, not residential zones hit in RAF raids. Un- like Eaker, Spaatz did not consider workers’ houses suitable targets. Yet the use of less accurate nonvisual bombing techniques in urban areas resulted in an increase in the risk to civilians in targeted cities. By April Spaatz’s enthusiasm for current radar technology and tactics had begun to wane. He complained to Arnold that “the inherent accuracy and presentation of H2X equipment is not satisfactory enough for precision Beginning in 1944, Lieutenant General Carl Spaatz and Major General James Doolittle often pleaded with General H. H. Arnold for better radar equipment to replace their H2X sets, but the priority for the improved APQ-7 Eagle radar remained with the B-29s in the Paciﬁc. Here radar operator Sergeant W. C. Yoder of the XX Bomber Command searches for targets on his Eagle scope over Omura, Japan, on 21 November 1944.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 126 --- 108  CHAPTER  SIX bombing of high priority strategic targets.” Sparked by complaints from Doo- little that the radar pictures needed more detail, Spaatz asked for new radar equipment; Doolittle and Spaatz would continue such pleas until the end of the war. The new Eighth Air Force commander had little fai