critical features of night area bombing.” He reiterated that it had been American policy to bomb military and industrial targets in accordance with the precision doctrine he had helped develop. Apathy and discouragement resulting from morale bombing “are not the qualities to pressure revolt,” and people in the Nazi police state were not in a position to influence national will as much as in a democracy. “Furthermore,” Kuter added, “it is con- trary to our national ideals to wage war against civilians.” AAF headquarters found several other aspects of the British plan unacceptable. Contrary to An-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 162 --- 144  CHAPTER  EIGHT derson, Kuter thought that “attacks against impressed labor of non-German origin are unsound.” In regard to strikes against civilians he emphasized, “We do not want to kill them—we want to make them think and drive them to action.”27 Kuter told Williamson, visiting Washington, that the AAF had been and would continue to be “employed exclusively against military objec- tives until the time when it is broadly accepted that morale attacks including the killing of German civilians will tip the scales causing the cessation of hos- tilities.” The decision to make such an attack “would be the unquestioned prerogative of the commander in the field.” Even someone as devoted to precision doctrine as Kuter was willing to depart from it for Todestoss and conceded that such a course of action should be based on operational, not policy, concerns. Though Williamson believed that the adoption of civilian morale as a primary target would be “regrettable,” he thought that Spaatz’s ideas on the subject were more “acceptable” and more “likely to succeed” than British proposals. Williamson managed to get Arnold’s concurrence for USSTAF to prepare a plan based on Spaatz’s concepts that would entail an “all-out, widespread attack, of perhaps six or seven days duration.” Arnold did not yet favor obliteration attacks, even on Berlin. No