he last). The article, “Oblitera- tion Raids on German Cities Protested in US,” caused intense public reac- tion, and over 200 articles were written condemning Brittain.9 The paper received “unusually heavy mail” about the piece and estimated that letters of protest concerning Brittain’s views were running “50–1 against.”10 Most re- sponses agreed with author MacKinley Kantor, who deplored the “softheart- edness” of those people who worry about “socking the rapacious German nation with every pound of high explosives available.” A rabbi declared that  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 84 --- 66  CHAPTER  FOUR “the Germans must reap the fruits of their own wicked deeds.” Other clergy echoed his sentiments, citing Nazi precedents as the final justification for American bombing. Editorial comment in general disclaimed moral ques- tions and recognized the raids as a “revolting necessity.”11 Though relatively few commentaries addressed the ethical issues Brittain had raised, articles discussing the morality of obliteration bombing did ap- pear in Fellowship , Saturday Review of Literature , Christian Century , the Nation , Newsweek , Politics , Spectator , Commonweal , America , the London Tablet , and the Labor Leader.12 The issue was even debated on the radio during “America’s Town Meeting” on the evening of 30 March. Norman Cousins, editor of the Saturday Review of Literature , and military analyst Major George Fielding Eliot were for bombing cities; C. C. Paulding, literary editor of Commonweal , and Socialist Party leader Norman Thomas attacked the practice.13 However, the furor caused by Brittain’s article soon abated, with no effect on bombing policy. Other writers had protested aerial bombing. Oswald Garrison Villard, who had been involved with the Brittain piece, penned critical articles in Christian Century beginning in 1943, R. Alfred Hassler wrote “Slaughter of the Innocent” in Fellowship in February 1944, and German American Ger- hart Segar was condemned for