ations for two days, the weather finally started to clear on the 19th, when the Fifteenth Air Force  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 79 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   6 1 delivered its largest daily tonnage of the war, 2,243 against German mar- shaling yards. With better weather came better accuracy and results, and Vulture ground crews managed to get forty-two Liberators into the air for five days in a row. On the first day, one aircraft returned early, but the others pummeled rail yards at Muhldorf, Germany. The next day they put over 80 percent of bombs within 1,000 feet of the aiming point in marshaling yards at Wels, Austria. On the 21st, the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces launched a combined raid against the jet airfields around Neuberg, Germany. The Me 262s were the only viable threat the Luftwaffe could mount against the strategic bombing onslaught. One B-24 had to turn back with mechanical problems, but the other forty-one placed 87 percent of their bombs within that 1,000-foot circle around their aiming point. On the 22nd, two aircraft had to abort, seven mistakenly bombed rail yards at Neratovice, Czechoslova- kia, and the rest participated in a successful attack on the nearby oil refinery at Kralupy. On the last day of the streak all forty-two Liberators helped shut down the St. Valentin tank works at Steyr, but two were forced to crash-land with flak damage. Only thirty-eight aircraft were available on the 24th, and all but one man- aged to unload their bombs on the Riem airdrome in Munich, with fair results. On the next day, thirty-six of thirty-eight Liberators completed the mission against the CKD Leiben tank works at Prague, causing significant damage. Then the bad weather returned. Of twenty-eight planes headed to the marshaling yards at Szombathely, Hungary, on the 26th, six managed to find the target through the cloud cover, seven jettisoned their bombs over the Adriatic, and thirteen brought them back to base. No missions were con- ducted