er the best way to support the coming invasion with strategic air forces even more acrimonious. TRANSPORTATION  VERSUS  OIL As the German air force declined in capability and withdrew back into the Reich, the Allies asserted solid air superiority over Northwest Europe. Soon they would have total air supremacy over France. The stage was set to ham- mer out the arrangements for heavy bomber support of Operation OVER-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 62 --- 44  CHAPTER  THREE LORD . Although the Americans were willing to put USSTAF assets under Eisenhower’s control, the British continued to argue for more autonomy for Bomber Command. Eventually Eisenhower had to threaten leaving unless Prime Minister Churchill gave Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces command of all air forces during the invasion. Eventually an order that gave the supreme commander “direction of” air operations out of En- gland was issued. Though he began exercising that direction in late March 1944, it did not become official until mid-April.24 Now that Eisenhower had the desired control of the heavy bombers, he had to decide how best to use them. He was presented with competing plans. His deputy commander, Air Chief Marshall Sir Arthur Tedder, and the com- mander of the tactical Allied Expeditionary Air Force, Air Chief Marshall Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, both favored an assault on Axis transportation developed by Solly Zuckerman. Trained as a doctor, Zuckerman had written two books on the social and sexual practices of monkeys. As a research fellow and lecturer in the anatomy department at Oxford, he had been drawn into experiments on the physical effects of bomb blasts. He eventually got in- volved in assessing bombing operations in the Mediterranean and achieved some notoriety for his contribution for air operations against Pantelleria and Sicily. Studying the effects of attacks on the rail systems in Sicily and Italy, which had really not been that successful yet in achieving oper