on only upon reason and humane instincts when we exercise such a power.” It pointed out, however, that “the precision which is the keynote of America” was more efficient than terror bombing and at the same time more humane. By allowing reason and humanity to curb the “bestial instincts” released by “the awful weapon at our disposal,” the AAF showed “that humanity pays and that Air Power is the most powerful urge for peace.”72 None of these leaders professed to be moralists, yet all of them wrestled with the dilemmas resulting from good ends and bad means. They tried to strike a balance between the extreme views that war legitimizes all means or that suffering and death are absolute evils that can never be justified. Most of these men professed to be in favor of limiting “unnecessary” casualties and destruction, but they held different opinions as to what that qualification entailed. As the distinguished British historian Michael Howard has noted, “Those responsible for the conduct of state affairs see their first duty as being to ensure that their state survives; that it retains its power to protect its members and provide for them the conditions of a good life.” When in doubt, leaders tended to do what was best to win the war and protect Amer- ican citizens, whether those citizens were factory workers or bomber pilots.73  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 103 --- 855. ATTITUDES AND PERCEPTIONS OF AMERICAN AIRMEN War shall yet be, and to the end; But war-paint shows the streaks of weather; War yet shall be, but warriors Are now but operatives; War’s made Less grand than Peace, And a singe runs through lace and feather. —Herman Melville1 The more mechanical become the weapons with which we fight, the less mechanical must be the spirit which controls them. —Major General J. F. C. Fuller2 In his influential work Men against Fire , S. L. A. Marshall wrote that “war is always an equation of men and machines. Efficiency comes of a proper balancing of the equation.” There