as callous as the officer who wrote after Cassino, “If the enemy intends to use Italian cities as fortresses, we should feel no qualms in using our Air Force to level them thereby saving countless lives.”38 Most airmen did feel qualms at one time or another, but they were con- vinced that their actions were the best means for winning the war and saving American lives, on the ground and in the air. And they believed that their bombing methods were the most efficient, and humane, possible.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 119 --- 1016. THE LURE OF TECHNOLOGICAL INNOV ATION: BOMBING AIDS We are becoming increasingly aware of our inability to achieve accurate bombing on some of our top priority targets. Leuna and Politz are two examples. When the weather is good, these are covered by a smoke screen which effectively obscures the target for visual bombing. . . . Our air war is becoming a radar war. —Lieutenant General Carl Spaatz1 Even during World War I, technology was perceived as the solution to the stalemate of trench warfare. Poison gas, heavy artillery, and tanks were de- veloped and used in attempts to restore maneuver to the battlefield and bring victory. The airplane, too, was seen as a means to avoid such costly land warfare; thus, between the wars tactics and doctrine were developed to match the promise of aerial technology. It became apparent early in combat, however, that the tactics and technology of American precision bombing would need further refinement to realize its full potential. Many critics of precision bombing have argued that it was too inaccu- rate to merit that title. Even Lieutenant General Spaatz agreed privately in 1944 that USSTAF precision had meaning “in a relative not a literal sense”; but that did not stop him from striving for the continuing development of bombs and bombsights and the training of bombardiers to achieve “pickle barrel” accuracy in all weather. General Arnold pushed his commanders by telling them, “Efficiency in winni