-- ATTITUDES  AND  PERCEPTIONS  OF AMERICAN  AIRMEN   9 1 bomb. Despite pleas from his nervous pilots, another lead bombardier took his wayward formation over most of Berlin through heavy flak to hit railroad yards when their primary target was obscured instead of dropping his bomb load onto a convenient built-up area of the city.18 On the other hand, the pilots who commanded the bombers concen- trated most on what happened in the air. Fatigue, fear, and concern for their crew could wear pilots down quickly. In Lord Moran’s classic study, The Anatomy of Courage , he found that more pilots broke from mental strain in Bomber Command than in any other section of the RAF.19 The 1949 movie Twelve O’Clock High illustrates how the pressures and responsibilities of com- mand could cause a nervous breakdown in the toughest air officer if he really cared about his men. John Muirhead, a B-17 pilot in the Fifteenth Air Force, saw many of his friends display the gaunt signs of fatigue or become comatose with the “clanks,” their term for stress casualties. Muirhead tried to shield himself by ensuring that he did not know his crew or any other airmen. Psychiatric studies found that the loss of friends in aerial combat was the second most important source of stress (enemy activity was first), and Muirhead reasoned, “If I didn’t know them, I would not grieve.” Actor Jimmy Stewart, who rose to be chief of staff for an air wing after command- ing a B-24 squadron, and who even flew a combat mission in Vietnam as a brigadier general in the Air Force Reserves, said in an interview that World War II airmen never talked about their odds of survival. “We all prayed a lot, though,” he admitted. “I didn’t pray for myself. I just prayed I wouldn’t make a mistake” that could cost the lives of his crew. He thought about civilians on the ground, but he also remembered the defenseless civilians the Germans had been bombing throughout the war. Stewart won the first of his two Dis- tinguished Flying