sh bombers also dropped larger payloads and could deliver crushing punishment that the Americans could not. It is worth noting that while USSTAF conducted 347 separate missions against oil targets, the RAF added 158 more. While Harris continued to resist diver- sions of his force to go after “panacea targets,” Bomber Command’s contri- butions to both the oil and transportation assaults increased throughout the last six months of the war. Devastating RAF attacks on Ruhr cities showed the meshing of all the air campaigns, as their bombs smashed marshaling yards, obliterated oil targets, and leveled large urban areas.31 THE AMERICAN  CONDUCT  OF THE FINAL  AIR CAMPAIGN A detailed examination of the missions conducted by USSTAF in the last few months of the war reveals how the theory of precision-bombing doctrine matched the realities of 1945. Though there were diversions to pursue mo- rale bombing with operations like THUNDERCLAP  and CLARION , which will be described later, the primary focus remained on destroying enemy capacity. However, there was much greater acceptance of the “incidental damage” de- scribed in AWPD-42 to achieve that end, especially against Germany. Looking at those later missions also reveals some differences between the practices of USSTAF’s subordinate air forces. Although the Eighth Air Force deserves the most credit for the defeat of the Luftwaffe, the smaller Fifteenth had a major impact on Axis oil and transportation targets. Besides the decisive reduction of Ploesti in Romania, a region responsible for over half of the oil produced for Germany and Italy, the Fifteenth also mined the Danube River to bring traffic there to a standstill and created immense logistical chaos for German forces trying to stem the Soviet advance. Eaker’s early willingness to embrace blind-bombing techniques meant his airmen also devoted more time and ef- fort to develop them, meaning that the Fifteenth Air Force was the best in the AAF at such missions. They also h