d encouraged support for the idea. Although that personnel evaluation could be questioned, eventually the project was picked up by the CWS and the AAF. Initial experiments to determine the load-carrying capa- bilities of Mexican free-tailed bats seemed discouraging until it was discov- ered that the test subjects were pregnant females. Further work revealed that healthy bats could carry between fifteen and eighteen grams of extra weight, and Dr. Louis F. Feiser, distinguished Harvard chemist and the father of napalm, produced an incendiary device for them. In the meantime, Adams  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 149 --- BETTER  BOMBS   1 3 1 was driving his old Buick around the Southwest with a bunch of impressed draftees from local universities and laboratories, and they found millions of the right kind of bats in caves near Bandera, Texas. The next step was to determine how best to get the bats to deliver the ordnance. The team found that freezing the bats made them hibernate so the bombs could be attached, but the frozen bombardiers did not thaw out quickly enough when dropped out of airplanes. Eventually a device was developed that was dropped by parachute. The bats were put in trays that would pop open as the contraption floated down. As they warmed up, they flew off to roost under eaves and in attics until their devices ignited. Tests at Dugway Proving Ground in December 1943 proved that one load of bat bombs would start between eleven and twenty-nine times as many fires as the same weight of typical incendiaries. However, by then enthusiasm for X-RAY had waned. The AAF lost interest in mid-1943 after some errant bats or devices displayed for publicity efforts burned down Carlsbad Auxiliary Army Airfield. The Navy then took over the project, but killed it early in 1944 because it was not expected to be available before the end of the war, and the money would be more useful expended on a more promising enterprise called the MANHATTAN  Project.41 Despite CWS e