o questions. The first, asked by a professor during a graduate seminar at Stanford, focused on the precedents leading to the decision to drop the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and on why discussions about the new weapon’s employment dealt with how to use it, not whether to do so. The second, posed by a West Point cadet try- ing to understand the ethical restrictions on his actions in war, asked to what extent moral considerations and other limitations on combat can really be effective in a high-stakes, high-intensity conflict in a heavily populated area like Western Europe. In response to the first question, I believe that I have presented in this book many of the lures that drew American leaders and airmen down the path to total war in World War II, as well as away from the letter, if not the spirit, of precision doctrine. At the same time, I have also described how some leaders, for a variety of reasons, did slow the rush to unlimited aerial warfare. I hope that the material in this volume will provide future civilian and military leaders with some motivations and ideas about how to limit the slide toward total war in future conflicts. As with any project that takes as long as this one, there are many people to acknowledge for their help and support. Three deserve my special thanks for the original book. Without the patience and guidance of Dr. Barton Bernstein at Stanford University, this work would have never been started or completed. Lieutenant Colonel Charles F. Brower IV at the United States Military Academy provided me with leadership and inspiration to do re- search and continue work. In a demanding assignment at Fort Bliss, Texas, I was guided by Lieutenant Colonel Michael Putnam, who showed me how to manage my time more efficiently and encouraged me to finish the project; he also furnished me with insightful critiques of my work. Numerous others deserve mention. Colonel Robert Doughty and the sol- dier-scholars of the History Department at USMA provided a ric