project was quite critical; the “Weary Willies” were a failure as a strategic weapon. They were ineffective against heavily defended targets and severely hindered by adverse weather, and the few allotted radio frequencies limited the number of “Willie Mother” and “Baby” aircraft that could go on a mission. The report concluded that if the weapon was to be used in Europe, “it should be used as a tactical rather than a strategic weapon with its launching base well forward.” In  November 1944 the Ninth Air Force had begun to test this concept in Project WIL- LIE ORPHAN . During this operation, the aircraft was to be flown to within thirty-five to fifty miles of the front lines, where the pilot would bail out and a ground-control station would then guide the robot onto its target. Encouraged by preliminary tests against area targets at Eglin Field, Arnold sent personnel to Europe in mid-November to support this phase of testing. Despite advice to the contrary, Spaatz accepted the project, telling Arnold that he envisioned the use of the Weary Willies “against fortified German cities or other suitable area targets” that would supplement the tactical air forces’ ground-support effort.14 However, the commander of the Ninth Air Force viewed things differ- ently. Shortly after Spaatz took the project, Lieutenant General Hoyt Van- denberg notified him that the weapon was “not sufficiently accurate when controlled from the ground to be effectively employed against normal preci- sion tactical targets.” He maintained that his unit could not afford to waste time with a weapon “still under development” and requested that the Eighth Air Force fly some airplane-guided missions to learn if that was a more accu- rate technique. Some ground commanders also had misgivings, fearing that there was more danger to friendly troops along the worn-out aircraft’s flight path than to any enemy in the target area. In December General Eisenhower told Arnold that he would give WILLIE  ORPHAN  a lim