ent against the Rothensee oil refinery at Mag- deburg. Thirty-three aircraft were launched, and twenty-nine bombed the last-resort target of the marshaling yard there after the lead plane’s bomb- sight froze up on the bomb run. Again, results were unobserved through thick overcast. Terrible weather canceled all missions for the next ten days, except for repeat attempts at Magdeburg on the 6th and 9th. In both cases the refinery was obscured and the marshaling yards were hit instead. Despite  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 70 --- 52  CHAPTER  THREE beautiful weather in England on the 14th, the fourth attempt to pummel Rothensee that month ended up with the same scenario. Not willing to give up yet, a fifth mission was scheduled the next day, with orders to bomb the re- finery no matter the conditions. Thirty of thirty-one group B-24s dispatched bombed it with H2X through overcast, though one trailing squadron, which had its lead H2X equipment malfunction, had to drop on the basis of smoke markers from the lead squadron. Results, again, were unobserved. The mission on the 16th to attack the oil refinery at Salzbergen as the primary target or the Rheine marshaling yard as the secondary target was a debacle. Probably because of distance, the bombers could not pick up the range blip on Gee-H for the primary target and had insufficient time to make an H2X run on the secondary target. All thirty-two planes had to land on the continent but later returned to Shipdham. Once they were reassem- bled, thirty-four were sent to hit the armament factory at Nuremburg on the 20th, but they were all recalled because of adverse weather. The rest of the month went better. On the 21st, thirty-two group B-24s led the Second Bombardment Division in a successful H2X attack on the mar- shaling yard at Nuremburg. In support of Operation CLARION  on the 22nd, twenty-nine of thirty-two group aircraft dispatched attacked their secondary target of the Gottingen marshaling yard, after ground h