g at- tacks on “towns and cities large enough to produce an identifiable return on the H2X scope” because they generally contained appropriate military targets. This move was a departure from USSTAF’s record on avoiding indis- criminate bombardment. Spaatz and Doolittle were not pleased with their options, but they agreed that pressure had to be maintained on Germany through winter weather, and they wanted to comply with Marshall’s intent to end the war as soon as possible.22 During this period, the USSTAF staff was also working on other operations to end the war with a blow from the air that involved yet more compromise of precision doctrine. These plans will be discussed later. RESULTS  OF RADAR  BOMBING Approximately 80 percent of Eighth Air Force missions during the last quar- ter of 1944 used some type of radar bombing devices, either for navigation or targeting. Although winter raids did prevent sectors of German industry  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 129 --- BOMBING  AIDS   111 and the Luftwaffe from getting any respite, accuracy was disappointing. An- alysts estimated that about 50 percent of blind missions were “near failures or worse.” The Eighth Air Force Operations Analysis Section estimated that bombing under good visual conditions was six times more accurate than with GEE or with a beacon combination with H2X called Micro-H or Gee-H and 150 times more accurate than with H2X through complete overcast. Poor results stemmed from false returns from cloud static, increased crew fatigue from adverse weather conditions, and the difficulty of briefing ra- dar missions.23 The USSTAF staff was also concerned with the difficulty of getting any poststrike photo reconnaissance of targets after attacks because cameras, unlike radar, could not see through overcast; without good pic- tures, the value of attacks could not be assessed. Major General F. L. Ander- son proposed using smaller formations or single aircraft, but there were too few trained crews and rada