en briefed on the Malmedy massacre, Roosevelt said, “Well, it will only serve to make our troops feel towards the Germans as they already have learned to feel about the Japs.” Airmen, however, again reflected the attitudes of society. Public hatred was directed at Hitler and Mussolini rather than at their subjects, but it was aimed against the Japanese people as well as the emperor. Ground troops echoed public opinion too; officers and enlisted men in all theaters expressed considerably more vindictiveness toward Japanese citizens. AAF feelings toward the Germans were more a product of the home front than a result of the aloofness of technicians. Such attitudes were reinforced by re- spect for enemy soldiers who seemed to be fighting hard but cleanly and who treated AAF prisoners of war rather well, in accordance with the Geneva and Hague conventions.31 LEADERS ’ PERCEPTIONS  OF AIRMEN AAF leaders realized that the attitudes of their airmen reflected those of so- ciety, but they perceived the public as abhorrent to any indiscriminate bom- bardment and supportive of precision doctrine. As with AAF press releases, official AAF publications proclaimed a commitment to precision bombing and also demonstrated its effectiveness. Probably the best source to illustrate the perceptions of their soldiers that AAF leaders in Washington held and to cover the course of the airman’s war from combat photography is Impact magazine. Assistant Secretary of War Lovett saw the publication as a way to keep units informed of current developments, and General Arnold en-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 116 --- 98  CHAPTER  FIVE dorsed it as a means to spread “knowledge of the technique and accomplish- ments of your fellow members of the AAF” and to provide “information of the enemies you are fighting.” Arnold thought that photographs were the easiest form of information to absorb, and hence his emphasis on combat photography for newsreels and for filling 90 percent of Impact. With the a