fied civil- ian casualties. In addition, all Japanese were perceived as manufacturing for the war effort, often in their homes. LeMay defended burning Tokyo: We were going after military targets. No point in slaughtering civilians for the mere sake of slaughter. Of course, there is a pretty thin veneer in Japan, but the veneer was there. It was their system of dispersal of indus- try. All you had to do was visit one of those targets after we’d roasted it, and see the ruins of a multitude of tiny houses, with a drill press sticking up through the wreckage of every home. The entire population got into the act and worked to make those airplanes or munitions of war . . . men, women, children. We knew we were going to kill a lot of women and kids when we burned that town. Had to be done.37 LeMay also emphasized that, whenever possible before later incendiary raids, populations were notified to evacuate. As with Doolittle’s warnings to Czech workers, aircrews did not like such tactics, fearing defenders would be likewise forewarned and therefore forearmed.38 LeMay’s intent was to capi-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 195 --- TORCHING  JAPAN   1 7 7 talize on the fear generated by his firebombing to disrupt industry and the social infrastructure without killing everyone. Refugees clogged the roads and caused the Japanese government immense relocation problems. The leaflet design was carefully chosen. “Objectionable” pictures that demeaned the Japanese were rejected by the AAF; instead, their leaflet depicted a B-29 dropping incendiaries with the names of eleven cities printed around the plane. The text emphasized that air attacks were aimed only at military instal- lations, “to destroy all the tools of the military clique which they are using to prolong this useless war. . . . But, unfortunately, bombs have no eyes. So, in accordance with America’s well-known humanitarian principles, the Amer- ican Air Force, which does not wish to injure innocent people, now gives you