until they visited conquered enemy cities. When LeMay landed in Yokohama to help arrange the final surrender, he was amazed at the “unpopulated wilderness” his bombers had created. He was proud of his accomplishments; in contrast, Stimson, after seeing the destruction of Berlin, had written, “I felt as though I had done a distasteful duty.” Other observers with similar misgivings about the bombing of German cities had their doubts dispelled by the revelations of the barba- rism in the concentration camps. USSTAF historian Bruce Hopper noted after visiting Buchenwald in April, “Stench everywhere: piles of human bone remnants at the furnace. Here is the antidote for qualms about strategic bombing.”5 ANALYZING  RESULTS  OF STRATEGIC  BOMBING Hopper was on a jeep trip with Anderson when he saw Buchenwald, col- lecting data for a book on USSTAF operations against Germany. He never published the manuscript. Disillusioned and frustrated by the lack of cooper- ation from airmen, he found he was considered a “nuisance,” and he himself felt he had no role or function. His experience seems indicative of a general mistrust of historians by the image-conscious Air Force. Unlike the ground forces, the AAF had no real combat historians. Teams directed by Colonel S. L. A. Marshall conducted interviews and examined documents for the Army as its units came out of action; officers and especially the enlisted mil-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 207 --- STRATEGIC  AIRPOWER  IN LIMITED  WARS   1 8 9 itary personnel who were historians had an advantage over civilians in deal- ing with troops. However, the Army also accepted the historians’ role more readily than did the AAF, apparent if one compares the massive “Green Book” series on World War II supported by the Department of the Army’s Office of Military History with the seven-volume AAF history, designed more to assist the AAF in justifying independence. Moreover, the historians involved in AAF work admitted that they did not have