t make the world realize that going to war will always have significant costs on both sides. If enemies prolong conflicts, those costs will only rise, especially for states. As one journalist wrote after concluding that the attacks on Yugoslav civilians in 1999 were the key to ending the Kosovo conflict, in a restatement of the airpower ethic that would have been recognized by Giulio Douhet, “That may produce an uncomfortable lesson for the politicians who call the shots during the next war: the most merciful way to conduct a war may be to end it swiftly and violently.”14 Hap Arnold’s dynamic vision to develop and publicize AAF capabilities has molded an unmatched air service that inspires unrealistic expectations for what American airpower can do. The hardest task for future military leaders working with their civilian political bosses will not be to explain all the great things their aircraft can accomplish but instead to honestly admit what they cannot.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 235 --- 217APPENDIX: SUGGESTED REPLY TO LETTERS QUESTIONING HUMANITARIAN ASPECTS OF AIR FORCE The most fundamental difference between beast and man is in the fact that the beast is a realist, taking life at its face value, while man attempts by his emotions to camouflage, and thereby to make more bearable, unpleasant prospects which he faces. War, no matter how glorious the cause, is horrible by every civilized stan- dard. Clothing it in shining armor does not hide the blood and suffering except from him who would be blind; neither does changing the vehicle of destruction alter the fact that death and destruction form the inevitable body and face of war. By drawing aside the curtain, we see air warfare as being different only in the range of its potential destruction. The air gives uncurbed bestial instincts a wider field of expression, leaving only humanity and common sense to dictate limitations. Law cannot limit what physics makes possible. We can depend for moderation only u