s General Arnold. While Spaatz was trying to reshuffle priorities, the AAF chief was telling his staff at the Potsdam Conference, “The war with Japan is over as far as creative work is concerned. The die is cast. There is very little we can do other than see the planes and personnel with supplies get over there.” Arnold passed out books of photographs showing the destruc- tion of Japanese cities, and when Stalin proposed a toast to a meeting in To- kyo, Arnold boasted, “If our B-29s continue their present tempo there [will] be nothing left of Tokyo in which to have a meeting.” His attitude was well received by those assembled. Hatred for the Japanese was evident, typified by Lord Mountbatten’s remarks that the Japanese royal family were “morons” and should be liquidated. Arnold was optimistic about his air forces’ ability to end the war, betting Portal that it would be over “nearer Christmas 1945 than Valentine’s Day 1946.”55 Arnold would win his bet handily. When Spaatz arrived in the Pacific, an examination of the situation convinced him “that unless Japan desires to commit national suicide, they should quit immediately.” The dropping of the atomic bombs helped bring some Japanese leaders to the same con- clusion. Appalled by the destruction being wrought on Japan, Spaatz wrote in his diary about the new weapon and the fire raids: “When the atomic  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 202 --- 184  CHAPTER  TEN bomb was first discussed with me in Washington I was not in favor of it just as I have never favored the destruction of cities as such with all inhabitants being killed.” According to the recollections of Spaatz’s family, he had been reluctant to take the USASTAF command because of his revulsion over the destruction dealt German cities and his expectations of a worse fate for the Japanese. Directed to continue bombing until arrangements for surrender were completed, Spaatz canceled one raid because of bad weather and tried to limit other attacks to military ta