anders in Europe to find ways to increase their number of missions. Considering the European weather, especially in fall and winter, an increase meant that methods had to be devised to bomb through overcast.6 RADAR  AIDS  TO BOMBING The problem of overcast was countered primarily by using various forms of radar, either to guide aircraft to targets or to allow bombardiers to see their objectives through the cloud cover. Most of the devices were developed by the British to assist in their night area attacks. Navigational aids came first. GEE appeared in 1941, a system by which a navigator could determine his position by calculating the time it took to receive pulse signals from three different ground stations in Britain. German jamming negated its usefulness by late 1942, and it was replaced by OBOE, a radar pulse sounding like that musical instrument. Variations from course caused recognizable changes in the pulse; a second signal then told the bombardier when to release his bombs. These systems were limited in range, however, because of the curva- ture of the earth.7 For deep-penetration missions, the Americans had to rely on radar scanners that could be carried in their aircraft to present a picture of the ground below. Spaatz and Major General Ira Eaker had begun experiments to circum- vent overcast conditions in late 1942 but became frustrated by limitations in GEE and OBOE. By March 1943 the Eighth Air Force had turned to H2S, “a self-contained radar device transmitting a beam which scanned the ground below and provided a map-like picture of the terrain on its cathode ray tube indicator.” Eaker boasted to the Joint Chiefs of Staff that with these new devices the notorious English weather “would actually become an aid  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 123 --- BOMBING  AIDS   1 0 5 rather than a hindrance” because it would enable Allied bombers to exploit conditions that severely hampered enemy defenses. Much of this enthusiasm was fueled by optimistic reports o