continued to press for more Balkan attacks. The Air Ministry provided tempting intelligence reports describing Bulgarian offers of surrender and intimating that one or two more raids might knock them out of the war. Other reports promised Russian diplomatic pressure and emphasized the assistance to Operation OVERLORD  that would be pro- vided if the Germans had to garrison the Balkans.11 Portal also tried to by- pass the recalcitrant USSTAF headquarters by having the commander in the Mediterranean theater, General Sir Henry Maitland Wilson, give “strategical directions” to the Fifteenth Air Force, a move that brought strong protests from Spaatz, who possessed that authority as commander of USSTAF. Portal apologized to Spaatz and Arnold, but he also strongly urged the AAF com- mander to support more attacks on the Balkans. At this time the JCS was also doubtful whether attacks on Bulgaria would achieve the desired effects. Arnold cabled Spaatz that the CCS had approved attacks on political targets in Southeastern Europe, “when highly important results might be expected and the situation warrants it” but did not tell Spaatz to make them a priority.12 Spaatz continued to clash with Portal over the choice of Balkan targets, repeatedly asking to adjust strategic priorities to emphasize the oil refineries at Ploesti instead of the marshaling yards in cities. The USSTAF staff com- plained bitterly that when the issue was referred to the CCS, they left the de- cision in Portal’s hands. “Accordingly . . . Portal enforced his own” desires.13 Because Spaatz could not ignore Portal completely because of his CCS in-  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 156 --- 138  CHAPTER  EIGHT fluence, the USSTAF commander apparently employed the assistance of the American ambassador to Great Britain. Ambassador John Winant informed the president in April that the attacks being forced on United States air com- mands in the Balkans were militarily unsound, creating ill will against the American