eneral Michael Short, wanted to hit power supplies, communications fa- cilities, and command bunkers in Belgrade on the first night of Operation ALLIED  FORCE , but NATO political leaders would not even approve strikes on occupied barracks, fearing too many dead conscripts. Targeting was mi- cromanaged even more than in Vietnam. Eventually Clark got approval for a wider target array, but he still had to get clearance to attack each objec- tive from any nation participating on the mission. New information systems facilitated an amazingly complex target review and development process, linking operational planners in Germany, Belgium, and the United States with data analysts in England and weapons experts in Italy. Lawyers in Ger- many assessed each target in terms of the Geneva Convention, confirming its military nature and evaluating whether its value outweighed any risks of collateral damage. Clark held daily teleconferences with NATO leaders and finished the process by passing target lists to the JCS and the White House for a final blessing.46 With high expectations for accuracy and much political squeamishness among European allies, inevitable but unanticipated errors such as the bombing of the Chinese embassy and a Yugoslav train eroded support for the air war and put considerable pressure on NATO political and military leaders to achieve results. Even meticulous planning and precision muni- tions could not overcome erroneous maps or prevent that train from run- ning late and right onto the targeted bridge as the bomb arrived. Clark was close to running out of militarily useful and politically acceptable targets when he secured approval for the most important raid of the campaign on 24 May. The destruction of the transformer yards of the Yugoslav power grid disabled everything from the air defense command-and-control network to the country’s banking system. It demonstrated NATO’s strength and dom- inance to the political leaders and the civilian population. Knock