nd to prevent retaliation against American POWs.5 Release of these stories began in late 1943, and they inflamed passions to an even greater degree. The information campaign climaxed in 1944 with the movie The Purple Heart dealing with the fictional- ized trial and execution of captured airmen from the Doolittle raid. As one character, played by Dana Andrews, is led away to his death, he proclaims: It’s true we Americans don’t know very much about you Japanese, and never did—and now I realize you know even less about us. You can kill us—all of us, or part of us. But, if you think that’s going to put the fear of God into the United States of America and stop them from sending other fliers to bomb you, you’re wrong—dead wrong. They’ll blacken your skies and burn down your cities to the ground and make you get down on your knees and beg for mercy. This is your war—you wanted it—you asked for it. And now you’re going to get it—and it won’t be finished until your dirty little empire is wiped off the face of the earth.6 Fanatical, savage fighting characterized war in the Pacific theater. The Japanese military committed numerous atrocities. Japanese soldiers and civilians usually committed hara-kiri rather than surrender and thought it shameful for their enemies to surrender. Americans retaliated when the Japanese mutilated and killed captives; “not since the French and Indian War had American troops been so brutal.” Air commanders such as George Kenney feared that people back at home, including those in the War Depart- ment, were underrating the enemy. He wrote Arnold that the Japanese “na- tional psychology” was “to win or perish”; their soldiers were “undoubtedly a low order of humanity,” but they knew how to fight, and being in the army let each soldier “indulge in his Mongol liking for looting, arson, massacre, and rape.” They could live on almost nothing and were guaranteed a place in paradise for dying in the service of the emperor. Those who thought the Japanese wo