ow had the force to execute the plan. All it needed was a period of good weather.20 Major General Fred Anderson, now deputy commander for operations, persuaded Spaatz to launch ARGUMENT  on 20 February. So-called Big Week actually started on the night of the 19th with an RAF area raid on Leipzig, home of key fighter plants, but the American would do most of the damage.  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 60 --- 42  CHAPTER  THREE A series of daylight attacks featuring over 800 bombers struck designated tar- gets throughout Germany and Austria, supplemented by Bomber Command at night. Losses were heavy: 158 bombers from the Eighth, eighty-nine more from the Fifteenth, and 157 from the British. Forty-two USSTAF fighters went down. About 5,000 airmen were killed or became prisoners of war. The Eighth Air Force lost a fifth of its bomber force during the month of February.21 However, results were significant. Some fighter plants were shut down for weeks. Speer was told that his March fighter production would be reduced by 70 percent. In response to the assault he directed increased dispersion of This target photo of key aircraft plants in Leipzig on 20 February 1944 shows that the Big Week attacks also achieved some excellent bombing results on the ground while luring the Luftwaffe into deadly air battles above. (44th Bomb Group Collection, USAMHI, USAHEC)  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 61 --- FROM  DOCTRINE  TO PRACTICE   4 3 aircraft factories, which saved the industry but lost the efficiencies of mass production and created new vulnerabilities through transportation choke points. By the time production output could be restored, shortages in avi- ation fuel and chaos in the rail system would keep planes undelivered or grounded. For more immediate impact, during the month of February the Luftwaffe lost more than one third of its single-engine fighters and almost a fifth of its pilots.22 Although USSTAF quickly made up its losses in men and matériel, this was not p