ns for bombing the dams was to destroy North Korean food crops and cause a “rice famine,” a tactic that had never been used even in LeMay’s total air war against Japan. FEAF commander Otto P. Weyland resisted such attacks, however, until he was persuaded that destroying the dikes was really a way to wash out key rail lines. Soon enemy countermeasures negated the impact of even those raids. Fears of American war weariness and the frustrations of dealing with a stubborn Asian enemy again contributed to an escalation of bombing operations and expansion of acceptable targets with increased risk to civilians. By the end of the war, most North Koreans were living in hidden villages or caves, and eighteen of their twenty-two major cities had been more than 50 percent obliterated. One of the primary motivations for the contemporary North Korean nuclear and missile programs is to deter the United States from ever doing that to their homeland again. According to the USAF official history, “Whether the Reds yielded because they feared an expanding air war, or whether they quit because of the pounding pressure of air attacks against their forces in North Korea, one thing was certain: airpower was triumphant in the Korean War.”22 While appreciating the contributions of American air forces in the war, few objective observers could make such a positive conclusion after three years of such a bloody and disappointing conflict. Communist concessions at the peace table had more to do with the death of Stalin, riots in Eastern Europe, and war weariness in China than the aerial pummeling of North Korea. USAF doctrine and practice had really not been effective in Korea, including the policies involving nuclear weapons. Perceptions of public opinion and diplomatic reality again worked to limit bombing operations. Although President Truman and his advisers had discussed plans to destroy Russian Far East bases with A-bombs, and despite MacArthur’s suggestions, Truman’s misstatements, and Ei