adron dropping its bombs four miles short because the leader launched his load prematurely as a result of battle damage to his bomb racks. Though bombing results were reported to be excellent, thirty-five B-24s were sent back the next day. Thirty-three successfully dropped their bombs through overcast using Gee-H guidance, but their impact on the bridge was unobserved. Bad weather also affected the 3 January mission against a tactical target of road and rail junc- tions at Landau, as all twenty-three aircraft had to use Gee-H again to bomb through “10/10ths”—that is total overcast—with unobserved results.33 Weather continued to play havoc with the following mission schedule. On 5 January twenty-two aircraft were sent to bomb transportation objectives at Oberstein, but as a result of weather and mechanical failures only eleven dropped their loads, and then in a visual attack on the marshaling yard at the secondary target of Neunkirchen. After a weather scrub, the group returned to Landau on 7 January. Of thirty-three B-24s, four turned back from mechanical failures and one lost the formation in bad weather. The remaining twenty-eight again dropped their bombs using Gee-H through 10/10ths overcast with unobserved results. Twenty-two planes sent to hit the railroad junction at Burg Reuland the next day bombed the same way. The same happened for the next mission, when twenty-three aircraft attacked the marshaling yard at Kaiserslautern on 13 January. All missions so far in  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 68 --- 50  CHAPTER  THREE the month had featured meager flak and few enemy fighters, though Ship- dham had some extra excitement when a damaged Liberator from the 466th Bomb Group crashed there after returning from the 8 January mission. Then objectives got more ambitious as the new targeting directive took effect. On 14 January the 44th dispatched thirty-two bombers to lead their combat wing in an assault on the oil refinery at Hemmingstadt. Two squad- rons had exc