ars: A Moral Argument with Historical Illustrations , Basic Books, New Y ork, 1977.  File: --- maier_city.pdf --- Page 7 --- Volume 87 Number 859 September 2005 435bombing of Japan in 1944–45, American military doctrine did not argue that civilian bombing as such might produce a rapid end to the conflict. The US clung to shrouding large-scale bombing with particular industrial or strategic objectives. Nonetheless, American bombers did participate in the Dresden raids and continued bombing targets until almost the last weeks of the war, when it was clear that they could play little strategic role. In theory, disruption of rail communication could justify almost any attack, but in fact the prevailing emotion seems to have been that no target should remain unspared. The argument was an implicit one of potential resistance. It no longer claimed that civilian morale would collapse. It simply  postulated that the more destruction there was, the sooner the collapse would come. Americans, too, studied how to achieve the felicitous result of firestorms of the kind that ravaged Hamburg. And Americans, of course, pursued an air war on Japan that was directed against cities as targetable units. The US chose weapons — incendiary bombs — designed to start widespread devastation of urban areas, aware that both civilians and artistic monuments must fall victim to this destruction. The issue of efficacy was raised by the famous results of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, whose members — especially John Kenneth Galbraith — argued that bombing had achieved far less of an impact then had been claimed. The report pointed out Germany’s industrial production con-tinued to increase until the autumn of l944, that railroads and even factory buildings were quickly repaired, and that morale was not seriously impaired. The Survey’s minimizing judgments were long accepted and cited by domes-tic opponents of President Johnson’s and Nixon’s resort to heavy bombing of North Vietnam. More