- C. S. Maier – Targeting the city: Debates and silences about the aerial bombing of World War II 434Conference in 1923 contributed Draft Rules for aerial bombardment that would have prohibited the bombardment of civilian populations “not in the immediate neighbourhood (…) of land forces. ” They incurred objections and were never ratified, although clearly on the table as guidelines whose rejection had to be argued for. Neville Chamberlain in 1938 and American air force generals through much of the war seemed to express sympathy with a sense of restraint (although by 1944 American practice seemed as ruthless as that of the British). British advocates of the new weapon, however, did not want to be trammelled. Air Marshall Hugh Trenchard’s championing of the new war aim, and finally Arthur (“Bomber”) Harris’s conviction that precisely the bombing of civilian centres could win the war for Britain prevailed over earlier hesitations. In 1928, Trenchard argued that one might seek to “terrorise munitions workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work” but that the indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terrorizing the civilian population was “illegitimate. ” 6 This distinction proved far too tenuous to retain as a maxim of strategy. Early in the war, the British moved on to define, along Trenchard’s lines, the idea of collateral damage. Bu t collateral damage was the up-to-date version of what the medieval just-war doctrine of Scholasticism had sanctioned as “double effect. ” If despite care to minimize civilian casualties — and such care was necessary to render the procedure acceptable — civilians were still injured or killed in order to secure a legitimate military end (there was no dissent that wiping out enemy industrial capacity was a legitimate objective), this was acceptable within the more general injunction to observe proportionality. 7 Proportionality, it should be stressed, remained a criterion that had to be met to justify both th