te ambiguities as attacks on undefended  urban centres, by whatever means, were not allowed, but naval bombardment of a military target was, even if in the vicinity of the civilian population.4 Moreover, history is replete with examples of civilians being deliberately targeted in war, especially in sieges and times of blockade. Was indiscriminate starvation any better than indiscriminate bombardment? Deep ethical and moral issues emerged from the growth in capability and theory concerning aerial bombardment and industrial war. Attacks on military centres, even if this resulted in “collateral civilian casualties”, were acceptable, but crossing the Rubiconcame when the notion of targeting civilians themselves was developed. During the First World War, bombing strategy, although primarily aimed at military areas, also accepted that inaccurate bombs would hit and kill civilians and this was acceptable because itwould damage enemy morale. Deliberate targeting of civilians declined as a strategy in the 1930s but re-emerged during the Second World War in the RAF once it proved impossible to bomb anything accurately. Although the Allied governments neveradmitted it openly, from early 1942 onwards first the Royal Air Force and then latterly the United States Army Air Force (USAAF) pursued a policy of area bombing. In effect this was a policy of deliberately destroying urban centres and their populationsin an effort to cause disruption and chaos in the enemy state and thus undermine their war effort. This proved to be a less effective way of damaging the enemy state than precision bombing (as undertaken by the USAAF over Europe) but until 1944 itwas the only method with which the RAF , flying at night to keep their losses under control, could achieve anything. The rationale in military terms made sense if it could be proven to be effective. Despite continuing claims to the contrary, strategic bombing in World War II – area bombing included – did make a major contribution to t