ace; Roosevelt was largely content to let it turn. He was neither ignorant nor uninformed, Arnold alerting him, for example, to the first American experiments in firebombing Japanese cities.2 But Roosevelt showed no interest, at least none recorded. Will- ing as he was to consider using the atomic bomb on Japan, he would have found it hard anyway to discern a political or moral issue in the escalation of “conventional” bombing.  The War Department's civilian leadership exercised scarcely more oversight. Stimson, Marshall, and Arnold worked together harmoniously. But by the war’s last year, Stimson was husbanding his energies for a few problems—a crisis he perceived in army manpower, the army’s postwar plans for universal military training, and the development of national policy on atomic weapons. Not until well into 1945 did Stimson begin to link those weapons with the conventional bombing campaign and the development of a final strategy for securing Japan’s defeat. Like Roosevelt, Stimson was informed of progress in incendiary tactics against Japan but displayed no immediate concern with them. Among his civilian subordinates, Robert Lovett was the most engaged in strategic matters, but his responsibilities for production, public relations, and management usually came first.  Beyond the air force itself, it was left to the Combined and Joint Chiefs and to Marshall to monitor aerial operations and fit them into a broader strategy. For various reasons they did so gingerly. In the European war, they at least had a supreme command through which to formulate strategy. But in September 1944, Eisenhower relinquished his authority over the British and American strategic air forces to bomber commanders whose cooperation remained minimal and autonomy substantial. In the war against Japan, the chiefs’ oversight was even less in evidence. Eisenhower owed his command to the heavy responsibility the army bore for operations and the necessity for some coordination of land, sea, an