d a receptive audience in the United States. But the rise of American air power is the key to the modern dilemma.  Ialso concentrate on what Americans have expected of and learned from strategic bombing. Their perspectives on the bomber are crucial, for the warplane was created in imagination before it was invented as a practical weapon. The bomber was the product of extravagant dreams and dark forebodings about the role it might play in war and peace. Moreover, because the airplane had numerous peacetime uses, many of them stimulating grand hopes in their own right, it often developed without much attention to its possible role in war. Peaceful uses so meshed with military applications that each often evolved under the cover of the other, in ways familiar from the later evolution of nuclear and space technology. Thus, an understanding of American air power and of the problem of aerial warfare can be achieved only in the context of cultural and intellectual history. The ways people have thought about air power proved so remarkably consistent, despite rapidly changing technology over a half-century, that a mere recital of a particular invention or an individual bombing raid sheds little light on the appeals and uses of air power. The bomber in imagination is the most compelling and revealing story.  A history of American air power might be written from other perspectives—tactics, technologies, organizations, and campaigns—some of which are already well developed by other writers. After all, ideas about air power did not evolve wholly apart from tangible developments. Practical limitations imposed sharp restraints on the translation of ideas into action, often more so than statesmen or warriors initially realized. Because that was so, my account necessarily becomes lengthier and more complex once it reaches World War II; the simplicity of war possible in imagination diminished in execution. The interplay of ideas and actions, theory and technology, dreams and deeds co