iled agenda of retribution, as if Hiroshima were the moral equivalent of Japanese misdeeds: “The Japanese began the war from the air at Pearl Harbor. They have been repaid many-fold.” As if to drive that point home, on the ninth Truman reminded a radio audience that the Japanese “have starved and beaten and executed American prisoners of war” and “abandoned all pretense of obeying international laws of warfare.”133  Finally, there was one more statement of the tortured distinctions about target selection that had filled the war years. “We are now prepared to obliterate more rapidly and completely every  Page 345 of 368 79%  ae RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF PARMAGEDDON  ven ww  Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which Stimson received in great detail, must have at last undercut his illusions about the. air force’s targeting. On the eighth, he noted how Truman ‘ “mentioned the terrible responsibility that such destruction placed upon us here,” and his statements to the press on the bomb, in contrast to the prideful style of the president, stressed that “any satisfaction we may feel must be overshadowed by deeper emotions. The result of the bomb is so terrific that the responsibility of its possession and its use must weigh heavily on our minds and on our hearts.”122  Looking forward instead of backward, Stimson betrayed his change of mood only indirectly, first as he tried to clear away the remaining obstacles to the war’s quick termination. On the eighth he told Truman, “ ‘When you punish your dog you don’t keep souring on him all day after the punishment is over; if you want to keep his affection, punishment takes care of itself.” The Japanese “area smiling people and we have to get on those terms with them.” The comment was flavored with Stimson’s genteel, unselfconscious racism, and ostensibly it related to Japan’s treatment after surrender. But it was also a far cry from the boxing metaphor he used to describe his justification in July for the bomb’s use, impl