he Siberian arrangement were even more daunting. The Soviet Union, already in a death struggle with Germany, hardly wanted to provoke war with Japan by allowing American use of Russian bases. Still, Japan might solve that problem simply by attacking the Soviet Union. In July, air strategists were already noting how Japan “would be impressed” if the B-17s being sent to the Far East followed a route through Siberia, then “along the edge of Japan,” and on to Manila, laying bare the vulnerability of “vital Japanese industrial establishments.” Tenuous, even devious  Page 108 of 368 25%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  of sending it was unquestioned, Marshall himself asking his key AAF aide about what information the Philippines were receiving on “what General Mac-Arthur would attack in Japan . . . if war were declared December 1, 1941” and directing studies of “an air offensive against the Japanese empire.”°2 As far back as September 12, Marshall had informed Stark that the new B-24s “can reach Osaka with a full load and Tokyo with a partial load.” Stimson too knew of the developing hopes for a capacity to bomb Japan itself.23 Staff planning documents at a variety of levels made frequent references to how Japan would “be open to aerial attack by U. S.” and its cities would be “a lucrative target for bombardment aviation.” Both economic and civilian targets were repeatedly identified. Granted, the full extent to which MacArthur and his staff had been briefed to undertake raids against Japan is unclear, and the whole effort had a quality of desperate improvisation.% But the ideas Marshall expressed on November 15, well documented also for the several weeks preceding and following it, were neither caprice nor simply bluff. As Marshall told an aide on November 1, “a strong stand meant nothing unless an actual action followed in case of necessity.”25  Mystery about Marshall's intentions persists, however. For one thing, American bombers were not re