to find that you are not.” For Commonweal Christopher Hollis gave these messages perversely humorous expression. Reporting from England that “aerial warfare is a very mild inconvenience,” he found a measure of democratic justice in the fact it was no longer just soldiers who “have the unpleasantness of being killed” in war. Like Murrow, but far more pointedly, Hollis recognized the compensations of being bombed. Germany’s “gigantic psychological blunder” had served to “destroy the last vestiges of that in which lay the Germans’ major hope—a defeatist mentality and a readiness to compromise with Hitler.” What finally impressed Hollis “much more about the blitzkreig than its inhumanity is its complete futility.” Air power, as an independent weapon, was it- self “a futility.”42  Few writers ruled out the recurrence of air war on cities, but most agreed that the blitz reinforced previous lessons about the indecisiveness of such bombing. Air power retained the appeal of employing “a greater proportion of machinery to men than any other weapon of warfare,” but its importance seemed to lie more in its “tactical influence upon land and sea warfare,” as Life commented. As a strategic weapon, its methods would be selective, not indiscriminate. Life reported in August 1941 its satisfaction that new British bombing of Germany “was enough to lift the hearts of all the free peoples” and welcomed the news that the British now “were dishing it out” as well as taking it. But like American air strategists, popular commentators failed to reckon with this ominous devel- opment in the bomber’s use to achieve psychological satisfaction rather than military victory, or simply glossed over the critical issue of what targets an ally’s bombers might seek.52  In several years of observing air war, Americans who paid attention to it had moved from imagination to reality in a piecemeal, gradual fashion. The slow, erratic nature of that war’s escalation, plus its indecisiveness, fostered accepta