ke submarines and poison gas, two other weapons deemed capable of the decisive breakthrough—had the moral utility only of democratizing those horrors still further.  Observers until 1917, Americans brought little new insight to these matters. Determined to keep at arm’s length from their allies, they still followed strategic doctrines established by the Fochs and Trenchards more often than they realized. Upon entering the war, most Americans had few firm views on the morality and strategy of employing the air weapon other than a general revulsion at its more ruthless uses, deep faith in America’s productive capacity, and a vague hope that “clouds of planes” traveling the “million roads to Berlin” might yield a quick and inexpensive victory. Headlines like “GREATEST OF ALL AERIAL FLEETS TO CRUSH THE TEUTONS” expressed a confidence in air power uncluttered by concern about moral, strategic, and logistical obstacles.3° Moreover, Americans were too remote from the danger of air war, too late to develop a capacity for bombing, and too muddled in their lines of authority to permit argument about bombing to be fully joined.  Some American proponents of air power did promise quick release from the stalemate of war: “The land may be trenched and mined; guns and bayonets form an impossible barrier. The sea may be mined and netted and the submarine lurks in its depths. But the highways of the air are free lanes, unconquered as yet by any nation. America’s great opportunity lies before her. The road to Berlin lies through the air. The eagle must end this war.” Every day’s delay in building planes “means three or four thousand more Americans that will not come back at all, or will come back crippled and of no use at all.” “By no other means” except air power, the New York Times argued, “can we so quickly or so surely render valuable aid to our allies. ... Airplanes can be rapidly built. ... Money is all that is lacking.” This apparently naive American faith in air power was shar