d a Wellsian reality.  It also raised a moral issue, although in a war that blunted sensibilities not even the bombing of cities could stir an extended moral debate. Outrage at what the enemy did predictably overwhelmed self-doubt. To some observers, the very nature of modern war made moral questions irrelevant. “The Germans had a perfect right to bomb London,” one peer instructed the House of Lords, reminding them that as countries became arsenals of war, notions of undefended places and distinctions between civilian and military activities broke down. English clergymen protested that reprisal bombing “would permanently lower the standard of honourable conduct between nation and nation” and damage England’s special role as “a trustee of international morality in war-time.” But by 1917, when these strictures were issued, “honourable conduct” seemed a hollow standard indeed.32  Hopes for a sterner code to guide judgment on bombing were faint. They rested on the prudence and apology with which bombing and reprisal were sometimes defended, on the embarrassed avoidance and heated denials of the clergy’s concerns, or on rationalizations which betrayed troubled consciences. Passing bows to legal and moral standards at least meant that they were still impli- cit elements in the moral calculations men made. “The lineaments of justice,” Michael Walzer has said, are suggested by “the unchanging character of the lies soldiers and statesmen tell.”33  Soldiers and statesmen often applied a practical test to moral issues. Bethmann-Hollweg begged that Germany avoid “irritating the chauvinistic and fanatical instincts of the English nation without cause.” Yet as Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz had already argued, what was indefensible if done “without cause” seemed justified if inflicted with sufficiently majestic force: “Single bombs from flying machines are wrong; they are odious when they hit and kill an old woman. .. . [But] if one could set fire to London in thirty places, then wha