hority had made no decision on the ultimate method of victory, whether by strategic devastation, invasion, or a combination of the two. Nor could they relate their preferred methods to a strategic timetable, for none existed.  Indecision stemmed in part from the one premise about global strategy that had governed since 1941: concentration on Europe first. Even in January 1944, invasion of Japan seemed too remote to compel close attention to what role it would have in victory over Japan. In addition, military leaders preferred, as they had often during the war, to address logistical and technological problems before deciding on strategy, and those problems loomed far larger for the Pacific than for Europe. Shipping over vast ocean distances and over the land hurdles of Asia imposed the most intractable obstacle. When Marshall had commented on the “massive effort here to get a pin point out there,” he described not only a strategic problem but the orientation of staff in Washington. Admirals and generals often worried about getting the forces out there before pondering what to do with them.  Mundane problems tugged hard at Arnold over the winter of 1943-44, especially regarding the B-29. Embodying several technological advances, it was nonetheless rushed into production  Page 164 of 368 38%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON runs around Japanese strongpoints, and, in combination with American submarines, heavy attrition of Japanese shipping. These achievements, it has been noted, “seem hardly to confirm postwar ac- cusations that the Air Force is interested only in strategic bombardment.”4°  It was just as true that much of this activity, involving dispersion of the air force and its subordination to naval and ground commanders, had incurred Arnold’s wrath. Nor did it yet fit into an overarching strategic plan for victory in the Pacific. Even more so than in waging the European war, American and Allied strategists struggled to pin down strateg