EDDON  bombing cities indiscriminately, but this is morally justified, as it is helping to win the war. A year later I said, Unfortunately it seems that our bombing is not really helping to win the war, but at least lam morally justified in working to save the lives of the bomber crews. In the last spring of the war I could no longer find any excuses.  Partly in reaction to the loss of “excuses,” Dyson charted a unique course of fascination with the German enemy that slopped over into admiration. By war’s end, he “began more and more to envy the technicians on the other side who were helping the German night fighter crews to defend their homes and families.” They had “a cause clean to fight for.” Dyson concluded: “A good cause can become bad if we fight it with means that are indiscriminately murderous. A bad cause can become good if enough people fight for it in a spirit of comradeship and self-sacrifice.” Dyson did not seem fully aware of how Britain’s “indiscriminately murderous” methods arose from a war begun “in a spirit of comradeship and self-sacrifice,” or how unclean the German cause was even at war’s end—how many Germans still killed subject peoples rather than defend the homeland, how their leaders could be more blunderingly wasteful of their own men than Bomber Command was with its cannon fodder. In his own peculiar manner, however, Dyson charted the ethical ambiguity which many civilian experts sustained through the war: their difficulty in ascertaining just what made their cause the right one or sometimes even in making the attempt.42  To be sure, unlike Bowles, Perera, and Stearns, men like Dyson, Ball, and Galbraith tried to set an ethical compass by pitting themselves against generals and admirals. They found military bureaucracy stifling and the military mind parochial and self-serving, its methods brutal and wasteful. Yet they recount with such pleasure the various struggles they waged that their claimed distaste for wartime service seems disingen