al preparedness, without which “we will be impotent, even if we have a collection of Galahads in the ranks.” Air power as a strategy did not frighten him, but as a popular fixation it did. The problem “lies with the general public. They are not interested until a crisis arises,” he complained, “and even then the particular matter must have some dramatic appeal, such as the photograph of a line of battleships, or of a squadron of huge bombing planes, or of the tragedy of women and children being bombed in Spain or China.” A photograph of a bombed city “not only creates a profound impression upon every civilian who examines it, but it more or less fixes in his mind a specific remedy—practical or impractical. But there is far more to this business than the bombing of cities—far, far more.”27  As Marshall's remarks indicated, air power remained more potent and vexing as an idea than as an instrument for war. Other leaders shared his concern with the political ramifications of air power in the wake of Munich. Herbert Hoover, staunch foe of Roosevelt’s foreign policy, feared that “the one condition” which could lead Americans into a European war would arise “if wholesale attacks were made upon women and children by deliberate destruction of cities from the air,” although he doubted that any national leaders would undertake such “barbarism.” Even as Hoover spoke, British leaders saw opportunity in the very danger the ex-president had identified. An air attack on London would cause “an explosion of American feeling” that would crush isolationism and bring America in on the British side: “Nothing would be so effective as the bombing of London, translated by air [radio broadcasting, that is] to the homes of America.” Figures as diverse as Churchill, Joseph Kennedy, and Walter Lippmann shared the view (as did the Germans in their own way) that London’s bombing would draw the United States into war, and in June 1939 King George VI, after a talk with Roosevelt, recorded that “if