k een fe 2A oon need ee 2 2 et ee 2 ke A 2 eC ts Aa  Page 37 of 368 9%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  times barely mentioned aviation.  In all likelihood, these setbacks made little difference to military aviation. Henry Harley Arnold, the air force’s commanding general in World War II, later assessed the fate of Mitchell’s early plans by concluding that “military aviation really couldn’t have amounted to very much then, even if everybody had agreed with him.”38 Furthermore, the bitter feud of the twenties contributed to Mitchell’s goals in ways that he could hardly have foreseen by strengthening the cohesiveness and commitment of his fellow army aviators. Beyond that, the image of the contending forces that developed in the 1920s made air power look curiously benign. Airmen were portrayed as the cutting edge of reform and technology and their superiors as the guardians of reaction. Yet the airmen also promised escape from the evils of scientific war as well as retreat to an America that needed no alliance, no League of Nations, no expeditionary army or navy “second to none” to protect itself. In this context, the admirals and generals stood for something modern and reprehensible—the evils of bureaucracy and militarism—in their alliance with private interests, their resort to bureaucratic ma- chinations, their power and facelessness. For the most part, the aviators seemed to exemplify rugged individualism in an era of bureaucratic authority.  Air power derived its appeal by promising to place the glitter of modern technology in service of traditional values, above all the nation’s long-standing distrust of standing armies. American security had never been effortless, and especially since the 1890s prominent Americans such as Theodore Roosevelt, moved by visions of empire abroad and unity at home, had forged a stronger army and navy. Mitchell, however, promised something more comforting. Air power, as he usually described it, would provi