ess.  More sensitive to operational considerations than to grand strategy, air planners in February 1945 worried about the weather. Volatile enough over the winter, it seemed likely to “get progressively worse over the homeland of Japan until midsummer.” Forecasters thus sanctioned a hurry-up effort against Japan’s aircraft industry while some precision attacks remained possible and then a campaign against cities. Further-more, Germany’s collapse seemed likely to coincide with the bad weather campaign, and the effect of its defeat “upon the Japanese people might be significantly if not critically increased by a comprehensive attack on Japan’s major urban industrial areas.”41 Speculation about a strategy of early surrender was rare, however; the staff’s energies focused on ex- panding operations and the economic dislocation they would cause.  With the air force attending to operations and the Joint Chiefs’ deliberations dwindling, it fell to others to peer into the future of Japan’s surrender. At Yalta Churchill had opened a new path by suggesting “mitigation” of the unconditional surrender formula and an ultimatum to call on the Japanese to surrender. Marshall and other military leaders were sympathetic to modification of the formula, particularly on the question of the emperor’s fate, but met resistance from State’s representatives and apparently had no sanction from Roosevelt to pursue Churchill's idea. Progress in thrash- ing out a formula would not resume until April.  Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson entered the scene in February, and his meetings with State’s Grew (acting secretary for Stettinius) and the navy’s James Forrestal provided another stage on which the scene could be acted out. Yet through February and March they dwelt on issues at the fringes of surrender policy—Philippine independence, the economic rehabilitation of Japan after the war, the fate of Japan’s mandated islands—but not surrender itself. On February 20, the newly re-turned Admiral Will