m, and the long- range issues it raised regarding nuclear policy, did diminish attention to the bomb’s use in the context of war against Japan. It became hard to ask what would secure Japan’s capitulation without drawing in so many other matters that the immediate question became lost. The pursuit of victory, though often seen as the dominating concern of Americans in wartime, was sometimes crowded out by other anxieties.  Such a claim seems to fly in the face of evidence offered by high officials about the gravity with which they viewed the attainment of victory over Japan. Stimson later testified eloquently to the decisive role the pursuit of victory played in motivating his acceptance of the bomb’s use. Similarly, Truman later wrote that as of May, “the thought now uppermost in my mind was how soon we could wind up the war in the Pacific.” Yet a critical distinction must be made between what was uppermost as a goal and what was paramount as a concern. Neither Stimson nor Truman gave the attainment of victory urgent attention, for victory was assured. Instead, they filled their days with the lengthy and fractious dilemmas arising in Soviet-American relations. Not until May 16, in fact, did Truman even attempt to learn what the military’s plans were for securing victory. Only in June did he and Stimson begin thinking seriously about how to speed victory. As for the bomb in the context of the war with Japan, Truman, as he knew, had inherited such a weighty legacy assuming its use that for him to question it would have required exceptional intellectual and political courage.122  Military officers, however, were not so complacent about victory, especially in the army, facing as it was a possible invasion. Their job was to win the current war, to which in many ways they devoted themselves with more energy and insight than their civilian superiors, particularly in assessing the possibilities for peace opened by establishment of the “moderate” Suzuki cabinet. Intelligenc