tude of Japanese successes muted talk of a quick victory through air power. But in Manila and Washington and in London as well the hope arose that, as Churchill put it, “the burning of Jap- anese cities by incendiary bombs” would “bring home” to the Japanese people the foolishness of their course or at least compel Tokyo to return home some of the forces spearheading its advance.  Of course the effort to enlist Moscow failed. Litvinov rebuffed Hull’s overtures, adding his sensible doubts about the utility of bombing cities. Washington and London hesitated to press Stalin too hard into action against Japan that might jeopardize Allied fortunes in the struggle against Hitler. Meanwhile, the British preferred an Allied twist on the Pearl Harbor attack by having carriers “steal up” on Japan and “ravage their cities.” Washington also once again eyed China as a base for bombers attacking Japan, a prospect as hopeless as the Siberian scheme. According to General Arnold, the Army Air Forces’ commanding general, “The theme song must be ‘How can we bomb Japan from China.” For the moment, it was not to be. The handful of bombers assembled for that task in the spring was diverted to the Middle East; only the token Doolittle raid would be carried out, and that not until April.1  These schemes to bomb Japan nonetheless revealed underlying continuities in the Anglo-American approach to air war, showing something easily forgotten, perhaps even hard to detect at the time: the enemy’s sudden attack produced no quick reorientation of American ideas about the use of air power. The first impulse was to resurrect schemes concocted under different circumstances. As in many other matters, so too in the use of air power: Pearl Harbor was not the watershed it came to seem.  A decisive change in American thinking about strategic bombing did occur during World War II. Before their entry into the war, Americans who supported air power generally saw it as capable of rapidly intimidating or defea