n in [my] arsenal.” The Enola Gay’s commander, Paul Tibbets, was quoted about what he witnessed, often to vivid effect, but he also pointed out that his bomber “was not shaken as much by the [atomic] blast as it would have been by thermal updrafts fron an incendiary attack on a Japanese city at low level.” Headlines provided another gauge to the media's difficulty in separating the new from the familiar. In the New York Times’s August 7 edition, the new bomb had sole billing, but the next day it had to share space with other war news headlined “CARRIER PLANES STRIKE NEAR CHINA COAST” and with reports of an especially devastating fire raid on Yawata.135  As throughout the air war, the media also had trouble translating bombing into vivid words and images. The atomic clouds over Hiroshima and Nagasaki made an awesome sight in photographs but obscured what happened on the ground. High-altitude before-and-after photographs were impressive documents to the acreage destroyed, but abstract and similar to earlier images of firebombed cities. The best clue to what happened in Japan came from eyewitness accounts quickly published about the Trinity test—vivid descriptions, but not about a city. Meanwhile, Japanese news-papers and broadcasts reported the destruction in no uncertain terms, but so laced their stories with charges of war crimes that it was easy for the American media, as it had done earlier during the war, to characterize the enemy as “trying to establish a propaganda point.”12°  Of course it was not possible to misunderstand for long what atomic bombs did, as John Hersey’s account for the New Yorker showed. Still, even in succeeding months, various difficulties in grasping what had happened in Japan maintained a continuity with the earlier air war. Government officials suppressed information, resorted to euphemisms, or selectively released the truth about the atomic attacks, as they had done earlier with firebombing. Even visual testimony, Japanese film confiscat