air war on cities, like Mitchell’s vision of sturdy self-sufficiency, gave Americans the luxury of developing the bomber in the reassuring context of continental defense.17  PROPHECY AND POLITICS  The controversy over Mitchell’s ideas merged seamlessly into a more immediate political debate, in the United States and among all the major powers, over disarmament and military budgets. Naval armaments bore the burden of that debate. But despite its slow progress, military aviation also played an inescapable role. Given the war’s legacy and the ideas expounded by prophets of air power, few leaders could escape the bomber’s darkening shadow, much less broader pressures from exhausted populaces to limit the burden of armaments. In England, the nation most vulnerable to air attack, expansion of the RAF was held back lest it undermine international efforts at arms control. But even in the United States, lingering hope for international cooperation, widespread desire to limit gov- ernment spending, and fear of the political gains opponents might score on the disarmament issue forced a return to the conference table.  From Versailles to the eve of World War II, various leaders strove for limitations on air war with a vigor matched only by their pessimism about the odds of reaching and enforcing agreements. Quantitative restrictions on the size of air forces, qualitative ones on the most threatening kinds of aircraft, proscriptive ones against various kinds of bombing, plus visionary schemes to create an international air force—all taxed the patience and ingenuity of diplomats. The bomber, one nation’s means of defense, was another’s way to attack. Eager to ban the bomber from Europe, England still wanted it to police the empire. The technical obstacles to inspection and enforcement were vexatious, above all because it was too easy to convert airliners to bombers—agreement to limit naval arms faced no similar barrier. Of course, banning civilian aviation was impossible, while p