esirable. Still, it might be shortened, humanized, or confined to inferior peoples for whom it served as an agent of progress. If so, Europeans could still, in Clarke’s words, “have their wars and enjoy them.”!2  War itself was not unthinkable, only endless and meaningless war. Far from ignoring new weapons, the prewar generation often exaggerated their destructiveness in order to assert their power to compel peace. Sentiments seemingly opposed to each other—hope for peace and fear of modern weapons—coexisted comfortably because this generation found hope in their very terror. It displayed a morbid fascination with them only to wish them away. But it did serve notice of their imminence.  The times seemed to bear witness to that trust. A century of technological progress had also seen relative peace in Europe. The brevity and decisiveness of most wars that did occur seemed only to validate the claim that scientific advancement and economic interdependence were making protracted war impractical or unthinkable. Not even Americans realized that their Civil War prefigured the enormous increases in defensive firepower and economic resources which would make battle more costly and less conclusive. When so many other social problems seemed conquerable by science, it made sense to think that science might also diminish the evil of war.  Behind such reasoning lay a deeper faith in the capacity of men and women to make rational decisions about their fate. On the eve of World War I, Norman Angell’s The Great Illusion, the most famous expression of that faith, argued that economic interdependence among progressive nations made war senseless. War might happen, he said, but it would do nobody any good if it did, for it would sever the connections of credit and commerce on which all depended. Read as a prediction of what harm war might bring, The Great Illusion was reasonable prophecy; but as a prediction of man’s new rationality, it missed the mark in a way that expressed its time