ually is the most humane? The millions of widows, orphans, and maimed from the World War could give the most convincing answers.” A leading proponent of precision bombing argued that “a determined air armada ... may actually prove to be a more convincing argument against war than all the Hague and Geneva Conventions put together.” If ethical arguments were neither profound nor sustained, they were unavoidable. Scenarios of quick victory simply implied a moral justification that needed little explicit statement.2° As in World War I, morality and utility remained discrete but closely related categories in debate about air war. Moral means were not necessarily useful, and useful means were not necessarily  Page 55 of 368 13%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Their task was to prepare to wage and win wars, not to formulate schemes to prevent them. Deterrence and coercion were the responsibility of the highest reaches of the War Department and the White  House, charmed circles closed to airmen. Airmen did not overlook the obstacles to precision bombing because they imagined a subtle deterrent role for their bombers.18  The limitations of American thinking about precision bombing indicate what a short distance its proponents had traveled from Douhet, Liddell Hart, and Mitchell writing in the 1920s. In particular, the path Wells had taken twenty years earlier in exploring the psychology of air war remained largely unexplored. From one perspective, the new doctrine appeared more refined and humane in its focus on select economic targets rather than on the lives and homes of civilians and their leaders. Yet it did not clearly substitute economy for morale as an objective but rather saw economic targets as a more effective point of attack on the enemy’s nerves. Dislocation of the economy superseded dismemberment of the society but with the same end in view, the destruction of the will to fight.  The similarity in objectives was important. Later, in W