ce. Regarding the great powers, he asked whether they  will foreswear war itself because an “atomic” war would probably mean the mutual ruin of all contestants? The same reasons were advanced before World War I to demonstrate its “impossibility”; also before World War II. The devastation of these wars was as terrible as had been predicted—yet they took place. Like all the great advances in technology of the past century, Atomic Fission is something in which Good and Evil are so closely intertwined that it is hard to see how the Good can be extracted and the Evil thrown away. . .. This atom has never been split, and perhaps never will be.147  MacDonald's point was hard to grasp in 1945, for the good of the atomic bomb seemed blindingly apparent and the evil remote, if fearsome. The bomb, it appeared, had ended an awful war and in so doing realized a half-century’s fantasy about transcending and erasing the horrors of conventional warfare.  To be sure, such a view of the bomb’s decisive power did not immediately crystallize. To take that crude index of perceptions, the headlines, the story of the atomic bomb competed not only with news of triumph by more conventional weaponry, but with word of the Soviet declaration of war. In Japan, too, the bomb story stood alongside “banner headlines that the Soviet Union had de- clared war on Japan.”148  The headlines reflected realities soon easily forgotten: contemporaries attached great importance to Soviet entry into the war, and that entry played a major role in Japan’s surrender. For all the complex and loaded arguments about the relative importance of the bomb and of Russian entry in compelling Japan’s capitulation, it was probably their cumulative and mutual impact that made them decisive. At that, their decisiveness was limited. It was supplemented by lesser forms of air power; thousands of planes over Japan produced “the most impressive and nerve-wracking demonstration of the whole war.” Moreover, none of the events of A