g is to cripple the enemy’s war potential and soften up his defenses against invasion.” “As the Germans long ago dis- covered,” reported the Kansas City Star, “final victories are never gained by terrorizing civilians.” Press coverage adopted just the tone the AAF wanted.12  Nonetheless, Arnold was worried, not only about the slow progress of the Twentieth Air Force, but about the air war against Germany. Spaatz’s devastating campaign against the German petroleum industry—assisted by Allied intelligence that was finally on the mark—was gradually paralyzing the enemy’s movement in the air and on the ground. In other ways, however, Allied bombing still seemed adrift among conflicting visions of the road to victory. Renewed attention was given Germany’s aircraft industry, whose new jets helped provoke a mood just short of panic among Allied strategists (Spaatz even worried about a German death ray). An ill-chosen attempt to knock out German vehicle production further delayed Spaatz’s oil campaign. As always, Harris was inclined to plaster cities. By the fall, Allied air forces were also sliding into a campaign against the German railway system, so dense and blessed with reserve capacity that attacks on it were slow to show results. In addition to all these efforts, the heavy bombers repeatedly laid carpets of bombs in front of advancing Allied ground forces—destroying many occupied and enemy towns, to the consternation of some air commanders. In January, in the wake of the Nazis’ Ardennes counteroffensive, some three-fourths of the American strategic bomber effort was in fact not strategic at all, but tactical.  The surprise Ardennes attack was a major setback, making it clear, so Stimson told the president, that the United States could not hope “to break down organized German resistance. . . by constant bombardment.”!2 What saved the bombing campaign from at least the appearance of failure was first of all the sheer weight of effort the Allied air forces now maintaine