s good. Germans are misled, but at least they react like men. But the Japs are like animals. Against them you have to learn a whole new set of physical reactions. You have to get used to their animal stubbornness and tenacity. They take to the jungle as if they had been bred there, and like some beasts you never see them until they are dead.  This was not just a view from the trenches. Arnold thought that “the Germans are smarter, but the Japs are tougher. When a German outfit is cut off, it is usually smart enough to give up—but not the Japanese. We have to bomb and burn and blast them out.””° There was a sense among some Americans that fighting Japan was unfair to them and unworthy of them, that they were deprived of the chance to do battle with “real” soldiers who would offer an honorable standard by which to measure American virtue. The Japanese were repugnant not simply for their misdeeds, but for the humili- ation of having to fight them.  Thus the humiliation of fighting Japan fused with other emotions—racial hatred, anger at American losses and Japanese brutalities, and desire for revenge—to sanction the utmost destruction. The enemy, at once inhuman and dehumanized, deserved a commensurate punishment, a kind that least soiled American hands by actual contact with the enemy.  For the purpose of punishing such a foe in that manner, strategic bombing was the ideal vehicle—savage in consequences but impersonal in method. Through films and other forms of popular culture, and through occasional but frequent statements by their leaders, many Americans had learned and expressed this view of the bomber’s attractiveness. This view only intensified during the war’s last year. The president’s son, Elliott Roosevelt, wanted Japan bombed “until we have destroyed about half the Japanese civilian population.” Paul V. McNutt, chairman of the War Manpower Commission, went on record in April 1945 as favoring “the extermination of the Japanese in toto.” A month earlier, the U.