ded by William the Conqueror, which gave Bacon, Newton and Watt to the world, comes, in something like half an hour, to a close. Finished and done. London, Liverpool, Manchester, Lancashire, Bristol, Birmingham, Leeds—each has had its appointed place on the code of instructions, and each now duly makes its exit from the list of habitable places on the planet. Not even a rat, not even an ant, not even a roach, can survive the entire and thorough lack of habitability. Every power nerve has been cut with explosives; every living thing has ceased to breathe by virtue of diphenyl chlorarsine.  For Chase, this was no passing danger dutifully noted but almost a certainty, from which “I see no possible way out.” The certainty was increased by the impossibility of comprehending it: “The persons capable of imagining the holocaust in advance are so few, and of such slight influence... that the world cannot realize what it now faces until it has faced it in a fait accompli.” Nor would he exempt America from the danger: “Particularly complete would be the termination of New York. With her bridges and tunnels bombed, with her many tall buildings crashing like glorified tenpins, with her super-congestion, citizens would hardly have time to seize their check books before being summoned to the waiting rooms of the recording angel.”  Yet Chase circumscribed the danger even as he magnified it. Like European prophets of air war, he found urban culture too fragile to sustain air war because “technological tenuousness” made it vulnerable to the destruction of a few key elements. He could not locate “the central intelligence to nurse a great city through a nervous breakdown.” For that reason, “there is one good thing certainly to be said about the next war: it will not keep us long on edge. ... The whole business will be over in a couple of hours. With lungs full of diphenyl chlorarsine, we shall not need to worry about anything ever again.” If Chase intended this to be grim humor, it als