ordered the A Bomb dropped on Japan at two places devoted almost exclusively to war production.” Almost nine years later, the phrasing he and Stimson had worked out at Potsdam remained intact.134  Like American officials, the America media tried with indifferent success to measure the novelty of the atomic cataclysms. A continuity between reactions to the nuclear bomb and responses to conventional bombing provided steady undercurrent to the surface waves of astonishment, delight, and horror about the bomb’s revolutionary nature. Even a casual reading of stories on the bomb would have driven home the quantum leap in destructiveness it represented. Yet the terms understandably used to express that leap—the atomic bombs were commonly equated in destructive force to twenty thousand tons of TNT, or the bomb load carried by some two thousand B-29s in a conventional raid—indicated also that the novel could be understood only in terms of the ordinary. Furthermore, the AAF tended to deemphasize the difference between its conventional and atomic weapons. Knowing that the last ready bomb had been delivered against Nagasaki, Spaatz emphasized that the nuclear bomb “as of now is only a comparatively insignificant weapon in [my] arsenal.” The Enola Gay’s commander, Paul Tibbets, was quoted about what he witnessed, often to vivid effect, but he also pointed out that his bomber “was not shaken as much by the [atomic] blast as it would have been by thermal updrafts fron an incendiary attack on a Japanese city at low level.” Headlines provided another gauge to the media's difficulty in separating the new from the familiar. In the New York Times’s August 7 edition, the new bomb had sole billing, but the next day it had to share space with other war news headlined “CARRIER PLANES STRIKE NEAR CHINA COAST” and with reports of an especially devastating fire raid on Yawata.135  As throughout the air war, the media also had trouble translating bombing into vivid words and images. The atomic