hey hoped that the power and precision of new weapons would free soldiers from the regimented confines of close-order formations, so necessary when guns were inaccurate. Such weapons, Harvard President Charles W. Eliot argued, would force “every modern army to imitate what used to be called Indian warfare.” Aer- ial dogfights in World War I later seemed to confirm how machines would expand rather than constrict opportunities for individual derring-do.12  Prophets of air war hinted at another, more disturbing opportunity for heroism. They did not escape the preoccupation of the age with will and courage. But they socialized those qualities, making them the virtues of the masses at home as well as of the individual soldiers at the front. Victory would be decided in a nightmarish contest of national wills, the loser the nation that quailed before the prospect of aerial attack on its capital or succumbed to mass panic at the first “knock-out” blow.  Visions of aerial war thus united two different concerns about warfare—the modernist’s emphasis on scientific destruction and the nation in arms and the traditionalist’s faith in demonstra- tions of courage and élan as decisive in battle. Such demonstrations were now the responsibility of the nation itself, as it resolved to mobilize huge resources and dared to risk destruction. In that bleak vision the agencies of destruction were new and imnersonal hit at least traditional values remained usefiil  Page 4 of 368 2%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Behind such reasoning lay a deeper faith in the capacity of men and women to make rational decisions about their fate. On the eve of World War I, Norman Angell’s The Great Illusion, the most famous expression of that faith, argued that economic interdependence among progressive nations made war senseless. War might happen, he said, but it would do nobody any good if it did, for it would sever the connections of credit and commerce on which all depended.