ure of atomic bombs,” complete with orbiting satellites for spying, moon-based rockets with nuclear warheads, and computer guidance controls.128 At State, Byrnes immediately plunged into an experiment in nuclear diplomacy with the Soviets that quickly failed. Few had much to say about Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In the air force, Arnold and LeMay were unrepentant. Though not inclined to think the bomb necessary for winning the war, they were content in its use even if it had shortened the war only by a few days, and they embraced its entry into the American arsenal.  In the Pentagon, the most deeply worried man was Stimson. He never expressed regret about the bomb’s use, although he did about the failure to issue assurances on the emperor. Yet he had long pondered the implications of nuclear energy, and in the knowledge of imminent retirement he cleared his agenda of other matters and focused on the nuclear question. Too, the results from Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which Stimson received in great detail, must have at last undercut his illusions about the air force’s targeting. On the eighth, he noted how Truman “mentioned the terrible responsibility that such destruction placed upon us here,” and his statements to the press on the bomb, in contrast to the prideful style of the president, stressed that “any satisfaction we may feel must be overshadowed by deeper emotions. The result of the bomb is so terrific that the responsibility of its possession and its use must weigh heavily on our minds and on our hearts.”122  Looking forward instead of backward, Stimson betrayed his change of mood only indirectly, first as he tried to clear away the remaining obstacles to the war’s quick termination. On the eighth he told Truman, “ ‘When you punish your dog you don’t keep souring on him all day after the punishment is over; if you want to keep his affection, punishment takes care of itself.” The Japanese “are a smiling people and we have to get on those terms with them.” The comment