aff study in August.13  By autumn, the air force’s anxiety about its political prospects threatened to spill into the conduct of immediate operations. While not specifically invoking those prospects, Lovett explained to the air staff on November 27 that “the Air Forces are being given a ‘second chance’ in Europe” and he “urged that something drastic be done in order to take advantage of this second chance.” Lovett’s favored proposal was for a “Jeb Stuart Air Force” of fighter-bombers “scampering all over Germany ... shooting up targets of opportunity, strafing rail and communication centers and generally causing a breakdown in morale among the German people.” Arnold and his staff were skeptical of the specifics of Lovett’s scheme, but it conformed in broad purpose with other proposals they supported to hasten the war's end by a climactic campaign of terror bombing. More than ever, achieving victory and enhancing the air force’s reputation were inseparable objectives for the AAF, Lovett adding that his plan would also earn the appreciation of the ground army. As Arnold reminded General Hansell, head of the new 21st Bomber Command in the Marianas, “we must in fact destroy our targets and then we must show the results so the public can judge for itself as to the effectiveness of our operations.” LeMay had gotten the same message.14  To meet Arnold’s objective, the AAF arranged coverage of the Pacific war with special care. It wanted coverage to “emphasize accuracy rather than press-agentry,” to “prevent the B-29 from being overevaluated in the public mind,” and “to let the results speak for themselves.” Caution served several purposes. It limited jealousy and attacks from the other services and it conformed to official policy, which sought to deflate popular expectations that Japan would be defeated quickly by blockade and bombardment alone. It also prevented arousal of expectations for the B-29’s performance that might later cause an adverse reaction against the air f