tate Department official “is trying really only to insure that the terms will cause no criticism in the U.S.” “Shall we state a flat intention to allow the Japanese to retain the structure of a constitutional monarchy,” Lincoln asked, “and tempt the Japanese public, or state the opposite intention and please. .. the US public, or leave the matter vague and impress neither side, probably?” It was a good question, the kind War posed better than State, and an accurate prediction of the course to be taken.®4  A more subtle problem involving signals, one that bore directly on the bombing campaign, involved the potential for conflict between word and deed. From May to August—in official  etatamante nranacanda hraadeacte and tha chaurar of lasflate_tha I Initad Ctatac wae trying ta cucaact that Tanan micht eurrandar and ctill ha aceurad 9 liharal and hiwmana naara Rut avan a ourenriy  Page 329 of 368 75%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON But his V-E Day address thundered that “Japan must be beaten into defeat, into unconditional surrender” and invoked memories of Pearl Harbor. On July 31, General Arnold prepared a bellicose speech that struck Stimson as “virtually a new ultimatum to Japan,” one that Grew thought would “simply mess up matters and obscure the whole situation.” On this occasion at least, the misstep was averted —Grew and Stimson stopped the air force chief.82  As in the spring, the timing of messages to Japan proved as vexing as their conflicting substance. Having backed down on sending further signals until Okinawa was conquered, the War Department then discovered new reasons for delay. On June 29, it seemed best to wait until August, when a combination of Russian entry, new air forces on Okinawa, and the bomb would offer the proper psychological moment. That moment kept receding, and placing so much emphasis on finding it made agreement on issuing new signals prey to the conflicting views of several bureaucracies and to intangibles