s?” he asked) Coolidge also sharpened the resistance of army leaders to air power claims.3¢ By goading the navy to develop its own aviation, Mitchell also made the embarrassed admirals over into more formidable opponents. Moreover, his vision of a fortress America had political appeal but little strategic immediacy, inasmuch as no enemy was at hand to cross the oceans and land on American shores, and it kept him from forging the natural alliance with naval fliers, who saw aviation as a way to extend the nation’s offensive capacity for protecting global interests. In the end, too, Mitchell’s attempt, as Trenchard put it, to “convert his opponents by killing them first” cost him not only his job but considerable credibility. It gained him headlines but little support among those powerful enough to aid his cause. The attention of press and public opinion was usually fleeting and superficial, directed at the spectacle of sinking battleships and squabbling bureaucrats. After Mitchell’s court-martial, much of the entertainment ended, and commentary on national defense at times barely mentioned aviation.3”  In all likelihood, these setbacks made little difference to military aviation. Henry Harley Arnold, the air force’s commanding general in World War II, later assessed the fate of Mitchell’s early plans by concluding that “military aviation really couldn’t have amounted to very much then, even if everybody had agreed with him.”38 Furthermore, the bitter feud of the twenties contributed to Mitchell’s goals in ways that he could hardly have foreseen by strengthening the cohesiveness and commitment of his fellow army aviators. Beyond that, the image of the contending forces that developed in the 1920s made air power look curiously benign. Airmen were portrayed as the cutting edge of reform and technology and their superiors as the guardians of reaction. Yet the airmen also promised escape from the evils of scientific war as well as retreat to an America that needed no allia