nce among progressive nations made war senseless. War might happen, he said, but it would do nobody any good if it did, for it would sever the connections of credit and commerce on which all depended. Read as a prediction of what harm war might bring, The Great Illusion was reasonable prophecy; but as a prediction of man’s new rationality, it missed the mark in a way that expressed its times well. It also influenced later proponents of peace through aviation, who saw aviation as spinning a web of international connectedness.  Reactions to new weapons were also shaped by concern about the destruction of men’s souls rather than men’s bodies. In an age nursing both great hopes and substantial fears about the fate of the individual, war was still seen as the foremost arena for the demonstration of heroic potential; the chief danger of the dreadnought or the machine gun or the airplane was that they might make men superfluous or anonymous in war. Even Alfred Thayer Mahan, champion of the modern American navy, feared that new battleships carrying only long-range guns would create in commanders an “indisposition to close” with the enemy. It was possible as well to worry that passionless strife might make men more savage, given the assumption that “terror and punishment were useful checks on the human impulse to prolong war.”!!  People dealt with these fears in several ways. Past wars could be rewritten to glorify the individual's heroic achievements and give meaning to bitter sacrifices, as Americans often did with their Civil War—missing how Cold Harbor and Sherman’s march set a precedent for an age of impersonal destruction. Legions of professional military officers met the danger of new weapons simply by denying that the weapons would do much to change warfare, by resisting their use, or by redoubling their enthusiasm for the cavalry charge and the offensive a outrance. Others celebrated the men who mastered the new machines as a new kind of technological hero. They hop