reak of the European war. In the 1920s, the danger of air war had seemed grave but abstract, remote from American concerns. By the end of the 1930s, the reality of its occurrence abroad made the danger more graphic but in some ways less urgent, for reality did not seem as bad as what had been imagined. Dread remained, but it had been diminished by application of a kind of free-market model to the issue of air war: in the marketplace of war strategies, the effective uses of air power would drive out the ineffective. The former seemed reassuringly limited: aviation would succeed most in support of conventional armaments or perhaps in attack on narrowly defined economic and military objectives; it was less useful, even counterproductive, when used in indiscriminate fashion against urban areas and civilian populations. If fascists employed it in this manner, their success was dubious, their methods involved psychological intimidation more than physical destruction, and the moral burden was now comfortably shifted to their shoulders. More reasonable men presum- ably recognized the futility of indiscriminate destruction.  The possibility of sustained war against cities simply eluded most people. After decades of debate, bombing cities still appeared either as the ultimate weapon or as a futile, desperate gesture. Sustained slaughter, for rational or irrational reasons, remained barely imaginable. These limits on imagination are, in retrospect, unsurprising, inasmuch as they largely remain in force a half-century later. As Harold Macmillan once chillingly observed, “We thought of air warfare in 1938 rather as people think of nuclear war today.”®” The limits on foresight and awareness of Macmillan’s generation rarely resulted from willful denial of possible dangers or unwillingness to think about the issues involved.  Still, evidence was available, in the lesson provided by World War I, of the need to examine critically the impact of new weapons on warfare. The world had al