ggesting that the humane rationale imbedded in the doctrine of precision bombing was frail and disposable. Simi- larly, they showed how the idea of air power was informed by fears and passions reaching far beyond the rational language of strategic calculation which airmen usually employed.  The casualness of American thinking about air war in the Far East was another indication of the state of official regard for strategic air power at mid-decade. The official view of air power was in a curious state of suspension, caught between the abstract or fanciful speculations of the Army Air Corps, the military bureaucracy’s continued distrust of airmen, and the episodic and confused attention of the White House and Congress. In an Air Corps ambitious but fearful of alienating superiors and public opinion, dreams of a great mission seeped through the cracks of more guarded propaganda for the cause. The army general staff, more alert than ever to the tactical role of aviation, bore down on the Air Corps by prohibiting production of the B-17 (beyond thirteen prototypes) and by challenging research and development for more advanced bombers. As one general staff officer put it in 1936, a proposed long-range bomber was “distinctly an airplane of aggression” that had “no place in the armament of a nation which has a National Policy of good will and a Military Policy of protection, not aggression.”2° Only after 1938 did a national policy for strategic air power begin to take shape.  PUBLIC DEBATE AND EXPERT REASSURANCE  Beyond official circles, a public debate about air power continued, one characterized by real concern and interest but giving the skeptics a small margin over those who prophesied that air power offered either total victory or supreme danger. As aerial holocaust grew closer, its danger seemed to recede. That at least was the impression conveyed by popular images of American aviation and by informed examinations of air power and the nation’s strategic needs.  The Ame