ole,” at the same time spotting piles of bodies “looking like misshapen lumps of charcoal,” often too melted to be identifiable even by sex, and everywhere giving off a “sickeningly sweet odor.” “Long lines of ragged, ash-covered people straggle along, dazed and silent, like columns of ants,” another reporter discovered. “They had no idea where they were going; all they knew was that they were still alive. 1 wanted to interview some of them, but I lacked the courage. My only interview was with this vast desolation.” Police officials had no more courage. They “were instructed to report on actual conditions. Most of us were unable to do this, because of horrifying conditions beyond imagination.” Almost always the survivors were dazed and aimless, “their eyes dull and uncomprehending,” drained of life even when life remained, their recollections having “a dreamlike quality.” Like their atomic brethren later, many of Tokyo’s survivors felt guilty and embarrassed, perhaps “apologetic because my house had survived the raids,” as Kato recalled.” ‘It will be my turn next.’ I was in the habit of saying by way of apology for my relative good fortune.”?2  Unlike many survivors of the atomic bomb, Tokyo’s injured and fleeing probably knew in a literal way what hit them, but there was no comprehension of what had happened. For them, it did not seem they had been through a man-made experience. Little in their national history, their encounter with humankind, or their religious traditions allowed them to attribute that experience to fellow humans. Europeans—longer experienced with the mechanical world and with war in their homelands, able to comprehend air war because it escalated there so gradually—rarely regarded the bombers even.of their firestorms as demons or mystical creatures or incarnations of the natural world. In their imagery they drew on the rich store of religious mythology about the damnation people create for themselves. Perhaps that is why Europeans in Tokyo someti