t that it was shared by officials ignorant of the bomb. Like all men, wartime leaders reacted to concrete experiences, and for those who journeyed to Potsdam in July, the sight of Berlin’s ruins provided occasion to break silence. For Truman, it inspired a rare flight into moving rhetoric, as he recorded his “fear that machines are ahead of morals by some centuries. ... We are only termites on a planet and maybe when we bore too deeply into the planet there’ll [be] a reckoning—who knows?”4? But high-level officials rarely had occasion to view Japan’s scorched cities, and even if they had it would probably have made little difference. The bombing of Asians simply aroused less interest and concern. At least Berlin’s ruins could be viewed with a kind of sorrow and foreboding, as a crumbled monument to Western civilization. Few Americans recognized much of value being lost in Japan.  Compared to other forms of warfare, the bombing of cities retained an unmentionable and inexpressible quality, lying variously beyond or beneath description. With exceptions, that quality had characterized the predictive literature before the war, and it now persisted despite changed circumstances. Whereas in prospect bombing had been an almost unimaginable horror, by 1945 it was also anumbing but distant commonplace. Celebration and aversion, deliverance and doomsday remained the contrasting ways in which bombing was viewed, categories that allowed peoples and na- tions to avoid confronting the realities of mass destruction.  THE NUCLEAR “APPARITION”  The tenacity of those categories was most tragically demonstrated in the final deliberations upon the atomic bomb, for in them the bomb’s use was never seriously debated and its destructive consequences were barely examined. Truman did agree in May to the establishment of the Interim Committee to consider issues raised by the bomb’s development. But though its decisions were crucial, it was never charged with weighing whether to use the atomi