n. “That was what impressed me: drill presses. There they were, like a forest of scorched trees and stumps, growing up throughout that residential area.”1°4 With the main factories themselves hard to hit, the only method of disabling Japanese war production was to get those drill presses, and that could be done only with firebombing, so the rationale went.  Page 282 of 368 64%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  incenudiar J CARERS teeta CO my OR Cake CU RES Sake NU CHS CERES CREE COEUR RCS ICRA ROEM SEC RR ee EN ROE EEO R Uk ae Ey ee eee Rees ake Te Cee Fee dee Bee  over Formosa and China than over Japan, and so too were the strain of long flights and the enemy’s fighter opposition. Furthermore, the bulk of American aircraft in use against Chinese and Formosan targets were medium and heavy bombers regularly flying at lower levels and achieving greater precision than B-29s. And of course the enemy’s morale and government were hardly targets in Formosa and China, except for those limited institutions and areas specifically supporting Japanese rule and operations: in American eyes, both China and Formosa were non-Japanese except by virtue of occu- pation, inhabited by friendly peoples promised liberation from the Japanese yoke.  And yet much the same pattern of bombing unfolded there as in Japan. First came precision strikes, then area incendiary raids, against Hankow in December and especially against Formosan cities in the spring. The progression was similar even though the precision strikes against Chinese and Formosan targets had been demonstrably more successful. Furthermore, the incendiary raids clearly targeted large residential areas and achieved a scale against them proportional to that accomplished against Japan itself. Five of Formosa’s eleven principal cities were almost completely destroyed, another four half ruined, with predictable casualties: 6,100 killed and thousands more wounded (by Japanese estimates which, if they followed