enced, the most lurid predictions came from England, where the fear of air war on cities remained greatest. Borrowing generously from Douhet and from England’s experience in World War I (it “will be exactly reproduced on the next occasion, though on a more grandiose scale”), L. E. O. Charlton offered a mix of fact and fancy that further popularized notions of the knockout blow and pushbutton wars moving to swift and inexorable conclusions. His was an uncomplicated vision. Air power would operate with utter simplicity: “All it has to do is to proceed from A to B, linger a moment, and then come back.” Victory would come swiftly by breaking the will of an enemy population, for after World War I no nation would again endure a “war of exhaustion”; the “will to war” would collapse before material devastation became widespread. Terrorization, he acknowledged, had satisfied a German need for blood and vengeance in World War I, but he emphasized how bombing would be a rational instrument of quick victory. Charlton also held out the possibility that an international police force would provide an “Escape from Armageddon”  Page 62 of 368 15%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON populations for the purpose of slaughter” would be counterproductive on both moral and practical grounds: it would cost the attacking force dearly, it would “infuriate the nation” attacked (and its friends, like the United States, in case England was attacked), and it would be dissipated by measures of civil defense. Even if a population wanted to surrender, he asked in raising a much overlooked question, “how would they make their will felt?” The Germans briefly, and Churchill himself more systematically, were soon to ignore these sensible arguments. How much Churchill ever believed them may be arguable, for it was Churchill who five years earlier had described London as “the greatest target in the world, a kind of tremendous, fat, valuable cow tied up to attract the beast of prey