aid and nearly seventeen on the second night. From the Japanese point of view, perhaps the scales of justice were righted a bit because another inadvertent casualty of the raids was apparently the death of sixty-two imprisoned Allied airmen.3 And yet, just as terror was now delivered more routinely, it was also received more matter-of-factly, without the communal shock felt on March 10 or the same casualties now that the civilian populace had shrunken.  But the men close to the throne, so callous to the mass suffering in previous raids, now flinched even as Tokyo’s masses became more resigned. The emperor, the court, and high officials remained safe in underground shelters. But the sights and sounds of the royal quarters burning offered a profound shock. The marquis Kido, always in close touch with the emperor, recorded the shame of officials, who felt dishonored by this desecration of the imperial grounds. Never before or after—not with the March 10 raid or the atomic bombings, much less the hundreds of other raids—did Kido note more than the barest details of air raids. But on this occasion he carefully accounted the destruction, listing the many buildings burned down. He also let his imagination run free regarding the fate which the enemy could mete out. Given the “tremendous effect of his mass incendiary bombing,” the enemy had “by no means a difficult task to sweep away, one after another all the cities and towns down to villages in the country by fire,” along with “stored up clothing and foodstuffs,” creating a situation “really past salvation” with the onset of cold weather. Kido was at last glimpsing what most Japanese already knew.  The precise impact of the May raids on the Japanese government remains difficult to measure. Regarding Japan’s political strategy, the raids acted only as another catalyst to the more urgent pursuit of Soviet mediation, though by now Foreign Minister Togo bluntly emphasized the futility of that course. Nor did formal military st