al defense and nothing else.” In private he baldly confided his political motives. “These foreign orders” for airplanes, Morgenthau recorded the president as saying, “mean prosperity in this country and we can’t elect a Democratic Party unless we get prosperity. ... Let’s be perfectly frank.”13  Yet Roosevelt’s initiatives, congruent as they were with schemes he had entertained before the onset of the 1938 recession, clearly had a larger purpose. A year earlier, in his famous quarantine speech, he had broached vague ideas about curbing aggression without resort to war, and in succeeding months he had toyed with the possibility of a maritime blockade of Japan. His post-Munich initiatives developed these possibilities, albeit with a shift in focus to air power. Roosevelt imagined the United States playing a decisive role in shaping world events without embarking on all-out war. He had not abandoned hope that war might be averted through some ill-defined combination of force and diplomacy. Given his conviction that Hitler had triumphed because of his superiority in the air, FDR’s immediate interest lay in stiffening Anglo-French fortitude in hopes of averting any repetition of September’s catastrophe. Meanwhile, he could enhance his own counterweight to the dictators’ power by expanding American air power as well as by revising neutrality legislation and continuing with naval rearmament. In the event of war, as Roosevelt saw it, the United States could assist the embattled antifascist nations with its industrial, naval, and air power, harnessing American power to the energies of other nations on the front lines without overtaxing American patience, pocketbooks, and personnel.  It is futile to wonder whether, in the three years after Munich, Roosevelt was seeking to prevent war or to prepare for American participation in it, for FDR, ever one to keep his options open, had both possibilities in mind. More than that, he sought to stake out a gray area in between these two