f arms.”}37 In short, plans for invasion had to go forward. For the bombing effort the implications were perhaps less clear. But whereas revision of the surrender formula might have sanctioned resort to a more limited attack on lines of communication, the prospect of invasion justified the systematic destruction of all components of Japan’s strength, including its cities.  The air force prepared to follow up on LeMay’s March successes with little direction from the top and little initiative of its own to refine surrender strategy. To the extent that any such strategy emerged at all, it was more the product than the cause of LeMay’s March 10 spectacular. Arnold certainly hoped that bombing alone might end the war, but as usual, his emphasis was on achieving “the maximum weight of effective bombs on Japanese targets” with the intent of destroying “whole industrial cities.” It was left to others to translate that effort into a scheme for victory.138  It was spelled out by Arnold’s staff. Further bombing delivered when Germany collapsed might “bring home the futility of continuing the war” to Japan’s masses and leaders. Furthermore, Germany’s surrender “might offer Japan’s leaders a face-saving basis to end the war” as well as alarm them at the prospect of quick Russian entry into the Asian war. These possibilities, along with some shrewd analysis from army intelligence about the Suzuki cabinet, flowed into Norstad’s office. Even before the staff studies were completed, Norstad wrote LeMay anticipating “Japan’s hour of decision,” and on April 10 he alerted LeMay to the time “very soon when it will be desirable to change the Japanese cabinet by another blitz period,” probably when Germany capitulated. Weather ex- perts added their own reasons for a quick resumption of the urban blitz: “Favorable fire weather conditions have almost never occurred from June to October at Tokyo.”132  In all, LeMay’s March triumphs excited expectations for a knockout blow, delivered by bombe