nited States would have achieved the same paralysis of Japan as it did with the wasteful method of firebombing. Even allowing for foul weather, limitations in radar, and other tactical obstacles, the more efficient method, aided by carrier planes, was within LeMay’s grasp. The United States would have needed a few fire raids only as a coup de grace to a precision campaign, climactic demonstrations of power to drive home Japan’s helplessness. The benign alternative was neglected, he argued, not because the AAF was unwilling or unable to act on it. Rather, the obsession of American grand strategy with quick victory and invasion denied the airmen the opportunity to change their targeting toward a true air strategy for victory. Compelled to soften up Japan for invasion, they had to wage systematic destruction.2¢  Hansell effectively critiqued the course of blockade and bombing that made the rubble bounce in so many redundant ways. But he was wrong in exonerating the air force from responsibility for the holocaust over Japan. Invasion sanctioned but did not compel all-out destruction, which might have been pursued as readily even if invasion had been foresworn. American war-making by the summer of 1945 was characterized by a broad-front strategy permitting each service to pursue its favored course, to avoid choices and do everything within the limits of American resources and of public demands for complete victory at minimal cost. The imperatives of invasion were not the foremost considerations leading the AAF to firebombing; it made that choice in March because incen- diary bombing was easy and because doing it rescued the AAF’s flagging fortunes. Even in the summer Arnold and his staff had no clear alternative to Marshall’s strategy. They pursued the campaign of fire as zealously as the invasion strategists, offering only the vague promise that destruction would make Japan surrender. Furthermore, the only pressure on the AAF to restrain its targeting came from Stimson,