ricans expected victory to come more easily over Japan than over Germany, although such expectations diminished with time. By decisive majorities, they expressed their desire to bomb Japan’s cities and to move the bulk of American air power to the Pacific. But there were no precisely comparable questions asked about bombing German cities. Unless the absence of such questions alone is evidence that bombing Germany generated less interest, comparisons are difficult, although most Americans probably thought that bombing could more easily defeat Japan than Germany. Taken collectively, these polls probably indicated a desire to prosecute strategic air war to its fullest but also substantial doubt about the prophets’ claims that doing so could almost alone win the war. But questions about bombing both Japan and Germany also disappeared from the polls after mid-1943. This inattention to issues raised by strategic bombing after mid-1943 paralleled the decline in public debate and media attention to them following the initial wave of air power tracts.54  Americans came to and expressed their acceptance of strategic air power in more complex and indirect ways than polls could reveal. Just as before World War II, the attraction of air power lay in the diversity of its appeals, none so compelling alone as to focus concerted debate about the bomber, and many distantly related to the conduct of war itself. The distance, physical and psychological, from which Americans viewed the war reinforced this diffuseness. No single argument for air power emerged triumphant, no decisive clamor to unleash it arose. Instead, war tempered the persuasive- ness of claims by both extreme skeptics and prophets—a sensible reaction to the war but one that muted debate among Americans still further.  Air power offered the promise of easy victory and vengeance against their enemies. Yet most Americans, like their leaders, deferred final judgment on that promise, preferring to set aside the wrangling ab