te butchery, to bring the war to an end, to give peace to the world, to lay healing hands upon its tortured peoples by a manifestation of overwhelming power at the cost of a few explosions, seemed, after all our toils and perils, a miracle of deliverance.”  Page 322 of 368 73%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON exclusive possibilities. It was a commonplace to recognize, as Truman did, that the bomb gave Americans “possession ot a weapon that would not only revolutionize war but could alter the course ot  history and civilization.” As Stimson put it, and Marshall concurred, “This project should not be considered simply in terms of military weapons, but as a new relationship of man to the universe.” The bomb’s advent seemed to offer only two possibilities: it “might even mean the doom of civilization or it might mean the perfection of civilization. ... It might be a Frankenstein which would eat us up or it might be a project ‘by which the peace of the world would be helped in becoming secure.’S6  Viewed that way, the bomb’s use seemed as compelling as it did revolting. Only “the actual use with its horrible results,” Stimson later paraphrased the advice he received from scientists like Conant, could “awaken the world to the necessity of abolishing war altogether.” If the bomb promised either deliverance or doomsday, if it loomed as either scourge or savior of mankind, then its psychological awesomeness became all-important, and questions regarding its immediate consequences for Japan’s cities seemed almost trivial in comparison. Of course the war had to be won, and no responsible official ignored the bomb’s potential in that regard, but it was not about that potential that they worried. Instead, they acted in that tradition of prophecy whereby the most farsighted about air power were the most nearsighted about its actual consequences in war. That predilection, so easily associated with the nuclear dilemma, in fact preceded and helped define it