plift, and pacify the nations that touched it. The conspicuous roles in aviation assumed by women in the late twenties and thirties popularized that perceived potential. As pilots, stunt fliers, saleswomen, and stewardesses, women served narrow interests: given the dominant image of women as less mechanically adept and physically courageous than men, their highly visible presence in the skies was deliberately contrived by the aviation and airline industry to make flying seem safe, easy, and accessible. The pioneering women fliers “domesticated the sky, purging it of associations with death and terror.” For their part, these women found in aviation a socially acceptable outlet from traditional feminine roles. Privately, some felt the same sense of power and mastery usually ascribed to men, foreseeing the day when they “got the chance to fly bombers against the enemy after casualties decimated the regular male crews.” Publicly, their skill at promoting aviation as an extension of the traditional domestic sphere of women made their image a culturally acceptable one. In addition, opportunities envisioned for women—and to a lesser extent for blacks—sustained the image of aviation as a kind of vertical frontier in American history, a new arena of opportunity for social mobility. At the same time, feminizing aviation further reinforced its pacific image, for women would presumably bend aviation toward benign and uplifting purposes.4¢  Extolled in terms of national progress and superiority, aviation also provided welcome counterpoint to fears about what progress might bring. “Here is Charles Lindbergh, minding a machine over 3,000 miles of ocean,” observed Stuart Chase, a sophisticated cultural critic. “So close was he bound to it, that he spoke of himself and it as ‘we.’ In a sense he loved it, and all the world loved him for that affection. I have not heard him called a robot.”47  For Chase, the airplane was a sign of the harmony of man and machine, one countering contemp