ajor General Frank Andrews, commander of GHQ Air Force, gave a more guarded accounting of Munich’s lessons in a well publicized speech on January 16, 1939. Andrews, a forceful exponent of the independent air force and the long-range bomber, couched much of his address in the familiar terms of hemisphere defense. But he stretched this concept beyond the breaking point. “Our country should be the first to span the oceans both ways nonstop” by building bombers with “a tactical range of 10,000 miles.” Most American strategists were planning to intercept any German penetration into Latin America once it began. Andrews, citing Munich, proposed something else: “to stop the aggressor nation from even planning the attack, through fear of retaliation.” Air power should be seen not simply as a war-fighting instrument but “as an instrument of national policy,” one capable, as Munich showed, of “toppling the diplomatic balance” and perhaps eventually creating mutual deterrence through terror between two nations both “capable of powerful air action.”32  Officers like Kuter, Wilson, and Andrews were trying to link the aerial weapon to national policy, that is, to justify its potential not only for winning wars but for sustaining peacetime policies. They almost, but not quite, made the link. According to standard Air Corps doctrine, armed forces could serve national policy in three ways: by preserving “national existence” (an obvious function), by assisting “the active acquisition of foreign territory” (ruled out by national repudiation of territorial imperialism), and by “the coercion of enemy nations whose policies were in conflict with our own.” That coercion might be necessary to protect American economic and political interests abroad, and air power held the promise of coercive power without deploying large armies of occupation which antagonized foreign subjects and drained national resources. The components of this argument for air power were scattered about in Air Corps doct