War I” and “had a horror of American troops landing again on the continent and becoming involved in...trench warfare with all its appalling losses.” Marshall, himself acutely sensitive to casualty figures, made a special effort to keep Roosevelt informed of them “because you get hardened to these  thine and wan have ta ha very carefiil ta keen them alurawe in tha farafrant af vaiir mind ” Rancavalt alen racnonizad thea limite an American tolerance of cacrificac in anather world war and knew that  Page 141 of 368 32%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON who sought vengeance, bombing ottered it without much need to proclaim it. To those who sought a narrower justification tor air power, seeing its morality as inhering in its utility, measuring that  utility was critical for maintaining limits on destruction. But utility was an imponderable: the gains of air war were rarely quantifiable in terms of acreage conquered or armies surrendered, and they were inseparable from progress made in other ways, such as invasions assisted and armies immobilized. Even after the war, gains resisted precise characterization. During the war, their intangible na- ture confused and perhaps exhausted intelligent debate on the morality and efficacy of bombing.  These circumstances were more permissive than determinative, for where they differed somewhat, as in England, debate was at best modestly more informed. But they were strengthened by broader characteristics of the war. Argument about bombing was crude because categories of argument about the war itself were crude. What Americans learned of the war usually shielded them from addressing its consequences in human terms. Various forms of a moral argument were advanced but sometimes as sops to troubled consciences or to the needs of public relations, and never did argument rise to the level of sustained debate. It hardly seemed that it could, given the imponderables at issue, and a more general sense of futility or i