ction of the enemy’s ground armies was the only sure path to victory. But doubts about the survival of Britain and Russia ran large in the War Department, making a land invasion of the Continent seem remote at best: hence even conservative officers acknowledged the imperative of first weakening Germany by bombing. Strategy, then, along with Roosevelt’s wishes about how to fight the war, made the War Department amenable to a vision of air war that would have seemed repugnant and fanciful a few years earlier.  “THE PAPER CITIES OF JAPAN”  In 1941, American policymakers thought they had the chance to implement that vision—not immediately in Europe but in the Far East. Their efforts to do so marked the decisive transition from fantasy to attempted action.  Page 97 of 368 23%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  go into action before an invasion force could be trained, a choice between those objectives seemed unnecessary for the moment anyway. A preliminary effort to subdue the German air force would be necessary, but the ultimate priority for bombing was the German economy, “presumably drawn taut,” as Hansell later put it, by the massive demands of war. Scheduled to begin twenty-one months after American entry into the war, the main assault by an American force of four thousand bombers would “in six months bring much of her [Germany’s] vital industry to ruin.” The principal targets would be Germany’s electric power system, its transportation network, and its petroleum industry.§2  Far more sophisticated than the speculations of airmen in the 1930s, AWPD/1 was nonetheless hastily prepared and ambiguous on some critical points. Both British and German bombing had already shown how strategic air war might degenerate into futile barbarism. Supremely confident in their day bombers, the American air planners did not address this danger or the possibility that even successful precision strikes might fail to paralyze the German economy. True, they did no