choslovakia was the sacrifice she demanded for a temporary and pitifully insecure peace.  All other forms of force counted for nothing before “the fear of bombs raining from the sky on Paris and London.” Kuter made no exact analogy between what Hitler had accomplished with air power and what the United States might do. But his admiration for Hitler’s achievement showed.22  Lieutenant Colonel Donald Wilson, another officer at the tactical school, carried Kuter’s argument a step further. Wilson anticipated “future ‘Munichs” for which the United States should prepare by acquiring long-range bombers. Hitler had “the vision required to build an air force of heretofore unheard of proportions and at Munich it won without a struggle.” The United States should not “miss the import of air striking power in the more recent bloodless wars,” Wilson argued: “What could be better than a force so strong that actual conflict is thereby avoided?” Wilson envisioned using American air power to defend interests and policies beyond the hemisphere, in a manner close to Roosevelt’s thinking. Wilson, however, looked not to Europe but to the Far East, citing the Panay incident as the kind of defeat that air power would have averted “by the presence in Alaska of an air force capable of exerting critical pressure against Japanese home territory. Crazy? Yes, crazy again —the same way that Hitler was crazy. ... The sort of craziness that becomes a rational reality in light of the happenings at Munich. This sort of craziness does seem to be a powerful weapon in the new order of international relations.” In short Munich warranted emulation as well as regret over Hitler’s success. The key to air power’s utility was not its use but the very irrationality of threatening to use it.31  At a higher level, Major General Frank Andrews, commander of GHQ Air Force, gave a more guarded accounting of Munich’s lessons in a well publicized speech on January 16, 1939. Andrews, a forceful exponent of the independ