’s managers pondered whether surrounding hills might focus the blast or low-level detonation might create radioactive dust or explosion in a rainstorm blanket the surrounding area with fallout.) But once perfected, the thing itself would create its own firestorm: certainty inhered within the device itself, while the incendiary technique carried a cataclysmic potential only in relationship to a host of other circumstances. To be sure, when the planned accident did occur, the horror for its victims approached that visited upon cities hit with the atomic de- vice. As a discrete event, March 10 neatly balanced the scales of cruelty. But in the grim game of air war, it was only a chance event.  The distinction is not just a neat abstraction, for it bore decisively upon any moral equation offered between use of the atomic bomb and continued firebombing. Insofar as the bomb’s managers believed they were only choosing between similar forms of destruction, they deluded themselves and subsequent observers. It became commonplace for historians to argue that “in fact the atomic bomb used against Hiroshima was less lethal than massive fire bombing,” that the bomb’s managers expected it “to be less destructive than the average fire raid,” and that “it is hard to see how a long- continued aerial bombardment of Japan would have cost fewer lives than the two atomic bombs.”®  Something else, more emphatically recognized by its managers, made the atomic bomb different from the apparatus of incendiary warfare. Firebombing was a well-established and nearly perfected technique of war. The weight and efficiency of its use might be marginally raised in days and years to come, but its evolution was substantially complete. The hundreds of thousands of lives bombing took in the war were still commensurate with losses inflicted by more conventional forms of warfare, in the siege of Leningrad, for example, or in the battle for Manila in 1945, where perhaps one hundred thousand civilians died mo