mber pilot, with rare exceptions such as the great firestorms of Hamburg and Dresden had to wait for the next bulletin from High Wvcombe to learn whether his colleagues were dving to good purpose or in vain.  Page 206 of 368 47%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  anxiety left him less surprised and frightened by experiencing it in battle or because for the first time he might “be able to feel as well as his neighbor.” More dismaying, models of treatment from civilian life had little relevance. There the environmental stimuli to trauma might be controlled or altered to some extent. “In battle,” however, “the stress is never concluded, nor can it be controlled. Rather, the intent is to increase the stress continually in the furious pursuit of victory.” In the realm of their work, air force psychiatrists acknowledged, “a hair divides the normal from the neurotic, the adaptive from the nonadaptive. The failures of adaption of the soldier . .. mirror Everyman’s everyday failures or neurotic compromises with reality.”®8  Flight surgeons and psychiatrists offered several responses to combat stress, performing a triple role as counselor, paternal figure, and therapist. Severe cases required hospitalization, in the zone of operations or back in the states, where the favored treatment became narcosynthesis—drug-induced reenactment of a traumatic episode to assist the ego in mastering or accepting it. But the best treatment was benign rather than invasive: leaves from combat duty and fixed tours, for which doctors lobbied hard. Even rest was minimally effective, for fear and stress built up regardless of the frequency with which missions were spaced. In short, simple physical and emotional exhaustion from frequent flying was a minor factor.S2  In the end, morale was the responsibility of military, not medical, men, but there were limits to what commanders could do. The objective, physical risk could be trimmed by provision of protective measures in fl