sian approach to the problem of air war, Pierce attempted to break from the rigid categories of contemporary debate. Yet if he neither minimized nor exaggerated the dangers, in the end he simply looked beyond them. Emphasizing the faultlines in modern nations which made them vulnerable to air attack, he was less interested in air war than in addressing the problems of modern civilization. “The danger” of air war “to real democracy is twofold,” he wrote. “It must resist fascist aggression from the outside. It must watch that in resisting external aggression, it does not become a fascist state at home.” The concern was legitimate, but it also shifted his focus away from the destruction the bomber might inflict toward the harm the victim nations might do to themselves in response. Unavoidably, too, the emphasis on the psychological effects of bombing carried with it the familiar implication that defeat in air war might come quickly, with minds shattered but bod- ies intact.54  FASCISTS’ BOMBS AND DEMOCRACIES’ VIRTUE  Speculation about air war had another dimension after 1935. By the late thirties, men were not only theorizing about air war but were drawing on firsthand experience with it. They anxiously examined the bomber’s record in the Italian-Ethiopian war of 1935, the Spanish civil war which broke out in 1936, and the conflict between China and Japan, renewed by the latter in 1937. Writing for the New York Times, Herbert L. Matthews, once doubtful about the usefulness of bombing, argued that the Italian air raids on Barcelona in 1938 (they drew even more attention than the German Condor Legion’s destruction of Guernica) “told what modern war means”; for him it meant that bombers “could destroy centuries of civilization in a few minutes.” If Barcelona did not surrender, Lang- don-Davies argued, it was only because the German and Italian masterminds of the attack cut it short lest they reveal to the world the secret of their new technique of war.*>  In general, howe