clear and incendiary bombers, that the Twentieth Air Force had “the prime purpose in mind of not leaving one stone lying on another.” It was “laying waste all the main Japanese cities,” and its commanders “do not propose to save some important primary target for us if it interferes with the operation of the war from their point of view.” If the atomic bomb had little to add in the way of carnage and rubble except its singular efficiency, attention naturally turned to other dimensions of its novelty.58  The apparent similarity between atomic bombing and firebombing caused anxiety as well as uncertainty, a fear that the incendiary attacks would eliminate the virgin targets needed to reveal the true force of the atomic bomb. Sometimes, too, the similarity led to surprising misconceptions. LeMay, treating the atomic operation as an extension of his fire raids, recommended that the bomb be dropped from a low altitude, the same technique he used for showering incendiaries. Paul Tibbets, the commander of the first atomic mission, advised him that “the weapon would destroy a plane using it at an altitude of less than 25,000 feet.”52 It was all too easy for some to see Fat Man and Little Boy as little more than bigger bombs.  Firebombing was a crude standard of reference for measuring the atomic bomb. In retrospect at least, the destructiveness of incendiary attacks invited attention to the bomb’s psychological effect and obliterated any perceptible moral difference between bombing in its old and new forms. Like Stimson, many made that claim after the fact. Bush recalled later that he had “felt sure that use of the bomb, far less terrible in my mind than the fire raids on Tokyo, if it brought a quick end to the war, would save more Japanese lives than it snuffed out.” Conant’s recollections were similar. Byrnes argued that the atomic bombs, for all their casualties, did not cause “nearly so many as there would have been had our air force continued to drop incendiary bombs on