omber’s image kept shifting—the B-29 Superfortresses were renamed Peacemakers in Boeing’s final wartime ads, a nice precedent for labeling the MX missile of the 1980s the Peacekeeper.!2  Neither advertising nor official statements generated the controversy stirred by a small band of civilian publicists. Japan’s success with air raids at Pearl Harbor and elsewhere gave new prominence to the role of air power in war and to a new burst of popular writing about it. Yet, often these polemics still drew attention to the politics rather than to the strategy and morality of air war. Mitchell and Douhet became subjects of hagiography, particularly by the pen of Emile Gauvreau, an astute but eccentric scandalmonger: Mitchell had been “the most unerring prophet in 500 years of military history” and the victim of a “billion dollar airplane conspiracy” embracing Wall Street and (through his marriage to Dwight Morrow’s daughter) Charles Lindbergh. Mitchell’s predictions on how Pearl Harbor could be attacked added another sensational dimension to his alleged martyrdom. Even to establishment commentators like the Times’s Arthur Krock, it was now obvious that “General Mitchell was always right,” the victim of what William Bradford Huie called “the same old gold-braided bunk” still controlling the armed services. Making, like many others, an analogy to the hapless French, Huie regarded Mitchell as one of “our De Gaulles,” darkly noting that “France waited too late to replace her Gamelins with De Gaulles.”2°  These propagandists wanted unification of the armed services and superiority among them for the air force. Their enemies were the Joint Chiefs, indulged by Roosevelt and backed by a vast bureaucracy committed to sending battleships and infantrymen off to pointless slaughter. Of course, in these accounts, strategy and politics were intertwined. Their authors paraded a vision of “victory through air power,” as Alexander P. de Seversky titled his 1942 manifesto, the most discussed o