while, the Americans’ seizure of new bases closer to Japan made the Siberian airfields less attractive.  But more important, in Marshall’s view the talk of the “necessity” of Soviet entry phrased the issue misleadingly. Victory was no longer at issue, only its costs and duration, and Soviet participation in the war still seemed likely to reduce them, both by the sheer force of arms and by the political shock of its entry. Therefore on July 24, a week after the good news from Trinity, Marshall supported the Combined Chiefs’ renewed decision to “encourage Russian entry.” He did so in part out of pessimism about Japan’s early surrender. In the face of Japanese fanaticism, the Allies’ job, as he and Stimson had put it on June 19, was “to coordinate all threats possible to Japan,” not to pick and choose among them in a way that might only delay victory. More than that, Marshall was reasoning in a cold-blooded way. The United States had little to lose and much to gain by Moscow’s entry, since the Soviets would get what they wanted anyway and might as well pay for it by helping the United States out. As he told Stimson on July 23, “Even if we went ahead in the war without the Russians, and compelled the Japanese to surrender, that would not prevent the Russians from marching into Manchuria anyhow and striking, thus permitting them to get virtually what they wanted in the surrender terms.”25  Marshall did not speak for everyone. Arnold, for example, later recalled that he and his British counterpart agreed at Potsdam that “our next enemy would be Russia.” But any suspicions he had about Moscow did not stop Arnold from welcoming its entry into the war. On July 23, when Stalin restated his intention to enter the war, Arnold’s reaction was joyful: “To me, that was good news,  because it might mean closer air bases, from which we could literally rip Japan to pieces.” Arnold’s mind was, as ever, fixed on expanding his operational opportunities. He knew the bomb had been suc- eas