gotiation with the Soviet Union—still officially a neutral but Japan’s mortal enemy at home and abroad, many of its leaders thought. At the same time, the new government tried to strengthen Japan’s resistance to the Allies, hoping to placate die-hards at home and to wrest some victory-in-defeat forcing the Americans to a compromise peace. Militarily, the only recourse was mas- sive kamikaze attacks by sea and air against American forces.  In retrospect, the hope invested in kamikaze tactics seems both ludicrous and fanatical. American forces were too mammoth to be stopped; kamikazes were almost useless against the B-29s, Japan’s worst scourge; and fanatical resistance might only harden the enemy’s attitude. Yet American losses to kamikazes were indeed appalling (so much so that the American government wrapped them in censorship). Coming when American “war-weariness” was already pronounced, when leaders like Marshall wondered if the nation would even stay the course, the kamikaze attacks may well have had the desired effect.123 Without the threat of greater losses in invasion they seemed to prophesy, it is doubtful that American leaders would ever have compromised on the critical issue of the imperial throne, on whose preservation Japan’s civilian leaders pinned hopes for their continued role in Japanese life.  But if successful in this way, suicide tactics worked at a great price: countless servicemen’s deaths on both sides and the continued exposure of Japan’s cities to destruction while the tactics were given time to work. Drawing on deeply rooted cultural notions of Japanese purity and outsiders’ defilement of it, government propaganda now spoke of “the shattering of the hundred million like a beautiful jewel.” As one historian has summed up the mood instilled in Japanese as the bombing climaxed, “The supreme sacrifice and ultimate state of purification, by this terrible logic, had finally come to mean readiness to embrace extermination.” “The ‘national polity’ t