s*X—made accurate penetration deep into enemy territory seem possible. But airmen began formulating precision bombing doctrine before 1935, when the first B-17 flew. More demonstrably than usual, this technology was the offspring, not the parent, of doctrine.  Since doctrine preceded capability, it derived as much from strategic ideas, bureaucratic interests, and national politics as from technology. Douhet, Liddell Hart, Mitchell, and others had prepared the way by their talk of vital centers and the Achilles’ heel of the modern nation, implying an enemy’s vulnerability to attack on selected targets. Yet their language was more metaphorical than exact, referring to targets as small as a railroad junction and as big as an entire enemy capital. Their prevailing assumption in the 1920s that gas would be a primary agent of attack—one the Air Corps would largely discard in the 1930s—hardly suggested precision. Their influence on the Air Corps, while large on the general matter of strategic bombardment, often consisted of the convenience of invoking better-known authorities to support arguments American airmen were already developing on their own. By the time he wrote Skyways (1930), Mitchell had made an unqualified commit- ment to the primacy of strategic bombardment, but he never systematically developed the notion of daylight precision bombing, which owed more to less-remembered officers who since the twenties had argued for destruction of key plants in “a complex system of interlocking factories.”8  Beyond the influence of particular men and ideas, four forces converged in the 1930s to make daylight precision bombing an attractive notion. First, the Air Corps needed to justify organiza- tional independence in a more effective fashion. Mitchell’s coast-defense rationale had only pitted the corps against a navy too powerful for the airmen to defeat. As late as 1938, the navy secured army agreement to its demand that the Air Corps patrol no further than one hundred mile