ctability of the raids as well as from shock over the violation of accepted standards of war, a response possible only for a generation that ignored the long record of horrors in centuries of wars.26  Contemporaries as well as later observers exaggerated the extent and importance of the panic in England. Panic existed, perhaps more in the government than in the people themselves, as Wells predicted; but so too did a “stiffening of morale.” The Daily Mail captured the popular response when it boasted that the Germans “imagine that by a wicked, purposeless act of murder... they can frighten the British people. ... The only result in England is to remind us that the German is a Hun.”27  Despite mixed results, some Germans hoped that the attack on English morale would yield an even greater return. Bombing English cities might provide “a basis for peace” by diminishing the enemy’s “will” to wage war. Convinced of the “well-known nervousness of the [English] public” and skeptical that England was truly committed to the war effort, they believed that bombing might knock her altogether out of the war.28  It did not, of course, and in the end Germany abandoned strategic bombardment, never to resume it consistently even in World War II. At the same time, England took it up, more impressed by the raids than were the Germans themselves. By 1918 attacks by British and other Allied forces on German cities, not to mention the large but forgotten Italian effort, had come to dwarf Germany’s record in tonnage dropped and in sophistication of tactics and strategy. The reluctant commander was General Hugh Trenchard, aptly characterized as the “father who tried to strangle the infant [strategic bombing] at birth though he later got credit for the grown man.” Under Trenchard the Allies and Americans were assembling a new force of thousands of bombers to launch massive attacks in 1919 on German “industry, commerce, and population,” including Berlin itself, with incendiaries and a new pois