the needs of public relations, and never did argument rise to the level of sustained debate. It hardly seemed that it could, given the imponderables at issue, and a more general sense of futility or indifference about any possibility of arresting the ferocity of the war.  But casual attitudes toward bombing did not arise solely from the circumstances of the war. The distance from which Americans viewed air war, as either prospect or reality, had always been great. The capacity of the bomber to secure easy vengeance in the guise of military necessity had long been one of its attractions. Its promise to reduce or end bloodletting on the ground had been an even stronger attraction after World War I. The moral and imaginative effort required to bridge the gap between promise and reality had always been immense. If people in the relative luxury of peace could not reconcile their benign and horrific images of air war, they were hardly more likely to do so in the maw of war.  THE IMPORTANCE OF AWARENESS  Casual attitudes certainly helped Americans to accept bombing, but the case can be made that they did little to shape the actual course of bombing. The example of the British, so terribly knowledgeable about air war but so bent on unleashing the bomber’s fury against German cities, apparently strengthens that case. If Americans had known more and confronted better what they did know, they might not have objected more. Even if they had, their government might have followed the same course.  Did American leaders fashion that course partly in response to public opinion? Direct evidence is, not surprisingly, slight, though more abundant regarding the Pacific war. Yet public pressures did not need to be overt, or overtly recorded, to be felt. They needed little restatement in part because they had been felt keenly by men like Marshall and Roosevelt even before Pearl Harbor—by then, they had already anticipated wartime pressures and come to share many of the assumptions behind t