tern war was widespread.23  Confusion in what military aviators claimed to expect of the bomber was in part attributable to their ambitions and intellects and to their fear of stating in public what they believed in private. But confusion also stemmed from broader circumstances. Airmen only reflected the difficulty the nation’s political leadership had in defining national interests and strategic needs. Moreover, aerial technology was developing too quickly to enable anyone to reach hard judgments on strategic possibilities. In this context, there was ample room for airmen to disagree, change their minds, or hold to contradictory ideas, especially when they were agitators first and theorists second. By mid-decade, Mitchell, among others, was moving beyond continental defense and tactical employment of air power, but the process was incomplete. These pioneers believed that, given involvement in another world war, the United States might leap over the enemy’s conventional defenses and use the bomber to “smash up his means of production, supply and transportation,” as Mitchell put it in 1924. On occasion, politicians openly discussed the same prospects. Yet most professional airmen saw their primary task as guarding the United States from attack, not striking across the oceans at its enemies. The theory of strategic air bombardment remained largely that, an attractive doctrine contem- plated at considerable psychological and geographical distance.24  Public debate early in the decade followed the same lines. The scarier prophecies coming out of Europe as well as similar American ideas received wide attention but usually in the context of what the war-mad European nations might do, rarely as something Americans might employ. Occasionally someone went further. Will Irwin, in his popular book “The Next War”: An Appeal to Common Sense (1921), hinted at what the United States was capable of by stressing the American role in plans for bombing Germany in 1919 and in developme