sh army aviators became more cautious after Mitchell’s court-martial.5+  Those who pondered the fate of the airplane certainly differed widely in politics and temperament, journeying to a point of congruence from widely separate directions. Europeans seemed to grasp almost desperately at the airplane, knowing its terrible role in war but hoping it might prevent war. Americans either seized on it eagerly or ignored it complacently, inspired by a confidence about man’s ability to control his creations. Both groped toward versions of deterrence, based upon the perilous trust that scientific war had a horror that would be its own deterrent or upon a more buoyant faith that science would simply make war impractical and unattractive.  Lindbergh asserted that his flight signified how aviation would “bring our peoples nearer together in understanding and in friendship than they have ever been.” (Only late in life did he come  Page 40 of 368 10%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON the superlative finish of the grinding tool. These can if they choose deliver a more just and lovely thing than craftsmanship could ever achieve,” Henry Ford’s visionary advertisements depicting sleek aircraft landing at trim airports promised the same. As Chase’s rhapsody indicated, aviation offered to fuse the best qualities of an older tradition of individual ingenuity with the benefits of the more impersonal age of the machine.4®  Cultural commentators like Chase and the historian Charles Beard anxiously tried to balance the virtues and dangers of the machine. As they did, they noted the threat of technological war, but they also compartmentalized it, viewing it as an abscess to be cauterized from machine culture. When looking at the possibilities for air war, they raised a specter only to exorcise it.  This approach was evident in a volume that Beard edited. Beard urged readers of Whither Mankind (1928) to “face the assertion that wars among the various nations of machi