ctory, two schools, a Presbyterian church. On the night of August 1-2, 1,593 tons—as the survey report noted, incendiary tonnage often far exceeded target requirements—fell on a town of similar size, Hachioji. “Industrially, economically, militarily, and commercially the city was unimportant, except for being a railroad junction and a refugee center for Tokyo.”28  To be sure, airmen could not always gauge in advance a city’s importance. But by now a great deal could be learned, for photographic surveillance went on unimpeded. Some cities attacked did have demonstrable importance to Japan’s war effort. Ammori, a city of 100,000 people, lay at the “choke point” in the transportation corridor between Honshu and Hokkaido. LeMay’s attack there on the night of July 28-29 produced a conflagration killing 728 people and burning out most of the city, although it was unclear whether the transportation facilities themselves had been disabled. Likewise, against the industrial city of Ube on July 2, “the usual ‘fire storm’ phenomenon” occurred, but it did not spread to the large industrial buildings in the city. Hamamatsu was, in LeMay’s words, “the garbage-can target,” the place where B-29 crews that aborted missions to assigned targets regularly dumped their bomb loads. To boot, Halsey’s battleships also raked the city, though LeMay “was too busy from then on to pay much attention to the fleet bombardment episode.”22  On the few days of good weather and on occasional night missions LeMay turned away from the urban areas. The attacks on oil tanks and refineries were successful, if largely meaningless since Japan could no longer import oil anyway. Far more valuable was “the heaviest aerial mining campaign ever waged,” one that now exceeded even the damage done by American submarines. Yet the precision attacks were often labeled as “experimental” in the air force’s official history, a neat reversal from when that term was applied to fire raids. Most of LeMay’s tonnage still hit u