ious gadfly to Roosevelt, Alexander Sachs.125  As Stimson later suggested, no one at his level questioned the assumption that the bomb would and could be used against the enemy: “At no time, from 1941 to 1945, did I ever hear it suggested by the President, or by any other responsible member of the government, that atomic energy should not be used in the war. ... The entire purpose was the production of a military weapon; on no other ground could the wartime expenditure of so much time and money have been justified.” And yet Stimson’s recollections on this point were confusing, for he also claimed that “the first and greatest problem was the decision on the use of the bomb—should it be used against the Japanese, and if so, in what manner?” Clearly, given unquestioned acceptance of the bomb's use, any “decision” about use was no decision at all. Without some event or realization suddenly intruding upon official deliberations, leaders could only reaffirm an assumption long held.12°  In military terms, the most relevant event was the firebombing of Tokyo. Its success might have raised questions about the need to use the bomb: was not LeMay achieving roughly the same effect with his incendiaries that the atomic scientists could promise? Conversely, it might have stilled residual moral concern about the bomb’s use: had not the very horror of the March 10 conflagra- tion made the bomb’s legitimacy a moot point? Contemporary records leave unclear the extent to which these questions were raised in the spring of 1945. Because the orders for Tokyo's firebombing had not come from Stimson’s level and because the nuclear bomb’s use was largely unquestioned there was little immediate incentive to connect the two. Stimson’s records, however, do reveal a tenu- ous connection, made in a way that diminished concern over use of the atomic bomb—by downplaying the destructiveness of both kinds of bombing rather than comprehending it.  Although Stimson accepted the bomb’s use, he could no