f in the current war, sacrificing a measure of technological creativity to reliable abundance. Exceptions occurred but primarily when excess of industrial and technical capacity accrued late in the war (some plants were already scaling back from full production after 1942).  To be sure, Nazi rulers wanted to exploit the existing technical and industrial system, not destroy it. But heavy-handed exploitation denied the state the expertise needed to coordinate highly dispersed and complex institutions, despite belated efforts by Germany and Japan to rationalize production and make use of civilian experts. The latter remained servants, not partners, in the war effort. The final irony was that fascist totalitarianism produced far less centralization than the Allies achieved. Generals or party bureaucrats might rule particular fiefdoms with an iron hand, but no informed authority ruled over them. The Allies excelled in rationalizing production and linking laboratory to industry, the high command and the field. Cooperation proved more efficient than coercion.  The faultline did not lie simply between capitalism and totalitarianism, however, as evidenced by Soviet success in the production war. Perhaps the distinction lay in the Allies’ capacity to embrace modernism itself—not so much its gadgetry as its technique, rationalization, and integration of elites into a cooperative effort. That was just what Japan’s intellectuals, but not its leaders, realized when they “grasped the meaning of the Pacific war as ‘the overcoming of modernity.” “The important social consequence of the war for the Allied powers,” Overy concludes, “was not breaking down social barriers between classes—in fact they were in most cases confirmed—but in breaking down barriers between elites.”33 The Nazis conquered Germany’s professional elites without integrat- ing them.  Allied and American material superiority was also a function of the superior resources. But the British, from a smaller economic base,