May and Arnold an annoying diversion from strategic operations against Japan. For months they had rejected Chennault’s requests to hit the city, acquiescing only when the Japanese threatened to drive deeper into China. But Arnold did not ignore the results of the raid, which fired residential districts as well as designated dock and warehouse areas. After the fact if not in intention, the raid served as a test of firebombing tactics, its “efficacy,” as he blandly informed Stimson, important “from a long range as well as an immediate viewpoint.” In the Marianas, Arnold’s other B-29 commander, Major General Haywood Hansell, would have been well advised to have heeded the lesson of Hankow.!  Hansell had arrived on Saipan on October 12 to considerable fanfare from the press and the men already on hand. Hansell’s own words were of soldierly simplicity, to the effect that he could do more talking once he had done some fighting. The tone was appropriate, since formidable obstacles to success lay ahead.2 A month elapsed before enough bombers had arrived and training flights had been run to consider a mission to Japan. Operating on directives from Washington, Hansell picked aircraft engine plants near a crowded suburb of Tokyo, a target satisfying the needs for both a dramatic first mission (Tokyo had not been visited since the Doolittle raid) and the destruction of the Japanese air force before beginning a full-scale strategic campaign. Trouble arose long before the B-29s got off the ground. Hansell repeatedly had to delay the mission because of bad weather. Moreover, his senior wing commander questioned the readiness of the 21st Bomber Command to attack such a distant and well-defended target in daytime. Worse yet, Arnold raised similar doubts, a warning “coming from the very area in which I had expected firmest support.” Hansell later explained Arnold’s expression of concern as a political act necessary to protect the AAF: with a mighty force of newsmen in the Marianas to