rved at closer hand. Making better copy, they attracted journalists and impressed editors eager to sell by capturing public attention. As American land and sea offensives intensified in 1943 and 1944, coverage of them crowded out accounts of the strategic air war—just as the latter was reaching its maximum fury. The air war had too much glamor and importance to be ignored, but photographers and writers usually turned to aspects of it they could convey vividly—combat in the sky, the bombers themselves, and the crews: the men and technology passing in and out of missions, but not the results. The impersonality and abstractness of air war, which have become almost clichés of modern times, were reinforced by the com- mercial and artistic considerations which governed wartime reporting. In a war waged at home only in imagination, a special effort was required to grasp what bombers did.  Coverage of the air war, like that of all the war, was also limited by political considerations. Journalists could only witness what authorities permitted and report only what censors passed on. The RAF’s head of Bomber Command, Arthur Harris, pleaded for openness, but superiors overruled him. Both the RAF and AAF banned reporters from accompanying bomber missions until 1943, and even then journalists could hardly observe the action well enough to contest official claims. Edward R. Murrow’s blunt description of a Berlin raid as “a massive blow of retribution” in which “men die in the sky while others are roasted alive in their cellars” was unusual.3>  In any event, few reporters were inclined to contest official claims. They saw themselves as enlisted in the war effort, their task that of establishing confidence in Allied virtue and victory and commanders. Journalists did sometimes probe and question. But more often, as a Canadian reporter later confessed, “we were a propaganda arm of our governments. ... We were cheerleaders.” What the reporter did best in these circumstances was to capt