ons—ranging from Arnold’s chatty but pointed personal letters to reams of target information and the trivial detritus of military bureaucracy—was also novel. Hansell had earlier presided over the creation of this communications net during organization of the Twentieth’s headquarters, but he quickly became “sick of it” when he began commanding bomber missions from the Marianas in November: “The machine worked 24 hours a day all right, without stopping. Most of the messages seemed to consist of questions that I couldn’t answer. I began to understand the meaning of the remark ascribed to Lord Palmerston to the effect that the disintegration of the British Empire had begun with the invention of the telegraph.” In Hansell’s case, it was his own com- mand that was soon to disintegrate.  More important was the organizational novelty involved. It was one thing for a capital to keep close tabs on what its commanders were doing, another to plan in great detail what they would do, as Washington headquarters did in 1944. To be sure, the long line of communications to Saipan, Guam, and Kharagpur sometimes stretched thin, no flood of directives from on high could entirely substitute for judgment on the spot, the field commander with suitable drive could adapt orders to his purposes, and Arnold’s volatile temperament undercut any tendencies to settle into bureaucratic routine.  Nonetheless, the supervision from Washington was at times remarkable. “General Arnold’s control of the U.S. Air Force is as complete, virtually, as is Hitler’s control of Germany,” observed an English officer with pardonable exaggeration. “He is a complete dictator. ... Be discovered doing something Arnold does not like and Arnold sacks you—like that.” No more than Marshall and King could Arnold always play such an imperial role: in an air force huge by 1944, he was more than ever dependent on a growing headquarters staff and on a heart whose failings repeatedly removed him from day-to-day control of the ai