it would establish at last the validity of powerful fantasies about the shock value of bombing.  Just how far men went to deny the physical reality of the atomic bomb—and in doing so draw on the legacy of earlier bombing—was evident in their language. Even as nuclear policymakers played down the value of the bomb against military or industrial targets, they labored successfully to convince themselves that indeed those targets were their objective. The Interim Committee’s initial formulation, stated by Stimson, was ambiguous enough to satisfy a diversity of consciences. The committee agreed “that we could not concentrate on a civilian area” while at the same time the bomb should make as “profound psychological impression on as many of the inhabitants as possible.” The target should “be a vital war plant employing a large number of workers and closely surrounded by workers’ houses.” It was as if the workers could just watch, and any harm done to them would be incidental or inadvertent.©  Stimson, having resolved these ambiguities by ruling out Kyoto as a target, helped Truman to do the same. The two took up the matter of target selection on July 25. Truman later wrote that he “had realized, of course, that an atomic bomb explosion would inflict damage and casualties beyond imagination.” At the time, however, he had a more comforting way of looking at the bomb’s use. He told Stimson “to use it so that military objectives and soldiers and sailors are the target and not women and children. Even if the Japs are savages, ruthless, merciless and fanatic, we as the leader of the world for the common welfare cannot drop this terrible bomb on the old capital or the new.” Truman's diary did not record how he reasoned that avoiding Tokyo and Kyoto constituted sparing women and children. Presumably they lived in other cities as well, though after the war Truman wrote that he had asked Stimson “which cities in Japan were devoted exclusively to war production,” as if there were suc