ere mobilized. If, for example, a more convincing case had been presented for the feasibility of anoncombat demonstration of the bomb, it would have changed few minds, partly because men had different reasons for using the bomb and each had several.  Above all, no one at the top regarded the bomb’s use as an open question. So much effort had gone into building the bomb, so much virtue was attributed to the perfection of technique, so much energy remained bent toward its perfection rather than its purposes that the matter was effectively closed. The bomb was regarded as horrific as a force in the affairs of humankind and not as a weapon in the current war. Even at that, the bomb’s horrific nature remained such a virtue that temptation and loathing could coexist, not in fruitful interplay with each other but in a kind of paralyzing oscil- lation between hope and fear. Like the bomber had been earlier, the atomic weapon was recognized as a transcendent form of power, only to be conceived and used in the familiar ways.  THE CONUNDRUM OF SURRENDER  Grasping the realities of nuclear and conventional bombs was one challenge over the summer of 1945, but not the only impediment to a successful strategy. A knot of more mundane issues still awaited resolution. If many touched only tangentially on the exercise of air power, in the end they cluttered perception of its use.  The working environment itself was a source of confusion. The issues addressed by the great powers at Potsdam covered a staggering range. Truman also had trouble in guiding his subordin- ates with a steady hand. His cabinet and inner councils were still in flux, and he was uncertain whom to believe as well as how to act. In policy matters, he veered most wildly on what to expect from and demand of the Soviets. Like Roosevelt, he had a keen eye for public opinion but not the same certainty about how to guide it.  An unsteady guiding hand aggravated confusion about the signals received and sent out by the Ameri