ch focused on “the web of tribal behavior, communal cults, and the like,” wartime students of Japan “reinforced the impression that the Japanese were dressed-up primitives,” thus subtly confirming popular stereotypes of a backward, barbaric people. The social scientists’ characterization of the Japanese as a culturally and psychologically immature and childish people victimized by repressive toilet training—the “Scott Tissue interpretation of history,” as one anthropologist snidely described this line of argument—dovetailed with more vicious popular stereotypes of a simian race arrested in its development. Similarly, the language of individual and social pathology gave sophisticated expression to popular notions of a mad people driven by a lust to torture and conquer. More specifically, the impression they conveyed of a psychologically brittle people provided sanction, if unwitting, to the terror bombing of Japanese cities—a kind of scientific gloss on the widely held (if also disputed) notion that the Japanese would crack under the strain of bomb- ing. In short, the use made of the concept of national character permitted pejorative stereotyping under the guise of social science.83  To be sure, not all social scientists wanted to justify indiscriminate bombing, or even did so unwittingly. And certainly their influence was limited; as one complained in a different context, “The administrator uses social science the way a drunk uses a lamppost, for support rather than for illumination.” Yet this lamppost was brightly lit—widely noticed in both official Washington and the popular press. Its impact extended beyond the occasional justification for terror bombing it provided. More important was the social scientists’ effort to objectify the enemy, reducing him to an anonymous category for the application of technique. In war there are many ways to achieve distance from the enemy and from what is done to him. In fighting an elusive enemy, civilian experts cast that elusive