sh and American preparations for air war. Bombing cities was something that only fascist govern- ments, foolishly or not, attempted.  The rise of the fascist powers and their air raids on cities were very convenient for the Western democracies. The opposing images of the two camps that were fashioned almost inverted reality. The Germans never made a concerted effort to wage strategic air war, although occasionally they shifted tactical aircraft to strategic missions when opportunity, miscalculation, or fits of desperation came into play. Later, Hitler yearned for a miracle instrument of strategic air war. But he never gave strategic air power sustained support, and it lacked solid grounding in both the technology and the doctrine of the German air force.  An impression to the contrary outside Germany may be forgiven in light of Hitler’s boasts and the fascist record in Ethiopia and Spain. Exaggerating German intentions and capabilities, British and American officials thought they were following the Nazis’ lead, not pioneering the course toward air war against cities. But it remained the case that, in the 1930s, only England and America seriously developed the concept and instruments of strategic air war. Of course, in both countries that development was shrouded in a fog of bureaucratic battles, governmental indecision, shifting strategies, and unarticulated purposes. In the United States, the defensive rationale for heavy bombers and the continuing struggle over air force autonomy obscured long-run trends. In England, air policy was buffeted by conflicting impulses for disarmament and air superiority and by deep divisions over whether to settle for a “shop-window” (in contemporary jargon) air force designed to impress potential enemies or to develop a bomber force capable of waging a sustained war. For reasons of deterrence, the RAF concentrated more on the bomber’s role as destroyer of cities than did the Americans, who emphasized precision bombing. And by the lat