n 1944, was one source of that tendency.  That application should not be blamed solely on the scientists who were coming into power. The urge to quantify was also related to the airman’s eagerness to intensify operations and to the difficulties inherent in air war of measuring effects by any but numerical methods. Moreover, many of the operations researchers were not scientists. The language and standards of measurement they employed were often borrowed not from science but from the balance sheet mentality of capitalism. The effort to construct a profit-and-loss statement of air war reflected a belief that entrepreneur- ial models were appropriate to war.  In the end, one is unsure whether to be impressed by the sophistication evident in viewing Japan as a vast laboratory in destruction or appalled by the naivete and narrowness of what these experts did. For all the weight of intelligence brought to bear on the bombing effort, it was still possible for one analyst, as late as June 6, 1945, to complain that “unfortunately, there has been to date no careful study of bombing accuracy from B-29’s.”46 The failure to do something so simple and critical to an evaluation of success suggests how the application of expertise served to make the mo- mentum of destruction more thoughtless than refined.  To be sure, much skill entered into the designation of bomb targets in the war’s last two years. Yet the Committee of Operations Analysts, an elite of American experts, was perhaps no more shrewd in its recommendations than the air officers who had far more hastily drawn up rudimentary estimates of air force needs and strategy at the start of the war.*” That the initial hunches turned out to be so good was perhaps less a reflection upon the skill of the civilian experts than upon the difficulty in reducing decisions about war to systematic formulas. It also reflected the fact that the ex- perts did not see their job to be one of connecting the refinement of means to the pursuit o