having to fight them.  Thus the humiliation of fighting Japan fused with other emotions—racial hatred, anger at American losses and Japanese brutalities, and desire for revenge—to sanction the utmost destruction. The enemy, at once inhuman and dehumanized, deserved a commensurate punishment, a kind that least soiled American hands by actual contact with the enemy.  For the purpose of punishing such a foe in that manner, strategic bombing was the ideal vehicle—savage in consequences but impersonal in method. Through films and other forms of popular culture, and through occasional but frequent statements by their leaders, many Americans had learned and expressed this view of the bomber’s attractiveness. This view only intensified during the war’s last year. The president’s son, Elliott Roosevelt, wanted Japan bombed “until we have destroyed about half the Japanese civilian population.” Paul V. McNutt, chairman of the War Manpower Commission, went on record in April 1945 as favoring “the extermination of the Japanese in toto.” A month earlier, the U.S. Marine monthly Leatherneck, visually depicting the Japanese as vermin under the caption “Louseous Japanicas,” described the American need to combat the Japanese “pestilence” by carrying out “the gigantic task of extermination,” one to be finished only when “the breed- ing grounds around the Tokyo area” were “completely annihilated.” An elusive, loathsome, and fanatical foe seemed to deserve nothing less.74  Over the war’s final year, Japan’s fanaticism, real and alleged, was increasingly cited as justification for the destruction of her cities, an act necessary to punish and subdue a suicidal nation. To be sure, American bombers leveled Japan’s cities far more systematically than Germany’s in part for circumstantial reasons—the RAF usually performed that task for the Allies in Europe. Even when American bombers joined the RAF, however, the enemy’s fanaticism was rarely cited as justification. The ultimate fury of America