ampaigns. The distance from which Americans (and others) observed and waged air war derived partly from the historical, political, and strategic circumstances already described. But it also developed out of sources that might be called sociological: the backgrounds, mentalities, and interests of the people who made air war possible. Together these forces, plus additional ones noted in the subsequent chapter, produced something similar to, but more complex than, what MacDonald observed.  THE GENERALS  General Henry Harley Arnold remained the dominant figure in the air force over the summer of 1944. As the 20th Bomber Command began operating from bases in China and India, halfway around the world in Washington Arnold wielded personal authority over it. He had apparently written the 20th’s commander, General K. B. Wolfe, that “I do not want ever to put myself in the position of having to, or of feeling that I have to, tell you how to do that job. I have every confidence in your ability.”2 But with Arnold, rituals of reassurance usually signaled sagging confidence in his subordinates. On July 1, only days after the 20th launched its first mission against Japan, Arnold recalled Wolfe, whose forte had been aircraft engineering and whose leadership was too cautious for Arnold’s taste. He was replaced with a rising star of combat commanders, Curtis LeMay, who took command at the end of August.  A generation separated Arnold, then fifty-eight and an elder among air force generals, from the thirty-seven-year-old LeMay, who had entered the Air Corps after service in Army ROTC at Ohio State University. The two did not know each other personally. But they saw war in similar ways and they were typical figures in the wartime air force. What was most striking about men like LeMay and Arnold was how little fascination they had with combat. There were exceptions—General Claire Chennault, for example, whose relish for battle never seemed to abate—but the Chennaults rarely rose far. Fe