merican shelves large numbers of obsolescent craft which otherwise would have served as a drag  Wt lat eat at Lc a re a - a a 2 Pe ee | a sees See Ce. > ae  Page 80 of 368 19%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  CREE Ce gens Cake ene REE ee eee Ee Cee ae REE RES RRR BE ECR EE! AUN FREY ER CREE OU CARR CRE ROS ae ae cee Pe ae ee ee ee  indicated much the same temper.14  Roosevelt’s concept of the indivisibility of peace also argued for a more powerful and visible American deterrent. He preached “that no nation can be safe in its will to peace so long as any other powerful nation refuses to settle its grievances at the council table.” Peace was a seamless fabric, especially because of economic and technological advances that marked a break with the past. Even before the outbreak of blitzkrieg warfare, he was stressing how “the world has grown so small and weapons of attack so swift.” Such language, now abstract but soon to be laced with pointed references to the impact of air power, outlined the technological rationale for a global definition of national security. The United States could respond to global insecurity by “many methods short of war, but stronger and more effective than mere words,” Roosevelt promised. Roosevelt disqualified intervention “with arms” and singled out neutrality laws as an obstacle to effective policy, but his “methods short of war” clearly countenanced more than just revision in legal and economic policy. Repudiation of armed intervention did not exclude intervention by the display of arms. Methods short of war could still embrace the capacity for deterrence that rearmament implied. And in Roosevelt’s developing concept of undeclared war, methods short of war shaded off imperceptibly into methods of war, although he was not ready to abandon efforts at diplomacy and disarmament hitherto tried and found wanting.1>  For Roosevelt’s purposes, air power seemed an ideal instrument, decisive yet humane, for deterring, limi