es often needed each other, with the air force especially dependent on the navy’s plan to seize and supply the Marianas. Less parochial commanders welcomed contributions from rival services; Admiral Chester Nimitz, doubtful that sea power alone could defeat Japan, was eager to see Japan “get the kind of thorough city-by-city demolition Germany is getting now.”45 But compromise bred duplication, and with it bloody campaigns whose ultimate contribution to victory was doubtful. Indeed, Marshall opposed invasion of the Philippines, but Roosevelt finally ruled in MacArthur’s favor —another reminder that dubious campaigns were not confined to air force commanders. Furthermore, troubled minds within the services did urge the streamlining of Allied strategy, in much the same way that some officers sought to streamline Anglo-American bombing. Their efforts bore little fruit.  In this climate of strategic indecision, assumptions about the methods and purposes of air war again often revealed themselves in peripheral issues: the fate of American POWs in Japanese hands; release of information about Japanese atrocities; and possibilities of gas warfare. By September 1943, evidence of atrocities against American captives had mounted, and journalists were eager to break the story. Roosevelt and the War Department feared that early release would jeopardize efforts to deliver Red Cross supplies for American POWs in Japanese hands. In the longer run, both strategy and public opinion were at issue. Marshall wanted “the storm of bitterness” sure to arise in the United States upon release of the story to “be directed along carefully thought out lines rather than left to dissipate itself in a lurid press and unpredictable reactions.” The problem, that is, was to bend popular reactions toward more effective mobilization of the war effort. More pointedly, as the joint staff planners saw the issue, release of the stories should be saved until later in order to “steel public opinion to the da