disorganized Chinese and her economic weaknesses. Those Japanese who typed Americans as shallow materialists unwilling to fight distorted the enemy as well. The point is not that Washington’s air strategy in the fall of 1941 was the simple product of racism. The wish to foresee easy Japanese capitulation also derived from another legacy—arising especially out of the Munich crisis—of seeing air power as a cheap instrument of intimidation. But racist attitudes enhanced the attraction to air power, above all by minimizing the claims of conscience; assuming the Japanese would cave in quickly to American bombing, American leaders did not have to confront the possibility of killing thousands in a long aerial campaign.1°8  Most important, the story of their abortive plans suggests that the ferocity of America’s final aerial assault on Japan in 1945 was not a simple response to Japanese treachery on December 7 and tenacity thereafter or to the formidable obstacles against American victory. Well before December 7, some American leaders had considered their own exercise in surprise bombing, one whose contemplation blurs the facile notions of Japanese perfidy and American vulnerability so easily enshrined for Americans in the “day of infamy.” The United States was the true pioneer of strategic air war, and whereas the Japanese attack on Hawaii aimed almost wholly at traditional military objectives, American plans envisioned wholesale attack on civilians. Even before December 7, air power ap- pealed as a vehicle for easy victory and vengeance.  The crucial element was not simply faith in American technology. Nor was it precisely faith in air power. It was faith in the idea of air power. For on the eve of Pearl Harbor, air power was still largely for Americans an idea, an alternative to war as much as a way to wage it. Its use under some circumstances was, of course, imaginable. But imagination was in a holding pattern. The approach- ing possibility of America’s use provoked lit