its “tactical influence upon land and sea warfare,” as Life commented. As a strategic weapon, its methods would be selective, not indiscriminate. Life reported in August 1941 its satisfaction that new British bombing of Germany “was enough to lift the hearts of all the free peoples” and welcomed the news that the British now “were dishing it out” as well as taking it. But like American air strategists, popular commentators failed to reckon with this ominous devel- opment in the bomber’s use to achieve psychological satisfaction rather than military victory, or simply glossed over the critical issue of what targets an ally’s bombers might seek.*°  In several years of observing air war, Americans who paid attention to it had moved from imagination to reality in a piecemeal, gradual fashion. The slow, erratic nature of that war’s escalation, plus its indecisiveness, fostered acceptance. If the war had begun with the catastrophic, knockout blow previously foreseen, the shock might have induced more intense concern about air war’s moral- ity, utility, and probability to reoccur. Piecemeal evolution of air war produced relief that reality was less terrifying than the nightmare and gave Americans time to absorb and accept this new descent into barbarism. What happened was more complex than the simple movement from horror of bombing to the “uncritical acceptance of all the claims made for the airplane by its most enthusiastic advocates.” Nor was it clear that “American disapproval of Fascist bombings manifested itself in a desire for revenge, rather than a desire to abolish bombing.”*! These factors were sometimes at work,  Page 92 of 368 21%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON words to describe the thing that is happening.” If much of his reporting belied that claim, reticence still governed. He preferred to “talk about the people underground,” about the frightened and the brave, the dislocated and the determined, almost never the dead and the wound