d the professionals by capturing the psychic ease with which men could wage war by air. It “takes advantage of the limits of human imagination. If you bayonet a child, you see the spurt of blood, the curling up of the little body, the look in the eyes. ... But if you loose a bomb on a town, you see only that you have made a fair hit.” The “gallant” airmen he talked to during World War I “were thinking and talking not of the effects of their bombs but only of ‘the hit.’”” Beyond that, “they closed their imagination—as one must do in war.”2&  But Irwin’s provocative tract triggered no extended debate about the efficacy or morality of American air power. In fact, it was not intended to, for Irwin’s concern was the abolition of war by international law and organization, not contemplation of how to wage it. At most, his book was an exception that proved the rule: in an era of self-proclaimed American isolation from Europe’s quar- rels, the apocalyptic visions of Europeans like Douhet and Liddell Hart found expression only on the fringes of American debate.  The arguments of skeptics about air power did not penetrate far either. One presidential board appointed to investigate the aviation controversy, challenging the air prophets, contended that World War I “taught us again that man can not make a machine stronger than the spirit of man.” The board condemned “the belief that new and deadlier weapons will shorten future wars” as likely to “lead to a readier acceptance of war as the solution of international difficulties.” As so often with skeptics, however, in dismissing the promise of air power they also came near to dismissing its danger: “The next war may well start in the air but in all probability will wind up, as the last war did, in the mud.” The skeptics’ dismissal of air war on cities, like Mitchell’s vision of sturdy self-sufficiency, gave Americans the luxury of developing the bomber in the reassuring context of continental defense.17  PROPHECY AND POLITICS  The