the rooftops of London, himself personified resistance, and he communicated the less evident attractions of air war: the awe it inspired, the rallying of the spirit it induced, the national bonding it forged. “There’s almost a small-town atmosphere about the place,” Murrow reported from London. “I’ve even heard a conversation between total strangers in a railway car—something which was unthinkable in peacetime.” He concluded that “class distinction” crumbled “in an air-raid shelter at three o’clock in the morning.” Reporting the conviction that England would survive, Murrow unquestionably informed Americans. But to Murrow, “there are no words to describe the thing that is happening.” If much of his reporting belied that claim, reticence still governed. He preferred to “talk about the people underground,” about the frightened and the brave, the dislocated and the determined, almost never the dead and the wounded.  Murrow’s message was hopeful. Night bombing was “serious and sensational. It makes headlines, kills people, and smashes property; but it doesn’t win wars. It may be safely presumed that the  Rarmane knaur that cavaral dave nf tarrar hambina urill nat cance thie eauntry ta eallanca” Tha imnlicit maceaaa wae that air wrar acainet Pnoland lila that wracad aarliar acainet Gnain and China  Page 92 of 368 21%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON familiar promise that air power’s virtue transcended its actual use: its “threat ...can accomplish without dropping a bomb the breakdown of opposing diplomatic morale.”45  Popular literature, then, gave only a sidelong glance at the potential uses of American air power. So, too, did reporting on the actual air war in Europe. That war began in earnest in the summer of 1940 through a series of escalations undertaken by both sides. As early as July 8, Churchill had called for “an absolutely devastating, exterminating attack” on Germany, and he sanctioned the first raid against Berlin on August 25. By t