airmen did not decide to bomb in a moral vacuum. As Eaker later commented, “Arnold feared the reaction of the U.S. public to urban area bombing of women and children. He pointed to the large percentage of German people in this country and those who felt we should not have become involved ina war with Germany at all.” In contrast, “Ninety percent of Americans would have killed every Japanese.” As Spaatz quite correctly recalled, “We didn’t hear any complaints from the American people about mass bombing of Japan; as a matter of fact, I think they felt the more we did the better.” When rudderless in their own right, the moral sensibilities of airmen were steered by perceptions of  — a et ee 28 FO ei tt a et a tt i att et ere re a ee oe ee re ae ee oe ae eat tae  Page 244 of 368 56%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON to explore NOW UESLFUCLION WOULG LULTIL Its imal purpose.  The air force nonetheless received speculation which challenged or qualified racial stereotypes common in America during the war. In 1943, for example, a Justice Department official proposed “total destruction of the Imperial Palace itself as the ‘ace card’ of the Allied Nations,” an act so degrading to the Japanese that it would “prove conclusively the sacred grounds were not being protected from the ravages of war by a ‘Divine Being.” Army Intelligence sought out the opinion of State’s Eugene Dooman, a Far Eastern expert who complained of “a general disposition toward clothing the problem of Japanese mass psychology with a lot of mysticism.” Many Japanese, he pointed out, “have a fairly rational point of view concerning the origin of the Japanese people and of the imperial family.” Dooman welcomed the most vigorous bombing campaign, but his analysis undercut assumptions that the Japanese, because of their racial nature or their previous experience with earthquake and fire, would be peculiarly vulnerable to panic or despair if their cities were torched.”3  A similar tone em