ho at least had the virtue of an ugly honesty rare in high circles, was closer to the mark in his memoirs, when he referred to “the destruction of factories” as only “a bonus.” The rationale for British bombing methods had clearly changed from the early days of area bombing, when the destruction of workers and their housing had been deemed the regrettable by-product of industrial raids. Hamburg marked grim progress toward a goal for bombing once proposed by Harris’s superior, Sir Charles Portal—killing 900,000 Germans and render- ing 25 million homeless.14  Hamburg revealed that Harris sought victory not by disarming Germans of their sword or disabling the forge that produced it, but by destroying the people manning the forge; and at that not through some sudden shock to their morale, which Harris now thought unlikely, but through sustained attrition of their habitats and lives. Americans knew this, Eaker’s spring plan making clear that the RAF was to engage in the “mass destruction” of German cities. The directive for the “battle” of Hamburg had made the RAF’s objective the “total destruction” of the city as a method to “achieve im- measurable results in reducing the industrial capacity of the enemy’s war machine.”!5  “Immeasurable,” perhaps just a slip of the pen, also suggested how soft were the calculations justifying this bombing. British strategists scarcely did more than prewar theorists in detailing the connection between planned destruction and the enemy’s defeat. But as Max Hastings has written, “If a precise definition of success was not arrived at, nor was a yardstick of failure.” Admirals whose ships sank or generals who lost ground could be sacked. Air marshals could not so clearly be judged. Intangible criteria invited unlimited escalation. As Churchill put it after the war, “the debt” the Germans incurred by their blitz of England “was repaid tenfold, twentyfold, in the frightful routine bombardment of German cities. ... Certainly the enemy got it al