e of military forces—to prevent or win wars. Its contemporary meaning often emphasized something slightly different—a tendency of military institutions and their allies not only toward self-aggrandizement, but toward the promotion of war itself. See Vagts, A History of Militarism, Civilian and Military (1937, 1959), especially 13-17.  Page 42 of 368 10%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON different—a tendency of military institutions and their allies not only toward self-aggrandizement, but toward the promotion of war itself. See Vagts, A History of Militarism, Civilian and Military (1937, 1959), especially 13-17.  The Decline of Danger  During the 1930s, the attractions of air power that prevailed during happier days persisted, though in somewhat altered forms. Despite increasing world tensions and spreading use of the bomber in several conflicts, expectation that the United States might go to war, particularly that it would do so with the bomber as its foremost weapon, diminished for a time. The airmen’s new doctrine of precision bombing, public debate about air power theories, and American responses to the bomber’s use abroad all made danger appear remote. In turn, remoteness allowed technology and planning to proceed with important questions left unanswered, or even unasked.  PUBLIC IMAGE AND PROFESSIONAL DOCTRINE  As aviation was presented to Americans during the first half of the decade, its potential for peacetime uses seemed more than ever separable from its military application. To be sure, the onset of the Great Depression raised disturbing questions about the economic and social impact of technological change. But aviation was largely exempt from the doubts raised about technology. On the contrary, economic disaster encouraged Americans to see in the rapid growth of commercial aviation a rare glimmer of vitality. Not only did airlines expand rapidly, but the airplane itself appeared on the verge of democratization, near to becoming