iscovering a drop in delivery of controllable pitch propellers, the Air Corps learned that a simple but critical spring for the pro- pellers all  came from one plant and that that plant in Pittsburgh had suffered from a flood. There was a perfect and classical example. To all intents and purposes a very large portion of the entire aircraft industry... had been nullified just as effectively as if a great many airplanes had been individually shot up, or a considerable number of factories had been hit. That practical example set the pattern for the ideal selection of precision targets. ... That was the kind of thing that was sought in every economy.  Transportation, steel plants, ball-bearing manufacture, food delivery systems, energy supplies, and above all electrical power contained a few vital gears whose destruction would jam vast economic systems. Selective attack would bring systemic disorganization.1°  It would also do so quickly and cheaply. Airmen did not stipulate the numbers of aircraft or the length of time required to achieve victory, in part because they were speculating broadly instead of drawing up war plans against specific nations. But Mitchell made extravagant claims with regard to numbers—four hundred planes would do the job. “The only reason to build 2,300 airplanes is to feed hungry contractors,” he promised, adding that three modern ships would “demoralize and destroy Japan.” And the analogies and examples cited by the theorists at the tactical school suggested quick paralysis induced by small numbers of aircraft, though later estimates were more realistic11  Enticingly precise about the key components of the modern state and how to attack them, air planners were exasperatingly vague about how defeat would follow upon their destruction. At times, following a more traditional definition of strategy, they suggested that destruction would lead to victory by undermining the war-making capacity of an enemy; deprived of the sinews of war or the means t