R POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON battlefield has done its work, Hank Morgan, the Yankee genius, surveys the results. “Of course we could not count the dead, because they did not exist as individuals, but merely as homogeneous protoplasm, with alloys of iron and buttons.”! Mark Twain’s fantasy, full of doubt about the future of mankind and men’s wars, satirized the attractions and dangers of a dehumanized technology of war: destructive passion disguised as cold science, peril clothed in progress, imperialism masked as ingenuity. In the decades after Twain wrote, the attractions were more persuasive, especially when men and women anticipated the role that aircraft might play.  THE LIMITS OF FANTASY  Twain had not foreseen the airplane, but in imagining more generally the consequences of modern weaponry, he had established a perspective within which the airplane might have been viewed. By the time his prophecy appeared in 1889, a substantial predictive literature about flight already existed; it proliferated over the next twenty-five years of technological development capped by the Wright brothers’ first powered flight in 1903. Moreover, this literature flourished in the context of an explosive growth in other military technologies and in the acquisition of armaments, armies, and navies by the world’s major powers.  Throughout the period, military uses for aircraft were hardly unforeseen. More than any other modern weapon, the bomber was imagined before it was invented. In a century of primitive experiments with balloons and then with dirigibles, nearly every claim later advanced by strategists of air war was already mentioned. After 1900, the first demonstrations of heavier-than-air craft usually had unmistakable military implications, or took place in public view of governments’ interest in those implications. They were obvious to Europeans after the first flights across the English Channel. In the United States, the initial wave of publicity regarding the airplan