the barest details of air raids. But on this occasion he carefully accounted the destruction, listing the many buildings burned down. He also let his imagination run free regarding the fate which the enemy could mete out. Given the “tremendous effect of his mass incendiary bombing,” the enemy had “by no means a difficult task to sweep away, one after another all the cities and towns down to villages in the country by fire,” along with “stored up clothing and foodstuffs,” creating a situation “really past salvation” with the onset of cold weather. Kido was at last glimpsing what most Japanese already knew.  The precise impact of the May raids on the Japanese government remains difficult to measure. Regarding Japan’s political strategy, the raids acted only as another catalyst to the more urgent pursuit of Soviet mediation, though by now Foreign Minister Togo bluntly emphasized the futility of that course. Nor did formal military strategy take a new turn. It remained harnessed to the hope, belligerently expressed but deeply doubted, that fanatical resistance on land and at sea would force the enemy to compromise on peace terms. Invasion, not air raids, would decide Japan’s fate.* But the raids’ impact could not be measured only by formal policy. Given the capacity of Japan’s “peace” faction to feel intimidated by die-hard militarists, that policy changed only at a glacial pace. Almost an unmentionable shame, the destruction of the imperial quarters produced a reaction played out less in words than in solemn ritual, particularly the many attempts to resign office. As Kido’s diary indi- cated, in court circles the May raids drove home Japan’s hopelessness in a visceral way that no other event of these last months could match.  For the short term at least, these raids also played into the hands of the die-hards. Some of its American proponents had hoped that a direct attack on the emperor would destroy his divine mystique in the eyes of the Japanese masses and thereby cr