nly could. He demanded aircraft “with which to impress Germany” and on January 10 lectured top army officials that “the only check to a world war, which would be understood by Germany, would be the creation of a great [French] air force and a powerful force in this country.” He was scarcely less forceful with congressional leaders, lecturing them in January that “there would not have been any Munich” if the British and French air forces had been double the size they were. Clearly, Roosevelt had his dutch up.1!  Particularly in public, he also knew how to cast his new interest in air power in more limited and acceptable terms. Nineteen thirty-eight had brought fresh evidence of German political subversion in Latin America and of Germany’s potential to attack Latin America by air should it secure bases in West Africa. Roosevelt told his conference on November 14 to prepare “to resist attack on the western hemisphere from the North Pole to the South Pole” and to have “a sufficiently large air force to deter anyone from landing in either North or South America.”!2 Not news to the War De- partment, which was already developing plans for such a mission, the effort to strengthen hemisphere defense through air power secured the unquestioned cooperation of military officials.  In envisioning these ambitious roles for air power, Roosevelt acted on complex motives which he only sketched in private and was hardly inclined to make public. One motive was secondary, though politically risky. Roosevelt did not rearm to reemploy, but he was determined that rearmament maximize employment in an economy in renewed recession and mindful of the political advantages of economic stimulation. Roosevelt, of course, flatly denied such intentions, telling the press that “national defense is national defense and nothing else.” In private he baldly confided his political motives. “These foreign orders” for airplanes, Morgenthau recorded the president as saying, “mean prosperity in this country a