olitical debate did little to clarify conceptions of the airplane’s purpose. A struggle over where to place aviation in the military system—one destined to plague military politics for decades—was already beginning. But that struggle did as much to sidetrack thinking about the airplane’s purpose as to inform it, partly because it encouraged exaggerated claims from partisans, partly because it focused attention on the organizational forms rather than on the strategic substance of air power.  True, it was possible to imagine that the airplane would some day be more than “merely an added means of communication, observation and reconnaissance,” as the assistant secretary of war characterized it in 1913.22 By 1916 even the army’s general staff, never given to a generous view of the airplane’s potential, recommended aviation’s eventual separation from the Signal Corps, while Congress was already considering a proposal for a cabinet-level department of aviation. During the war, aviation was finally removed from the Signal Corps’ authority and might have become an inde- pendent service had the war gone on longer.  But young airmen like William Mitchell and Henry Harley Arnold, who would later lead the fight for aviation’s autonomy, were content before 1917 to remain wards of the Signal Corps, unsure as yet that they had either the doctrine or the political resources to fly on their own. In the navy, more accustomed to technological change and to projecting American power abroad, a few officers were more venturesome. They foresaw a place for naval aviation in defending the Philippines, the first of generations of officers who looked to air power as an economical way to defend American interests in the Far East. They also weighed development of aircraft carriers and bombing missions for their planes. Neither before nor during World War I did the navy do much with these possibilities, limit- ing its aviation largely to reconnaissance and coastal defense.?!  Before World War I,