the contrary, only the renewed fire raids on Tokyo at the end of May caught his attention and led him to query Arnold about “my promise from Lovett that there would be only precision bombing in Japan.” Stimson was disturbed by press reports indicating a “bombing of Tokyo which was very far from that.” Arnold explained that Japan presented a “difficult situation” because industries were scattered about in cities and were “closely connected in site with the houses of their employees,” but promised to limit “damage to civilians.”128  Arnold’s explanation was, of course, misleading in implying that civilians were the victims only of unavoidable spillover from attacks on economic objectives. But more important, Stimson declined to question him critically. As in his response to Dresden, Stimson did not want to confront the brutality of American bombing: he merely wanted reassurance that it had been reduced to the minimum. His self-deception played an important role in his acceptance of the atomic bomb’s use against cities. “The war,” particularly LeMay’s firebombing, it is often said, “had so brutalized the American leaders that burning vast numbers of civilians no longer posed a real predicament by the spring of 1945.”122 But Stimson’s case showed that something more subtle and self-deceptive sometimes took place. He responded to LeMay’s firebombing by bolstering in his mind a fraudulent image about what restraints remained in force. As an incident legitimizing the bomb's use, the hor- ror of March 10 figured largely in the moral defense he constructed after the war, not in his thinking at the time.  Stimson also achieved reassurance by striking Kyoto from the target lists for both conventional and atomic attacks. Having visited Kyoto before the war and discussed its significance in private conversations that spring, Stimson appreciated its similarity to Dresden as a cultural and historical city of unique importance. His motives for exempting Kyoto were complex and shift