g. Marshall and Arnold were eager enough to bomb Japan, but the logistical and military obstacles against doing so from China were staggering. “It requires a massive effort here to get a pin point out there,” Marshall lamented. Earlier, he had called Chennault’s designs “just nonsense; not strategy, just nonsense.” Backed by Roosevelt, Chennault got com- mitments to increases in aircraft and the supplies coming over the Hump route, but not enough for a blow against Japan or even for success against Japanese forces in China.27  Until well into 1943, the political importance Roosevelt attached to bombing from Chinese bases had paralleled the strategic priorities of the military command. The paucity of American resources for the Pacific war, the immensity of Chinese armies, the pull of China’s plight all coincided to accord China a pivotal place in American plans. By August 1943, planners recognized how their strategy had been made hostage to China’s ill fortunes. The Combined Staff was now projecting a bomber offensive for 1947, a dismaying prospect to Arnold’s staff. The 1947 timetable was no less satisfying to Admiral Ernest J. King or to Marshall, who feared that a “growing impatience” for quick victory over Japan would develop among Americans once Germany collapsed. Roosevelt was pressing for a shortcut to Japan lest the war go on for “one hundred years.” Referring to Hamburg’s recent fate, he suggested, “We can use Siberian air fields ... to attack the heart of Japan in a manner that she will find it hard to endure.”28  The air staff began scrambling for other ways to strike Japan. The new B-29 bombers, once slated to go to Europe, promised a greater weight and range of effort if the bases could be found. The staff attempted to cut through the thicket of logistical and political barriers against operating out of China by proposing that B-29s stage out of India, using advance bases in China only to refuel and load bombs. In the longer run, the Mariana Islands prom