s line of thinking. The British could fight with little else but the bomber and their navy for the moment. The Russians might tie down the Nazi armies, but even optimists could not predict their eventual victory. While American naval forces were deepening their role in the undeclared Atlantic war, Congress signaled continued aversion to any intervention by American ground forces abroad when the House, on August 12, extended draftees’ terms of service by a margin of just one vote and retained a ban on sending draftees beyond the hemisphere. In November Paul Douglas of the University of Chicago informed Roosevelt that Americans accepted “use of an airforce but they are opposed at present to an A.E.F. [American Expeditionary Force].” Public opinion polls were confirming these preferences. So was Walter Lippmann, who argued in September that a large ground army was “the cancer which obstructs national unity, causes discontent which subversive elem- ents exploit, and weakens the primary measures of our defense.” Should the United States go to war, its contribution to the war effort should consist “basically of Navy, Air, and manufacturing.”5”  In more guarded ways, military leaders were also embracing air power, despite the blitz and Britain’s own indifferent record with the bomber. British troubles with American bombers were writ- ten off to poor handling and strategic pigheadedness. Since the British and Germans had shifted to night bombing, they simply failed to wage the war of economic strikes the Americans envisioned.*®  In official strategic plans the bomber was gaining prominence. The broad frame-work of strategy in which the bomber would fit had been taking shape since the fall of 1940. The initiative came from Admiral Harold Stark, the Chief of Naval Operations, who gave cogent exposition to a Europe-first strategy. He identified defense of Britain, victory in the Atlantic, and defeat of Germany as priorities, while the United States should avert war in the Paci