way, the alarm that might be felt by the Russians, the supremacy the bomb’s use might confer on the United States, and the shock to be given to a war-mad world. Other arguments, about the dangers and impracticality of warnings or demonstration, for example, were more intricate.  Yet it was not as if these many justifications came together to form some critical mass whose force compelled the bomb’s use. In the physics of the bomb, the malfunction of one component would prevent formation of a critical mass. But in deliberations about the bomb, the discrediting of one component in the rationale for use would not have disturbed its persuasiveness. Only some shock to an entire system of values would have altered history. There was a parallel to the firebombing. In both cases, the action taken did not hinge on the views or influence of one or a few men or on the persuasiveness of one argument. If one argument was weak, others were mobilized. If, for example, a more convincing case had been presented for the feasibility of a noncombat demonstration of the bomb, it would have changed few minds, partly because men had different reasons for using the bomb and each had several.  Above all, no one at the top regarded the bomb’s use as an open question. So much effort had gone into building the bomb, so much virtue was attributed to the perfection of technique, so much energy remained bent toward its perfection rather than its purposes that the matter was effectively closed. The bomb was regarded as horrific as a force in the affairs of humankind and not as a weapon in the current war. Even at that, the bomb’s horrific nature remained such a virtue that temptation and loathing could coexist, not in fruitful interplay with each other but in a kind of paralyzing oscil- lation between hope and fear. Like the bomber had been earlier, the atomic weapon was recognized as a transcendent form of power, only to be conceived and used in the familiar ways.  THE CONUNDRUM OF SURRENDER  Gras