ps the distinction lay in the Allies’ capacity to  embrace modernism itself—not so much its gadgetry as its technique, rationalization, and integration of elites into a cooperative effort. That was just what Japan’s intellectuals, but not its leaders, realized when they “grasped the meaning of the Pacific war as ‘the overcoming of modernity.” “The important social consequence of the war for the Allied powers,” Overy concludes, “was not breaking down social barriers between classes—in fact they were in most cases confirmed—but in breaking down barriers between elites.”23 The Nazis conquered Germany’s professional elites without integrat- ing them.  Allied and American material superiority was also a function of the superior resources. But the British, from a smaller economic base, outproduced the Germans in aircraft until 1944, and the Soviet Union did so throughout the war despite massive devastation and the vast expansion of Germany’s economic base through conquest. Organizational expertise, not sheer abundance, was the key variable. A good example was British and American skill in converting automobile companies to aircraft production, allowing the use of mass production techniques those industries had pioneered. Only Ford’s massive Willow Run plant, churning out B-24 Liberators, approached full employment of those methods; aircraft and aeroengine production was notoriously resistant to rationalization and standardization. But the sympathy of Arnold and Lovett for new methods of production, despite resistance from some aviation firms, stood in notable contrast to Germany’s experience. There too a substantial automobile industry was available but hardly exploited. Failure to anticipate a long war, resistance from craft workers and manufacturers, the attempt to preserve consumer-goods production, poor use of native labor and the slave work force, and the dispersal of industry dictated by Allied bombing all retarded German efforts to rationalize production and achiev