rticular the bomber’s ambiguous record in the world war, taught “less than nothing,” Douhet announced. But the past still bound the prophets. They could not really imagine a future, except one crudely extrapolated from contemporary experience. Dismissing most of the war’s record, they simplistically assumed that bomb damage in a future conflict would be a simple multiple of previous experience: a tenfold increase in bomb tonnage yielding ten times the panic and dislocation. Abolishing navies, they developed a doctrine that echoed the great naval strategist Alfred Thayer Mahan in his emphasis on a single battle fleet and strangulation of an enemy’s civilian economy.!2 Their uncomplicated faith in the bomber’s offensive capacity mimicked the commitment of an earlier generation to the offensive a outrance on the ground and at sea. A single-minded offensive spirit, derided by the prophets as madness in conventional warfare, returned witha vengeance in their scenarios of air war. They did not see how their own weapon might evolve unpredictably, strengthening the defense as well as the offense, creating its own futile charges and bloody stalemates. They were also disconcertingly content to let the past predict the future of ground and naval warfare. Liddell Hart, with his emerging theories of fast, mechanized armies, was more flexible in this regard. But Douhet ignored the possibility that surface warfare might regain its offensive capacity—in good part because of the tactical aviation which Douhet so contemptuously dismissed.  Douhet could write movingly of the “mysterious aspect” of war. He was awed by how “whole peoples become wolves and throw themselves into torment and a bloody work of destruction, as though possessed by blind folly.” Yet in the end he believed that “war is simple, like good sense,” and that any conclusions other than his would “deny reason itself.” As historian he appreciated the psychological complexity of war, but as prophet he discarded it. He an