ides had aimed their bombs “against civilians. Because our bombing has been more effective and hence more devastating,” however, “Americans have become a synonym for destruction.” Now the “new weapon... may bring us victory quickly,” but it would “sow the seeds of hate more widely than ever. We may yet reap the whirlwind.”142  Baldwin tried to resist rash, didactic predictions. The nuclear age might spell “the end of urban civilization as we know it,” but Baldwin urged his readers to accept the uncertainty they faced: the “new face” of war was only “chaos.” Even Baldwin, however, surrendered to the temptation to see a kind of certainty in the bomb’s advent: the existence of only two outcomes for mankind. “Atomic energy may well lead to a bright new world in which man shares a common brotherhood, or we shall become—beneath the bombs and rockets—a world of troglodytes.” By choosing that perspective, Baldwin, like many others, revived the tradition by which generations had regarded new weapons simultaneously as horrific and beneficent. As the journalist Max Lerner put it, the choice was “world state or world doom.” Or as the Times editorial staff observed, “We face the prospect either of destruction on a scale which dwarfs anything thus far reported. .. or of a golden era of social change which would satisfy the most romantic utopian.” From the University of Chicago, Robert Hutchins hoped that “the atomic bomb is the good news of damnation, that it may frighten us into that Christian character and those righteous actions and those positive political steps necessary to the creation of a world society, not a thousand or five hundred years hence, but now.”!43  Hope was given several expressions. The Times’s editorialists thought that the bomb made it both opportune and necessary to prevent future war by American leadership in democratizing the world. Like many other commentators, the Times was unclear whether the world was to be saved from the atomic bomb or through it. B