ded to his diary, “would change the whole picture in the Far East.” He found Secretary of State Cordell Hull eager to unleash the bombers, perhaps even to have them drop some tonnage on Tokyo on their way to China. Even Morgenthau confessed, “Well, Cordell, you leave me speechless.” When Morgenthau presented the plan to FDR, the president was “simply delighted.” Pressed by Chiang to take action, Roosevelt ordered Hull, Morgenthau, Stimson, and Navy Secretary Frank Knox to get to work on it.67  But the War Department had grave doubts. Morgenthau’s involvement alone aroused suspicion in light of his past efforts at circumventing the military in order to aid allies. In any event, Chennault’s plan seemed both extravagant and futile. The Chinese lacked the “balanced air force” without which the bombers would be useless. China’s track record even with less sophisticated aircraft hardly warranted optimism about how it would handle B-17s and B-24s. Marshall admitted that if the Chinese “could get even 6 or 7 bombing trips into Japan they could cause considerable trouble there,” but he believed, like Stimson and Arnold, that more likely the effort “would be a big waste.” Worse, any bombers sent to China would undermine commitments to the British. As Marshall complained, “We would be asking them to delay for months the ability to bomb large cities all over Europe with facility—Berlin, Milan, even the oil fields in Roumania.” All that Morgenthau could work out with the War Department was the dispatch of one hundred pursuit planes.®8  Currie and Chennault were too zealous to let the matter rest. In May 1941 they revived the plan for “occasional incendiary bombings of Japan.” Roosevelt agreed once more, but the War Department again thought it impractical. Ensnared by departmental obstructions, air aid to China continued, but never beyond handfuls of second-rate bombers. Like so many American plans for China during the war, this one proved to be an enthusiasm of the moment, ferve