d corpses took off backwards from an airfield in England. Over France, a few German fighter planes flew at them backwards, sucked bullets and shell frag- ments from some of the planes and crewmen. They did the same for wrecked American bombers on the ground, and those planes flew up backwards to join the formation.  The process continued, as American bombers “flew backwards” over Dresden, “exerted a miraculous magnetism which shrunk the fires, gathered them into cylindrical steel containers,” and returned the instruments of destruction back to the United States, “where factories were operating night and day” to dismantle them, “so they would never hurt anybody ever again.”  Vonnegut offers an appealing vision but also an evocation of an intricate process, one that reminds us that the temptation to see the discrete act represents a profound and persistent misunderstanding of the dilemma faced in the 1940s and since then. The sin of atomic bombing, like the sin of the whole war's bombing, certainly resulted from choices but not from a moment of choice. Both were products of a slow accretion of large fears, thoughtless assumptions, and incremental decisions. If anything characterized the earlier era, it was the capacity of leaders to avoid the ap- pearance of choice, to act out the salient quality of technology defined so well by Max Frisch: “The knack of so arranging the world that we don’t have to experience it.”2  We might remember this if now we entertain the fantasy that there will be a moment of supreme decision at the brink of some future world war when a leader, his or her fingers dangling above the nuclear button, ponders what to do. In our uncertainty, we cannot be sure that such a moment will not occur. But as Wells knew, we set a course by the ways in which we think about war or decline to do so in the weeks and months and years prior to the supreme moment of crisis and by the little decisions we make in preparation for it. Just as one generation learned to