ailable could be used to secure victory. Often enough, the connection was hard to maintain, either affectively or conceptually, as designs for incendiary war showed.  Though central to Marshall’s scheme for intimidating Japan on the eve of Pearl Harbor, firebombing as a large-scale practicality became possible only after American entry into the war, when the technical work was carried out by the Army Chemical Warfare Service, the National Defense Research Committee, and the petrochemical industry. Much of their experimental work, presided over by the Harvard chemist Louis Fieser, concerned tactical weapons—flamethrowers and the jellied gasoline that Fieser’s scientists produced by adding extracts from aluminum napthanate and aluminum palmitate (from which Fieser drew the name napalm). Fieser, although he regarded use of poison gas as “inhumane,” relished development of incendiary bombs for strategic use, some of his experiments taking bizarre form. In 1943, he launched a project to release captive bats carrying tiny incendiaries from American bombers. These creatures, given to roosting in dark attics and cellars, would ignite thousands of fires in the highly flammable buildings of Japan’s cities. Fieser imagined “a surprise attack on Tokyo” with fires “popping all over the city at 4 A.M.” Tests continued for many months until “a number of bat bombs, blown out of the target area by high winds, burned down a theater, the officers’ club, and a general’s sedan at Carlsbad [New Mexico] Army Air Field.” Other impractical but prophetic ideas flowed from the Chemical Warfare Service—experiments in showering incendiary “leaves” over forests and grainfields, an early exercise in the arts of defoliation. In the bizarre, Japan sometimes matched the United States, as in its hapless effort to rain balloon-bombs on the United States.1=  The major preoccupation of the American chemists was the development of reliable incendiaries to be dropped by aircraft against enemy cities. Much