fort at Geneva in 1932 to agree upon restrictions or rules ended in failure, notwithstanding President Herbert Hoover’s dramatic proposal to abolish all offensive weapons. As for chemical and bacteriological warfare, a danger so intertwined with the aerial menace, the major powers followed much the same course. Vague restrictions were formulated at Versailles and Washington and more severe ones were written into the Geneva protocols hammered out in 1925, but these were not to take effect until ratified by the home governments of the contracting powers, which often qualified their acceptance or (in the case of the United States and Japan until the 1970s) withheld it altogether. Large-scale research into chemical warfare continued; Geneva only encouraged governments to hide it further from public view.  More far-reaching efforts to control these weapons were victims of the usual tangle of economic, bureaucratic, and strategic considerations. In the end, another consideration also held back the diplomats: if an end to air war meant only a return to slaughter in the trenches, the alternative was hardly attractive. A Harvard professor made this case for gas weapons in no uncertain terms: “however vast the destruction, however ‘inhuman’ the methods used, however appalling the sacrifice of life,” the resolution of conflict by “some quick and overpowering blow” seemed “preferable to its alternative,—a long war ... of mud, vermin, disease and nameless agony,—a war of starvation, exhaustion, lying, brutalization, and madness.” The bomber thus retained its appeal; its restriction made sense only as part of a comprehensive disarmament. Few people liked the failure to control the bomber, and even the New York Times, no voice of radicalism in the matter of arms control, chastised the Washington conference for admitting “its helplessness to curtail the sinister energies of the most dangerous and destructive instrumentality of modern war, the bombing airplane.” But a shared per- ce