haps welcomed the opportunity to seize the very powers of the gods themselves. In science, freedom and knowledge had always been inseparable from control—to unlock the secrets of nature is also to sub- due and seize its power. It hardly could have been otherwise for the men at Los Alamos.  What makes such speculation hard to confirm is the reticence of men who “let Oppenheimer take protective custody of their emotions”*4 and the difficulty of interpreting those revelations they did offer. Too, the relationship between scientist and invention was far different in the 1940s from what it had been even a few decades earlier, when nothing stood between inventor and invention. The scientist of World War II worked on some highly specialized aspect of the final product, distanced from it by a vast organizational apparatus diluting the expression of whatever psychological or pathological drive may have motivated him. In such an atmosphere, Faustian bargains were not so easily, at least not so obviously, struck.  Yet some physicists had to confront the absoluteness of the atomic weapon, its world-ending potential. Early in the war, Oppenheimer and Edward Teller feared that the atomic bomb might be used to trigger a fusion reaction capable of “setting afire the atmosphere of the entire planet.” They did not proceed with their work until they reexamined their calculations and “computed a three-in-  Page 199 of 368 46%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON institutional integrity, expanded facilities, and guarded what intellectual freedom could be maintained during war. The scientists’ entry into the policymaking apparatus, achieved variously by guile,  persuasion, and demand, insured for them a role in public policy undreamed of before the war. Scientists and university officials set out to put wartime prosperity on a permanent footing, guided by two assumptions: science would prosper from the government funding deemed necessary for capital-intensive resea