to a contemplation of the new evil. Even the exercise of concern about that evil played a critical role in allaying doubt, for it proved that they were providing the care and consideration which this awesome new force demanded. “I think we made an impression upon the scientists that we were looking at this like statesmen and not like merely soldiers anxious to win the war at any cost,” Stimson noted in his diary.”  In their attempt at stewardship and statesmanship, as in their contemplation of the bomb as a weapon of war, men simultaneously derived their categories, assumptions, and language from past experience while failing to make conscious and construetive use of it. They wavered between the temptation to save the world through air power, now in its atomic version, and recognition of the imperative to save the world from it. At times, particularly in Stimson’s complex and shifting formulations of the problem, some were tempted to do both. Similarly, in dealing with the Soviet Union, the Interim Committee believed that the United States should “push ahead as fast as possible in production and research to make certain that we stay ahead and at the same time make every effort to better our political relations with Russia.”68 Others more clearly staked out one position or the other, Byrnes becoming the most notable exponent of the virtues of atomic intimidation.  While the choices were posed in familiar terms, discussion proceeded with little reference to the world’s recent experience in confronting new military technology. The informal system of deterrents against gas warfare was an encouraging example, the record of the submarine and the bomber disillusioning, and the consequences of interwar agreements on naval arms ambiguous. Neither encouraging, alarming, nor uncertain precedents were reviewed for instruction, even by the few policymakers who had had experience with arms control efforts. When a sense of the past entered into deliberations, other matters were at