er run, the Mariana Islands promised to provide bases free of the problems arising in flying from Siberia or China. Above all, the political imperative of aiding China drove the planning forward. Arnold’s staff set June 1, 1944, as a tentative date for activating B-29s in China. Arnold, despite knowing that B-29 production was lagging, pledged to Roosevelt to advance the date to March 1, though there were few illusions that bombing from China would be decisive.22  Arnold’s promise only raised Roosevelt’s mood from impatience to fury. In unusually sharp words, he wrote to Marshall that he was “still pretty thoroughly disgusted with the India-China matters. The last straw was the report from Arnold that he could not get the B-29’s operating out of China until March or April next year. Everything seems to go wrong. But the worst thing is that we are falling down on our promises every single time.” In other words, political embarrassment bothered Roosevelt more than strategic delay—a renewed round of complaints from Chiang and Chen- nault did not help his temper—but he had little choice except to approve Arnold’s plan.22  Roosevelt’s explosion came on October 15, right in the midst of the sickening losses of Black Week. It also came after months of promises, in the high command and in the press, about decisive blows from the air force. Arnold tried to deal with the press. He all but begged Eaker “not (repeat) not [to] miss any symptoms of impending German air collapse,” and Eaker offered reassurances about “the last final struggles of a monster in his death throes” and “our teeth in the Hun Air Force’s neck”—echoes of the unwarranted optimism of a year earlier. Arnold avoided those particular catchphrases before the press, choosing to emphasize the precision of the attack on Schweinfurt and implying paralyzing damage to the German war economy. “Now we have got Schweinfurt,” he said with soldierly simplicity and overstatement. Like Eaker’s private comments to Arnold, Arn