egic forces to strike the rail network in western Europe in preparation for the invasion. The bomber commanders wanted to get on with the assault on Germany itself, both still convinced that invasion was not necessary, Spaatz now appreciating the vulnerability of Germany’s highly concentrated  naten adm indiunter TE tha iniaciann mire an an Onante aren. A hattas ta lane tha vail orretam ta intacdintian her tantinal aie favane a mathnd maen affantivmn and lane lilealer ta inflint anoiualtine an Deanch  Page 161 of 368 37%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON pause to complete the dispersal of the aviation industry, German fighter production began its striking upward curve, one carried through September and accompanied by manufacture of thirty thou- sand V-weapons. When revealed after the war, that curve seemed astonishing, a final and furious expression of Nazi efficiency.  It was hardly that. It reflected in part the Allies’ inability to follow up their success with repeated attacks, in this case because OVERLORD drew many of the bombers to other targets. It reflected the skillful improvisation of Albert Speer, jerry-rigging ways to tap the sizable cushion of Germany’s war economy. Speer’s prodigies also disguised a slow, subtle defeat for the German air force. In- creasingly, Germany’s aviation became the wartime version of a shop-window air force—formidable in what it could display on a particular day, weak in those categories (reserves, trainers, transports, ground support) that insure long-run success. Furthermore, the quality and numbers of the fighter force were declining relative to Allied strengths. Above all, the lack of aviation fuel became crippling, though not until the summer of 1944. Planes were still mass produced and crews flowed in sufficient numbers, but they were badly trained because they could not get sufficient time in the air and were wasted too quickly in combat to learn the hard way.  Paradoxically, the Allies had a co