er had expanded his operations cautiously, to campaign recklessly.23  From late July through much of October, Eaker’s bombers flew in desperate assaults on German factories, particularly those supplying the Luftwaffe fighter force. On August 17 came the first of two peak efforts. Divided into two forces, 376 B-17s were to strike far into Germany, LeMay’s group at the Messerschmitt factory at Regensburg, another at the ball-bearing complex at Schweinfurt. The two forces were to be synchronized to divide and confuse enemy fighters, LeMay’s to go in first, then fly across the Alps to a base in North Africa. But because of bad weather LeMay’s bombers went  Page 154 of 368 36%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Many Germans hoped “for the destruction ot the industrial districts of berlin” and were “astonished that... bombs should be showered on spots where no important installations of the war machinery  are located.” Most hated the Nazi system and relieved “their bad conscience” over supporting it “by hiding Jews and providing them with all things necessary.” In short, “the total population of Berlin sits caught in a mouse-trap.” Only the grip of the party, the paralyzing fear of the Soviets, and the survival of the factories prevented collapse or rebellion. But these were critical exceptions. For all the report’s portrait of appalling death, disintegration, and defeatism—and comments perhaps designed to exculpate the German people—it also hinted at RAF failure.2°  But American leaders did not complain to the British. They could not easily have done so, given their long-standing acquiescence in British methods, plus the AAF’s own experiment that winter with a variation of those methods. As for the moral and political issues raised by indecisive destruction, they emerged most clearly through the threat of reprisals by Germans against captured Allied airmen. Such threats commonly force leaders to erect moral positions they may otherwise neglect, a