ns were nonetheless troubled as well by how they might reconcile a developing faith in peace with evidence of escalating armaments and international tensions. It was not a simple fear of war, but rather a desire to deny that fear and reconcile it to the faith in peace that stimulated an extensive literature about new weapons. The gravity of hopes and fears regarding war and technology, arid the style adopted in appealing to a new mass readership, gave that literature its distinctive character.  Prophecy about new weapons did not come so freely to Americans at the turn of the century as it did to Europeans. Some Americans did see military purpose in the airplane, but more with an eye to commercial possibilities than to war itself. Samuel P. Langley, the venerable scientist whose crowning effort at powered flight dropped “like a handful of mortar” into the Potomac River, coaxed  Page 1 of 368 1%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Fantasy followed optimistic paths in part because of certain unique properties of the airplane. It may be true that “guns, like everything else, have their social history,” one rooted in identifiable social, economic, and national interests. But inasmuch as the airplane was never merely a weapon of war, its development confronts the social historian with a greater challenge than other devices of modern warfare. As Winston Churchill once said, “The submarine, to do it justice, has never made any claim to be a blessing, or even a convenience.” The submarine, the machine gun, and the tank sometimes fired the imagination (of Jules Verne, for example) but did not touch the range of interests, aspirations, and activities that the airplane would.2  Never viewed solely as a weapon, the airplane was the instrument of flight, of a whole new dimension in human activity. Therefore it was uniquely capable of stimulating fantasies of peacetime possibilities for lifting worldly burdens, transforming man’s sense of time and space, t