nd the pack mentality induced by their training and their battles with superiors. Infantry or artillery officers also worried about dead-end careers, but at least their branches of service were not suspect in the eyes of the high command. For airmen alone, personal ambition meshed precisely with professional progress.  Walter Millis once assessed the priorities of Air Corps officers between the wars as follows: “Independent power and authority came first; to attain the goal it was next necessary to develop a ‘doctrine’ which would make it militarily valid; finally, with the doctrine established, it was necessary to invent a weapon which would justify the strategy.” Such criticism has been commonplace, and as Millis acknowledged, hardly leveled only at air officers. Nor was it entirely fair, inasmuch as relationships among status, doctrine, and technology were more complex than Millis allowed. If airmen had been hesitant to develop doctrine, laymen would have voiced it in some fashion anyway, as indeed they often did. Yet Millis had the pattern substantially correct. Logic alone never dictated employment of air power against enemy cities and factories. Many other uses, for which a few airmen made pleas, existed for the airplanes. Air forces exposed to combat in the 1930s learned, as World War II showed more fully, that tactical aviation in support of surface forces “could often destroy the forces in the field before strategic bombers could have a paralyzing effect.” But no doctrine except strategic air power satisfied the drive to achieve an independent air force that would bring personal status, power, and probably most important, professional respectability.®  Other differences and irritations, often petty in themselves, widened the gap between the fliers and their superiors trained in ground warfare, intensifying the drive for a doctrine that would justify independence. Aviators were set apart because they were relatively young, few in number (everyone knew everyo