staken belief that the Luftwaffe was on the wane and the chance for decisive air attack on Germany was near, if only they could stop those diversions.  But the toll of enemy fighters soon shriveled when intelligence officers sifted through the overlapping claims submitted by green crews. “We were living in a fool’s paradise, far as that stuff was concerned,” Curtis LeMay later recalled, and postwar scrutiny indicated that even the revised figures were grossly optimistic.? Raids against highly fortified German submarine pens on France’s western coast—critical targets with the Battle of the Atlantic hanging in balance—showed disappointing results. Other raids into France and Holland were little more than combat training missions. As the new year approached, AAF leaders were jittery about the future of the daylight campaign.  The disappointments were not solely the AAF’s responsibility, although they were exacerbated by its misleading claims on the Eighth’s initial accomplishments. Weather, always the greatest impediment to success, played havoc with every aspect of operations, TORCH gutted the Eighth’s ranks and often diverted what bombers remained to support of North African operations. With rarely even one hundred bombers operational, Eaker could counter his detractors by pointing out that they were proving themselves right by denying him sufficient force. However, before the Casablanca conference not even Arnold and Eaker knew the depth of Churchill’s desire to convert the AAF into a night-bombing force like Bomber Command or of his sneering attitude toward the Americans’ “most obstinate perseverance in this [daylight bombing] method.”2  By the time Roosevelt and Churchill met at Casablanca on January 14, 1943, Arnold had heard of Churchill’s intentions. Never squeamish about putting a subordinate on the line, Arnold rushed Eaker from England to defend daylight strategic operations. Eaker personally took his case to Churchill, assembling the arguments for the dayli