. And yet Eaker and Spaatz, though senior in age and experience, held comparable commands in Europe and on occasion spoke out forcefully on larger strategic and political issues. The difference lay partly in LeMay’s mentality, partly in his unique position as subordinate to Arnold: if not to LeMay, then articulation of strategy fell to Arnold, but he had little interest. To both, converting destruction into surrender was a job for superiors in the chain of command. LeMay’s job was to destroy targets. The airmen’s hope to prove the B-29s’ war-winning capacity was not pressed on higher authority. That hope remained, as the official history put it, “not for public consumption.”14°  LeMay was sent off to destroy more cities without a clear rationale for doing so. The air staff was hedging its bets: “If the . .. incendiary attacks do not weaken the morale of the Japanese people” so that they “terminate the war,” they would in any event prepare the way for “invasion and the ultimate defeat of Japan.” In short, if bombing did not win the war one way, it would another, and there seemed neither sanction nor compulsion from higher authority to choose. Some air staff officers chafed at this vagueness, but to little avail.141  So LeMay pressed on. In April he launched only a few major fire raids, though these, against Tokyo, approached his March 10 success in terms of acreage incinerated. In May, restocked with incendiaries and taxing his crews, he dispatched over five hundred bombers on missions, and he completed the firing of Japan’s largest cities. Over one hundred square miles of urban landscape were destroyed, and by early June, Tokyo, Nagoya, Kobe, Osaka, Yokohama, and Kawasaki had been stricken from the target lists for fire attacks. Some precision targets remained in these cities, and many others elsewhere. But the trained crews and radar sets necessary for precision attacks remained slow to arrive in the Marianas, while the urgency to strike at particular factories and