ore visibly touched on conflicting perceptions and interests, setting off livelier debate that revealed the assumptions of the parties involved. Lengthy wrangling over opening a second front in Europe or over minor operations such as those in Burma stood in marked contrast to the paucity of attention given strategic air war by the key decision makers, the American Joint Chiefs and the Anglo-American Combined Chiefs. The status of the American AAF further diminished deliberations, for Arnold was still subordinate and usually deferential to Marshall, the army chief of staff. For all these reasons, debate on aerial operations among top strategists often lacked focus and clarity.  The point should not be pressed too far. Arnold could defer to Marshall in part because the chief of staff embraced at least a moderate version of air power. From the start, controversy arose when theater commanders demanded the bombers Arnold wanted reserved for independent strategic operations. Recurrently during the war, debate erupted over whether the British or the Americans had the better method for bombing. But widespread acceptance of bombing, the apparatus of decision making, and the nature of aerial operations rarely permitted those differences to be aired explicitly.  Page 116 of 368 27%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON while the Japanese were still on the offensive, the seemingly suicidal nature of their resistance hardly appeared; even into 1943 they sometimes retreated rather than fight to the death. Furthermore, evidence of Japanese mistreatment of prisoners of war accumulated slowly and was even more slowly released to the American public. The passions and hatreds of war mounted gradually in response to months of sustained defeat and frustration and to the manner in which dominant institutions interpreted these phenomena.  Popular expectations for the strategic course of the war remained similarly diffuse. Many Americans, moved by anglophobia or by pa