trike easily through the Aleutians, the Kurile Islands, or Eastern Siberia. “An understanding with Russia that would allow the United States to operate through Siberia and Kamchatka would be decisive against Japan.” For Mitchell, war against the “yellow military peril” seemed easy and inviting. Significantly, the humanitarian defense he usually offered for air power—as a weapon whose frightfulness would require few casualties—had no place in these musings. Destruction would be total, not selective.22  Undoubtedly known to the Air Corps, Mitchell’s ideas were only an object of casual interest for most of the 1930s. Official plans noted the critical role aircraft might play in defense of the Philippines but assigned them no larger mission. In 1935, an important air planner pointed out the deterrent value of such bombers, which might go far “toward squelching any expansion ideas on the part of an Asiatic Power.” More boldly, a student at the tactical school presented Japan as “an ideal objective for air attack,” suggesting that Japanese resort to indiscriminate bombing would remove the “humanitarian” obstacles to such bombing on America’s part.223 From the Command and General Staff School came a study, “The Psychology of the Japanese Soldier,” which drew on Douhet and embraced air power. When the United States faced the fanatical Japanese, it should visit slaughter on them from the air, for “meeting Japan’s bayonets with bayonets is playing into her hand.” The United States had to rely on its “mechanical superiority” and realize “the tremendous striking power of an air force directed at the paper cities of congested Japan.” Against American bombers, “Sam- urai swords will be found rusty and their rice mustardized.”24  But these early ideas about air war against Japan were infrequent and had a casual quality reflected in a lack of preparation for realizing them. No bases or plans were readied. Incendiary bombs, the mainstay of any probable air war against Japan, were no