ation and hope persisted came on December 6, when Arnold rushed to the West Coast to break a bottleneck in the flight of thirteen more B-17s to the Philippines. They only got as far as Hawaii.102  The Japanese, meanwhile, had only to read the American press to realize that something ominous was going on in the Philippines, and their extensive spy network there stood a good chance of observing it. Certainly Japanese leaders had long feared that American air attacks, especially incendiary raids, could leave their cities “reduced to ashes” and consume Tokyo in a conflagration more “frightful” than that caused by the great earthquake of 1923. They were particularly determined to head off any American attempt to procure or seize bases in Siberia. To that degree, American hopes for aerial deterrence rested on real enough Japanese anxieties. Moreover, coded messages intercepted by American experts showed that the Japanese had an accurate fix on the numbers of B-17s in the Philippines, although not on other elements of American aerial strength. But Japanese leaders seemed to sense no immediate danger from the Philippines, and Japanese envoys apparently received no threat of bombing from Hull, Roosevelt, or others, despite the speculation from Marshall and Krock in that regard, nor did they communicate any alarm on the basis of Krock’s article.103  Washington’s effort at deterrence failed, not only in execution, but in design. Military strategy rested on the diplomats’ success in delaying the outbreak of war at least until mid-December, preferably until February or March. Yet the final diplomatic position, determined by Hull and Roosevelt without consulting the strategists and offered to the Japanese on November 26, left no room to bargain. Subtler diplomacy might not have delayed the outbreak of war, for Japan’s timetable was not flexible. But the puzzle, in light of the military’s tremendous hope for delay, is that it was not at- tempted, perhaps because grand design did n