ept them would only entrap Japan in the savagery of its conqueror. “The enemy is talking loudly about International Law and humanity, but the reality is that he bombs Palaces, Shrines, Hospitals, National Schools and today he bombed the Imperial Palace,” so Suzuki reminded his listeners. Such statements probably did little to energize the resistance of a beleaguered populace, but they set up backfires against any acceptance of early surrender.”  None of this constituted a strategy of truth by government leaders. To them, Robert Butow has written, “The people simply did not count. They would do what they were told, and they would obey to the letter.”’ But the May raids drove home the awesome dangers faced by the elites themselves—their own destruction and the disintegration of the nation they ruled.  The assault on the imperial grounds also found an unintended audience back in the United States. The media gave it considerable play, a hint of satisfaction mixed with the claim that the bombs’ effects were unintended. It also played into mounting public attention to the thorny issue of the emperor’s fate and the surrender process, to which Time devoted its cover story on the eve of the raids. Time described the Japanese mind as so “utterly alien” to Americans that it seemed “almost as uncontemporary ...as Neanderthal man.” To Americans, “the Emperor Hirohito was Japan,” and “the war against Japan was inevitably a war against its Emperor.” But soon Time’s writers became impatient with the unconditional surrender formula. Truman “had not said enough.... A statement of aims beyond ‘Kill Japs—unconditional surrender’ was awaited by Americans from Berlin to Okinawa.” Time did not offer a new formula on the emperor or explicitly link its impatience to the May raids. Others did get specific. In Newsweek, Raymond Moley proposed “to drive a wedge between the emperor and the people on one side, and the military class on the other,” noting that “the profound devotion of the Japane