ime table for surface operations.” These tactical con- siderations, which the Twentieth elevated into a “fundamental principle.” led it to insist on “rapid destruction of a large number of Japanese cities,” with precision attacks saved for the few days of good weather and the main assault on transportation saved for October 1945. Besides, the timetable for invasion provided a good excuse to postpone precision raids—an early blitz against transportation might give the enemy time to recoup before Kyushu’s beaches were assaulted. Moreover, by October the weather would be better, the radar techniques nearer perfection, and smaller bombers ready for action from Okinawa. In the interim, the B-29s would go on doing what they did best, making Japan “a nation without cities” but leaving its rail transport largely intact at the time of surrender. There would be no bold departure from proven success, only a gradual assimilation of the survey’s recommendations into air force strategy.25  After the war, Hansell constructed a powerful case that the survey’s recommendations, along with the review at the White House, comprised a final lost opportunity to devise a more efficient and humane strategy for victory over Japan. Hansell pointed to LeMay’s surprising success in mining sea-lanes and in carrying out limited attacks against precision targets. Had similar methods been employed on a larger scale against all of Japan’s internal transportation system plus its electric power grid, the United States would have achieved the same paralysis of Japan as it did with the wasteful method of firebombing. Even allowing for foul weather, limitations in radar, and other tactical obstacles, the more efficient method, aided by carrier planes, was within LeMay’s grasp. The United States would have needed a few fire raids only as a coup de grace to a precision campaign, climactic demonstrations of power to drive home Japan’s helplessness. The benign alternative was neglected, he argued, not becaus