amorous feats came in the civilian field, however, there was reason to believe that aviation was following a pacific course and to ignore its more disturbing potential.  Dane nf and atteantinn tn tha hambar eamainnd hit denur mantle: an that nnanla eamambaend feam Ulneld Was T and imacinnd fav a vathas distant fatuen ant an urhat thar chanvend at Reathand  Page 20 of 368 6%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  2  The Age of Prophecy  During the 1920s, the most sensational episodes in American aviation were Billy Mitchell’s demonstration in 1921 of how bombers could sink battleships and Charles Lindbergh’s flight across the Atlantic in May 1927. Bracketing several years of speculation about the future of aviation, the two events signaled danger to a few observers but offered reassurance to most, particularly about how individualism could persist in the wake of mass war and in the midst of mass culture. The significance attached to the heroics of Mitchell and Lindbergh helps explain how the bomber became acceptable to Americans as an instrument of warfare. Though less forcefully than Europeans, they had learned from World War I how terrifying future aerial war might be. Yet in general their attrac- tion to the aerial weapon deepened in the 1920s.  It did so in part because it rarely had to be tested against visible or disturbing military realities. In both Europe and the United States, military aviation stagnated. A glut of aircraft left over from the war, tight purse strings in most national treasuries, and the absence of immediate enemies curbed investment in bomber design and purchase. In much of the British Empire and for American forces in Nicaragua the bomber proved a cheap way to inflict an imperial sting on obstreperous subjects. But for these operations, aircraft left over from World War I did nicely, and if raids in far- off lands provoked occasional cries of moral anguish, they hardly seemed like a rehearsal for modern air war. Devel