t propulsion at Caltech. Earlier, he had worked for Germany in World War I and for the avi- ation industries in Germany, Japan, and the United States in the 1920s. At best, he demonstrated the internationalism of modern science. At worst, he sold his talents to the highest bidder.  During the war, his relations with Arnold and the air force flourished. The AAF funded Caltech’s pioneering work in jet engines and then in 1943, upon new disclosures about German advances in rocketry, Caltech’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). Meanwhile, von Karman helped establish a private company, Aerojet, to manufacture for the AAF the jet-assist engines JPL was developing, with substantial profits for von Karman and other stockholders involved, while Arnold promoted von Karman’s role as a key scientific advisor to the postwar air force.  The triangular relationship among private university, government agency, and corporation that centered on JPL was the prototype of the postwar military-scientific-industrial complex. Scientists did not always turn the handsome personal bargain von Karman did, but institutionally they prospered from the war. The benefits derived from war outlasted it, and as hot war turned toa cold one, few asked questions about the wisdom of sponsorship by the military. For some, “a particular view of national security answered any questions about propriety or, indeed, imposed an affirm- ative obligation to do military research.” Others “applied the standard of basic research—at best an elusive criterion’”—and thereby “absolved themselves of the question of responsibility.”53  Scientists offered their creative talents on conditions they measured often with an accountant’s exactitude. Lavish contracting to universities and industrial laboratories preserved their institutional integrity, expanded facilities, and guarded what intellectual freedom could be maintained during war. The scientists’ entry into the policymaking apparatus, achieved variously by guile, persuasi