rong route or the right one, to make the decision that Yamamoto Katsuko did, who “figured that if we all fled right there in the midst of the fire, scattering in every direction, we'd all burn up and die,” and who therefore “felt a rope with my foot and used it to tie the whole family together.” Or time to put on the government-prescribed padded hood, which, like bundled ba- bies on the backs of fleeing mothers, often caught fire before the victim knew it.®  On the ground, the French journalist Robert Gullain watched. “Sometimes, probably when inflammable liquids were set alight, the bomb blasts looked like flaming hair.” To the Japanese journalist Masuo Kato, it seemed that “the wind had whipped hundreds of small fires into great walls of flame, which began leaping streets, fire-breaks, and canals at dazzling speed.” Even before the air raid warning had sounded, freakish winds, “almost as violent as a spring typhoon,” had worried the people of the city. Now they helped create something more furious in intensity and far different in mechanics than even Hamburg and Dresden had suffered. Unlike the firestorm that sucks everything to its center, the conflagration that swept Tokyo was rapaciously expansive, a pillar of fire that was pushed over by the surface winds to touch the ground and gain new fury from the oxygen and combustibles it seized. LeMay had chanced upon just the right use of incendiaries, and the wind served as a giant bellows to superheat the air to eighteen hundred degrees Fahrenheit.”2  In flight lay the only salvation, just as at Dresden and Hamburg, but few who fled successfully could recall how they did so. Hisaki Imai remembered deciding to gather up his younger brother and race against the prevailing tide of humanity to strike out for a vacant lot. Then, somehow, when he found the vacant lot was built up with houses sure to catch the flames, the two fled with dampened towels over their faces to the Tokyo waterfront and survived the night. Most mad