e bombing effort and the costs exacted from the men involved, although by the time such writing appeared in 1944 “the bloom was off the war books,” as Sherrod later put it.°° Readers of Life were led along a course similar to that traced from Steinbeck to Gill, from easy celebration to growing complexity. Life ran its share of flattering pieces on American fliers, on the precision and effectiveness of their bombing, on the hope that air war, “relatively cheap in men,” might avert the “nightmare” of ground warfare. But Life usually shied away from offering panaceas for easy victory. It sometimes discounted the ferocity of British night raids on Hamburg and other German cities, writing off reports of massive civilian casualties as enemy propaganda. Still, its photographs generally told of indiscriminate destruction. And by May 1944, articles like “The Chimneys of Leipzig,” based on the story of three repatriated American girls, grimly portrayed the destruction of German cities. By 1944, Life was also detailing the early failures and costly successes of the Eighth Air Force, emphasizing that “to crush a strong and widely dispersed industrial power by air is an extremely complicated and costly business.”5!  Since no serious bombing of Japan occurred until June 1944, Life had little to report on the strategic air war in the Far East. Its suggestions were usually implicit, as when it ran photographs of Japanese dead incinerated in the great Tokyo earthquake and fire of 1923. The photographs at least made the point that Japanese cities would be easy targets for firebombing. Indeed, Life’s photographs relating to the Pacific war were generally more graphic and suggestive than those for Europe. Yet its characterizations of the Japanese enemy gradually became more complex. Perhaps the Japanese saw human life as “essentially cheap” because of horrible experiences like the 1923 fire as much as because of “the tradition of the Samurai.” In a lavish photographic essay that appear