ciety airmen imagined, so interdependent in its assumptions that the failure of one component would unravel the whole thing. As one critic has neatly put it, the airmen “assumed that virtually every significant aspect of modern society was distinct enough to be identified for destruction, yet interdependent enough to bring about total collapse of a nation once certain links were destroyed.”!¢ The airmen rarely recognized such flaws in their assumptions. Of course, other military doctrines of the day had their weaknesses as well. More than that, the fliers were not challenged to explore weaknesses in strategic theory. Inasmuch as they usually justified air power to their superiors as a weapon of continental defense, the issue was rarely joined within military circles. The airmen’s own world was highly insular, and their struggle with the army put a premium on consensus as well as on a dogmatism in their own affairs like that which they mocked in the general staff. The swift pace of technological progress in the 1930s also minimized doubts; if the full potential of precision bombing was not immediately realizable, some imminent development would surely close the gap between dream and reality. And of course opportunities for reality-testing were few, and when they arose, air officers thought the uses of air power in Ethiopia, Spain, and China were too primitive in technology and tactics to tell them much. The Air Corps’ dismissive attitude toward past experience was neatly captured in the tactical school’s motto, Proficimus More Irrentiti (We make our progress unhindered by custom).12  Another reason for overlooking the obstacles to precision bombing concerned a role for the bomber soon to be important in American policy. Air prophets had for a long time postulated the bomber’s potential for deterrence and diplomatic coercion: it would ward off attack, secure victory without unleashing its fury, and even help “establish world dominion,” in Mitchell’s words. If air powe