chnological terms for the Allies. The United States had different resources with which to be fanatical: resources allowing it to take the lives of others more than its own, ones whose accompanying rhetoric of technique disguised the will to destroy. As lavish with machines as the enemy was with men, Americans appeared to themselves to practice restraint, to be immune from the passion to destroy that characterized their en- emies and from the urge to self-destruction as well.  The distinction between technological and ideological fanaticism was not absolute. It could not be, given how war often elicits similar behavior from disparate combatants. On occasion, particularly when their backs were to the wall early in the war, Americans celebrated the suicidal defense of hopeless positions, and if the rhetoric of technique dominated official expression, a rhetoric of racial and martial passion often dominated the larger culture. Allies like the Soviet Union, although zealous in pursuing technological advantage when possible, also could be profligate indeed in the expenditure of manpower. When conditions were favorable, the Japanese relied on technical superiority; it was not suicidal tactics that destroyed the American fleet at Pearl Harbor. Even when frankly suicidal tactics were employed, they had a military rationale, for the intent was to take the enemy along.  Likewise, the fact that both the United States and its enemies were fanatical did not mean that the differences between them in the forms of fanaticism were inconsequential. Destruction disguised as technique carried the gravest implications for the fate of enemy civilians. At the same time, it had inherent limits because it had little sanction apart from the prosecution of war. Since  Page 251 of 368 57%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON them to escape responsibility or fulfilled a wish to do so. Actions ceased to be recognized as the product of aggressive wills and became foreordaine