ts copy and in its high-quality photographs of soaring bombers and sophisticated production lines. Even when Boeing depicted combat, as it did with the Eighth Air Force’s great Schweinfurt raids, it eschewed stylized depiction. Emphasizing accuracy and realism, it ran an official AAF photograph of the bombed target (though clouds prevented the viewer from seeing tangible destruction), while the copy stressed that its bombers destroyed factories without harming cities.  Like the president, most wartime advertising asked the viewer to see the war as a production and engineering effort and to celebrate American superiority in that regard. That approach satisfied the long-run corporate goal of winning the allegiance of customers in the postwar market. Of course, companies identified their prowess with the destruction carried out by Allied forces, but except for those firms looking to defense production as their primary postwar activity, destruction was a transitory expression of that prowess. Their long-term interest lay in playing up those technical abilities with lasting implications for the civilian market. In short, they celebrated the means of production as much as, even more than, its immediate ends. And by 1944, as the end of the war became foresee- able—and the bombing intensified—the lure of postwar markets shifted advertising further from the realities of the war.  Particularly among the airline and airplane companies eager to promote civilian air travel after the war, wartime advertising also served as a powerful vechicle for continued promotion of the Winged Gospel. Far from abating, the promise of the 1930s that the “air car” would soon be a commonplace alongside the automobile took on added attraction during the war, alongside scarcely less extravagant predictions of how giant airliners would make global travel an everyday affair. The same spirit permeated what contemporaries called “air-conditioned” educational curricula, evident in instruction about avia