elations they did offer. Too, the relationship between scientist and invention was far different in the 1940s from what it had been even a few decades earlier, when nothing stood between inventor and invention. The scientist of World War II worked on some highly specialized aspect of the final product, distanced from it by a vast organizational apparatus diluting the expression of whatever psychological or pathological drive may have motivated him. In such an atmosphere, Faustian bargains were not so easily, at least not so obviously, struck.  Yet some physicists had to confront the absoluteness of the atomic weapon, its world-ending potential. Early in the war, Oppenheimer and Edward Teller feared that the atomic bomb might be used to trigger a fusion reaction capable of “setting afire the atmosphere of the entire planet.” They did not proceed with their work until they reexamined their calculations and “computed a three-in- a-million chance” that the ultimate catastrophe would occur, a chance which their superior, Arthur Holly Compton, “felt was low enough to be worth taking.” Yet it remains unclear whether they were merely trying to eliminate that danger before proceeding or were drawn to it. Even on the eve of the Trinity test of the plutonium bomb in July 1945, the possibility of atmospheric ignition from an atomic bomb alone was sufficient to induce Enrico Fermi to “invite bets ... against first the destruction of all human life and second just that of human life in New Mexico.” The scientists were staring at opposites inextricably joined: ultimate control over the universe (at least humankind’s small portion of it) and absolute loss of control. Even if few scientists felt the attraction and danger at such an ultimate level, others continued working despite their warning (signed by Fermi among others) that an international arms race in atomic weapons could spell national suicide for the United States, provoking a sudden attack that “might literally wipe out ev