. The priority he attached to bomber production did so. Even more so did the famous raid on Japanese cities carried out on April 18, 1942, by sixteen army B-25 bombers flying from the carrier Hornet. That mission arose from the numerous schemes proposed before and after Pearl Harbor for bombing Japan and from Roosevelt’s desire to strike a blow at Japanese morale, at the frustrations and fears of the American public, and at the wavering Chinese commitment to carry on their war. Air officers, too, hoped that air raids would force the Japanese to withdraw fighter aircraft from combat theaters, provide “a shot-in-the-arm for Generalissimo Chiang,” and satisfy public opinion in the states, where “the bonus clubs have been putting  cow ee wed + a a ee waa. saad m4 vad woot oe 1 a on  Page 120 of 368 28%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Beyond emphasizing the production effort, Roosevelt said little to establish or excite expectations of the role strategic air power would play in securing victory. His few references to the air war were usually brief, anecdotal, or misleading. His April 1942 promise that “soon American Flying Fortresses will be fighting for the liberation of the darkened continent of Europe” hardly characterized the slow progress in organizing the Eighth Air Force. Reporting to Congress in September 1943 on bombing Hitler’s fortress without a “roof,” Roosevelt distinguished between German bombing of Britain undertaken “for the sheer sadistic pleasure of killing” and Allied aerial attacks on “carefully selected, clearly identified strategic objectives.” In the few instances when reporters questioned him about bombing, he was unwilling to acknowledge or discuss the savagery of the air assault on Europe. Significantly those instances arose when places of religious or political value were threatened, such as the Vatican, the abbey at Monte Cassino, and the Swedish legation in Berlin. The fate of civilians commanded no attention comp