percent of it.36  These wide-ranging differences between the Axis and Allied methods of mobilizing for and waging air war have prompted some to attribute the defeat of the Axis states in part to their being dominated by “militarism.” The war, it has been said, pitted Allied industrialism “against a militarism inexpertly binding industrialism to its purpose.”3” The terminology may be misleading, however. Economic power was not an alternative to military prowess but another method of expressing it. What happened in the Allied nations was not the decline of militarism or its failure ever to rise in those countries but its transformation. They departed from the path of militarism in the narrow sense that traditional military institutions, elites, and the values associated with them did not dominate. In another, broader sense—the willing enlistment of the broadest array of national energies and elites into the machine of war-making—militarism triumphed in the Allied powers to an exceptional de- gree, in a variation of it which Alfred Vagts has called “civilian militarism.”  Vagts has provided the classic definition of the term:  Wartime civilian militarism ... may be defined as the interference and intervention of civilian leaders in fields left to the professionals by habit and tradition. .. . Civilians not only had anticipated war more eagerly than the professionals, but played a principal part in making combat, when it came, more absolute, more terrible than was the current military wont or habit.38  Wartime culture gave evidence of civilian militarism in its hero-worship: more often than not, the most admired Americans were not battlefield leaders but experts in preparing for war—the demigods of science who developed radar and constructed atomic bombs, the organizers of victory like Marshall and Eisenhower. The scientists’ role and Roosevelt’s aggressive effort to expand the Air Corps testified to civilians’ “interference” and their success in making combat “more abs