s right on one score: the bombing campaign revealed the bankruptcy of Ameri- can strategy. But it was the air force as much as the army that had exhausted its storehouse of ideas.2?  Page 306 of 368 70%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Airmen and Joint Staff planners had other reasons for responding tepidly to the survey’s ideas. For one thing, they came in from outside normal bureaucratic channels and had tomove through  a bureaucratic maze of ever-growing intricacy. In the end, the survey’s recommendation to attack transportation was acceptable to the airmen but only formalized at the end of July, when Spaatz took command of the Pacific air forces. In the meantime, the survey’s ideas were subjected to the pull and haul of timing and tactics, those factors. a military bureaucracy is most attuned to calculating. LeMay’s staff argued that “bombing must proceed according to its own time table, recognizing weather as the controlling factor, rather than the time table for surface operations.” These tactical con- siderations, which the Twentieth elevated into a “fundamental principle.” led it to insist on “rapid destruction of a large number of Japanese cities,” with precision attacks saved for the few days of good weather and the main assault on transportation saved for October 1945. Besides, the timetable for invasion provided a good excuse to postpone precision raids—an early blitz against transportation might give the enemy time to recoup before Kyushu’s beaches were assaulted. Moreover, by October the weather would be better, the radar techniques nearer perfection, and smaller bombers ready for action from Okinawa. In the interim, the B-29s would go on doing what they did best, making Japan “a nation without cities” but leaving its rail transport largely intact at the time of surrender. There would be no bold departure from proven success, only a gradual assimilation of the survey’s recommendations into air force strategy.?5  After the war