ower, and the young officers at the tactical school quite explicitly recognized the nation’s large stake in world power as well as the widespread popular hostility toward using another mass expeditionary army to effect that power.  Finally, the airmen faced the continuing need to justify the bomber as not only a practical but a humane instrument of war. Memories of World War I made many Americans demand nothing less of military doctrine. In this regard, earlier prophecies had never been fully satisfying—promising quick victory, they still had portrayed the bomber as an instrument of brute terror, employing chemical weapons that were the foremost symbol of war’s inhumanity to man.  Precision bombing satisfied all these forces. It promised victory independent of the other branches of the armed forces, with minimal demands on and risks for Americans, by employing the bomber as an instrument of surgical precision rather than indiscriminate horror, laying its high explosives (not gas or incendiaries) on its targets with pinpoint accuracy, incapacitating the enemy without slaughter.  The key to success was target selection, the determination of a few key components or junctions in an enemy economy whose destruction would disable the whole system. It was a task airmen knew required the skills of the engineer and the economist, although the Air Corps had no money to hire them in the 1930s. Instructors at the tactical school largely relied on impressions and data from the United States. Taking note of a power failure in New York City in 1935, for example, they reasoned that “in one stroke” eighteen bombers striking at its power system could insure that “the entire machine that we know as New York could not function . . . [and] the city would have to be evacuated.” Haywood Hansell, a young officer later to be a key strategic planner, recalled how a similar lesson  n “specialization, and hence, vulnerability, literally fell into our laps.” Discovering a drop in delivery of con