or even an entire war and must in the final analysis make that decision himself.” Earlier, when the New Yorker published the first extended account of the March blitz, LeMay’s skillful public relations officer (and former New Yorker editor) portrayed LeMay’s role in even more sweeping terms: “LeMay had settled down to make a decision of the kind that this war has known only infrequently, a decision like Grant’s when he let Sherman try to march through Georgia, and like several other sudden, quick, unprecedented tactical decisions of the Napoleonic and other wars.” The comparison to Sherman’s march, a classic initiative in strategic devastation, seemed especially appropriate. Since 1945, most accounts of the war, if they pause at all on the Tokyo raid before sweeping on to Hiroshima, have echoed McKelway’s view of a decisive initiative by LeMay.®* Apparently, he had acted on his own.  Circumstantial evidence invites that view. Only LeMay and his commanders, not the part-time staff back in Washington, were fully sensitive to the operational obstacles catalyzing the switch to new tactics. Furthermore, had Washington anticipated and authorized LeMay’s campaign of fire, it might not have failed so miserably to send the incendiaries he needed to wage it, the supply of which he quickly exhausted. Washington issued no formal directive sanctioning the planning and execution of the Tokyo raid, and Arnold remained a convalescent substantially out of the command picture. LeMay was apparently blessed by an extraordinary suspension of control from Washington.”  What he really had was the illusion of making his own choices, an unusual freedom only from the formal constraints of command by superiors. Few orders did come his way, but his March 10 mission was a classic example of “inadvertent aggression,” whereby leaders communicate destructive intent to subordinates indirectly, prodding without inquiring about details and assuming direct responsibility.°® Hints, nods, casual remarks