infrequent and had a casual quality reflected in a lack of preparation for realizing them. No bases or plans were readied. Incendiary bombs, the mainstay of any probable air war against Japan, were not developed. Elsewhere too, inconsistency and superficiality defined the dominant attitude. To be sure, war with Japan was a concern among army and navy planners. They focused especially on the defense of the Philippines, which seemed to pose insoluble dilemmas: no one was sure how long the islands would remain in American hands,  Page 55 of 368 13%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Snr manny na yn ee nen ne ny me mn nay seen ee ne me nen rn men nnn sn sre Sarre cetgn ne sone ro rrr nr rn nent nen re set rnc es ay 77  precision bombing designed to immobilize the enemy’s war-making capacity. In 1945, when Americans joined the British in area bombing, much was made of the collapse of this distinction. However, although the distinction was real, it had never been clearly drawn in American doctrine. In the 1930s, Americans never decisively opted for the enemy’s war-making capacity as their objective. They proposed to attack the enemy’s will, only by more humane and economical methods. In Mitchell’s curious distinction, which found its way into Air Corps doctrine in 1926, air attack was “a method of imposing will by terrorizing the whole population . .. while conserving life and property to the greatest extent.” Later the Air Corps discreetly dropped references to “terrorizing” the enemy but still listed “attacks to intimidate civil populations” among its objectives in official doctrine and hinted at such attacks in public statements.12  Neither their own consciences nor the revulsion against the past war’s carnage shared by many Americans permitted the airmen to be amoral technicians. As in the writings of Douhet, Liddell Hart, and Mitchell, arguments for air power carried a strong if superficial moral justification. If American airmen advanced th