o cabinet, some phrases in Truman’s V-E Day address, and the dismaying impact on Japan of Germany’s surrender and of Russia’s likely entry into the war. But Grew’s initiative was also intimately bound to the political virtues and dangers he saw arising out of the recent raids on Tokyo. On May 26, he instructed Eugene Dooman, his chief Japan specialist, to draw up a new statement of American surrender terms, and when Dooman seemed to balk, Grew invoked the Tokyo air raids and advised Dooman, “We can’t waste any more time.” This was a rather delphic warning. Perhaps Grew feared that further bombing would destroy the political mechanism, even the very lives of the emperor and the peace faction, needed to effect a surrender and leave the militarists forced or emboldened to fight on. Given the strength of Grew’s personal and ideological bonds with some of Japan’s leading “liberals,” the prospect of their destruction may have triggered personal emotions as well. Furthermore, Grew’s knowledge of American work on the atomic bomb must have doubled these fears.  But Grew saw opportunity as well as danger in the Tokyo raids. On May 28 he took his case personally to Truman, proposing a new statement to Japan promising the Japanese permission “to determine their own future political structure.” He emphasized that it would carry “maximum effect if issued immediately following the great devastation of Tokyo which occurred two days ago.” Ur- gently desiring action, Grew wanted his statement incorporated into an address Truman was to make on May 31.12  For the moment, Grew gained little. The new president, not about to take a bold initiative, made agreeable noises but asked Grew to take up the matter with Stimson, Forrestal, Marshall, and Admiral King. Grew wasted no time, but a meeting the next day produced no satisfaction. The assembled officials agreed on the principle of clarifying American peace terms but not on the timing of an American statement—“the nub of the whole matter.”