omsday remained the contrasting ways in which bombing was viewed, categories that allowed peoples and na- tions to avoid confronting the realities of mass destruction.  THE NUCLEAR “APPARITION”  The tenacity of those categories was most tragically demonstrated in the final deliberations upon the atomic bomb, for in them the bomb’s use was never seriously debated and its destructive consequences were barely examined. Truman did agree in May to the establishment of the Interim Committee to consider issues raised by the bomb’s development. But though its decisions were crucial, it was never charged with weighing whether to use the atomic bomb against Japan, only with how its use would affect the many problems of domestic and international control of atomic  Page 314 of 368 71%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON been destroyed in a few weeks or a few months, and no one could say with what very heavy loss of life to the civilian population. But now, by using this new agency, we might not merely destroy cities, but save the lives alike of friend and foe.  In fact, by August the assault on most of those cities had been executed, not simply prepared. Churchill seemed to believe that the atomic bomb would short-cut, rather than climax, the American assault on Japanese cities. Truman may have shared the same misconception. “Our air and fleet units,” he recalled in his memoirs, “had begun to inflict heavy damage on industrial and urban sites in Japan proper.” The notion that American bombing had only “begun” in the summer of 1945 would have been baffling to the Japanese.*®  LeMay’s bombing proceeded largely unmonitored and unnoticed by diplomats and statesmen in London and Washington. Preoccupation with the atomic bomb might explain the indifference, except that it was shared by officials ignorant of the bomb. Like all men, wartime leaders reacted to concrete experiences, and for those who journeyed to Potsdam in July, the sight of Berlin’s ruins provi