e, just as a house of cards collapses when the base cards are removed.” But the same writer warned that such a blow would be “an undertaking of the greatest magnitude.” requiring thousands of bombers over Germany for an unspecified number of months.23  Allan Michie, a reporter for Fortune and other magazines, struggled to bridge the gulf. He recognized early in 1942 how disappointing the performance of American daylight bombers had been. He lamented how “supercharged advertisements” and “statements from overzealous government and service officials” had satisfied “national pride” but misled Americans about the difficulties ahead.  Vat Michie alen thancht it nascihle “urithin the navt tum moanthe to trinle ar anadriunle aur hamher ctrilzing farce ” hring Germany “tn her kneac hefara the and nf the cammer nf 19423 ” and leave Anola-  Page 123 of 368 28%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON AAF photograph of the bombed target (though clouds prevented the viewer from seeing tangible destruction), while the copy stressed that its bombers destroyed factories without harming cities.  Like the president, most wartime advertising asked the viewer to see the war as a production and engineering effort and to celebrate American superiority in that regard. That approach satisfied the long-run corporate goal of winning the allegiance of customers in the postwar market. Of course, companies identified their prowess with the destruction carried out by Allied forces, but except for those firms looking to defense production as their primary postwar activity, destruction was a transitory expression of that prowess. Their long-term interest lay in playing up those technical abilities with lasting implications for the civilian market. In short, they celebrated the means of production as much as, even more than, its immediate ends. And by 1944, as the end of the war became foresee- able—and the bombing intensified—the lure of postwar markets shifted advertising furt