aft artillery, which would do little more than shoot blindly, especially when bombers struck at night or when they attacked far from their targets by launching aerial “torpedoes” about which the 1920s featured extravagant prediction. Douhet eventually wrote off fighter planes as wasteful diversions from the strength of the “battleplane” force whose sole mission would be to launch “intensive and violent offensives” against enemy air bases, factories, and cities. Command of the air was necessary, yet rarely would it be achieved by direct confrontation between hostile air forces. An intelligent enemy would follow the same principles, but the devastation he unleashed would have to be suffered on the assumption that his will would collapse first under the crushing weight of bomber attacks.*  Even with his vivid imagination, Douhet could not describe what those attacks would be like. He paid little attention to determining which target systems might best be struck or how bombers would do so accurately, although his admonition to do the job fast and thoroughly was sound tactical advice. If postwar examination revealed that bombing during the Great War had been atrociously inaccurate, that only strenghtened the case for attacking whole cities and brushing aside problems of accuracy. “How could a country go on living and working under this constant threat, oppressed by the nightmare of imminent destruction and death? How indeed!” No further description was needed. The War of 19—(1930) bogged down in tedious orders of battle and lengthy accounts of the aerial combat which he saw as peripheral to the mission of his bombers. He could not describe what was really novel about the war he envisioned—the death and destruction on the ground—other than to note that cities would become “unapproachable flaming braziers.” Beyond that, it seemed “useless . . . to elaborate.” War against cities was terrifying but barely imaginable. The certainty of quick victory made description seem unnec