e to war as much as a way to wage it. Its use under some circumstances was, of course, imaginable. But imagination was in a holding pattern. The approach- ing possibility of America’s use provoked little soul-searching, especially measured against the debate over forbidding possibilities that periodically erupted in the twenties and thirties. Acceptance of air war against Japan was not yet the issue, for the bomber still promised escape from war or at least from a protracted and deadly version of it. Belief in the victory of intimidation or in the swift, surprise conquest had long allowed proponents of air power to evade troublesome moral and strategic issues. Fading from contemplation of war in Europe, it still permitted some Americans to imagine air war against Japan in a spirit of casual temptation.  From Intimidation to Annihilation  “Perhaps the best way to offset this initial defeat is to burn Tokyo and Osaka.” That possibility, posed two days after the Pearl Harbor disaster by a key army planner, was already galvanizing the nation’s officials. Frantically renewing the bid for Siberian air bases, President Roosevelt made an indirect approach to Ambassador Litvinov on the eighth, then gave Secretary of State Hull the thankless task of following up on his initiative. Although the American air force in the Philippines was mauled in the first days of hostilities, MacArthur cabled Marshall on the tenth that an attack on Japanese cities through use of Soviet airfields promised nothing less than a “golden opportunity . . . for a master stroke while the enemy is engaged in over-extended initial air efforts.” Marshall concurred. The speed and magnitude of Japanese successes muted talk of a quick victory through air power. But in Manila and Washington and in London as well the hope arose that, as Churchill put it, “the burning of Jap- anese cities by incendiary bombs” would “bring home” to the Japanese people the foolishness of their course or at least compel Tokyo to r