g of passenger trains became a favored action. It may have aroused Japanese indignation even more than the fire raids. There was, after all, some appreciation that B-29s hit general areas because they could not easily target anything else. But there was something gratuitous about the way fighter pilots, flying at low levels and able to discern their targets, singled out civilians for attack. “The Iananese.” noted an American visitor in October 1945. “classed such attacks as atrocities. hecause the nasseneer trains were not thought to be militarv targets.” Those attacks suggest that  Page 309 of 368 70%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  JIS ALBUCU, LIUL UCLAUSE LUC AA Wad UUWILUUS UL UAE LU ALE ULL IL. Ka LLICL, LUE ULSTooLULL UL MUUTLILaL Blalll SUALEBY WILLE YUILR VILLULY aU LUV@oIULL UCIUCU LUE ac Luc UppuLLULuty Lu Cage their targeting toward a true air strategy for victory. Compelled to soften up Japan for invasion, they had to wage systematic destruction.2®  Hansell effectively critiqued the course of blockade and bombing that made the rubble bounce in so many redundant ways. But he was wrong in exonerating the air force from responsibility for the holocaust over Japan. Invasion sanctioned but did not compel all-out destruction, which might have been pursued as readily even if invasion had been foresworn. American war-making by the summer of 1945 was characterized by a broad-front strategy permitting each service to pursue its favored course, to avoid choices and do everything within the limits of American resources and of public demands for complete victory at minimal cost. The imperatives of invasion were not the foremost considerations leading the AAF to firebombing; it made that choice in March because incen- diary bombing was easy and because doing it rescued the AAF’s flagging fortunes. Even in the summer Arnold and his staff had no clear alternative to Marshall's strategy. They pursued the campaign of fire as zealously as the i