On 1wo jima DUT scotcned tne 1aea. If ne Made sucn a aecision, 1t proDaDly rested On NO aversion to new weapons, given nis  simultaneous support of the bomb’s development and the use of war-weary bombers against Germany. But initiating use of a weapon with a loathsome reputation posed a different problem than that raised by atomic bombing, about which no prior judgment could be reached in public and against which no enemy could retaliate. With the grimmest fighting still anticipated in Germany and the Pa- cific, introducing chemical or biological weapons would have established a nasty precedent.4”  COMMAND DECISION  Regarding the winter’s exercises in grand strategy and diplomacy, LeMay contributed and heard little. He was a field commander, and his job was to mobilize and direct his force. Sometime that winter he was informed about the atomic bomb project because training for an atomic mission had to take place in the Marianas, using the planes in which LeMay was expert and coordinated with the operations he conducted. But he was told the bare minimum, and as he later put it, the news “didn’t make much of an impression upon me,” for a long time had passed “since my college physics days.” It would make “a big bang,” but how big he could not imagine.48  What he did think about and tackle with his uncluttered intelligence and force of character were the manifold problems still outstanding in the B-29 operations. He reaped the benefits of Hansell’s earlier efforts in that regard. He exploited Washington’s operations researchers, challenging one to “pick out a couple of the stupidest radar operators they have, and Lord knows that’s pretty stupid,” and perfect crew training in the use of radar for identifying and hitting targets.42 The numbers of crews and planes he had grew steadily, though stepped-up training kept combat sorties from rising as fast. In February, he gained another important advantage with the capture of Iwo Jima, robbing the enemy of a forward warning s