e them more necessary than ever. Far from appearing an extension of the slaughter of modern war, air power seemed to many people one way to escape from it. To sustain the battered faith that technology might make war more humane, belief in the bomber’s capacity to abolish war or make it decisive was required. In the midst of air war, it was possible in England to assert that although the airplane is “the most punitive weapon ever placed in the hands of mankind” it “may eventually render war so horrible as to result in its abolition altogether.” Scarcely less sanguine was another English prophecy that, Wells to the contrary, “after one or two staggering blows, in which its chief cities are destroyed, and its means of communications paralysed, acountry may find itself so helpless that there will be nothing for it to do but sue for peace.”42 Such sentiments displayed surprising resilience in the years to come in both Britain and America. The war experience—or more precisely, how it was remembered—made future air war seem inevitable, terrifying, and attractive.  * Defined here as aerial attack on an enemy’s capacity and will to sustain military operations, rather than on those operations themselves.  Page 17 of 368 5%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON YesuLUcuULL,  By November 1918, the bomber had found acceptance in both Britain and America. In Britain it inspired a lasting terror which left that nation determined to build a powerful strategic force and, even twenty years later, gave pause to Chamberlain at Munich. In America, it inspired casual fascination and easy hopes. For neither country was the test of war sufficient to challenge these reactions. As exploration of that middle ground between apocalyptic fantasy and careless dismissal, the war experience was too incomplete to confirm the Wellsian prophecy. Too much had happened in World War I for that generation to ignore the bomber, but too little had happened to appreciate fully its pote