increased danger posed when crewmen unknown to each other worked together. Most important, knowledge that their combat duty was finite gave “the hope of surviving . . . some basis in reality” and helped counteract the acute sense of depression and abandonment that accumulated as comrades were lost and isolation from home increased. It also made airmen, despite the peril they faced, less likely than other army servicemen to regard their work loads as unfair or excessive.2&  The policy of fixed tours profoundly strengthened the task-oriented mentality of bomber crewmen. Many of them “felt that 30 missions was their ’debt to society’—that in order to do their share they must fulfill their ‘contract’ by completing the quota.” They expressed their investment in a “contractual commitment” through their gallows humor: their tendency to regard every man lost  Page 214 of 368 49%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON usual limitations of time and space.” Flying created “a feeling of aggressive potency bordering on the unchallenged strength of a superman.” When the author of God Is My Co-Pilot flew over Mount Everest, “he felt that he had humbled this highest mountain and patronizingly saluted his fallen opponent.” The airplane offered “the perfect prescription for those that are weak, hesitant or frustrated on earth. Give them wings, 2000 horses compressed into a radial engine, and what can stop them?”2!  These satisfactions accorded with Fromm’s portrayal of fliers as men alienated from themselves and the natural world. Like some scientists, they used technique to master themselves and the mortality inherent in their place in the natural world. Like some scientists, the search for “aggressive potency” also suggested male needs to define the relationship between femininity and that world. The instruments of destruction often had aggressive generic names such as Superfortresses or Marauders. A crew’s own bomber, however, was regarded less as an instrumen