the lack of friction between them. Another consideration inviting use of air power, then, lay in the lack of political conflict that its use entailed.  Amore alert and concerned citizenry might have made a difference, not by fostering an empty public ritual of handwringing about the morality of bombing, but in more substantive ways. First, a distinction between the use of bombing for military purposes and its employment to satisfy political and emotional ends might have forced the bombing effort into narrower channels. If leaders rarely stoked the fires of vengeance and hegemony openly they did little by word to bank them and a good deal by action to fan them. Had they not and had others examined the bombing effort more critically, a greater obligation might have been placed on commanders to justify the military utility of missions.  Contemporary leaders were themselves alert to this possibility. They were fearful that popular perceptions of inhumanity in the bombing effort might affect its course, the political image of the United States, and the fate of the air force and its ambitions. Privately, they worried—in General Ira Eaker’s warning late in the war—that “we should never allow the history of this war to convict us of throwing the strategic bomber at the man in the street.”®3 Publicly, their concern found expression in repeated assertions of the virtue of American precision bombing and in denials, sometimes valid and often not, that such bombing had been abandoned in favor of less discriminate targeting. In an international context, they made numerous efforts to explain why Allied bombers killed civilians in occupied countries whose loyalty the United States courted. Most important, in the few cases where the constraints of popular opinion seemed substantial—in the matter of bombing Rome, for ex- ample—American leaders made considerable efforts to operate within them.  To be sure, it is unfair to impose on historical subjects a latter-day notion of restraint,