d by air force psychiatrists as counterproductive, a crippling emotion that was a luxury of the home front.7&  Wartime data permit few firm conclusions about how the airman’s peculiar distance from his enemy affected his attitudes. Most likely, distance did not increase or decrease hatred so much as it altered its forms and manner of expression. It made it easier for more men to hate an emeny but also made that hatred more abstract, less personally and intensely felt. Whatever vindictiveness airmen felt, they had fewer opportunities to express it directly, and it was generally submerged in the performance of highly technical functions, especially for bomber crews. “Their excitement at actually witnessing the destruction of a target was great,” Vincent Sheean noted when he accompanied a mission against Japan; but that excitement, he suggested, had little to do with what was done to the enemy, much more to do with the successful completion of a task. Furthermore, the routine postmission interrogation of crews, “such a cut-and-dried, mechanical affair,” tended to drain away the crews’ emotional reactions.”  The dominant focus of bomber crewmen was not on the nature or threat of the enemy, especially not in the last several months of the Pacific war, when the threat had dwindled sharply. The enemy was the void at the center of their wartime concerns and postwar recollections. As public relations officer for the 21st Bomber Command in the Marianas, St. Clair McKelway noted that there was a “letdown” after operations started: “It would just be Big Business from now on, with military perfectionist standards applied all up and down the line until we had become an efficient, well-oiled machine of destruction—a good machine, maybe, but a dull one.” McKelway appreciated how much success was defined by efficient routine in which feelings about the enemy played a small role.78  Erich Fromm found airmen to be teams of technicians “not concerned with killing and... hardly aware of