truction of the enemy state. Without a clear and accurate model of how the enemy thought and how destruction might compel his surren- der, little guided the course of bombing beyond its own internal dynamics and the fearsome prospect of invasion. Once again, intangible criteria invited unlimited destruction.  The formula for unconditional surrender has been faulted often enough for making the enemy fight on. At least as plausibly, it led the Allies to fight on. Particularly in the American war against Japan, it provided few criteria for measuring the relationship of destruction to the attainment of political ends. It seemed only to indicate that the path to unconditional surrender lay through uncon- ditional destruction.  THE PROBLEM OF TECHNOLOGICAL FANATICISM  The leaders and technicians of the American air force were driven by technological fanaticism—a pursuit of destructive ends expressed, sanctioned, and disguised by the organization and application of technological means. Destruction was rarely the acknowledged final purpose for the men who made air war possible. Rather, they declared that it served the purpose of securing victory and that its forms were dictated by technological, organizational, and strategic imperatives. In practice, they often waged destruction as a functional end in itself, without a clear comprehension of its relation- ship to stated purposes.  To label these men fanatics or their mentality and behavior as fanatical may defy the usual understanding of the terms, which sees in fanaticism the workings of a single-minded, frenzied emotional devotion to a cause. Intensity of emotion hardly seemed to characterize men whose virtue was their capacity for rational examination of problems. “The fanatic cannot tolerate scientific thought,” it has been said. Moreover, “fanaticism is a megalomaniacal condition,” one notable for “a jealous, vindictive and monomaniacal faith,” usually in a party, an organization, or a leader in which is invested a “un