asingly elusive. Near the end of the war and of his service as operations analyst with the RAF’s Bomber Command, he asked himself how “I let myself become involved in this crazy game of murder.”  At the beginning of the war, I believed fiercely in the brotherhood of man, called myself a follower of Gandhi, and was morally opposed to all violence. After a year of war I retreated and said, Unfortunately nonviolent resistance against Hitler is impracticable, but I am still morally opposed to bombing. A couple of years later I said, Unfortunately it seems that bombing is necessary in order to win the war, and so Iam willing to go to work for Bomber Command, but I am still morally opposed to bombing cities indiscriminately. After I arrived at Bomber Command I said, Unfortunately it turns out that we are after all bombing cities indiscriminately, but this is morally justified, as it is helping to win the war. A year later I said, Unfortunately it seems that our bombing is not really helping to win the war, but at least Iam morally justified in working to save the lives of the bomber crews. In the last spring of the war I could no longer find any excuses.  Partly in reaction to the loss of “excuses,” Dyson charted a unique course of fascination with the German enemy that slopped over into admiration. By war’s end, he “began more and more to envy the technicians on the other side who were helping the German night fighter crews to defend their homes and families.” They had “a cause clean to fight for.” Dyson concluded: “A good cause can become bad if we fight it with means that are indiscriminately murderous. A bad cause can become good if enough people fight for it in a spirit of comradeship and self-sacrifice.” Dyson did not seem fully aware of how Britain’s “indiscriminately murderous” methods arose from a war begun “in a spirit of comradeship and self-sacrifice,” or how unclean the German cause was even at war’s end—how many Germans still killed subject peoples rather th