n the Japanese completed the Tripartite Pact with Berlin and Rome, the two crises seemed to have merged into one. Acceptance of further Japanese expansion ran the twin risks of further weakening the Allies and compromising the admin- istration’s leadership in the fight against fascism. “The people of the United States . . . reject the doctrine of appeasement,” Roosevelt commented in October 1940.  Yet the same global perspective that raised the Far Eastern crisis to new urgency also condemned it to second place in Washington’s priorities. Operating on the Europe-first strategy, Washington tried to arrest Japanese expansion on the cheap, husbanding its resources for rearmament at home and aid to allies across the Atlantic. It was a perilous course to take. Minimal measures to deter Japanese expansion ran the risk, given the overall weakness of the American posture, of seeming only to be provocations or empty bluffs, as military leaders often feared. “The delicate line between what would deter and what would provoke.” Roberta Wohlstetter has written, “was evidently the subject of much discussion, little thought, and still less agreement among policymaking officials.” It was never, of course, identified. Roosevelt, charting a shifting middle course between deterrence and conciliation, never achieved the consistency that successful deterrence presupposed: “The American policymakers kept themselves as well as the Japanese guessing,” notes Wohlstetter. For its more forceful advocates, a deterrent policy rested also on the conviction that Japan’s power was more show than substance, its leaders ready to back down in the face of the white man’s superior determination. That was the frequently stated view of Stimson, who noted that in past conflicts the Japanese had “crawled down” and retreated “like whipped puppies” when the United States stood firm. At the same time, in contrast to the view of the Japanese as emotional children (or cringing animals), the rationale for deterr