d in the United States Navy.” LeMay “had been a poor relation plenty of times before.” Official courtesy demanded that he entertain in return, but he used the occasion to tweak the noses of his blue-water rivals and also to make his needs known, taking “especial pains to serve the best flight-rations available,” the “canned stuff’ the air force was feeding itself. Eventually he got more of what he wanted out of the navy.*?  Whatever his troubles with the navy, LeMay’s relations with his superiors seemed remarkably free from the intrusions he experienced or heard of in Europe. For one thing, because the Twentieth Air Force was under Arnold’s direct control, theater commanders had far less call on LeMay to support the army and navy, and when diversions did occur, Arnold and Norstad assumed responsibility for them. For another, Arnold was convalescing in Florida through much of the winter. “He did not tell me how to do my job! No!” LeMay protested years later when queried about his relationship with Arnold. “I never got a direct order from Arnold that I remember,” a recollection generally supported by the documentary record. He doubtless felt less harried than his predecessor, and he was not one to worry about the formalities of command relationships.*3  Yet with Norstad as a like-minded surrogate for Arnold, communications between Washington and the field had not changed much since Hansell’s tenure. As usual, rituals of deference to a combat commander’s authority mixed with polite nudges and the occasional injunction. Norstad quickly told LeMay that “what General Arnold wants is the greatest possible number of bombs  Page 267 of 368 61%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON N1mMi1tz and tne Combined ULniefs [or use OF poison gas against tne japanese On 1wo jima DUT scotcned tne 1aea. If ne Made sucn a aecision, 1t proDaDly rested On NO aversion to new weapons, given nis  simultaneous support of the bomb’s development and the use of war-weary bomb