ines and outlined how heavy bombers based there could launch a “pincer attack” and “drop bombs on Japan, land in Siberia, refuel, and rebomb and repeat the enterprise on a return trip to Manila.” What is more, Krock speculated that Japanese envoys in Washington either had learned of this plan from Roosevelt and Hull or would do so by “reading this dispatch.” Either way, this new dimension to strategy would “probably have an important effect on the progress of the American-Japanese peace discussion.” Here, Krock concluded, was “reassuring” news for the United States.  Page 108 of 368 25%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON d1Derlan bases the AAF Would nave nad to deliver supplies througn japanese-1nfestea waters or Maintain a dimcuit alr Terry route tnrougn Alaska, and tnen work 1n a lana allen climaticaily, linguis-  tically, culturally, and politically. Some Washington officials were mindful of these problems. That they nonetheless persisted in the shuttle-bombing scheme suggests that they foresaw no prolonged campaign against Japan requiring prodigies of logistics—a few surprise missions, even as Marshall suggested simply the threat of such missions, would overawe the Asians.  The political obstacles to the Siberian arrangement were even more daunting. The Soviet Union, already in a death struggle with Germany, hardly wanted to provoke war with Japan by allowing American use of Russian bases. Still, Japan might solve that problem simply by attacking the Soviet Union. In July, air strategists were already noting how Japan “would be impressed” if the B-17s being sent to the Far East followed a route through Siberia, then “along the edge of Japan,” and on to Manila, laying bare the vulnerability of “vital Japanese industrial establishments.” Tenuous, even devious negotiations with the Soviets ensued. Washington, already interested in an Alaska-Siberia route for ferrying Lend-Lease aircraft to the Russians, tried to exploit conversations over t