ak record of prophecy about the bomber before World War II indicates. Limited nuclear conflict can be imagined, even if only as a remote possibility, and then the obvious point still be made about it: that even it is a horror which must be prevented. To appreciate the necessity of averting nuclear war does not require imagining only the destruction of the United States, or of Western civilization, or of all civilization, or of all human life, or of the ecosphere itself. We rule none of them out either; we accept them as points on a continuum of uncertainty.  For the most part, we have regarded the uncertainty in aerial warfare as an enemy. It frays nerves, disturbs sleep, vexes policies, and, so it seems, invites miscalculation. If we must face a terrifying future, we prefer the terrors to be known; simply to define them gives some hope of managing them. But we might better regard uncertainty as a friend, trying of course to fathom it but in the end also embracing it. It may be the best hope that the nuclear powers will be deterred from waging war. The very fact that they cannot know what would happen in war may be more daunting than scenarios filled with certitudes. Moreover, out of uncertainty can spring a continued desire to solve the nuclear problem and avoid a passive fatalism. In that regard, we can recall how, in the 1930s, the great powers found comfort in their terrifying vision that the next great war would begin and likely end with an aerial holocaust. They were right to imagine that such a holocaust was possible but wrong to regard it as almost inevitable, and in their error, and in their fumbling preparations to meet what they anticipated, they created a horror different from, but perhaps also worse than, what they had imagined.  A second suggestion is to be skeptical about technological solutions to the problem of aerial warfare. Of course, such solutions have been recurrently offered in the twentieth century: perhaps precision bombing would replace sy