mans were developing dirigibles whose potential for bombing intrigued them and alarmed the British. But the Italians led in aviation because their war with the Turks in 1911-12 accelerated their aviation program. They carried out the first bombing operations since Austrian balloonists tossed a few explosives on Venice in 1849. The Italians’ effort also prompted the first moral controversy over a bombing incident. But the Italians did not become a major air power, although their effort was impressive until the start of World War II. The American armed forces, eventually to be supreme in the air, numbered their planes and pilots in the dozens, spent a pittance on aviation compared to other major powers, and by 1914 had lost whatever lead they earlier held. Whatever the deeper national needs or traits that eventually fostered American supremacy—such as a knack for technology or a fondness for inexpensive and decisive victories—they were not much in evidence before World War I. Americans showed no special rush to develop warplanes, no peculiar interest or talent that matched or exceeded that of other major powers.  Historians sometimes list the factors that retarded the development of military aviation in the United States and abroad—the primitiveness of technology and the unpredictability of its development, the resistance of military bureaucracies to change and the paucity of institutional mechanisms to promote it, the lack of urgency about national security and the preoccupation with naval armaments. Undoubtedly such forces were at work. Yet merely to recite them is to suggest that somehow progress should have come more quickly. There was no reason that it should have. Only war and a new set of attitudes toward national security could make that happen. Until 1914, the airplane inspired hopes and fears to which the casual efforts of the time bore little relation.  THE TEST OF WAR  In war the improvisational pattern continued. Airplanes, undifferentiated as to design o