logical factors in the target selection were of great importance.” Or more accurately, that they were overriding. For in discussing “Use against ‘Military’ Objectives” the quotation marks around “Military” indicated that these men were discussing a euphemism, and their concluding words suggested that they regarded the bomb’s effect  m “any small and strictly military objective” as incidental. Even the audience for the bomb’s psychological effect was ambiguous: the Japanese of course, but the initial use also had to be “sufficiently spectacular for the importance of the weapon to be internationally recognized when publicity on it is released.”54  By the time the Target Committee reconvened on May 28, LeMay had eliminated Tokyo and the emperor’s grounds as targets. To be sure, by the standard of psychological effect, Tokyo might still have seemed attractive; after all, Japan’s government still resided there. But psychological impression was defined in part by destructiveness, which Tokyo's rubble would not reveal starkly, and anyway Groves wanted that destructiveness demonstrated boldly for reasons unrelated to the war. Perhaps too, the Target Committee had been told that the emperor was off limits, and through Stimson’s intervention Kyoto too was later dropped. But the brief discussion of targets that occurred on the twenty-eighth still left psychological effects as paramount, since the committee decided “to neglect location of industrial areas as pin point target.”55  The names of target cities changed but not the preoccupation with making a psychological statement. It guided others who deliberated on the bomb. To Churchill, too, the bomb was less a. device that killed than an “apparition.” an “almost super-natural weapon” which would give the Japanese people “an excuse” to surrender without losing face.** That persistent way of imagining the bomb’s use arose in part because the task of defeating Japan was seen largely in terms of the “Oriental” psychology, whose wo