—were unenlightening about the issues Americans would face should they enter the war. Echoing the Mitchell of the midtwenties, he celebrated the invulnerability of the United States to attack by sea or air. A relatively small force—ten thousand frontline planes—could guard the approaches to America. Transatlan-  Page 87 of 368 20%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Japan. Ruling out invasion of Japan as both unnecessary and unfeasible, eliminating a naval blockade (a recurrent idea of Roosevelt’s) as difficult and too slow, Spaatz reached the unsurprising conclu- sion that strategic bombers, perhaps based on Luzon, were best fitted for the task. Spaatz offered no details regarding the methods or targets of bombing. But given Japan’s industrialized economy and dense population, he thought it “probable that sustained air attack alone would be sufficient to force Japanese acquiescence in our national policies.” And he added, in an echo of reactions to Munich and a prophecy of plans to come, that “the mere existence” of an American bomber force on Luzon might “restrain Japan from open and active opposition to our national policies.”37  Spaatz’s ideas added another reason to develop the B-29, which he simultaneously recommended, but apparently received no immediate follow-up. More than ever after September 1, air officers devoted attention to industrial mobilization, development of new aircraft, the continuing demands of foreign orders, and the requirements of hemispheric defense. Neither the outbreak of war in Europe nor Marshall’s ascent to the post of Chief of Staff had an immediate effect on long-range strategic planning or on Roosevelt’s views. Perhaps, as a contemporary account implied, Germany’s limited use of the bomber against Poland that fall may have come as a relief to Roosevelt and his advisors. Air war “had assumed, in their eyes, as in everyone else’s, a shape more dreadful than was to be justified by the event. All sorts of catas