ook on unimaginable proportions, victim and attacker had strangely similar images burned in their memories: of “light flashed everywhere in the darkness like Christmas trees lifting their decorations of flame high into the night,” and (from above) of a city “illuminated like a forest of brightly lighted Christmas trees.” These things took on an unholy beauty even as the city boiled, as people with the luxury to observe tried to relate an alien experience to something familiar. Like every form of war, this one had its strangely compelling attractions: “All the Japanese in the gardens near mine,” recorded a French journalist on the fringes of the holocaust, “were out of doors or peering out of their holes, uttering cries of admiration ... at this grandiose, almost theatrical spectacle.” The men in the bombers smelled the soot and the burning flesh and tried to avoid choking or vomiting, or spotted the cauldron while still far out at sea, or bounced suddenly against the top of their aircraft when uprushes of superheated air—the thermals from the blaze—propelled their air- craft upward thousands of feet in a few seconds or flipped them over. There were unknown sensations, attractive and repellent, in what they were doing.®>  To people on the ground, the bombs seemed to be sown in a random manner. They were not. First attackers carved out an X of flames across one of the world's most densely packed residential districts; followers fed and broadened it for some three hours thereafter. LeMay’s tactical design worked. Another design, the government’s plan for defense, was being played out below. “Why should we be afraid of air raids?” a patriotic song had run. “The big sky is protected with iron defenses. For young and old it is time to stand up. . . . Come on, enemy planes. Come on many times.” Their government had instructed Japanese that they had “only two choices before them: to be victorious, or perish.” Victims of faithful obedience to their leaders’ edicts, having at