ng about the enemy.®2  Conditions within the bomber created a curious sense of unreality and alienation. On B-29s, a thirty-foot tunnel, just big enough to crawl through, was the only way to traverse the length of the plane, adding to the claustrophobia sometimes felt on long missions. On the other hand, comforts could make war seem remote—men could smoke, eat, sleep, and wear regular clothing because the B-29 was pressurized and heated. Adding to the sense of unreality was the public relations policy of the Twentieth Air Force. Crews were “picking up news on their radios, when only halfway home, that their bombing mission had been announced in Washington. All the world knew about it, but they still had a thousand miles of ocean to cross before it was finished”—as if announcement of their attack were more important than their fate and missions had an abstracted reality apart from what men did.81  Grappling with the environment in and around the plane was as consuming as engaging the enemy. On the older bombers in service in Europe, cold and fatigue posed special problems. More men were disabled by frostbite than by combat wounds, especially when men came on board wet or sweaty or perspired heavily or urinated in their suits during the stress of combat. Anoxia from shortages of oxygen both compounded the perils of frostbite and posed a serious danger in and of itself.82 The men also had to cope with damage or malfunctions of the plane, often performing herculean feats to get a plane back to base, in the face of unpredictable changes in weather—an unexpected headwind, a target shrouded by bad weather, a home base sunny when they took off and socked in when they returned. Particularly in the Pacific, where the dominant weather patterns came through Japanese or Soviet territory from which American meteorologists could gain little infor- mation, the unexpected often occurred.  In these conditions, the bomber often seemed more important than the enemy. It was the focus an