mber pilot, with rare exceptions such as the great firestorms of Hamburg and Dresden had to wait for the next bulletin from High Wycombe to learn whether his colleagues were dying to good purpose or in vain.  Even then, headquarters’ information might be wrong.  Distance from a human enemy was not unique to air war. Even within its boundaries a sense of distance varied widely. Destructiveness and exposure to danger simply did not correlate with each other: the Twentieth Air Force, the most devastating of all the wartime air forces, took only 2.8 percent of all losses by the American air force during the war—some 3,415 casualties, of whom 576 were killed and 2,406 missing—while the AAF in Europe and the Mediterranean endured 94,565 casualties.“ Fighter pilots came closer to seeing the whites of the enemy’s eyes. But even pilots of naval torpedo bombers reported that they often could not see their torpedoes explode because they had to turn away so quickly.  Often enough narrative accounts indicated the remoteness of what warplanes did to others simply by omitting mention of the matter. It often took the interloper on air combat to notice its special sense of unreality. Charles Lindbergh, denied active duty by Roosevelt, nonetheless remained an informal advisor to Arnold and the aviation industry and flew tactical combat missions in the Pacific. His observations were acute:  You nress a button and death flies down. One second the homh is hanging harmlesslv in vour racks. comnletelv under vour control. The next it is hurtling down through the air. and nothing in vour nower  Page 207 of 368 47%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON “eltective, Carerui ngnting men, quiet and coo! on the grouna and in the alr’ but “drained Ol MOSst feelings other than those naving to do with combat. Likewise 1n the KAr: ~ /ne men who rarea best  were those who did not allow themselves to think at all. Many crews argued that emotional entanglements were madness.” The n