o speed up victory when finished with Germany.*3  The shift in emphasis toward invasion also reflected the declining influence in Allied councils of the British, with their preference for patient and indirect methods of war. At the same time, the success of the D-Day invasion probably emboldened army planners by demonstrating the continued effectiveness of conventional strategies and carrying the promise of early victory in Europe, thereby freeing huge armies to turn against Japan. As Marshall told the Combined Chiefs of Staff on July 14, it was “now clear to the United States Chiefs of Staff that, in order to finish with the Japan- ese quickly, it will be necessary to invade the industrial heart of Japan”; earlier “the means for this action were not available,” but now they lay “within our power.”54  Marshall’s remarks also reflected mounting evidence of Japanese resistance—the period of timely Japanese retreats was over—and determination to fight to the end. The Japanese seemed more barbaric, fanatical, and formidable than ever. The stage was set for the final fury of air war, which appeared more justified and necessary than ever and yet less likely to succeed on its own. In 1943, when the bombing of Japan was still months into the future, strategists had contemplated its war-winning potential with considerable relish, even though the same men had mostly abandoned hope for victory over Germany without invasion. By the summer of 1944, when the bombing had commenced, expectations for it were scaled down. It was a final irony that their diminution was unjusti- fied, as events in the summer of 1945 would prove.  ESCALATION AND OPERATIONAL NECESSITY  That irony suggests one of the components of air war’s escalation. The decisiveness of air power had always been higher in anticipation than in actuality. Similarly, attention to air power, to the moral and strategic issues it raised, had usually been greatest when the bombers themselves were of little use. By the time the