sess, even to witness; the indices of success most easily assembled—tonnage delivered, sorties flown, acreage wasted—far from inviting restraint, encouraged escalation; decisions about it were by nature more incremental and less discrete than those about other forms of war. To some degree, any modern warfare conducted at great distance and dependent on prodigies of production inhibits oversight and fosters escalation. In the case of air war, the multiplicity of motives involved, the lack of measurable criteria, and the particular remoteness of its consequences combined to give it a peculiarly un- checked momentum.  The Sociology of Air War  Weeks after Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the radical critic Dwight MacDonald attempted to characterize the mentality of the nation and people who built and used the atomic bombs. “Atomic bombs are the natural product of the kind of society we have created. They are as easy, normal and unforced an expression of the American Standard of Living as electric iceboxes. .. . Perhaps only among men like soldiers and scientists, trained to think ‘objectively’—i.e., in terms of means, not ends—could such irresponsibility and moral callousness be found.”! MacDonald’s characterization applied to the air force as well as to the Manhattan Project, for they overlapped in technology, personnel, organization, and purposes. The organizations fashioned to wage conventional air war and nuclear attack both raised questions about whether the pursuit of means obliterated an awareness of ends and the production of destruction became “normal and unforced.”  MacDonald’s characterization is a point of departure for exploring the men who waged air war, not a conclusion. But it suggests the need to look at the war’s bombing as something more than just the unfolding of a series of strategic campaigns. The distance from which Americans (and others) observed and waged air war derived partly from the historical, political, and strategic circumstances already describe