lung Asian bomber commands was even more exacting than it was with the strategic air forces in Europe. The sheer volume of communications—ranging from Arnold’s chattv but pointed personal letters to reams of target information and the trivial detritus of militarv bureaucracv—was also novel. Hansell had  Page 219 of 368 50%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON The AAF staft Kept him intormed more as a matter of courtesy, and with the expectation ot “soliditying the position ot the 20th Air Force within the War Department” by notitying Marshall of its  triumphs.* Now that Arnold was surrounded by some talented staff—notably Brigadier (later Major) General Laurence Kuter and Brigadier (later Major) General Lauris Norstad—Marshall was less inclined to scrutinize the AAF’s performance. Furthermore, reorganizations of the JCS committee system and the War Department staff had increasingly enabled the air staff to bypass the army staff structure and deal directly with the Joint Chiefs. Functionally, if not yet legally, the AAF was independent of the army and the bureaucratic equal to it in many ways.  If the supervision given Arnold and the air force was loose, it was hardly understood they would go their own way. Marshall had earlier decided to make Arnold “as nearly as I could Chief of Staff of the Air without any restraint,” but he added that Arnold “was very subordinate,” and indeed their relationship would have been impossible had the two not been in substantial agreement on most strategic issues.© Arnold was simply free to direct the air war within a strategic context shared broadly by his president and his military superiors. After September 1944, no one outside the air force carefully examined its methods of bombing. Whether it chose to blast factories, mine sea-lanes, or level cities was largely for Arnold and his subordinates to decide.  At Arnold’s level, however, the decentralization of authority ceased. The AAF’s Washington headquarters c