on might be wrong.  Distance from a human enemy was not unique to air war. Even within its boundaries a sense of distance varied widely. Destructiveness and exposure to danger simply did not correlate with each other: the Twentieth Air Force, the most devastating of all the wartime air forces, took only 2.8 percent of all losses by the American air force during the war—some 3,415 casualties, of whom 576 were killed and 2,406 missing—while the AAF in Europe and the Mediterranean endured 94,565 casualties.”4 Fighter pilots came closer to seeing the whites of the enemy’s eyes. But even pilots of naval torpedo bombers reported that they often could not see their torpedoes explode because they had to turn away so quickly.  Often enough narrative accounts indicated the remoteness of what warplanes did to others simply by omitting mention of the matter. It often took the interloper on air combat to notice its special sense of unreality. Charles Lindbergh, denied active duty by Roosevelt, nonetheless remained an informal advisor to Arnold and the aviation industry and flew tactical combat missions in the Pacific. His observations were acute:  You press a button and death flies down. One second the bomb is hanging harmlessly in your racks, completely under your control. The next it is hurtling down through the air, and nothing in your power can revoke what you have done.  ... How can there be writhing, mangled bodies? How can this air around you be filled with unseen projectiles? It is like listening to a radio account of a battle on the other side of the earth. It is too far away, too separated to hold reality. (May 29, 1944)  One is separated from the surface of that island as though he were viewing it on a motion-picture screen in a theater on the other side of the world. A plane in the sky, an island in the water; there is no thread of realization, of understanding, of human feeling that connects the two. In modern war one kills at a distance, and in doing so does not re