nd media attention to them following the initial wave of air power tracts.*4  Americans came to and expressed their acceptance of strategic air power in more complex and indirect ways than polls could reveal. Just as before World War II, the attraction of air power lay in the diversity of its appeals, none so compelling alone as to focus concerted debate about the bomber, and many distantly related to the conduct of war itself. The distance, physical and psychological, from which Americans viewed the war reinforced this diffuseness. No single argument for air power emerged triumphant, no decisive clamor to unleash it arose. Instead, war tempered the persuasive- ness of claims by both extreme skeptics and prophets—a sensible reaction to the war but one that muted debate among Americans still further.  Air power offered the promise of easy victory and vengeance against their enemies. Yet most Americans, like their leaders, deferred final judgment on that promise, preferring to set aside the wrangling about theory and just give air power its chance. Insofar as Americans sought vengeance, they usually let it emerge as a consequence of policies whose stated purpose was the destruction of economic and military objectives, or let British night bombers provide it. Japan’s punishment was more avidly and openly welcomed, and words were often strident, but Japan would not come within reach of American air power until the war’s last year, except for Doolittle’s promissory note on things to come. Above all, Americans preferred to view the bombing effort in the categories—production and technology—that reflected their virtues and avoided explicit questions about moral and military purposes. The media demonstrated some awareness of the nature of bombing operations late in the war, but then to help Americans appreciate and sustain the costs of war, not to raise fundamental questions about its content.  Perhaps the acceptance of strategic air war meant that Americans had suspended m