e Stone Age (as he was famous for saying), his politics were highly circumscribed, focused on resentment over being denied the tools to do his job and protect his men. His denunciations of “pacifists,” “swivel-chair, intellectual types,” and the managerial mentality of Defense Secretary Robert McNamara sprang from the same source. At bottom, LeMay wanted the nation to approach war in the same way that he thought an air force should approach a mission: “Once the decision is made. ... Bang. Everybody complies.” Politics (except for the scramble for resources) ended when war began. Some air force officers saw no such dichotomy between peace and war; few of them rose to the top or stayed there long.8  LeMay was neither uncomplicated nor unlikeable. He had his internal conflicts. For all his later fulminations against intellectuals, educational metaphors abounded in his memoirs, and for all his pride in his ability to improvise, he regretted missing the formal training that would have permitted him to debate politics and strategy as effectively as civilian intellectuals or studious officers. Too, his role in the late 1940s in developing the air force’s relationship with civilian expertise suggests he courted what he also distrusted. Like the RAF’s Harris, LeMay also had a refreshing transparency that showed through in his memoirs and his politics. He confessed his own fears of going into combat and of leading other men into combat. Knowing he was not a great strategic thinker, he attributed his rise to fortune—promotion came rapidly when so many died quickly—and to his skills at leadership and organization: “The main thing was to have enough energy to get off your ass and do something.”2  War penalized the ideologues and rewarded the pragmatists, the men who maximized the number of trained crews. bombers in the air. targets hit. Bevond recognizing that getting bombs on  Page 177 of 368 41%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON CULMUAL LAU UE. ALL LI