The Bomb bv showing how it fits into our normal. evervdav life also cuts the other wav: it reveals how inhuman our normal life has hecome.” Truman himself had sunnlied the annronriate  Page 348 of 368 79%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  designated by President Truman, and the American authorities are perfectly aware of this.” To that and succeeding Japanese charges of war atrocities, the American government did not reply, though they were implicitly validated in Truman’s own talk of a “rain of ruin” and later his warning that “unfortunately, thousands of civilian lives will be lost.” Though little even in American newspapers sustained Truman’s claims about targeting, they remained a fixture in his own defense of his actions. “The world will note,” he stressed on August 9, “that the first atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, a military base,” as if city and base were one and the same. True, in addressing his subordinates amid the Berlin crisis in 1948, Truman seemed to imply something else, emphasizing that the atomic bomb “is so terribly destructive. ... It is used to wipe out women and children and unarmed people, and not for military uses.” But Truman made no explicit reference to Hiroshima on that occasion, and out of office he reasserted that he “had ordered the A Bomb dropped on Japan at two places devoted almost exclusively to war production.” Almost nine years later, the phrasing he and Stimson had worked out at Potsdam remained intact.134  Like American officials, the America media tried with indifferent success to measure the novelty of the atomic cataclysms. A continuity between reactions to the nuclear bomb and responses to conventional bombing provided steady undercurrent to the surface waves of astonishment, delight, and horror about the bomb’s revolutionary nature. Even a casual reading of stories on the bomb would have driven home the quantum leap in destructiveness it represented. Yet the terms understandably used to exp