e bombers smelled the soot and the burning flesh and tried to avoid choking or vomiting, or spotted the cauldron while still far out at sea, or bounced suddenly against the top of their aircraft when uprushes of superheated air—the thermals from the blaze—propelled their air- craft upward thousands of feet in a few seconds or flipped them over. There were unknown sensations, attractive and repellent, in what they were doing.®>  To people on the ground, the bombs seemed to be sown in a random manner. They were not. First attackers carved out an X of flames across one of the world’s most densely packed residential districts; followers fed and broadened it for some three hours thereafter. LeMay’s tactical design worked. Another design, the government’s plan for defense, was being played out below. “Why should we be afraid of air raids?” a patriotic song had run. “The big sky is protected with iron defenses. For young and old it is time to stand up. .. . Come on, enemy planes. Come on many times.” Their government had instructed Japanese that they had “only two choices before them: to be victorious, or perish.” Victims of faithful obedience to their leaders’ edicts, having at first little reason to know their futility, fire fighters and citizens stayed to quench the flames with their thousands of wet mats and waterbuckets. Or they cowered in the promised safety of shallow slit trenches—Tokyo’s water table turned anything deeper into a cesspool—that had indeed earlier provided a little protection when high explosives had fallen. Too quickly to allow easy escape, the bombs “scattered a kind of flam- ing dew that skittered along the roofs, setting fire to everything it splashed and spreading a wash of dancing flames everywhere.”®©  Tokyo was unprepared. Despite Japan’s own experience in bombing others in China, despite the warnings served up in test fire raids, despite some vivid reporting on the fate of Germany’s cities, little had been done. Before March 9, perhaps 1,700