rticular men and ideas, four forces converged in the 1930s to make daylight precision bombing an attractive notion. First, the Air Corps needed to justify organiza- tional independence in a more effective fashion. Mitchell's coast-defense rationale had only pitted the corps against a navy too powerful for the airmen to defeat. As late as 1938, the navy secured army agreement to its demand that the Air Corps patrol no further than one hundred miles from the coast. This was a dead-end struggle for the Air Corps. It never ceased to invoke coast defense to support its claims; even when, in the midthirties, it drafted plans for bombers with a range of up to ten thousand miles, it rested its case on their utility in guarding the sea approaches to the nation. A transparent justification that fanned the general staff’s suspicions, it gave strategic debate over aviation a distinct air of unreality. In the long run, however, the struggle over patrolling the oceans was a secondary issue, because the Air Corps wanted to show how it could win a major war, not merely ward off attack. Only an offensively oriented air force could command first place in the military establishment.  The airmen’s argument for independent air power was made more compelling by a second consideration, the nation’s strategic position. Strategists of air power knew that the United States enjoyed the unique advantage of relative immunity to air attack. True, they often invoked the danger of such an attack to buttress the case for air power, and in the late 1930s, the prospect of German seizure of air bases in the Western Hemisphere gave the danger some plausibility. But for the foreseeable future, the United States, with probable allies abroad (especially in Europe) or bases close to likely enemies (such as the Philippines near Japan), could inflict air attack with little fear of retaliation. It was in an enviable position to exploit the fragile complexity of the modern state.  What self-interest and strate