ge of reform and technology and their superiors as the guardians of reaction. Yet the airmen also promised escape from the evils of scientific war as well as retreat to an America that needed no alliance, no League of Nations, no expeditionary army or navy “second to none” to protect itself. In this context, the admirals and generals stood for something modern and reprehensible—the evils of bureaucracy and militarism—in their alliance with private interests, their resort to bureaucratic ma- chinations, their power and facelessness. For the most part, the aviators seemed to exemplify rugged individualism in an era of bureaucratic authority.  Air power derived its appeal by promising to place the glitter of modern technology in service of traditional values, above all the nation’s long-standing distrust of standing armies. American security had never been effortless, and especially since the 1890s prominent Americans such as Theodore Roosevelt, moved by visions of empire abroad and unity at home, had forged a stronger army and navy. Mitchell, however, promised something more comforting. Air power, as he usually described it, would provide inexpensive security for a new generation of Americans, leaving them free from militarism and its accompanying evils—taxation, conscription, and tyranny. Americans, as C. Vann Woodward has written, traditionally “disavowed the engines and instruments of the power they did not need and proclaimed their innocence for not using them, while at the same time they passed judgment upon other nations for incurring the guilt inevitably associated with power.” Leav- ing the nation’s traditional institutions intact, air power also promised to retain inviolate America’s claim to innocence and uniqueness “in a wicked world.”22  The contests of the 1920s established air power as an alternative to a military system that had brought the world to war in 1914. In Arnold’s inflated recollection, “to the American people ..., Billy and his antiquated bom