izationally the AAF had never gone through the experience of securing a surrender; nor did it have the intelligence apparatus of the army and navy for studying the enemy. Responsibility for reading the enemy’s mind and formulating a surrender strategy largely lay elsewhere—with the JCS staff, the war and navy secretaries, and the splintered intelligence services of War, Navy, State, the Office of Strategic Service, and the Office of War Information. And since air strategy remained officially subordinate to invasion as the final instrument of defeat, the AAF’s views on surrender strategy were not easily voiced. In short, the AAF was the arm of government best poised to inflict destruction upon Japan but least able, sanctioned, and inclined to explore how destruction would fulfill its final purpose.  The air force nonetheless received speculation which challenged or qualified racial stereotypes common in America during the war. In 1943, for example, a Justice Department official proposed “total destruction of the Imperial Palace itself as the ‘ace card’ of the Allied Nations,” an act so degrading to the Japanese that it would “prove conclusively the sacred grounds were not being protected from the ravages of war by a ‘Divine Being.” Army Intelligence sought out the opinion of State’s Eugene Dooman, a Far Eastern expert who complained of “a general disposition toward clothing the problem of Japanese mass psychology with a lot of mysticism.” Many Japanese, he pointed out, “have a fairly rational point of view concerning the origin of the Japanese people and of the imperial family.” Dooman welcomed the most vigorous bombing campaign, but his analysis undercut assumptions that the Japanese, because of their racial nature or their previous experience with earthquake and fire, would be peculiarly vulnerable to panic or despair if their cities were torched.73  Asimilar tone emerged in discussions of psychological warfare planning. The navy’s Captain Ellis M. Zacharias, later