d, not only in execution, but in design. Military strategy rested on the diplomats’ success in delaying the outbreak of war at least until mid-December, preferably until February or March. Yet the final diplomatic position, determined by Hull and Roosevelt without consulting the strategists and offered to the Japanese on November 26, left no room to bargain. Subtler diplomacy might not have delayed the outbreak of war, for Japan’s timetable was not flexible. But the puzzle, in light of the military’s tremendous hope for delay, is that it was not at- tempted, perhaps because grand design did not alone shape policy. The patience required to string out negotiations collided with exasperation over new signs of Japanese military action; even Stimson,  Page 108 of 368 25%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  VlUeLiaLL Vases WUC AAL WUULU AVE aU LU UCVEL SUpplco WLUUgL yapaleoc-WeOLOU WaLELO Ul LGLILaL @ UUUCULL Ol LeLLy LUULE LULUUgL Auaona, aU LUC WULA 4 a Jallu aucis KuaLLaLy, 41g ULo- tically, culturally, and politically. Some Washington officials were mindful of these problems. That they nonetheless persisted in the shuttle-bombing scheme suggests that they foresaw no prolonged campaign against Japan requiring prodigies of logistics—a few surprise missions, even as Marshall suggested simply the threat of such missions, would overawe the Asians.  The political obstacles to the Siberian arrangement were even more daunting. The Soviet Union, already in a death struggle with Germany, hardly wanted to provoke war with Japan by allowing American use of Russian bases. Still, Japan might solve that problem simply by attacking the Soviet Union. In July, air strategists were already noting how Japan “would be impressed” if the B-17s being sent to the Far East followed a route through Siberia, then “along the edge of Japan,” and on to Manila, laying bare the vulnerability of “vital Japanese industrial establishments.” Tenuous, even devious negotiations wi