Roosevelt more than perceptions of political interest. Not a bold strategic thinker, inclined to see fighting rather than deterring war as his primary task, Arnold did not respond to Roosevelt’s urgency about securing a here-and-now diplomatic counterweight to German and Japanese advances. Influenced in part by Lindbergh, Arnold shared Roosevelt’s notions about the menace of the Luftwaffe, accepting the astonishing claim that “Germany has 2,000 bombers with a range of 3,300 miles” and acknowledging the key role air power had played at Munich. But he did not immediately follow the president in applying European events to American foreign policy. The professional lagged behind the layman. Even in the iconoclastic Air Corps, doctrine was, as in most military organizations, a thick accretion of years of assumptions and position papers, pressing down hard on most offi- cers. The Air Corps had not yet systematically fashioned a view of the relationship between air power and national interests beyond defending them in actual war.22  More daring air officers, however, were charting Roosevelt’s course. At the tactical school, Captain Laurence S. Kuter admiringly described Germany’s use of air power in the Munich crisis as a kind of final stage in the evolution of warfare as Clausewitz had conceived it:  During the past few weeks we have seen enacted what might be called an “Unwaged War’”—a further streamlining of the old conventional pattern by the elimination of the actual armed conflict. Yet in this war Germany enforced her will upon England and France at Munich just as surely and almost as unceremoniously as did the latter upon Germany at Versailles, and without the intermediate stage of death and destruction. Germany enforced her will through the mere threat of armed force. Czechoslovakia was the sacrifice she demanded for a temporary and pitifully insecure peace.  All other forms of force counted for nothing before “the fear of bombs raining from the sky on Paris and Lo