et up this deal, and Arnold O.K.’s it beforehand, then he would have to assume some of the responsibility. And if I don’t tell him, and it’s all a failure, and I don’t produce any results, then he can fire me.” Time had played a few tricks on his memory. On the eighth LeMay had notified Arnold of his pending mission. But LeMay had the essence of it right. He was in much the same position that Hansell had been in during November before the first B-29 raid on  Page 269 of 368 61%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON aroppea on our priority targets in any given period OL ume. me was reminded tnat ne would sNMoruly Nave the DIggest ana Dest alr SLY1KINg TOrce 1n tne woria today. LeMay naraly neeaea tne  reminder.*4  Around the first of March, Arnold, or more likely Norstad, apparently ordered a maximum effort from LeMay against Japan.** On his own, LeMay was realizing that his “outfit had been getting a lot of publicity without having really accomplished a hell of a lot in bombing results.” Furthermore, by March 3 LeMay knew that Norstad himself would pay a call to Guam within a few days. Anticipating that visit, LeMay gave Norstad a hint of what he might find upon arrival. “We have been having a hell of a time with the weather lately,” he commented unsurprisingly. One “out” would be “to try night bombing. I don’t believe it is an efficient method of operation but this is another case of a few bombs on the target being better than no bombs at all.” He promised to be “working on sev- eral very radical methods of employment of the force.”5¢  If LeMay was vague, it was because he was uncertain, not evasive, about what he could do to redeem the B-29 operations. In the next several days, a solution jelled. Primarily a commander and tactician, not a strategist, he conceived the solution in tactical terms. He mulled his ideas over with key combat commanders and extracted the statistical information he needed from his staff. Could the bombers fly in at fi