y into a ‘blockade’ strategy, at least temporarily, by our inability to assemble [the] forces required.”32 The air force thereby gained more time to exercise the muscle of the B-29s. But there was no fundamental reorientation of strategy, not even really a reconsideration of it. And what the air force gained in time it lost in potential bases because Kyushu would provide airfields for B-17s and B-24s flown back from Europe.  To be sure, there were other ways to accelerate the air war against Japan. The B-29s operating out of India and China had never been able to reach Japan with justifiable tonnages. By January the air force had formalized its decision to remove the bombers from the continent, coincident with LeMay’s move to the 21st Bomber Command. Many of the planes of his old 20th Bomber Command went to the Marianas. The British offered another source of added firepower. For political reasons, British leaders were loathe to be left out of the final drive against the Japanese homeland. For political reasons, their American counterparts were reluctant to allow the British to, as Mac-Arthur put it, “reap the benefits of our successes.” Of course, some contribution from across the Atlantic was acceptable to most Americans. Arnold’s air force was willing to entertain the basing of British Lancaster bombers in the Philippines or Okinawa. A more promising British contribution to the air war— the transfer of its famous Mosquito aircraft, for which Americans had no equal—was not pursued by the Americans. In the end, the British aerial contribution was still in the pipeline at war’s end, the victim of American delays, the prolonged war in Europe, and the unexpectedly early termination of the Asian war. It cannot be said that Americans pursued their contribution zealously.33  They eyed much more eagerly the contribution that might be made by a much less willing partner, the Russians. In that regard, too, however, progress was hampered by developments in the European war, i