t steps to oust Eaker from the Eighth Air Force, he also did nothing to protect him. His long record of badgering Eaker and other commanders suggests that Arnold had found the convenient opportunity to press for better results, which might come with Spaatz in overall command and General James Doolittle in Eaker’s place at Eighth Air Force.  Spaatz inherited an experiment in blind bombing by radar that proved to be a short-run dead end but a significant precedent. Tactical conditions provided the rationale: winter’s heavy cloud cover and the long wait for P-51s reduced opportunities for precision attacks, while the RAF’s “pathfinder” technique, relying on new devices for direction of bombers by radio beams and radar scanning of targets, offered an attractive alternative. But a blunt desire to terrorize Germans also drew some American leaders to the radar technique. In a series of massive daylight assaults, using up to eight hundred bombers, the AAF tried it out against Germany’s western port and industrial cities when weather was foul. Accuracy was too erratic and targets too low in priority to achieve significant results very often. But these assaults served the organizational and political imperatives of the air force to justify its massive resources by increasing operations. There was always a tendency, deriving from the lack of criteria for judging the effectiveness of bombing, to measure the latter in terms of effort made rather than results achieved. Autumn’s anxiety over the Eighth’s stupendous losses aggravated that tendency to the point that “the ‘numbers racket’... was responsible for some wasted effort.” It was preferable to bomb badly rather than not at all, a preference acted on with far more fury in 1945.34  The winter’s experiment also found the RAF and AAF stumbling toward each other in technique and rationales because of parallel organizational drives and technological developments. Harris had long measured RAF efforts in terms of tonnage dropped and