ver oceans offering few visual opportunities for confirming location.  Weather played havoc with Hansell’s subsequent missions against the Japanese aircraft industry. In December, crews repeatedly failed to reach their target or to see it when they did or to hit it even if sighted, much less with the radar equipment often used. The record, hardly impressive, looked even worse because of problems in photographic surveillance and intelligence—Japanese aircraft production began a steep decline at the end of 1944, though it was not solely attributable to the B-29 attacks.  Meanwhile, Washington increased the pressure to test incendiary tactics against large urban areas. The line between those tactics and the ones Hansell preferred was blurred even in precision raids because Hansell often used radar or incendiaries or the cover of night—or all three at once. But Arnold and his deputy, Norstad, wanted to do more than just tinker with the tactics of precision bombing. Backed by the findings of the Committee of Operations Analysts and the Joint Target Group, they wanted a full-scale test of the potential for firing Japanese cities. When Hansell failed to take the hint, Norstad got explicit, relaying on December 18 “an urgent requirement” for a fire raid on Nagoya with at least one hundred B-29s. Hansell, although acknowledging “very deep seated” problems in his precision bombing, had a scholarly and somewhat stubborn temperament. Through years as a top strategist he had advocated precision bombing, and he was not about “to waste our bombs on arge urban areas as a secondary effort.” Replying directly to Arnold, he opposed Norstad’s demand in no uncertain terms. He had “with great difficulty implanted the principle that our mission is the  moat soa or a! sa aad  Page 254 of 368 58%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  On December 18, 1944, Curtis LeMay’s 20th Bomber Command sent eighty-four B-29s loaded only with incendiaries to attack Hankow, a Chines