airman had once called “a succession of Passchendaeles,” strategists of air war sought victory in World War II without a land invasion, indeed without battle in the sky in that they hoped to destroy the factories and airfields that put enemy fighters into ac- tion. Some commanders doubted these propositions or backed away from them in time to avert disaster. But they were held long enough to risk disaster and pointless destruction.2®  It has been argued that “every salient belief of prewar American air doctrine was either overthrown or drastically modified by the experience of war. Germany proved not at all vulnerable to strategic bombing.” The claim is overstated. Vulnerability is a relative, not an absolute, state deriving not merely from a nation’s military and economic condition, but from its willingness to endure and its enemy’s capacity to mete out. As some airmen have speculated, a more decisive air war against Germany might have resulted had it enjoyed unchallenged priority, more consistency and simplicity in targeting, and more time. Yet one reason it did not achieve that priority was that airmen, through their tendency to over-promise, lost the credibility needed to sustain their claim. They also posited a purity to war-making that it never achieves, tending to regard rivalries, conflicting priorities, dispersed efforts, politically inspired missions, and impatience all as unnecessary and extraneous conditions of war. But these conditions do not intrude on war-making; they are war. Because they are, criticism of the air strategists of World War II for the randomness and rivalry that plagued their bombing effort must be tempered. Their failures were commonplace, although they had abnormal consequences, and they could not easily reduce war to a rational process that confined killing only to that necessary for victory.32  At the same time, air strategists, through some mixture of hubris, desperation, and expediency, had themselves set up rational process as t