forces of allies. Therefore, they more visibly touched on conflicting perceptions and interests, setting off livelier debate that revealed the assumptions of the parties involved. Lengthy wrangling over opening a second front in Europe or over minor operations such as those in Burma stood in marked contrast to the paucity of attention given strategic air war by the key decision makers, the American Joint Chiefs and the Anglo-American Combined Chiefs. The status of the American AAF further diminished deliberations, for Arnold was still subordinate and usually deferential to Marshall, the army chief of staff. For all these reasons, debate on aerial operations among top strategists often lacked focus and clarity.  The point should not be pressed too far. Arnold could defer to Marshall in part because the chief of staff embraced at least a moderate version of air power. From the start, controversy arose when theater commanders demanded the bombers Arnold wanted reserved for independent strategic operations. Recurrently during the war, debate erupted over whether the British or the Americans had the better method for bombing. But widespread acceptance of bombing, the apparatus of decision making, and the nature of aerial operations rarely permitted those differences to be aired explicitly.  Of course, decisions of some sort had to be made. By January 1942 the Combined Chiefs of Staff had reconfirmed the Europe-first priority and authorized the buildup of an American bomber force in Britain in 1942. But the size and mission of what became the American Eighth Air Force constantly shifted through the year. The Allies initially considered invading France as early as the autumn of 1942, an operation that would shift the function of the bombers from strategic devastation to support of ground forces. Those prospects faded in the summer of 1942, but TORCH (the North Africa invasion) again siphoned off many of the bombers from General Ira Eaker’s Eighth Bomber Command. American h