nemy “vital centers.” Because bombing would democratize the horrors of war and inflict them so quickly, “either a state will hesitate to go to war, or, having engaged in war, [air power] will make the context sharper, more decisive, and more quickly finished.” The passage from peril to reassurance was always jarringly sudden in Mitchell's writings. Air power, he wrote in 1930,  is a distinct move for the betterment of civilization, because wars will be decided quickly and not drag on for years. What will the future hold for us? Undoubtedly an attack on the great centers of population. If a European country attacks the United States, New York, Chicago, Detroit, Pittsburgh and Washington-will be the first targets. It is unnecessary that these cities be destroyed in the sense that every house be levelled with the gound. It will be sufficient to have the civilian population driven out of them so that they cannot carry on their usual vocations. A few gas bombs will do that.  This “quick way of deciding a war,” he added, would be “really much more humane than the present methods of blowing up people to bits by cannon projectiles or butchering them with bayonets.”!2  Such reassurance was commonplace. “Jingoes,” wrote the head of the army’s Chemical Warfare Service in 1921, “will hesitate long before they start war in the future, knowing that they themselves” will face its “terrors.” (“If this be a chemist’s idea of humane warfare,” a New York paper retorted, “God deliver the world from its chemists!”) Air war against cities would be a “calamity,” one of Mitchell’s fellow airmen wrote, but one “of this magnitude would create a demand for peace that could not be denied.”22  As in European writings on this subject, tortured arguments were frequent. Mitchell claimed that the “more terrible” weapons of recent wars had actually reduced total casualties because with their long range “the defeated side can get away with its men as they are far off from their opponents.” He suggest