, bombers can give enemy populations “their first searing lesson... that crime doesn’t pay.” Statements like these gave Americans a hint of the satisfactions beyond victory that the bomber might achieve, although air force leaders usually were more cautious in their public pronouncements.18  PROPAGANDA AND PROPHECY  Official words and actions constituted one influence on the expectations Americans held for the strategic air war. Another came from public advocacy of air power during the war, which often mirrored the obliqueness of Roosevelt’s approach to the matter. Even more than their president, air power’s proponents confused debate more than they clarified it, championed destructiveness even as they de-  Page 120 of 368 28%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  VUALLUS OLALLCL OU ALLLU UCLOT LCOIUTIILIAL ULOLLIE LS. UULLLLIE LILLtoeLL Wad AWALT UL LIT PUSOIULLILy UL OLaL LIE LucO  LITYy AL IT VEL PUL... UUL. 2 wu PpuLpusto wee alcauy puiiiiip apaisiot cau ULici—ou in ing terror and damaging the enemy’s war-fighting capacity. Official statements and news coverage allowed Americans to enjoy the former under the latter’s guise.14  For the Chinese, the raid caused disaster. To prevent any new raids using Chinese bases, Japanese forces pushed further inland and took punitive actions that caused the deaths of perhaps a quarter million peasants. Tokyo did withdraw some fighter forces for home defense, and the embarrassed high command, in an effort to extend its defensive lines, rushed into far-flung naval oper- ations at Midway and elsewhere that gave American forces their first opportunity for a decisive victory—a happy consequence that few American strategists had foreseen, however. In Japan’s cities, any weakening of morale induced by this first taste of destruction may well have been offset by the indignation and the opportunity for tightened government control of the populace triggered by the raid. Even in the United States, whose public opin