tals would spread “serious epidemics.”3°  Throughout the war’s last year, the attempt to quantify the air war went forward. On May 1, 1945, W. B. Shockley, one of the leading operations analysts, concluded that the B-29 programs was profitable because “the cost of dropping a ton of bombs on Japan is 40 man months of United States war effort and the damage done by one ton costs the Japanese about 600 man months of manufacturing labor.” By this measurement, too, the campaign against Japan was some six times more profitable than the attacks against Germany waged from March 1943 to March 1944. Shockley was shrewd enough to acknowledge that it was “a long step to see just how industrial man months are related to this objective’—that is, how the bombing would aid invasion and reduce American cas- ualties. It was unclear who was to take the long step.3”  Of course the rhetoric of technique was not peculiarly American. It hardly could have been, inasmuch as the British had done so much in the first place to inspire operations research and interest in firebombing. In the lingo of the RAF’s target planners and civilian analysts, “dehousing” was both a favored objective and a euphemism for much more. They too made the “fatal error” of trying “to establish an absolute mathematical relationship between acres of urban devastation ... and loss of production to the German war economy, feomber Command built its great edifice of self-delusion about the plight of the German war machine on an astonishing foundation of graphs and projections.” As a typical intelligence evaluation put it:  2,400,000,000 man-hours have been lost for an expenditure of 116,500 tons of bombs claimed dropped, and this amounts to an average return for every ton of bombs dropped of 20,500 lost man-hours, or rather more than one quarter of the time spent in building a Lancaster bomber... . This being so, a Lancaster has only to go to a German city once to wipe off its own capital cost, and the results of all sub