was not unthinkable, only endless and meaningless war. Far from ignoring new weapons, the prewar generation often exaggerated their destructiveness in order to assert their power to compel peace. Sentiments seemingly opposed to each other—hope for peace and fear of modern weapons—coexisted comfortably because this generation found hope in their very terror. It displayed a morbid fascination with them only to wish them away. But it did serve notice of their imminence.  The times seemed to bear witness to that trust. A century of technological progress had also seen relative peace in Europe. The brevity and decisiveness of most wars that did occur seemed only to validate the claim that scientific advancement and economic interdependence were making protracted war impractical or unthinkable. Not even Americans realized that their Civil War prefigured  Page 2 of 368 2%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Vlateo, LUE LUAUIULLOLL UL ULUEL PUSSLULULICS Wao EVEL IUULE LCL AU. L UCLO CALUMCU AVIALULS Go WAUECU ALBUUGULS UL LALRICOO ALL WILUSE GUUS LICCLE WUWUUE malo DIUUUeLUUU. Ue auuciitaL transformed the airplane into “a mechanical messiah whose coming would wondrously transform life and society,” as her vision has been described: it seemed that “the airplane had irrevocably cleaved history into two epochs.” It was even leading to “the emergence of an ’aerial’ person” according to the prominent feminist Charlotte Perkins Gilman.  These were predictions not so much about the impact of the airplane on war or peace as about the expected salutary course of technological progress. People did not look at the airplane and then deduce its impact on human affairs. Rather, they took general propositions about the benefits of technology and applied them as confidently to the imagined airplane as they did to other weapons and inventions—or more confidently, since the airplane was endowed with more virtues. It was as easy for some to prophesy, as Victor Hugo di