ern science has aspired to unlock the secrets of the natural world. Often its practitioners have also sought immortality through escape from that world, a world so often associated with women and femininity. By their colloquial language, the men at Los Alamos hinted at such aspirations. They asked themselves before the Trinity test “the question whether the first complete atom bomb would be a ‘dud’ or a success, or as they said at Los Alamos, a ‘girl’ or a ‘boy’.”>” Femininity was weakness, masculinity was the power to transcend nature and its mortal reality. If these men entertained a male fantasy of ultimate potency, it was perhaps not coincidence that they gave their bombs masculine names (Fat Man, Little Boy).  Aspirations for ultimate power seem to have been especially intense among three Hungarian scientists. Von Karman’s loftiest dreams were for space travel, and he also involved himself deeply in nuclear strategy and weaponry after the war. Teller was the driving promoter of the super-bomb, as the hydrogen bomb was called during the war. John von Neumann, the foremost intellect behind the modern computer and game theory, wartime consultant on everything from weather forecasting to the most forbidding calculations on chain reactions, completed the trinity. All three sought power in several forms. They shared a deep hostility to the Soviet Union during the war and welcomed using the latent or actual power of nuclear weapons against it. All admired and worked eagerly with military officials and actively courted status and position through work on weapons and strategy during and after the war. Yet these mundane forms of power may have been inseparable from aspirations of immortality. His biographer recounts von Neumann’s description of “a subconscious feeling of extreme insecurity in individuals, and the necessity of producing the unusual or facing extinction.” Von Neumann quipped after Hiroshima that mankind, “having failed to solve the problem of living togeth