al, and formidable than ever. The stage was set for the final fury of air war, which appeared more justified and necessary than ever and yet less likely to succeed on its own. In 1943, when the bombing of Japan was still months into the future, strategists had contemplated its war-winning potential with considerable relish, even though the same men had mostly abandoned hope for victory over Germany without invasion. By the summer of 1944, when the bombing had commenced, expectations for it were scaled down. It was a final irony that their diminution was unjusti- fied, as events in the summer of 1945 would prove.  ESCALATION AND OPERATIONAL NECESSITY  That irony suggests one of the components of air war’s escalation. The decisiveness of air power had always been higher in anticipation than in actuality. Similarly, attention to air power, to the moral and strategic issues it raised, had usually been greatest when the bombers themselves were of little use. By the time they began full operation, these issues faded because expectations themselves had shifted and other strategies demanded attention and created new hopes. In short, the least scrutiny was paid to bombing just when it was wreaking the most havoc. Britain’s leaders had anguished over the role of the strategic bomber in the late 1930s and in 1940-42, when large efforts were imagined and small ones begun, but except for the renewed scrutiny demanded by OVERLORD early in 1944, British and American air forces were largely free to go their own way in the last year of the war. With regard to the war against Japan, too, discussion of air power peaked in the winter of 1943- 44. After that, attention focused on ground and naval campaigns preparatory to invasion. Similarly, popular attention to air power had been intense when little else was going on but declined by June 1944, despite some more realistic journalism and the air force’s momentary ecstasy over reaction to the Yawata mission.  Expectations for how the bomb