d’s wrath. Nor did it yet fit into an overarching strategic plan for victory in the Pacific. Even more so than in waging the European war, American and Allied strategists struggled to pin down strategic concepts and timetables. Their conflict and confusion became evident when they debated what use to make of the B-29s earmarked for operations from China-India bases. By November 1943, Arnold’s operations analysts had identified merchant shipping and steel production as promising targets. But while the navy, MacArthur, and some air commanders hoped to employ the new bombers out of Australian bases General Haywood Hansell, advancing the viewpoint of Arnold’s staff, plugged for attacks on steel production in Manchuria and Japan from bases in China. Only when the issue reached the Joint Chiefs and Arnold took it to Roosevelt was it settled, in the air force’s favor. As Roosevelt put it to Chennault, “I have had a hope that we could get at least one bombing expedition against Tokio before the second anniversary of Doolittle’s flight. I really believe the morale effect would help!” Bombers in Australia could not do that.41  In strategic terms, Roosevelt’s decision, based as it was on long-standing political considerations, settled little. The debate had taken place in a familiar vacuum of policy because neither side could relate its position to an agreed-upon strategy for victory. Those seeking to strike at Japan's ships and fuel in the southwest Pacific looked toward a quick payoff that would assist an advance on Japan by ground and sea. Conversely, Arnold's staff stuck to their position because they sought victory without resort to traditional methods. Neither side invoked higher authority because higher authority had made no decision on the ultimate method of victory, whether by strategic devastation, invasion, or a combination of the two. Nor could they relate their preferred methods to a strategic timetable, for none existed.  Indecision stemmed in part from the one p