mate potency, it was perhaps not coincidence that they gave their bombs masculine names (Fat Man, Little Boy).  Aspirations for ultimate power seem to have been especially intense among three Hungarian scientists. Von Karman’s loftiest dreams were for space travel, and he also involved himself deeply in nuclear strategy and weaponry after the war. Teller was the driving promoter of the super-bomb, as the hydrogen bomb was called during the war. John von Neumann, the foremost intellect behind the modern computer and game theory, wartime consultant on everything from weather forecasting to the most forbidding calculations on chain reactions, completed the trinity. All three sought power in several forms. They shared a deep hostility to the Soviet Union during the war and welcomed using the latent or actual power of nuclear weapons against it. All admired and worked eagerly with military officials and actively courted status and position through work on weapons and strategy during and after the war. Yet these mundane forms of power may have been inseparable from aspirations of immortality. His biographer recounts von Neumann’s description of “a subconscious feeling of extreme insecurity in individuals, and the necessity of producing the unusual or facing extinction.” Von Neumann quipped after Hiroshima that mankind, “having failed to solve the problem of living together, had at least succeeded in achieving togetherness by cosmic suicide.” Perhaps he was “vulnerable to seduction by ‘the gadget,’ that is, by the promise of nuclear weapons as a means to salvation.” In the power to inflict total death lay also the power to control life itself—those who could take life could also give it and thereby triumph over their own mortality.58  Or so we can speculate, while acknowledging the scantiness of the data on which such speculation rests. But even those—perhaps the vast majority—who felt grave doubts about perfecting the technology of death had ways to ward off those doubts.