officer did in 1908, that powerful airships would some day be so frightening that they would “make war less likely in the future than in the past.” But military men were generally reticent or uncertain about the future of the warplane, despite the later claims of some to early foresightedness. It could hardly have been otherwise. Blériot’s flight across the English Channel in 1909 made some Englishmen, already primed by years of scare literature about invasion from across or under the Channel, moan that England was “no longer an island.” It could prompt no similar terrors in the United States, an ocean away from potential enemies; hence prophecy about new weapons was sparse, or it came, like Twain’s complex fantasy, in a context far different from war as people thought of it. In Ignatius Donnelly’s apocalyptic account of class warfare, the airship was the workingman’s instrument of brutal revenge against his oppressors as well as the vehicle of flight to a new Eden—in short, a tool for Donnelly in his attempt (common in the 1890s) to trace the future of an America falling victim to class divisions.’  Still, not all Americans were mute. Though the context was civil rather than international war, Donnelly’s fantasy foreshadowed a half-century’s preoccupation with the bomber as instrument of vengeance rather than victory and as catalyst to bloody class conflict. In other prophecies, Americans struck the same themes of confidence and foreboding more extensively developed in the predictive literature of Europeans. Seers on both sides of the Atlantic took comfort in the very awfulness of imagined warplanes. Precisely because the “birds of hell” would bring “shrieks of agony” and leave men “crazed with fear,” they would also leave “the capital of a great nation, a great army, costly defenses and armament, all at the mercy of few hundred bird men.” Airplanes, it was hoped, might end “war as we had known it.” The sight, the sound, even the prospect of aeronautical terrors mi