s,” pointed out one writer. “Our gasoline holocausts already exceed all barbaric crucifixions of history,” claimed another. The magazine itself preferred a more comfortable course, focusing on the bomb’s use as an exceptional act. Moreover, it betrayed a parochial impulse for its condemnation: the church’s dream of Christianizing the Orient might fail because a Christian nation had unleashed the atomic weapon.140  Some observers quickly recognized how the bomb’s use expressed an ongoing quality of American war-making. Dwight MacDonald responded to an official defense of the bomb’s development which had argued that it “had been created not by the devilish inspiration of some warped genius but by the arduous labor of thousands of normal men and women.” To MacDonald, this “effort to ‘humanize’ The Bomb by showing how it fits into our normal, everyday life also cuts the other way: it reveals how inhuman our normal life has become.” Truman himself had supplied the appropriate characterization of the men and women who built the bomb: “Few know what they have been producing. They see great quantities of material going in and they see nothing coming out of these plants.” These were among the people MacDonald criticized as “trained to think ‘objectively’—i.e., in terms of means, notends, “and he saw the bomb’s use as the product of a process deeply imbedded in Ameri- can culture, not of a simple decision by a few leaders.141  MacDonald’s rhetoric did not win him a wide audience in a nation satisfied with the war’s end and the triumph of American technology. But a few mainstream observers also tried to set the bomb in a broader context. As Life declared, “Every step in the bomber’s progress since 1937 has been more cruel than the last. From the very concept of strategic bombing, all the developments—night, pattern, saturation, area, indiscriminate—have led straight to Hiroshima.” Unlike MacDonald, Life did not criticize the bomb’s use. Neither did Hanson Baldwin, the prominen