superiority. For some, too, not even this war shattered their faith in an international community of science rescuing the world from stubborn nationalism.  But the most powerful protection against experiencing doubt was immersion in fascinating and demanding work, just as doubt arose when scientists were removed from the mainstream of work on the bbmb—among the Chicago scientists, whose more theoretical work had been completed earlier. By contrast, few scientists at Los Alamos, working at fever pitch until the very last moment, felt they had time to question. A sheer delight in problem solving consumed them, heightened by the enormous pressure under which they labored, by the sudden leap into enterprise of such importance that the younger scientists experienced, and by the intellectually charged atmosphere Oppenheimer provided. Freeman Dyson later discovered that “they did not just build the bomb. They enjoyed building it,” their pleasure, Dyson believed, the source of the guilt some felt more than the destruction their work caused. But doubt rarely emerged among the scientists until their deeds were  dane While the war want an their mentality recamhled the ane daccrihed hy Nuricht MacNanald and nrewailing ac well in the actahlichment of nanniclear ccianticte afficare and civilian eayvnerte Far  Page 201 of 368 46%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  in nuclear strategy and weaponry after the war. Teller was the driving promoter of the super-bomb, as the hydrogen bomb was called during the war. John von Neumann, the foremost intellect behind the modern computer and game theory, wartime consultant on everything from weather forecasting to the most forbidding calculations on chain reactions, completed the trinity. All three sought power in several forms. They shared a deep hostility to the Soviet Union during the war and welcomed using the latent or actual power of nuclear weapons against it. All admired and worked eagerly with military offici