r foils for demonstrating the civilians’ breadth and intelligence. More than vanity was at stake, of course. At issue was the fate of civilian militarism—whether the broadening influence and heightened status of civilian expert- ise in war-making would be sustained. The critics pursued that goal as avidly as cooperative civilians like Bowles and Perera, only through conflict rather than compromise.  Their critique of bombing policies suggests their penchant for enhancing their status by scoring easy points. “The strategic air forces were almost sovereign powers” led by “air barons” who “ruled their commands like feudal lords,” Zuckerman complained. Yet Allied victory did not rest only on some triumph of abundance over the failures of command but on the relatively ordered manner in which rivalrous commands cooperated. “To the airmen and soldiers, more meant better,” Zuckerman wrote in condemning the pointless destructiveness of much bombing. Yet his own account of the bitter debate over bombing railway targets in France indicated that he had not given the issue of civilian casualties “much, if any, thought when the plan was first conceived. By that stage of the war, I had become inured to the idea of casualties, whether our own or the enemy’s.” His consuming concern had been economy of operations and acknowledgment of the scientist’s gift in achieving it —worthy goals perhaps but ones whose moral dimensions did not clearly separate Zuckerman from his opponents. As another British boffin put it regarding a different argument on bombing, “It was on the grounds of probable effectiveness and not of morality”—between which he apparently saw no connection—“that the battle was fought.”51  When Galbraith wrote his memoirs, he recalled how he had described the bombing of Japan at the end of the war as “ ‘this appalling business.’ which was how anyone of any sensitivity would have felt.” Galbraith’s dismay would have been more convincing had he introduced evidence that he felt