campaign. For all that the Nazis were doing in the death camps, about which American officials now had mounting evidence, they still viewed the Japanese as the more savage enemy, hence less open to limited threats. American leaders were planning their own savage campaign against Japanese cities, their flammability the object of frequent comment and temptation. Japanese savagery served as justification for the American campaign and protection against any moral doubts, official or public, about carrying it out. Countervailing forces that occasionally arose in the European campaign—concern over the fate of friendly civilians and religious institutions—rarely appeared in deliberations about air war against Japan.47  Restraints against the use of weapons deemed morally abhorrent were also fewer in the Pacific theater, and insofar as they existed, they arose in part out of European politics and strategy. By 1943, both sides in both theaters had made chemical and biological warfare the object of lavish anxiety, extensive preparations, and grisly testing that sometimes gpt out of hand. In the Pacific, not even the scruple of the Geneva Protocol bound the Americans and the Japanese, neither having officially signed the agreement. Up to 1944, the United States had concentrated on deterring its enemies’ introduction of chemical weapons. The Japanese, never having experienced the use of gas in World War I and the revulsion it triggered, employed it on occasion in China without suffering the American retaliation Roosevelt had promised in 1942. By January 1944, American restraint was weakening. The Army Chemical Warfare Service and some air force officers advocated use of gas in battlefield situations and possibly in mass attacks on Japanese cities. The publication of stories on Japanese atrocities seemed to demolish remaining “compunctions of public opinion,” as the New York Times’s Hanson Baldwin reported; willingness to initiate gas warfare was given occasional expression in c