nd its path to economic expansion opened by abolition of protectionist trade practices, Japan would participate as a constructive partner in a world trade system. As one official argued presciently, the loss of empire was “likely to work” to Japan’s “advantage” in economic terms. Some Japanese and American officials were also converging on a similar point of view regarding the disposition of the subject Asian peoples. As Japan’s pretensions to empire moderated, American calls for a revolutionary upheaval of national liberation became more subdued. Both Americans and Japanese, that is, became less insistent upon refashioning East Asia in their own images.®3  Indeed, in retrospect at least, by late 1943 there was already “a rather remarkable parallel between American and Japanese war aims.” Intractable hostility between Japanese and Americans was the appearance of things. “In actuality much in their strategies and plans reflected similar assumptions about Asia and the Pacific.” Indeed, according to Iriye, had Japan approached the United States  Page 237 of 368 54%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON distance created by their professional pursuit of technique, by the command and bureaucratic arrangements they made to organize that technique, and by the language and methodology they em- ployed to use it. The disjunction between means and ends—in effect an operational variation of the long-standing chasm between fantasy and reality in conceptions of air war—took many forms.  THE ELUSIVE ENEMY  Any strategy rested finally on a view of the enemy: a conception of the adversary’s resolve, of the conditions under which it would cease fighting, and of the institutions that made decisions. On both sides of the Pacific war and in the American air force no less than in other institutions, the attempt to formulate a useful conception was largely a failure in that no way was found to end the war short of cataclysmic and redundant destruction. Measured agains