survivors felt guilty and embarrassed, perhaps “apologetic because my house had survived the raids,” as Kato recalled.” ‘It will be my turn next.’ I was in the habit of saying by way of apology for my relative good fortune.””?  Unlike many survivors of the atomic bomb, Tokyo’s injured and fleeing probably knew in a literal way what hit them, but there was no comprehension of what had happened. For them, it did not seem they had been through a man-made experience. Little in their national history, their encounter with humankind, or their religious traditions allowed them to attribute that experience to fellow humans. Europeans—longer experienced with the mechanical world and with war in their homelands, able to comprehend air war because it escalated there so gradually—rarely regarded the bombers even of their firestorms as demons or mystical creatures or incarnations of the natural world. In their imagery they drew on the rich store of religious mythology about the damnation people create for themselves. Perhaps that is why Europeans in Tokyo sometimes referred to the March 10 raids as a “frightful Pentecost” or a realization of Dante’s inferno. But a French priest abandoned religious imagery in trying to describe “that fairy scene” of “shooting stars and meteors” and “comets,” “these phenomena of nature.” Even more so among Tokyo’s natives, images of the great raid usually referred to the natural world, as if what man had destroyed by harnessing nature had sprung from nature herself, as if Tokyo had been visited by a plague of monstrous, demonic, fire-breathing insects. These images occurred readily in a society that placed heavy emphasis on the visual sense; that had a well-developed idiom for describing “a pure and sacred homeland imperiled by bestial and demonic outsiders”; that had, by the style of its residential construction and the abruptness of its modernization, less distance than European societies from the natural world. Moreover, because the conflagrati