t and Basil H. Liddell Hart, articulated the emerging doctrine of strategic air power. Prophets and polemicists as much as theorists, they fleshed out ideas first sketched before and during the war and now widely aired in the press and among military men. Douhet (1869-1930), the Italian officer once imprisoned during the war for his outspoken defense of air power, gained a sympathetic hearing from Mussolini’s regime, although The Command of the Air (1921, with later addenda), written in Italian, only slowly gained an audience as reports and translations of it spread. Liddell Hart (1895-1970), the British military critic and historian, enjoyed an esteemed career after injuries incurred on the battlefields of France forced his retirement from the British army in 1924. His flirtation with strategic air power was provocative but brief. Paris, or the Future of War (1925), published simultaneously in England and the United States, was a notorious tract of the times but it gained less enduring attention than Douhet’s work, in part because Liddell Hart slowly soured on his own ideas.  To both men, strategic air power was the only solution to the grisly indecisiveness of ground warfare. Savage and sane critics of that warfare and the leaders who practiced it, they saw its indecisiveness not as a transient condition but a permanent affliction. World War I marked a turning point in history. Armies and navies, the traditional means of deciding conflicts, could no longer end wars; the power of the defense made their efforts futile. Even a rare offensive success so exhausted the victor that “the side which won the most military victories was the side which was defeated.” Douhet noted with reference to Germany’s fate in the war. Generals who still sought defeat of their opponent’s armies would lead their nations to ruin, victims of the “shortsighted, if natural delu- sion... that the armed forces themselves were the real objective.” Attack on those forces was only one means to the