he matter of bombing Rome, for ex- ample—American leaders made considerable efforts to operate within them.  To be sure, it is unfair to impose on historical subjects a latter-day notion of restraint, as if they should have freed themselves from passions which were inherent in the war. Yet contemporaries had before them not merely an abstract standard of the acceptable limits of force, but a historical record full of cautionary lessons. It was, after all, a staple of commentary that military actions during World War I outran defensible military and political purposes: unrestricted submarine warfare had not always served German purposes, nor had the dispatch of hordes of infantry against impenetrable defenses served a useful end. That war might develop an uncontrollable momentum was known to articulate Americans during World War II; indeed, their own Civil War offered much the same lesson. Given how much Americans had World War I in mind as they waged the second war, their insensitivity to that lesson is striking.  The dominant image of air power, as a revolutionary weapon that broke from the past, discouraged careful attention to these depressing precedents from past wars. The parallels between the two world wars did not seem close enough: futile infantry charges consumed a nation’s own population as well as its enemy’s, while massive bombing raids, unless they provoked a response in kind, killed the enemy far more than one’s own. So the defenders of air power argued, although the reality was more complicated. It was not just Anglo-American air power that saved the lives of many British and American soldiers. “The truth is that in every war somebody has to deal with the enemy’s main body; in the Second World War it was the Russians.”® Usually overlooking that truth, both critics and proponents of air power failed to probe more subtly the lessons of World War I.  Restraining wartime practice, more skeptical attitudes might also have made a longer-term difference, lea