ion. But Arnold sided with Roosevelt, as did the War Production Board’s Donald Nelson. At bottom the issue centered on whether production capabilities should shape strategy or vice versa. In the end, the president’s production targets for airplanes—60,000 in 1942, 125,000 for 1943—were not met because of the high priority given to heavy bombers, but the weight of production approached the president’s orders. While he attended more to mobilization than to strategy per se, Roosevelt had reaffirmed his preference for an aerial strategy wherever possible.®  THE LIMITS OF OFFICIAL GUIDANCE  Roosevelt shaped public expectations about the bomber as indirectly as he molded the course of official strategy. Indirection was suited both to his temperament and to the pervasive vagueness with which Americans viewed the war. As a result, Roosevelt urged Americans to mobilize for air war while also diverting attention from its conduct.  Above all, he called on Americans to produce. In doing so, he sought to make the air war abroad more real to Americans at home. At the same time, however, he aggravated the sense of distance from that war because he translated it into terms especially familiar to Americans at home—their daily tasks centered on the production effort. That effort was “even more urgent” than shooting and fighting. The “one thought for us here at home to keep uppermost,” he reported on February 23, 1942, was “the fulfillment of our special task of production.” Even when the tempo of American combat operations picked up, he stressed prodigies of production. “In winning this war,” he told Americans on the eve of the 1944 election, “there is just one sure way to guarantee the minimum of casualties —by seeing to it that, in every action, we have overwhelming material superiority.” He did sometimes describe combat, not to give Americans a feel for it, but to evoke the familiar—how many gallons of fuel they had to produce for an aerial mission, for example. Roosevelt captured