e city. Hamamatsu was, in LeMay’s words, “the garbage-can target,” the place where B-29 crews that aborted missions to assigned targets regularly dumped their bomb loads. To boot, Halsey’s battleships also raked the city, though LeMay “was too busy from then on to pay much attention to the fleet bombardment episode.”22  On the few days of good weather and on occasional night missions LeMay turned away from the urban areas. The attacks on oil tanks and refineries were successful, if largely meaningless since Japan could no longer import oil anyway. Far more valuable was “the heaviest aerial mining campaign ever waged,” one that now exceeded even the damage done by American submarines. Yet the precision attacks were often labeled as “experimental” in the air force’s official history, a neat reversal from when that term was applied to fire raids. Most of LeMay’s tonnage still hit urban areas, for with a huge force at his command, he could dabble in other operations without seriously diluting the incendiary campaign. Doing so placated critics, satisfied the AAF's residual interest in the doctrine once its mainstay, and prepared for the day when urban areas had become so obliterated that other targets would have to be hit.3®  Of course, the B-29s’ operations were by summer complemented by other air forces which to some extent carried on the precision side of the aerial campaign. Carrier-based planes as well as fighters and smaller bombers with the army’s Fifth Air Force roamed over Japan with impunity, attacking airfields, factories, railroad yards, bridges, trains, and what the official history called “other such targets of opportunity.” In practice, the tactical fighters and bombers were often doing something more akin to the Jeb Stuart campaign that Lovett had once proposed for Germany in its waning days. The impulse to engage in “general Hell raising” was no longer confined to the big bombers, and in bombing civilians no clear distinction remained between precision b