ruction, they emerged most clearly through the threat of reprisals by Germans against captured Allied airmen. Such threats commonly force leaders to erect moral positions they may otherwise neglect, and so it was that winter. For the air force’s chief lawyer, the moral defense was that American bombs had been aimed only at “military objectives,” Americans had waged only “civilized war,” and any reprisals would be “barbaric acts.” To deter such acts, the United States should promise in return “the destruction of ... every village and hamlet.” (To avoid needlessly provoking the Nazis, the AAF should remove “all names with a terror connotation, such as ‘Murder, Inc.’ from planes, clothing and equipment.”)  The judge advocate’s willingness to promise destruction to all Germans as punishment for their leaders’ acts indicated the scanty restraints holding back Americans from a campaign of terror bombing. It also carried little deterrent value, inasmuch as the British had already embarked on such a campaign. Nonetheless, Marshall recommended to FDR a more guardedly worded version of the judge advocate’s warning. The president suggested that German POWs would be a more appropriate hostage than German civilians, and therefore Marshall drafted a statement warning “that for each Allied airman sentenced ... 10,000 German prisoners, or other German males... . will be selected and detained subsequently to the imposition of peace terms.”21  If the moral and political basis for resisting British bombing was weak, strategic objections nonetheless remained substantial. American planners continued to worry about the dispersion of the Allied bombing effort and the need for firmer Anglo-American agreement to limit attacks to “a few really essential industries” in a plan “adhered to with relentless determination.”22 But pending such agreement, whatever success the AAF was to achieve had to be largely independent of the British effort.  1943-44: THE RETURN OF BATTLE  Eaker sought to get i