is book was an exception that proved the rule: in an era of self-proclaimed American isolation from Europe’s quar- rels, the apocalyptic visions of Europeans like Douhet and Liddell Hart found expression only on the fringes of American debate.  The arguments of skeptics about air power did not penetrate far either. One presidential board appointed to investigate the aviation controversy, challenging the air prophets, contended that World War I “taught us again that man can not make a machine stronger than the spirit of man.” The board condemned “the belief that new and deadlier weapons will shorten future wars” as likely to “lead to a readier acceptance of war as the solution of international difficulties.” As so often with skeptics, however, in dismissing the promise of air power they also came near to dismissing its danger: “The next war may well start in the air but in all probability will wind up, as the last war did, in the mud.” The skeptics’ dismissal of air war on cities, like Mitchell’s vision of sturdy self-sufficiency, gave Americans the luxury of developing the bomber in the reassuring context of continental defense.17  PROPHECY AND POLITICS The controversy over Mitchell's ideas merged seamlessly into a more immediate political debate, in the United States and among all the major powers, over disarmament and military budgets. Naval  Page 29 of 368 8%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON to contradictory ideas, especially when they were agitators first and theorists second. By mid-decade, Mitchell, among others, was moving beyond continental defense and tactical employment of air power, but the process was incomplete. These pioneers believed that, given involvement in another world war, the United States might leap over the enemy’s conventional defenses and use the bomber to “smash up his means of production, supply and transportation,” as Mitchell put it in 1924. On occasion, politicians openly discussed the same prospects. Yet mos