hurchill. Just as important, the bomber could be offered as the token of American support to a client of doubtful loyalty and perseverance. As FDR advised the Joint Chiefs during the Casablanca conference, “periodic bombing raids over Japan... would have a tremendous morale effect on the Chinese people.” The hope also persisted that air power would help defeat Japan without an invasion. FDR signaled to the American public his intention to begin the bombing quickly instead of moving “forward inch by inch, island by island,” a method that “would take about fifty years before we got to Japan.”2¢  After all, Chennault had been promising nothing less than “the collapse of Japan” by methods such that “the lives of hundreds of thousands of American soldiers and sailors will be saved.” In turn Roosevelt continued to apply the screws to the War Department, giving the matter far more attention than the much weightier air effort being mounted against Germany. Finally, in April 1943, the Flying Tiger himself, along with General Joseph Stilwell, the American commander in China, returned to the states for discussions that sometimes turned ugly. To Stilwell, Chennault’s plans were a pipe dream because the Chinese would never defend the air bases. They “stopped fighting about three years ago,” he advised. As for military operations, “The Generalissimo has no plan. If he had one it wouldn’t be the one he would have tomorrow morning anyway.” He was simply “a very slick political manipulator.” In contrast, Chennault promised a big boost to Chinese morale, attacks on Japanese cities, and a fatal assault on Japanese shipping. Marshall and Arnold were eager enough to bomb Japan, but the logistical and military obstacles against doing so from China were staggering. “It requires a massive effort here to get a pin point out there,” Marshall lamented. Earlier, he had called Chennault’s designs “just nonsense; not strategy, just nonsense.” Backed by Roosevelt, Chennault got com- mitments to i