urselves now to a German attack” a leading English general put it. “We simply commit suicide if we do. “ France’s leaders feared that in the event of war “French cities would be laid in ruins” whose legacy might be “another Commune” led by radicals exploiting a frightened proletariat. The panicked efforts of governments to distribute gas masks and evacuate cities (nearly a third of Parisians fleeing their city) helped to popularize the anxieties of elites.2  Hysterical, ill-founded, these fears were a substitute for strategic calculations, not the product of them. British leaders never seriously analyzed whether Germany had the power and intention to launch an untried strategy of aerial attacks on French and British cities. In reality, Hitler lacked both. At a minimum, he could not have launched it without first defeating Czechoslovakia and then gaining air bases in France to put his short-legged bombers in reach of England. But British leaders, responding partly to the disarray in English and French rearmament programs, attributed to Hitler’s dictatorship a demonic efficiency it lacked and to Hitler’s air force the same city-busting capacity they longed to create for their own bombers—a case of “mirror imaging.” The RAF had unwittingly contributed to the hysteria by propagandizing notions of the knockout blow and by exaggerating German air strength in order to buttress its own claims on the budget.3  More than crude projection was at work, of course. More skillful at a game all the European air powers played in the 1930s, Germany brandished a shop-window air force whose number of front- line planes hid weaknesses in training, reserves, and industrial capacity. Hitler’s Luftpolitik, designed for home consumption as well as intimidation abroad, aggravated Anglo-French fears. Visitors to Germany like the RAF’s Hugh Trenchard and America’s Charles Lindbergh confirmed high-level expectations of sudden, irresistible destruction at the Luftwaffe’s hands. Lindbergh, though