isfied the conflicting needs.£5 An enemy that continued to fight beyond the point of defeat, as measured by all the conventional standards, was baffling; hence the conclusions of those who tried to understand the enemy pointed in no certain strategic dir- ection and fell into a system where responsibility for acting on conclusions was diffused.  The American government succumbed to a “failure to distinguish between the problem of inflicting strategic defeat on the enemy and that of inducing him to surrender.” Masters at solving the first problem, its leaders had long assumed that its solution compelled capitulation. As Hansell recalled, “We failed to weigh the urban decimation in terms of our national policies and purposes and in terms of alternate strategies, and... we were hasty in making a long-term decision in order to provide a solution based upon expediency.”%¢ For this failure responsibility was widespread and rested to a degree with the enemy. It derived from the newness of total war and of air power’s role in such a war, about which calculations had long been facile because they had rarely been tested. It derived from the cultural distance between the two enemies as well as the racism flowing from it, although a similar failure in the air war against Germany is caution against attributing too much to racism. It derived from the indifference of strategic planners to the question of relating destruction to surrender and from the failure of political leaders to provide them leadership when they did be- come concerned.  Destruction would win the war. As in Harris’s approach to bombing Germany, it would win by brutalization; terror and economic decline were hard to calculate and gradually became desirable side effects to a strategy that promised victory by total destruction of the enemy state. Without a clear and accurate model of how the enemy thought and how destruction might compel his surren- der, little guided the course of bombing beyond its own internal d