of murder that even democracies practice—by siege, shelling, or economic blockade, for example —and few guidelines for the future handling of the bomber. It was unclear whether the nature of the victim or the intent of the attacker determined the moral status of bombing, and thus whether a “supreme emergency” for the democracies might sanction their own resort to the kind of bombing they had condemned.  To those who gave these ethical issues extended consideration, few recourses were apparent. Bombing, John Fischer Williams recognized, came with fewer twinges of conscience because the assailant’s “hands physically have no blood upon them.” Rules of war might be useful, Eliot argued, not by eliminating barbaric acts but at least by providing a standard for measuring them, keeping consciences alive and thereby forcing some restraint. “It is not claimed for municipal law,” he pointed out, “that it prevents illegal conduct, merely that it defines it, and lays the lawbreaker open to penalties.” Yet Eliot was fair-minded and realistic enough to raise grave doubts about his own proposal for rules of air war. Reprisal was the only likely punishment for violation and it threatened “a breakdown of the whole system.” No rules were easily applicable in a civilization that had already erased the distinction between civilian and soldier: “Is a troop train full of soldiers a proper military objective? Surely. Yet suppose the troop train is standing in Waterloo Station, jammed with hurrying humanity? Is an aircraft factory, busily turning out bombing planes, a proper military objective? Undoubtedly, if it is located on some remote hillside. But suppose it is in the heart of the city of Paris, with tenements all about it full of women and children?” All kinds of military objectives “cannot be attacked from the air—in the present state of bombing accuracy—without wholesale slaughter.” As Williams observed, “Even when the rules of international law are strictly observed, modern war in