ming point should have a high strategic value.” Even that phrasing was equivo- cal, however, and since the target criteria also included “large urban areas... in the larger populated areas,” they were expansive from the start.*2  Soon the committee slipped into the murkier realm of nuclear psychology, developing the phrasing and orientation which Stimson’s group inherited. In meetings on May 10 and May 11, participants noted the tactical and industrial importance of several proposed targets. But the first choice was clearly attractive for different reasons. Kyoto possessed from a “psychological point of view” an advantage as “the former capital of Japan” and “an intellectual center for Japan,” for “the people there are more apt to appreciate the significance of such a weapon as the gadget.” As the committee later put it, the people of Kyoto were “more highly intelligent and hence better able to appreciate the significance of the weapon.” This was a leap more into nuclear absurdity than nuclear psychology, for it was not clear how “highly intelligent” people could appreciate if they were dead nor what difference it would make if they could. Nor was the reasoning clear for discussing the “pos- sibility of bombing the Emperor’s palace.”*3  The truth was that the committee was casually speculating on this critical matter. Everything else it discussed—weather, height of detonation, radiological effects—was in some measure calculable. But no one could suggest anything precise about how to define or measure “psychological” effect, the committee had few criteria from on high to guide it, and its members included no one versed in Japanese political psychology or the psychological effects observed in earlier bombing raids.  Nonetheless, the Target Committee concluded that “psychological factors in the target selection were of great importance.” Or more accurately, that they were overriding. For in discussing “Use against ‘Military’ Objectives” the quotation marks around “Mili