o had never met each other before and who had come from widely different homes and backgrounds... and who became, as time went on, one of the most closely knit and harmonious faculties I have ever served with.” Like Bowles, Stearns also admired many officers with whom he worked and took pleasure in the little sacrifices of military life, as he “learned to sleep on the mail sacks and cartridge causes on a C-47 cargo plane just as well as on the luxurious canvas cot in our own tent quarters.” Though less stridently than earlier generations, elite Americans still found war attractive as a force to discipline and unify a diverse nation. “We have gained stature and strengthened fibre,” Stearns remarked of his university. He was not so different from Curtis LeMay in locating the satisfactions of war as much in process as in result.45  Similarly, Guido Perera admired the air force officers he met early in the war, finding with them a camaraderie and excitement he had missed in civilian life. Like other members of the Strategic Bombing Survey, he also took pleasure in his cordial interviews with high German industrial and military figures at the close of the war, men who “spoke effectively and well—without rancor,” as he recalled of one such occasion. “Toasts were drunk to the U.S. Air Forces, as the winner, to the Luftwaffe, as the loser.” Perera “couldn’t help wondering . . . how they would have behaved if they had won the war,” but it seemed enjoyable to play Grant to Germany’s Lees, and not simply for Perera. Men with more evident abhorrence for Nazism—George Ball and John Kenneth Galbraith—also put the whisky on the table and found that Albert Speer “evoked in us a sympathy of which we were secretly ashamed,” in part because they still “tended to think those rumors [about Nazi extermination policies] exaggerated,” as Ball admitted in his memoirs. Charity operated with these Americans less than a fascination with their enemies, or as Ball put it, with the possibility th