ary”—necessary to win, that is. Protec- tion of civilians was a luxury, not a fundamental right to be abridged only in extremis.**  Of course that argument was no novelty by World War II. Invoked to justify siege, blockade, and submarine warfare, it was also not novel to aerial warfare. It drew its moral force from an all-too- real historical development, the rapacious demands made by modern states on their entire populations in the pursuit of victory, and it was a difficult argument to refute. But as usually invoked, it was a repugnant argument, although a moral one of sorts. It ignored any distinction between civilians who were willing workers and others who were conscripts of the state. It placidly assumed that their killing would measurably advance the cause of victory. It fatally undercut the moral indignation that Americans earlier had expressed over Japanese bombing in China and German bombing in Europe.  Perhaps because that argument was repugnant, some Americans resorted to another, slipperier defense of bombing: that civilian deaths were acceptable as the accidental by-product of the destruction of legitimate targets. That is, lack of the intention to harm absolved the destroyer of moral responsibility. Persistent in both British and American circles, this argument took on the quality of ritual denial inasmuch as civilian deaths could be incurred as long as they were not openly desired. More forth-right was de Seversky’s bland explanation of how rationalization could operate: “the kind of large-scale demolition which would be looked upon as horrifying vandalism when undertaken by soldiers on the ground can be passed off as a technical preparation or ‘softening’ [for invasion or occupation] when carried out by aerial bombing.” Finally, the bombing of civilians was made acceptable by the claim that it “would be a kindness—even to the enemy,” for decisive ferocity would in the long run save enemy lives.®°  Troubled Americans acknowledged the widespread killin