ok place against a curious background of misunderstanding and of failure to relate the preferred means of victory to the final goal.  Certain individuals and institutions on both sides made attempts at understanding. In the manner timeless in war, enemies were thrust together in a common experience that compelled understanding even as it inflamed hatreds. “In the history of misunderstanding across the Pacific,” Akira Iriye has written, “the war years mark, not an extraordinary period of distortions and miscon- ceptions, but rather a stage in the gradual expansion of interest in and knowledge about each other.”5”  Even in Japan, where talk of compromise peace was discouraged, the nation’s evident weakness cut in a different direction. Recognition of Japan’s impossible position varied greatly among Japanese leaders but was certainly widespread by July 1944, when the fall of Saipan breached Japan’s inner defenses. Particularly among Japan’s senior statesmen, but also among some military officers, a desperation to find some way out of continued war mounted, reflected in the fall of Tojo’s cabinet. It focused on reverses abroad and on the threat at home to the imperial institution and Japan’s elites. “The more critical the war situation becomes, the louder we hear the cry, ‘One hundred million die together!””, Prince Konoe complained to the emperor in February 1945. Although “so- called right-wingers” were “the ones who shout the loudest,” communists seemed “the instigators of it all.” To secure peace short of national suicide, some Japanese leaders began recasting Japanese purposes in the language of international cooperation and national self-determination articulated by Roosevelt and other American leaders. They curried the impression that Japan now supported genuine independence among its subject peoples and might also welcome an important role for the Western powers in postwar Asia. Put another way, these Japanese leaders were preparing a public to accept defeat “by