siders”; that had, by the style of its residential construction and the abruptness of its modernization, less distance than European societies from the natural world. Moreover, because the conflagration did not simply happen, but evolved and mutated, and because the wind did so much to spawn the conflagration, as it ihight in the fires following an earthquake, nature herself seemed to have revolted—perhaps why, as Kato noted, “a popular debate” soon developed “about which was more dangerous, earthquakes or bombs.” The allusions to nature’s revolt reflected and sustained the sense of a horror transcending human capacity and culpability, unleashed on people too numbed anyway to attempt much conscious effort at explanation.8°  The sense of an incomprehensible experience was borne out in reactions to the enemy. To be sure, the trappings of patriotic resistance were maintained in the raid’s wake. Even on March 10, as some fires were still burning, a parade marking armed forces day marched down undamaged sections of downtown Tokyo. “In the heart of the ordinary Japanese,” Kato later claimed, “there was hatred and bitterness against the American raiders who left an indiscriminate trail of the blackened corpses of babies and grandmothers.”®! Yet signs of hatred toward Americans were surprisingly few. Whatever the hostility, in overt public behavior at the time and in later responses to American occupiers it rarely emerged, muted as it often was by the prevailing shock, apathy, and mere desperation to survive. or cancelled out bv other emotions.82 Under certain circumstances. in a population fresh and effectivelv mobilized. bombing mav trigger defiance and deepen resolve—suvpvosedlv the case  Page 276 of 368 63%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON lumps of charcoal,” otten too meited to be identitiable even by sex, and everywhere giving oft a “sickeningly sweet odor.” “Long lines ot ragged, ash-covered people straggle along, dazed and silent, like  co