yond that, foreign orders diverted controversy from American rearmament. They drew the wrath of Roosevelt’s opponents, generally “unilateralists”21 op- posed to entanglement with the British and French, but selling battleships would have stirred their ire just as much.  If foreign orders were a diversion, FDR’s program for American air power tended to disarm his opponents, most of whom regarded battleships as instruments of a reckless foreign policy and still viewed airplanes as defenders of American isolation. To Charles Beard, the notable historian and opponent of FDR's foreign policy, the battleship was both obsolescent and inherently an instrument of “aggressive warfare.” Likewise, Bruce Bliven had called for a buildup in air and coastal defenses in opposition to FDR’s 1938 naval program because bombers, “far from fulfilling the prediction of the alarmists,” had proven to be poor offensive weapons against cities and best suited only for tactical purposes. They were preferable as well to Lindbergh, moving toward his public role as Roosevelt’s enemy, but also working with the Air Corps on the design of a new, long-range bomber, the B-29. Some critics did attack FDR’s program for the Air Corps, suspecting that he wanted ten thousand Ameri- can planes because “Hitler or someone for him is alleged to have claimed an air force of that size—a claim of doubtful veracity.” Administration defenders gave credence to such attacks when they spoke of securing “a restraining psychological effect upon any potential foe.” When Roosevelt, in defending French orders to Senate leaders, defined American security in sweeping geographical terms—not using the “frontier on the Rhine” phrase later attributed to him but conveying its substance—another uproar ensued. Yet no real debate on Roosevelt’s ideas about aerial deterrence was ever joined. It could not be because he kept those ideas mostly secret and steered debate elsewhere, while critics preoccupied with naval policy offered littl