tion with “the great Theo von Karman” shortly after the war’s end:  “If you had been one of the dead,” he asked, “would it have made any difference to you whether you were incinerated in Hamburg or in Hiroshima?” He seemed to think not. It was the means of destruction, of death, on which all discussion focused in those days. Some of the scientists concerned in the development of “the bomb” may have known about the biological effects of radioactivity, but if they did, these were secondary considerations at the time. What mattered was the enormous explosive and thermal power of “the bomb.”  Some scientists did respond with special alarm to the peculiar effects von Karman wanted to overlook. Furthermore, even among some of those accepting of the bomb’s use, news of its employment against Nagasaki so quickly after its first application triggered special doubt and revulsion. These reactions, though by no means universal, helped mobilize their aggressive entry into many aspects of postwar nuclear policy. Not surprisingly, their inclination was to grapple with future dangers rather than dwell on recent realities or engage in “brooding about the tragedy of using science for de- structive purposes,” as one of their chroniclers put it.12©  The new realities of air war, like the old ones, remained inexpressible or unimportant to other leaders as well. British politicians who had had a hand in the bomb had left office prior to Hiroshima after their election defeat. Perhaps that is why their memoirs said so little about the atomic attacks; Churchill’s own account ended on July 26. Attlee may have had a more troubled reaction, but he later claimed that he, Churchill, and Truman did not know that nuclear explosions differed from the conventional weapons, except in their “much greater explosive force.” If scientists shielded themselves from understanding the novel lethality of atomic weapons, surely the politicians could have done so with greater ease.122  Reticence also characteri