rained to think ‘objectively’—i.e., in terms of means, notends, “and he saw the bomb’s use as the product of a process deeply imbedded in Ameri- can culture, not of a simple decision by a few leaders.141  MacDonald’s rhetoric did not win him a wide audience in a nation satisfied with the war's end and the triumph of American technology. But a few mainstream observers also tried to set the bomb in a broader context. As Life declared, “Every step in the bomber’s progress since 1937 has been more cruel than the last. From the very concept of strategic bombing, all the developments—night, pattern, saturation, area, indiscriminate—have led straight to Hiroshima.” Unlike MacDonald, Life did not criticize the bomb’s use. Neither did Hanson Baldwin, the prominent commentator for both Life and the New York Times. Employment would “probably save American lives” and might “even compel Japanese surrender.” Yet even in June he had worried that “strategic bombing is a two-edged sword, and in the decades to come the specter of revenge may arise from the ashes of Tokyo to haunt us.” The bomb’s use further eroded his confidence that war served the state’s rational ends, and he explicitly traced the breakdown of rationality to the nature of air war. Both sides had aimed their bombs “against civilians. Because our bombing has been more effective and hence more devastating,” however, “Americans have become a synonym for destruction.” Now the “new weapon... may bring us victory quickly,” but it would “sow the seeds of hate more widely than ever. We may yet reap the whirlwind.”142  Baldwin tried to resist rash, didactic predictions. The nuclear age might spell “the end of urban civilization as we know it,” but Baldwin urged his readers to accept the uncertainty they faced: the “new face” of war was only “chaos.” Even Baldwin, however, surrendered to the temptation to see a kind of certainty in the bomb’s advent: the existence of only two outcomes for mankind. “Atomic energy may well lead