pmann shared the view (as did the Germans in their own way) that London’s bombing would draw the United States into war, and in June 1939 King George VI, after a talk with Roosevelt, recorded that “if London was bombed U.S.A. would come in.” As so often in the history of air war, the prospect of aerial destruction evoked ambivalent reactions of danger and temptation, and the idea of it was more compelling than the reality.2®  Surprisingly, American air officers adopted a position on rearmament closer to Marshall’s than to Roosevelt’s. Arnold, too, argued the need for a balanced force, although he meant balance within the Air Corps more than between it and the army, and like Marshall he downplayed the value of sheer numbers of airplanes. This defensible professional position was still curious for the head of an organization so often bent on seizing any opportunity for expansion. Perhaps Arnold, cautious after a generation of bruising battles with his military superiors, hesitated to alienate them again by siding wholly with the president. The air mail fiasco in 1934 provided sufficient reminder of the embarrassment that could result down the line if the Air Corps undertook a mission its supporting apparatus could not sustain. Roosevelt’s plans promised immediate gratification but long-term political and military dangers, loading down the Air Corps with thousands of aircraft for whose rapid obsolescence Arnold would later have to account.  Most of all, differing conceptions of high policy marked the faultline between the Air Corps and Roosevelt more than perceptions of political interest. Not a bold strategic thinker, inclined to see fighting rather than deterring war as his primary task, Arnold did not respond to Roosevelt’s urgency about securing a here-and-now diplomatic counterweight to German and Japanese advances. Influenced in part by Lindbergh, Arnold shared Roosevelt’s notions about the menace of the Luftwaffe, accepting the astonishing claim that “Germany ha