, alone invited an apocalyptic outlook. The peculiar impersonality of long-range bombing made it possible both to imagine the worst and to turn away from it. Above all, the power of historical tradition —the persistence of the original terms on which the bomber was contemplated—was at play. Established at the turn of the century, the positing of a choice between doomsday and deliverance defined the alternatives for most observers throughout the century, even though the meaning of the alternatives and the perceived relationships between them underwent repeated modification.  The continuities of thought and practice in turn easily arouse pessimism about the chance of overcoming the threat of aerial warfare. If both the danger and the ways of thinking about it change so little, what way out can there be? Proposals addressing the danger, advanced with considerable eloquence in a number of recent appeals, would themselves require another book at this point. Some suggestions, however, are possible, and in keeping with the focus of this book they concern how we think about the problem of aerial warfare rather than specific political or strategic solutions.  One suggestion is for a different attitude toward the search for certainty. A notable example of that search in recent decades has arisen in contemplation of the possibility of “limited” nuclear war. Many commentators have deemed it imperative to rule out that possibility and to brand those who foresee it as all too willing to let it happen; otherwise, they suggest, nuclear war might seem in some measure “acceptable.” Most likely, those commentators are correct, for the technical and political forces compelling escalation of any limited conflict to all-out war are formidable. But the unlikely often happens in war, as the weak record of prophecy about the bomber before World War II indicates. Limited nuclear conflict can be imagined, even if only as a remote possibility, and then the obvious point still be made about it: