erican response would be shaped by considerations of domestic politics. The United States had to reverse “the mistakes of unpreparedness prior to World War II,” particularly the failure to harness civilian science to military needs. And technological development would respond to “a fundamental principle of democracy that personnel casualties are distasteful. We will continue to fight mechanical rather than manpower wars.”2>  Arnold had a certain brutal foresight into the shape of wars to come, a vision of intercontinental aerial struggle extrapolated from the lessons of Pearl Harbor and wartime technology. But the politics and strategy of future conflicts interested him less than their technological basis. “I see a manless Air Force,” he told von Karman: “I see no excuse for men in fighter planes to shoot down bomb- ers. When you lose a bomber, it is a loss of seven thousand to forty thousand man-hours, but this crazy thing [V-2] they shoot over there takes only a thousand man-hours.” The lure of a dehumanized technology of war, which Twain had recorded so ambivalently and other men of science and war had felt so powerfully, attracted Arnold. While other airmen might wax sentimental about the manned bomber, Arnold asked von Karman to look into “manless remote controlled radar or television assisted precision military rockets” and imagined the day when such devices would “fly over enemy ter- ritory and look through the leaves of trees and see whether they’re moving their equipment.” “Atomic propulsion” and “gas and bacteriological warfare” were also to be scrutinized by the scientists.2¢  Fascinated with the gadgetry that scientists might provide, Arnold was less readily attuned to the role civilians might play in operations and strategy. That role usually seemed more suspect to military men, threatening as it did their prerogative to decide how war should be waged. But Arnold was open-minded when civilians took the initiative to extend their policymaking role. The i