laim to be the lawgiver and arbiter of mankind,” as Hans Morgenthau complained in 1950. Likewise, the air force’s shining image and dominance in strategy during the postwar years would have been more difficult to maintain. Whether such outcomes be regarded as baneful or desirable, they surely would have made a difference. Whether they might have happened is indicated by the contrasting British experience. After the war, what Walzer calls “The Dishonoring of Arthur Harris,” the RAF’s Bomber Commander, “at least went some small distance toward reestablishing a commitment to the rules of war and the rights they protect.” Although a declining Britain cast its lot with strategic air power after the war, attitudes derived from the war in part accounted for British pressures upon the United States not to use the bomber in various cold war crises. As Walzer says, dishonoring a man seems a “cruel” way to establish standards. As it was for Churchill in Harris’s case, it would have been hypocritical for a Truman or an Eisenhower to dis- honor an Arnold, Eaker, or LeMay for actions so broadly sanctioned. But if they had, a different course of history might have resulted.s&  It might have in another, even more far-reaching way. What moral debate that did occur about bombing focused on the near-term danger of harm to the enemy. Almost invisible was the danger it posed to those who triumphantly unleashed it. Briefly, it caught the eye of the New Yorker: “Once again, in their collective reaction to the destruction of Berlin, New Yorkers have demonstrated that they don’t know what fear is.” The magazine agreed with other commentary arguing that “it serves the bastards right ... that it was a necessary action, efficiently and economically carried out... that each individual should shoulder his share of the moral responsibility for it.” But the New Yorker added ominously:  One implication, however, is still, as far as we know, fluttering around untrapped. Nobody has pointed out that t