sually depicting the Japanese as vermin under the caption “Louseous Japanicas,” described the American need to combat the Japanese “pestilence” by carrying out “the gigantic task of extermination,” one to be finished only when “the breed- ing grounds around the Tokyo area” were “completely annihilated.” An elusive, loathsome, and fanatical foe seemed to deserve nothing less.?71  Over the war’s final year, Japan’s fanaticism, real and alleged, was increasingly cited as justification for the destruction of her cities, an act necessary to punish and subdue a suicidal nation. To be sure, American bombers leveled Japan’s cities far more systematically than Germany’s in part for circumstantial reasons—the RAF usually performed that task for the Allies in Europe. Even when American bombers joined the RAF, however, the enemy’s fanaticism was rarely cited as justification. The ultimate fury of American aerial devastation came against Japan not because it was more fanatical, but because it was relatively weaker. Germany’s strength and tenacity gave the Allies little choice but to resort to invasion because Germany would not surrender without it. It was the relative ease of attacking Japan by air that tempted Americans into the fullest use of air power. As an image, Japan’s fanaticism was real enough in the minds of many Americans. But it served mainly to justify a course of bombing rooted in strategic circumstances and the emotional need for vengeance.  The emotions aroused by the war trapped strategists and policymakers in another way as well. There had always been a flaw inherent in applying a formula of unconditional surrender to Japan. Inasmuch as Japan and the United States had been drawn into war finally through the connection of Far Eastern events to the European crisis, Japan’s importance as a threat would vastly decline once that connection became severed by Germany’s defeat. Unconditional surrender might still be demanded because Japanese actions now seemed in their