ris’s reasoning might have taken on a brutal legitimacy if consistently implemented. Success at Hamburg demonstrated the virtue of returning relentlessly to a target, and it dismayed the Nazi leadership. True, Hitler had his Gétterdammerung fantasies—he once stated that the aerial “devastation actually works in our favour, because it is creating a body of people with nothing to lose... who will therefore fight on with utter fanaticism.” But the Nazi elite remembered too well the home front’s supposed collapse in 1918 to regard the destruction of cities callously. For their part, some British commanders hoped, as one put it, that the Hamburg raids would break “the whole of the Gestapo grip on the population.”!2  Yet the very apathy induced by such a tremendous shock strengthened the grip of the Nazi state, which moved swiftly to succor the city and its survivors. Resentment at the Allies—more noticeable outside the stunned city—may have stiffened the resistance of other Germans. And Harris’s bombers, by moving on to other cities, over-looked the virtue of more persistence and allowed the city’s industries to recover lost ground. British bombing in the months ahead took on almost an aimless quality, piling up vast rubble, yet too dispersed in time and space to apply a decisive shock to either morale or production. By 1943, the RAF had developed the capacity to do area bombing but not to make it effective. Its bombing was stark testimony to the ease with which men equated the destructiveness of air power with its decisiveness. In this way, too, intentions did not produce results.  Page 152 of 368 35%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON president’s report allocated few words to “the murderous lust of a sadistic enemy.” It was the death of the city itself, not antecedents and results, that he struggled to comprehend.13  In its murderousness, the Hamburg firestorm was also a fluke, “like a hole in one in a game of golf,” devoutly desired and almost