based aircraft would have only a comparatively short flight to Siberian airfields, where they would refuel, reload, and return to their main bases after dropping more bombs on Japan on the way back.  The scheme, as old as Mitchell’s writings, generated enormous enthusiasm despite the impossible obstacles against realization. The practical difficulties alone were formidable. To maintain  Qtharian hacac tha A AT uranld haa hod ta dalivar ounniiac thraiuch Tananaca_infactad umtare ar maintain o difficult air farry rauta thraudh Alacka and than urarl in 4 land alian climatically lineitice_  Page 108 of 368 25%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON military stair. 1 ne intent was grand: deter japanese expansion, INterdaict It 1f 1t lowed soutnwara, even, as DOtN Stimson ana Marsnall conjecturea, wean Japan [rom tne Axis powe'rs. AS translated Into  operational plans, the most obvious mission for the bombers was to defend the Philippines against invasion by attacking any landing force in its ships or on the beaches. With the Philippines so neatly astride Japan’s sea routes southward, the bomber could also disrupt Japanese convoys and bomb airfields on Formosa. The Philippines’ proximity to Japan, long seen as their weakness, now became their advantage.  These missions, though within the range of B-17s and the B-24 Liberators now also in the pipeline, were ambitious indeed for an untried air force stationed far from home base. But War Department plans did not end there. For one thing, the bombers might be useful in situations short of war. “There is war in China and there is war in the Atlantic at the present time, but in neither case is it declared war,” Marshall reminded his staff, echoing Roosevelt’s views. Pending full-scale hostilities, MacArthur might carry out reconnaissance over Japanese-held territories, perhaps even over Japan itself. Believing that Japan might resort to further gradual encroachment, Marshall perhaps foresaw the bombers’ use