nd rewrite men who “gave the impression that any American could lick any twenty Japs” and on home front affluence and illusions of ease—the mood of a nation “wallowing in unprecedented pros- perity,” as he bitterly put it.37  Yet the savagery Sherrod described may have cut an unintended way. Presented as the grim necessity Americans had to accept, that savagery also made any alternative to a war of mutual “extermination” seem attractive. As the young John F. Kennedy wrote his parents shortly before Tarawa: “When I read that we will fight the Japs for years if necessary and will sacrifice hundreds and thousands if we must—I always like to check from where he is talking—it’s seldom out here.” Kennedy hoped that “perhaps all of that won't be necessary—and it can all be done by bombing.”38  The best reporters, like Sherrod, usually viewed the air war from the perspective, literal and strategic, of the ground soldiers. Few journalists of equivalent talent covered the strategic bombing  Page 130 of 368 30%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON The RAF’s head ot Bomber Command, Arthur Harris, pleaded tor openness, but superiors overruled him. Both the RAF and AAF banned reporters trom accompanying bomber missions until 1943, and  even then journalists could hardly observe the action well enough to contest official claims. Edward R. Murrow’s blunt description of a Berlin raid as “a massive blow of retribution” in which “men die in the sky while others are roasted alive in their cellars” was unusual.3>  In any event, few reporters were inclined to contest official claims. They saw themselves as enlisted in the war effort, their task that of establishing confidence in Allied virtue and victory and commanders. Journalists did sometimes probe and question. But more often, as a Canadian reporter later confessed, “we were a propaganda arm of our governments. ... We were cheerleaders.” What the reporter did best in these circumstances was to capture the heroi