ness of modern weapons.”!” Similarly, in thinking about air war, possibilities were imaginable beyond the contrasting predictions of the airplane as either a trivial addition to the old ways of war or a triumph over them. Still, some who doubted that air war on cities would be quickly conclusive sometimes appeared to dismiss the danger; they, too, could hardly describe in detail the course that air war might take. Other critics resembled the prophets in argumentative style, employing an apocalyptic rhetoric which, though intended to inform and alarm, numbed the senses and carried unintended reassurances. For them as well as the prophets, air war remained a doomsday prospect more than a believable danger. They all hoped that na- tions would shrink from unleashing air war—its horror constituted its virtue by deterring the unthinkable from occurring.  Page 24 of 368 6%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON signed at Versailles.” Air power would deliver such a “swift and sudden blow,” according to Liddell Hart, “that the ethical objection to this form of war is at least not greater than to the cannon-fodder wars of the past.” So strong was the revulsion to trench warfare, however, that the old promise of escape from familiar horrors through technology persisted. To discard it altogether would have con- demned Europeans to an unrelievedly grim view of the future. Faith in the future required belief in the finality of this new weapon.12  That belief also allowed contradictions in the air power prophecies to go unnoticed. The prophets proclaimed the revolutionary nature of their weapon, its capacity to transform warfare and to make history irrelevant. The past, in particular the bomber’s ambiguous record in the world war, taught “less than nothing,” Douhet announced." But the past still bound the prophets. They could not really imagine a future, except one crudely extrapolated from contemporary experience. Dismissing most of the war’s record, they sim