vastation (much less the threat of it once so highly regarded), however vast it was.  1943-44: THE TWISTING PATHS TO TOKYO  The airmen themselves recognized some of these paradoxes and disappointments, which acted as another source of urgency behind the effort to bomb Japan. Until well into 1944, the AAF in the Far East remained scattered over that vast theater, lacking centralized command and sometimes clear strategic direction. By January 1944, the Americans had reclaimed the Aleutians, taken Tarawa, prepared to invade the Marshalls, and were moving through New Guinea and the Solomons. The pace was slow, especially in the China-Burma-India theater. But air power, naval and marine as well as the army’s, had its successes, among them the spectacular feat of shooting down Admiral Yamamoto’s plane, Chennault’s exploits with his shoestring air force, the assistance to MacArthur in his end runs around Japanese strongpoints, and, in combination with American submarines, heavy attrition of Japanese shipping. These achievements, it has been noted, “seem hardly to confirm postwar ac- cusations that the Air Force is interested only in strategic bombardment.”4°  It was just as true that much of this activity, involving dispersion of the air force and its subordination to naval and ground commanders, had incurred Arnold’s wrath. Nor did it yet fit into an overarching strategic plan for victory in the Pacific. Even more so than in waging the European war, American and Allied strategists struggled to pin down strategic concepts and timetables. Their conflict and confusion became evident when they debated what use to make of the B-29s earmarked for operations from China-India bases. By November 1943, Arnold’s operations analysts had  Page 162 of 368 37%  _THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Garg a -UEEE 6 ees Set Gee boom sakes i Eee = eS eS eee ee eee eee Ra Rn ny ne nn sn mr nn an  the skies.”37 In fact it mattered a great deal, for it greatly altered th