each claim only about fifty to one hundred planes, none ready to fight. “In fact,” as Robin Higham succintly put it, “exactly what they were there for was not very clear.”22 Success in military aviation had less to do with national talents or needs than with the accidents of war. The Germans were developing dirigibles whose potential for bombing intrigued them and alarmed the British. But the Italians led in aviation because their war with the Turks in 1911-12 accelerated their aviation program. They carried out the first bombing operations since Austrian balloonists tossed a few explosives on Venice in 1849. The Italians’ effort also prompted the first moral controversy over a bombing incident. But the Italians did not become a major air power, although their effort was impressive until the start of World War II. The American armed forces, eventually to be supreme in the air, numbered their planes and pilots in the dozens,  nant a nittanan an arintian namnnend ta athas maine names and ber 1014 Lad lant erhatarns land thar aaeline bald Ulhataras tha dannae natinnal nande av tenite that acantiunller Faotaend Nenavinan  Page 7 of 368 3%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON FANTASY AND IMPROVISATION  Although visions like Wells’s revealed contemporary expectations, they did little to guide the practical development of military aviation in its first years. That development derived from technical and tactical improvisations connected only loosely to the larger visions. Speculation about the warplane usually came from those who had little to do with invention, from poets and futurists and politicians. When generals, aviators, and technicians began toying with the warplane before World War I, they improvised both technology and doctrine, often indifferent toward grander prophecies, though sometimes goaded into action by the politicians and pundits who mouthed them.  Scientists and inventors provided little guidance. The Wright brothers had no great s