ortant than a bomb dropped in the Wilhelmstrasse.” It still appeared, as it had before Pearl Har- bor, that in the free market of the bomber’s uses, good ones would drive out pointlessly destructive ones.47  A later sketch of the airman by Brendan Gill, one of the talented writers at the New Yorker during the war, succeeded where Steinbeck failed, in part because the accumulation of experience in bombing by 1944 facilitated realism. Too, in the “Young Man Behind Plexiglas” Gill let the airman speak for himself. Through Ted Hallock, a twenty-two-year-old bombardier who had completed thirty B-17 missions in Europe, Gill identified some of the same virtues and characteristics Steinbeck had, but their meaning was ambiguous, the tone somber. Hallock saw himself less as a member of a team than as “a cog in one hell of a big machine,” one he both admired and resented, all the while knowing that “fliers have to be expendable, ... that’s what Eaker and Doolittle had us trained for. That’s what war is.” Analogous to his position in the air force was his relationship to his bombsight, about which “the more I found out ... the more ingenious and inhuman it seemed. It was something bigger ... than any one man was intended to comprehend.” Indeed, he wondered “if I’ve been a cog in one thing after another since the day I was born.” Hallock’s guiding metaphor was the machine, not the play- ing field, his dominant mood bewildered, sometimes angry, sometimes resigned.  Where Steinbeck saw easy transition to the demands of military life, Hallock struggled. He was courageous but not heroic, content when his bomber was shot up to ditch in Switzerland until his crewmates decided to try for England. Trying to reconcile his wartime position to the antiwar politics he had imbibed in the thirties, he discovered in England “that there were people in the world who looked the same as us but thought differently from us,” and he “began to wonder if the Germans were maybe as much different from th