ected in their faces. ... All the caravans I met had an atmosphere of deep silence about them.” Only a few sounds were to be heard—the coughing and gasping of victims with scarred lungs, the occasional call of the name of a loved one. Gullain saw “hideous sights: wretches with burnt limbs who showed fleshless hands or feet or bloody masks that once were faces peering through filthy bandages.” Soon grotesque keloid scars appeared on burn victims—masses of rubbery tissue detached from underlying structure, migrating over healthy tissue, perversely reappearing in larger form if surgically removed, ripe material for skin cancer and other diseases. On others the scars would be, misleadingly, the emblem of shame reserved for atomic victims.78  In the smoking moonscape there were bizarre sights: “seeing a man pausing to light a cigar from a blazing telephone pole,” at the same time spotting piles of bodies “looking like misshapen lumps of charcoal,” often too melted to be identifiable even by sex, and everywhere giving off a “sickeningly sweet odor.” “Long lines of ragged, ash-covered people straggle along, dazed and silent, like columns of ants,” another reporter discovered. “They had no idea where they were going; all they knew was that they were still alive. I wanted to interview some of them, but I lacked the courage. My only interview was with this vast desolation.” Police officials had no more courage. They “were instructed to report on actual conditions. Most of us were unable to do this, because of horrifying conditions beyond imagination.” Almost always the survivors were dazed and aimless, “their eyes dull and uncomprehending,” drained of life even when life remained, their recollections having “a dreamlike quality.” Like their atomic brethren later, many of Tokyo’s survivors felt guilty and embarrassed, perhaps “apologetic because my house had survived the raids,” as Kato recalled.” ‘It will be my turn next.’ I was in the habit of saying by way of apology for my