t happened in Japan came from eyewitness accounts quickly published about the Trinity test—vivid descriptions, but not about a city. Meanwhile, Japanese news-papers and broadcasts reported the destruction in no uncertain terms, but so laced their stories with charges of war crimes that it was easy for the American media, as it had done earlier during the war, to characterize the enemy as “trying to establish a propaganda point.”136  Of course it was not possible to misunderstand for long what atomic bombs did, as John Hersey’s account for the New Yorker showed. Still, even in succeeding months, various difficulties in grasping what had happened in Japan maintained a continuity with the earlier air war. Government officials suppressed information, resorted to euphemisms, or selectively released the truth about the atomic attacks, as they had done earlier with firebombing. Even visual testimony, Japanese film confiscated by the American government and the lengthy color footage shot by army filmmakers early in the occupation, remained hidden for decades, the result of a combination of military secrecy and bureaucratic ineptitude. Censorship expressed rather than defied common assumptions about what was decent or useful for portrayal. An old pattern of looking away from bombing continued, perhaps compounded by the need to deny what the United States itself might experience. As often happened during the airplane’s infancy, the immediate was slighted in favor of the transcendent. The reality of Hiroshima and Nagasaki seemed less important than the bomb’s effect on “mankind’s destiny,” on “humanity’s choice,” on “what is happening to men’s minds,” and on hopes (now often extravagantly revived) to achieve world government. The bomb’s “measurable destruction” seemed less telling to the novelist Mary McCarthy than its explosive impact on “the moral world.”137  Like American governmental leaders, the American media emphasized the pro-found novelty of nuclear technology. The bo