n was inevitable,” he recalled in 1954.71  Ralph Bard, however, was in the inner councils of nuclear decision making, and as navy under secretary was well acquainted with the war’s course. He had assented to the Interim Committee’s original recommendation for use against a city without warning, but by June 27 he believed that Japan’s leaders “may be searching for some opportunity which they could use as a medium of surren- der.” He proposed that the triple effects of clarifying the surrender formula, alerting Japan to Russia's likely entry into the war, and issuing a “preliminary warning” to Japan about the bomb might avert the necessity of its use. Those initiatives would preserve America’s position “as a great humanitarian nation” and respond to “the fair play attitude of our people.” But Bard lacked and apparently did not seek out allies to back him up. By this time, Marshall had deferred to the consensus of the Interim Committee. Bard’s superior, Forrestal, was eager to change the surrender formula, but he feared Russian ambitions in the Far East more than the bomb’s use. Neither the navy’s admirals nor the air force’s generals particularly thought the bomb was necessary—tried and true methods soon would win anyway—but by the same token they were not especially opposed to the bomb’s employment, as long as invasion was avoided. And the navy, as a latecomer to the bomb project (Bard himself learned of it only in May), lacked the bureaucratic vantage point and intimate familiarity with the bomb to mount an effort against its use. Bard got a hearing from Truman, but it was apparently per- functory, and shortly thereafter he resigned his post. Like others who questioned the bomb’s use, he had been “hammering on locked doors.”?2  Thus the case against the bomb’s use mostly fell to men removed from ongoing operations against Japan and was advanced with little reference to the war itself. For most dissenters, the issue was the fate of mankind and their troubled conscien