mered out in 1925, but these were not to take effect until ratified by the home governments of the contracting powers, which often qualified their acceptance or (in the case of the United States and Japan until the 1970s) withheld it altogether. Large-scale research into chemical warfare continued; Geneva only encouraged governments to hide it further from public view.  More far-reaching efforts to control these weapons were victims of the usual tangle of economic, bureaucratic, and strategic considerations. In the end, another consideration also held back the diplomats: if an end to air war meant only a return to slaughter in the trenches, the alternative was hardly attractive. A Harvard professor made this case for gas weapons in no uncertain terms: “however vast the destruction, however ‘inhuman’ the methods used, however appalling the sacrifice of life,” the resolution of conflict by “some quick and overpowering blow” seemed “preferable to its alternative,—a long war ... of mud, vermin, disease and nameless agony,—a war of starvation, exhaustion, lying, brutalization, and madness.” The bomber thus retained its appeal; its restriction made sense only as part of a comprehensive disarmament. Few people liked the failure to control the bomber, and even the New York Times, no voice of radicalism in the matter of arms control, chastised the Washington conference for admitting “its helplessness to curtail the sinister energies of the most dangerous and destructive instrumentality of modern war, the bombing airplane.” But a shared per- ception of danger among the great powers only overlay diverse perceptions of interest.2%  Although futile, postwar efforts at arms control nonetheless shaped Americans’ views of the bomber by establishing one context in which they pondered its significance. Less concerned than Europeans with national survival, Americans keenly debated aviation’s impact on national efficiency and economy. The crux of the issue, tiresomely and sensationally