llectual, scientific, mechanical—promised rewards apart from and beyond the objective of winning the war. The inventors, organizers, and handlers of the technique of air war found a satisfaction in war that infantrymen or their commanders could not achieve. Concern with mastering technique was often what the leaders of the air force meant when they referred to the operational necessities that sup- posedly dictated strategy and tactics.  What we might call the sociological basis of air war had great potential to aggravate the disjunction between means and ends and thereby to accelerate the momentum of air war. Because the criteria governing air war did not relate wholly to war itself, bombing had a momentum apart from the conflict. Because men did not have to view bombing solely as an act of war but could also see it as the perfection of technique, they did not always look at its consequences in war or measure its virtues in terms of its impact on war. In some ways, the tendency of war to assume such amomentum was not unique to strategic bombing campaigns: many another campaign in many a war has been waged with other objectives in mind—the testing of a new tactic, the glory of a commander, the pursuit of imperial ambitions. These temptations operated in air war as well, but they were fused with the enormous technological power and the particular temperament of the men who manipu- lated such power.  Again, contemporaries had a glimmering of these trends in warfare. AAF psychiatrists emphasized the flier’s “passive acceptance of our part in the conflict,” behind which lay “little real conviction,” only a resigned sense of “a struggle between national states for economic empires.” The AAF’s staff historians detected an absence of zeal in most American servicemen but especially in the new elite of airmen. “It is an interesting paradox,” they concluded, “that the most powerful representative of the democratic faith in the present war consciously has endeavored to foster p