ignorant of the bomb. Like all men, wartime leaders reacted to concrete experiences, and for those who journeyed to Potsdam in July, the sight of Berlin’s ruins provided occasion to break silence. For Truman, it inspired a rare flight into moving rhetoric, as he recorded his “fear that machines are ahead of morals by some centuries. ... We are only termites on a planet and maybe when we bore too deeply into the planet there'll [be] a reckoning—who knows?”*? But high-level officials rarely had occasion to view Japan’s scorched cities, and even if they had it would probably have made little difference. The bombing of Asians simply aroused less interest and concern. At least Berlin’s ruins could be viewed with a kind of sorrow and foreboding, as a crumbled monument to Western civilization. Few Americans recognized much of value being lost in Japan.  Compared to other forms of warfare, the bombing of cities retained an unmentionable and inexpressible quality, lying variously beyond or beneath description. With exceptions, that quality had characterized the predictive literature before the war, and it now persisted despite changed circumstances. Whereas in prospect bombing had been an almost unimaginable horror, by 1945 it was also anumbing but distant commonplace. Celebration and aversion, deliverance and doomsday remained the contrasting ways in which bombing was viewed, categories that allowed peoples and na-  Hane ta araid annfrantina tha vaalitiag af mace dactriuntian  Page 312 of 368 71%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  BAG A CUMU EY UER, EEE HE CO Ce ad, Ey, WEP ECOL as, HEE GEG OE UE UH AU ad OU OH GU CE Uk CUES Cae A Ca CU aa OU Cae  surrender. The key to capitulation still lay in the machinations of court circles, to whom the danger remained subtle: the venting of pent-up anger against the elites when the inevitable surrender came and a newer prospect, that the masses might lack the strength or will to support any fight to the finish