e great technological advances, the Luftwaffe was notably deficient in recognition of civilian talent and ability to work harmoniously with it. Much the same was true of the Japanese air forces as well. At most, technological change offered a broad challenge which nations and particular organ- izations met in very different ways.  The success of the AAF in meeting that challenge was due substantially to its historical development, the background and temperament of its officer corps, and the political and class relation- ships among American elites. Oddly, much of that success derived from the prewar air force’s alienation from the older services. In its quest for autonomy the air force repeatedly had taken its case to the civilian world and come to distrust the technical services the army bureaucracy performed for the airmen. In institutional mechanisms particularly, the air force had excelled at military-civilian cooperation since the establishment in 1915 of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA), its membership comprising both federal officials and private scientists and developers. While maintaining some facilities of its own, NACA also contracted with universities and private corporations, a method scientists usually preferred because it preserved their professional autonomy. NACA was the prototype for the mobilization of industrial and academic science during World War II, adopted by its prewar chairman, Vannevar Bush of MIT, as a model for the National Defense Research Committee in 1940. Thus well before American entry into the war, the airmen had more experience with the conditions under which scientists and industrial laboratories would help the military.  Its contacts with civilian expertise had also been strengthened by the close relationship between military and civilian technology inherent in the field of aviation. Among all military technologies, aviation had the clearest benefits for civilian commerce. Therefore civilian agencies of go