r a foreign power but “the immense destructiveness of modern weapons.”!” Similarly, in thinking about air war, possibilities were imaginable beyond the contrasting predictions of the airplane as either a trivial addition to the old ways of war or a triumph over them. Still, some who doubted that air war on cities would be quickly conclusive sometimes appeared to dismiss the danger; they, too, could hardly describe in detail the course that air war might take. Other critics resembled the prophets in argumentative style, employing an apocalyptic rhetoric which, though intended to inform and alarm, numbed the senses and carried unintended reassurances. For them as well as the prophets, air war remained a doomsday prospect more than a believable danger. They all hoped that na- tions would shrink from unleashing air war—its horror constituted its virtue by deterring the unthinkable from occurring.  These tendencies in the predictive literature about air war existed in the United States as well but in a rather different context. Whereas the bomber was mainly an offensive weapon to Europeans, in the United States it seemed to strengthen defense. The war games that seized popular attention in the 1920s and the predictions of men like Billy Mitchell established a comforting notion of the bomber’s role. American planes, roaming maritime approaches to the continent and smashing any sea or air armada that came close, promised to make attack upon America almost impossible. To be sure, the new aerial technology also made American attack on Europe almost impossible, in that no American army could again cross the Atlantic in the face of some European enemy’s air power, but that was of little consequence to most Americans, opposed as they were to any repeat of the grand crusade of 1918. In the reasoning of prophets like Mitchell, the bomber undermined the security of European nations, their capitals within such easy reach of enemy airplanes; but it might enhance America’s safety, if