ed that claim, reticence still governed. He preferred to “talk about the people underground,” about the frightened and the brave, the dislocated and the determined, almost never the dead and the wounded.  Murrow’s message was hopeful. Night bombing was “serious and sensational. It makes headlines, kills people, and smashes property; but it doesn’t win wars. It may be safely presumed that the Germans know... that several days of terror bombing will not cause this country to collapse.” The implicit message was that air war against England, like that waged earlier against Spain and China, had proved its futility as well as its barbarism. It was the fascists’ method of war, terrible but hardly the wave of the future. On the few occasions he mentioned Britain’s efforts to reply in kind, his reporting was perfunctory, with a passing reference to the necessity of “fanaticism.” Or he described the RAF bomber pilot visiting London’s ruins “who had been over Germany so many times... and said: ‘I’ve seen enough of this. I hope we haven’t been doing the same thing in the Ruhr and Rhineland for the last three months.” The RAF, Murrow suggested, bombed targets, not people.48  The print media often reinforced these hopeful messages about the blitz. They were implied in a cautious, sophisticated study titled “Air Power as World Power” that occupied the entire March 1941 issue of Fortune. They were sustained in popular writings, Willy Ley telling Americans that in a properly prepared city “there was no reason for anybody to die of fright” during bombing, and the journalist William L. White giving an upbeat report on his experience with bombing: “It is not nice, but if you think you would be terribly afraid, you had better go over and get bombed for a while, because you will be relieved to find that you are not.” For Commonweal Christopher Hollis gave these messages perversely humorous expression. Reporting from England that “aerial warfare is a very mild inconvenience,” he found a m