e kind of supremacy in witnessing a navy steam right up to Japan’s shores; it seemed more prophetic of Japan’s imminent demise, less messy than the carpet bombing of cities, and comfortably in line with grand naval traditions stretching back to Perry’s exploits almost a century earlier.17  But, as earlier during the war, immediate circumstances shaped coverage of the bomber war less than political preferences and traditions. Caution in portraying and judging the effects of strategic bombing had been evident since the tacit truce of 1943 regarding public debate on those effects. Politicians and press continued their wait-and-see attitude toward strategic air power. It was not discredited; the hope kept creeping back that it would yet obviate further American sacrifices. But the press could assume little for it, instead focusing on familiar methods of warfare, those whose efficacy, if bitterly costly, seemed more certain in the end.  FIREBOMBING: THE FINAL ROUND  In their own way, airmen also missed the chance that Grew had seen. After the May raids on Tokyo, just as before, they divined no special opportunities to hasten Japan’s capitulation beyond piling up more rubble than the enemy could tolerate. Likewise, in June they missed two further chances to express their version of how to win the war.  The first opportunity arose when strategists gathered in Washington and met with Truman on June 18 to determine final strategy against Japan. Unfortunately, slipshod preparations and uninstructive discussions meant that the long-awaited review hardly matched the gravity of the task. In a small way, the responsibility for failure was Arnold’s, for he failed to appear. Touring Pacific outposts, Arnold ordered LeMay home to give the air force view on strategy. Furthermore, according to LeMay a mix-up about dates made him arrive too late to make his case. That job fell to General Ira Eaker, a veteran of such high-level conferences, but hardly intimate with operations in the Pac