ces; in war’s powerful emotions, difficult to recognize given America’s strategic position and its own self-image. At bottom, technological fanaticism was the product of two distinct but related phenomena: one—the will to destroy—ancient and recurrent; the other—the technical means of destruction—modern. Their convergence resulted in the evil of American bombing. But it was sin of a peculiarly modern kind because it seemed so inadvertent, seemed to involve so little choice. Illusions about modern technology had made aerial holocaust seem unthinkable before it occurred and simply imperative once it began. It was the product of a slow accretion of large fears, thoughtless assumptions, and at best discrete decisions.22  In one sense, the disjunction between means and ends that characterized the bombing seems at odds with the tenor of wartime political culture in the United States. The very vagueness of American purposes and the difficulty of achieving consensus about them in a diverse nation immune to immediate destruction led American leaders to define purposes by the lowest common denominators of survival and victory. If victory was a dominant, rationalizing value, was not a premium placed on how destruction would contribute to it? In practice, the focus on victory tended to validate any form of destruction that vaguely promised to secure it. Since political authority defined the path to victory as lying so substantially through production and technological effort, the focus tended to remain on means rather than ends. And progress by the preferred method of victory, war by air, could be measured most easily in terms of the destruction it wrought; the connection of tha’ destruction to the end of victory was as easily presumed as it was hard to prove.  In their long journey from Pearl Harbor to the enemy’s surrender on the decks of the Missouri, Americans might be likened to a man forced to set out on a cross-country car trip. As he drives along, the trip gathers its o