s the Japanese saw human life as “essentially cheap” because of horrible experiences like the 1923 fire as much as because of “the tradition of the Samurai.” In a lavish photographic essay that appeared in September 1944, Life noted that “war is the closest of all relationships between nations,” and as if to emphasize the common humanity of the warring cultures, its photos of Japanese in everyday tasks, even the sheer vividness of these color photographs, humanized an enemy once regarded only as bucktoothed, ugly, and menacing.*2  But these changes came only after a deluge of propaganda, often crudely racist, about the Japanese. Any doubts they raised about the utility and morality of the Allied bombing effort arose too late to affect a momentum of effort by 1944 fully accelerated. Similarly, in England a lively debate developed only after the RAF’s bombing was already reaching its wartime peak. The debate over air  Page 133 of 368 31%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON bomb loads to enemy cities to destroy them.” But the battles of the Coral Sea and Midway “have demonstrated that our heavy bomber is our greatest weapon for the defense of our coast against invasion,” Steinbeck argued, unaware of how poorly the land-based bombers had performed at Midway. Steinbeck admitted that enemy countries, not just ships at sea, would be bombed. But airmen “knew the mathematics of destruction. Guns and ammunition and food that does not arrive is more important than a bomb dropped in the Wilhelmstrasse.” It still appeared, as it had before Pearl Har- bor, that in the free market of the bomber’s uses, good ones would drive out pointlessly destructive ones.47  A later sketch of the airman by Brendan Gill, one of the talented writers at the New Yorker during the war, succeeded where Steinbeck failed, in part because the accumulation of experience in bombing by 1944 facilitated realism. Too, in the “Young Man Behind Plexiglas” Gill let the airman speak for hi