t of the rationale for targeting rehashed old reasoning about psychological effect: “All four cities are believed to contain large numbers of key Japanese industrialists and political figures who have sought refuge from major destroyed cities.”14 Given Japan’s response to the Potsdam ultimatum, policy was no longer at issue. Spaatz, Groves, and Stimson did worry about new evidence of POW camps near Nagasaki but did not scratch the city from the target list. Fortunately, the most likely first target, Hiroshima, seemed to have no POW camps, though as it turned out some Allied POWs died in both cities.115 Otherwise, when not attending to last-minute technical details, the bomb’s managers worked on public relations. They honed the statements to be released when the bomb had been used and cleared away last-minute objections to disclosure of certain scientific information on the bomb. The various proposals and petitions about the bomb’s use from the scientific community inched their way through the bureaucracy, reaching the White House too late to influence Truman. Then the managers and their president waited.  On the morning of August 6 (still August 5 in Washington), the untested uranium bomb exploded over Hiroshima, and on August 9, after the aircrew diverted from its primary target, the plutonium bomb struck Nagasaki. At last the overstrained bomber crews could experience the relief that scientists and other officers had enjoyed on July 16. What they had seen was a macabre vari- ation on six macabre years of aerial warfare, as if a film of all that had happened had been rewound and suddenly replayed in an instant. The results both confirmed and mocked the facile comparisons made then and later between incendiary and atomic bombing. Blast and fire killed tens of thousands, as they had at Hamburg and Tokyo, but there were also the special victims of radiation poisoning. Rain fell after the atomic firestorms, as it often had after incendiary raids, but it was a black rai