re, the cities of occupied Europe had often been bombed: thousands were killed in French and Belgian cities by Anglo-American bombers prior to and after OVERLORD. In part simply because the air war in Europe went on far longer, the death toll from bombing in Europe’s occupied lands quite possibly exceeded the count in Asia.  But at the least, the bombing in occupied Europe took place only after some of the war’s most agonized handwringing by Allied leaders and after considerable effort to minimize destruction of friendly lives and landmarks.13 Never, for example, was it thought appropriate to cripple the Renault plants making vehicles for the German army by causing “a serious loss of labor” among the Parisian masses. Objectives were targeted, though of course often missed, only if their relationship to the enemy war effort was demonstrably intimate. In Asia the criteria were far looser and their formulation did not even warrant review by heads of states or chiefs of services. There, a different set of standards applied not only to the enemy population, but to conquered friendly peoples as well.  Those standards measure the casual nature of the destruction that took place in Asia. They also suggest that bombing against Japan was shaped not simply by operational considerations or even by the enemy’s nature and the lust for revenge it aroused, but by the lower value Americans put on Asian lives whatever their nationality or allegiances. At best, the operational factors cited to justify firebombing Formosa were not compelling but only permissive. Nor did the destruction have the sanction of saving American lives that its counterpart in Japan did. By the spring of 1945, Formosa had been stricken from the list of American objectives for landing, and the gain in American lives came only in the modest attrition in Japanese war production (by then almost nullified anyway by de- struction of Formosan railways and shipping to Japan) and in the damage (largely by precision stri