elt, moved by visions of empire abroad and unity at home, had forged a stronger army and navy. Mitchell, however, promised something more comforting. Air power, as he usually described it, would provide inexpensive security for a new generation of Americans, leaving them free from militarism and its accompanying evils—taxation, conscription, and tyranny. Americans, as C. Vann Woodward has written, traditionally “disavowed the engines and instruments of the power they did not need and proclaimed their innocence for not using them, while at the same time they passed judgment upon other nations for incurring the guilt inevitably associated with power.” Leav- ing the nation’s traditional institutions intact, air power also promised to retain inviolate America’s claim to innocence and uniqueness “in a wicked world.”32  The contests of the 1920s established air power as an alternative to a military system that had brought the world to war in 1914. In Arnold’s inflated recollection, “to the American people ..., Billy and his antiquated bombers were not so much a new weapon as the death knell of weapons. To hell with all armament; to hell with everything to do with war!”4° Focusing attention on bureaucratic conflict, confined largely to the issue of continental defense, the debate about military aviation diminished awareness of the bomber’s possible use against cities in the next great war—as, of course, did the prevailing assumption that for America there should be no such war. The organizational battle over air power overwhelmed the strategic issues, and with the bomber’s proponents almost powerless, the bomber itself seemed almost benign. Americans were accepting the bomber, less because of Mitchell’s persuasiveness, than because of the images of aviation that his well-publi- cized battles helped to establish.  THE CULTURAL CONTEXT OF PROPHECY  Bureaucratic battles over military aviation were insufficient in themselves to make the airplane a benign instrument. Complement