ring nations and perhaps all of mankind from the horror of conventional warfare. Churchill gave this hope particularly vivid expression. An invasion of Japan  might well require the loss of a million American lives and half that number of British. ... Now all this nightmare had vanished. ... We seemed suddenly to have become possessed of a merciful abridgment of the slaughter in the East and of a far happier prospect in Europe... . To avert a vast, indefinite butchery, to bring the war to an end, to give peace to the world, to lay healing hands upon its tortured peoples by a manifestation of overwhelming power at the cost of a few explosions, seemed, after all our toils and perils, a miracle of deliverance.72  He was echoing the old joy about the rise of air power. No other justification for the bomb’s use was more persistent and persuasive.  Of course, arguments for the bomb’s use did not go unquestioned. But dissenters showed that they and the advocates usually worked from the same assumptions even as they reached different conclusions about the bomb’s use. For both, winning the war was an explicit objective eclipsed by other concerns. Dissenters did raise some questions about the bomb’s relationship to the war. The Franck Committee report and the Szilard petition, the most famous pronouncements of dissent, noted briefly how the original justification for the bomb project, fear of Germany’s acquisition of the weapon, had been invalidated. O. C. Brewster, an engineer on the gas diffusion project, made the point more emphatic in a letter of May 24 to the president that was brought to Stimson’s attention: “So long as the threat of Germany existed we had to proceed with all speed. ... With the threat of Germany removed we must stop this project.” In addition, the efficacy of the bomb against Japan was sometimes questioned, the Franck Committee doubting that “the first available bombs, of comparatively low efficiency and small size, will be sufficient to break the will