the Philippines) fit the classic defensive rationale for the bomber, but as the film ends the bomber departs to attack Tokyo, in a visual promise that Americans’ wish for Japan’s annihilation will be fulfilled. A later film—The Purple Heart (1944), about the torture and trial of the Doolittle aviators who fell into Japanese hands—gave explicit expression to that implicit promise of vengeance: a doomed American flier warns his captors that American bombers will “blacken your skies and burn your cities to the ground and make you get down on your knees and beg for mercy. This is your war ... and it won’t be finished until your dirty little empire is wiped off the face of the earth!”34  THE LIMITS OF JOURNALISM  Journalistic reporting and commentary offered another source of expectations about the bomber’s role in the war as well as of possible challenges to the preferences of officials and propagandists. Often, however, the media left the popular imagination impoverished because its coverage was constricted by the nature of air war, the purposes of commercial journalism, and the politics of the war. The reporting of bombing raids was a good case in point.  When the Allies had been on the receiving end of strategic bombing, all the advantages of immediacy and vividness in reporting had lain with the air war. These disappeared when British and American bombers took to the skies. Photographs could not translate the enemy’s destruction on the ground into compelling images: taken at high altitudes, often under unfavorable conditions of smoke and clouds, they recorded scenes of bombed-out cities that were monotonously similar and in which the viewer (and often even the professional analyst) was hard-pressed to discern the scale and nature of the destruction. Words, like photographs, could only convey abstract, anonymous, and repetitive images of the destruction below. Alternative images—from low-level aerial reconnais- sance, from captured enemy photographs, from neutral new