ction nor compulsion from higher authority to choose. Some air staff officers chafed at this vagueness, but to little avail.141  So LeMay pressed on. In April he launched only a few major fire raids, though these, against Tokyo, approached his March 10 success in terms of acreage incinerated. In May, restocked with incendiaries and taxing his crews, he dispatched over five hundred bombers on missions, and he completed the firing of Japan’s largest cities. Over one hundred square miles of urban landscape were destroyed, and by early June, Tokyo, Nagoya, Kobe, Osaka, Yokohama, and Kawasaki had been stricken from the target lists for fire attacks. Some precision targets remained in these cities, and many others elsewhere. But the trained crews and radar sets necessary for precision attacks remained slow to arrive in the Marianas, while the urgency to strike at particular factories and fortresses was gone. As Hansell later put it, “The new tactic... was both easier to perform and to measure.”42 Earlier, fire raids had been viewed as a backup measure to capitalize on and round off precision attacks. Now that relationship was neatly reversed: the cities would be destroyed, then the remains would be picked over.  In June, Arnold arrived at Guam for discussions with LeMay. LeMay recounted their meeting:  He asked the question . .. when is the war going to end? Well we’ve been too busy fighting it to figure out a date. But it’s about over though. Give me thirty minutes and I’ll give you a date. Well I got my plans and operations fellows and said, look, run in right quick and look see how many target areas we got left. .. . If there is no industry left up there, there can’t be much war left going on.  LeMay told Arnold that he would run out of targets by about September 1, and that “with the targets gone we couldn’t see much of any war going on.” Proudly recounted by LeMay as an indication of his command’s efficiency and dedication, the incident was a revelation of the air fo