horrors of stalemated, industrialized war, making conflict either so mercifully decisive or so mercilessly horrible that it could not continue. Bombing could not do this, however. Instead of breaking from the attitudes and conditions which led to slaughter on the battlefield, air war expressed and in some ways aggravated them. Never the cheap weapon some thought it to be, air power consumed the same enormous technological and economic resources that sustained the ground war: by November 1918, the British and French had produced one hundred thousand aircraft and were employing over a half-million people in their production. On the front, it intensified the destructiveness of firepower, as aerial observation guided artillery fire with unprecedented accuracy. At the same time, given a war in which the British could use 321 trainloads of shells in one seventeen-day barrage at Passchendaele—a year’s production of fifty-five thousand war workers—tactical aircraft could make no decisive addition to firepower, especially as soldiers burrowed further underground. Only when German forces began faltering anyway could air power give the Allied armies a significant advantage in battle.  Warplanes, used in part in response to the futility of the offensive 4 outrance on the ground, were hurled into battle with the same offensive abandon. Good tactical reasons were advanced for so doing. It was pointed out that planes could not guard territory like isolated sentries on duty without being picked off one by one; they had to seek out the enemy and attack in force. And attack in force they did, as commanders like Trenchard sent hundreds of planes to battle: against the German spring offensive in 1918 the British expended over 1,000 of the 1,232 craft they had on hand at the start. About fifty-five thousand airmen met their death in the war—a negligible figure by the standards of ground combat, but an appalling loss rate given the size of the air forces involved. Leadership was partly t