ater a Supreme Court justice), Fowler Hamilton—and others such as the Boston lawyer Guido Perera, the COA’s de facto chairman for much of the time. Prominent economists like Edward S. Mason figured significantly, as did the Princeton historian and political scientist Edward Mead Earle, a pioneer in academic service to the military establishment. The task of “thinking scientifically” was never alone the scientist’s job.  Lawyers and businessmen found themselves in such work in part because the air force lacked the professional staff to do it itself: analysis of an enemy’s strategic systems required a knowledge of foreign industrial economies gained through legal or business experience. More important than their technical expertise was the assumption that businessmen and lawyers possessed the talent to think logically about these problems, the connections to draw in specialized expertise, and the freedom from operational demands to give these matters sustained attention. Perera himself, responsible for recruiting COA staff, naturally turned to men of similar background. Indeed, linkages of class, education, and geography, especially at the top rungs of business and law in the Northeast, were vital in recruiting civilians, all the more so with two elite easterners, Stimson and Lovett, at the highest level of the War Department.  These linkages appeared again late in 1944, when the United States Strategic Bombing Survey was constituted to examine the results of the bombing effort. Franklin D’Olier, past national commander of the American Legion and in 1944 chairman of the board of the Prudential Insurance Company, presided, and Henry C. Alexander, a lawyer and partner in J. P. Morgan, assumed active direction. Boston lawyers, including Perera, again played an important role, as did George Ball and Paul Nitze. There were less conventional figures, such as the economist John Kenneth Galbraith; they were especially evident on the lower levels of the survey staff—the poet W