l, a young officer later to be a key strategic planner, recalled how a similar lesson  n “specialization, and hence, vulnerability, literally fell into our laps.” Discovering a drop in delivery of controllable pitch propellers, the Air Corps learned that a simple but critical spring for the pro- pellers all  came from one plant and that that plant in Pittsburgh had suffered from a flood. There was a perfect and classical example. To all intents and purposes a very large portion of the entire aircraft industry... had been nullified just as effectively as if a great many airplanes had been individually shot up, or a considerable number of factories had been hit. That practical example set the pattern for the ideal selection of precision targets. ... That was the kind of thing that was sought in every econorny.  Page 50 of 368 12%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON than exact, referring to targets as small as a railroad junction and as big as an entire enemy capital. Their prevailing assumption in the 1920s that gas would be a primary agent of attack—one the Air Corps would largely discard in the 1930s—hardly suggested precision. Their influence on the Air Corps, while large on the general matter of strategic bombardment, often consisted of the convenience of invoking better-known authorities to support arguments American airmen were already developing on their own. By the time he wrote Skyways (1930), Mitchell had made an unqualified commit- ment to the primacy of strategic bombardment, but he never systematically developed the notion of daylight precision bombing, which owed more to less-remembered officers who since the twenties had argued for destruction of key plants in “a complex system of interlocking factories.”®  Beyond the influence of particular men and ideas, four forces converged in the 1930s to make daylight precision bombing an attractive notion. First, the Air Corps needed to justify organiza- tional independence in a more effec