ould do to redeem the B-29 operations. In the next several days, a solution jelled. Primarily a commander and tactician, not a strategist, he conceived the solution in tactical terms. He mulled his ideas over with key combat commanders and extracted the statistical information he needed from his staff. Could the bombers fly in at five or six thousand instead of twenty-five or thirty thousand feet? To some, the question seemed absurd. Flak was bad enough at high altitudes; obviously, at six thousand feet it would be “slaughter.” But LeMay’s statisticians determined that few planes actually had been lost to flak, and he had a hunch that Japanese antiaircraft guns were suitable only for high-altitude fire. At worst. perhaps a one-shot survrise could be pulled on the enemv’s defenses. before returning to the safetv of great height. Furthermore. the cover of night alone offered safetv: perhaps he could striv  Page 269 of 368 61%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON entertain in return, DUL ne Used L11e OCCaS1ON LO TWeak LNe Moses OF Nis Diue-water rivals and also tO Make Nis Tleeus KNOWN, taking especial pains to serve tne best 1iignt-rations avallaDle, tne canned  stuff’ the air force was feeding itself. Eventually he got more of what he wanted out of the navy.*?  Whatever his troubles with the navy, LeMay’s relations with his superiors seemed remarkably free from the intrusions he experienced or heard of in Europe. For one thing, because the Twentieth Air Force was under Arnold’s direct control, theater commanders had far less call on LeMay to support the army and navy, and when diversions did occur, Arnold and Norstad assumed responsibility for them. For another, Arnold was convalescing in Florida through much of the winter. “He did not tell me how to do my job! No!” LeMay protested years later when queried about his relationship with Arnold. “I never got a direct order from Arnold that I remember,” a recollection generally supported by the docu