he Japanese.” Marshall also believed that a credible force would be in the Philippines by mid-December, though fewer than seventy heavy bombers would then be in place. Given that timetable, the United States might have ready the ul- timate deterrent to Japanese expansion: Fortresses and Liberators able to strike Japan itself. The enemy would be trapped.82  So Marshall told an extraordinary gathering of press bureau chiefs and senior correspondents on the morning of Saturday, November 15. Swearing the reporters to secrecy, he asked them not to upset a delicate game of deterrence he outlined. “We are preparing an offensive war against Japan, whereas the Japs believe we are preparing only to defend the Phillipines /sic/.” The Japanese had not yet learned of the bomber buildup, he explained, adding (without mentioning American code-breaking efforts) that “we know what they know about us and they dont /sic/ know that we know it.” The moment was soon arriving to show America’s hand, but adroitly. Information about the buildup must not leak through the press but “from the White House or the State Department directly to Japanese officials—presumably [Saburo] Kurusu,” the Japanese special envoy flown to Washington to assist in negotiations. Privacy was critical in order to prevent a loss of face which would compel Japanese “fanatics ... to demand war immediately.” Given discretion, Japanese officials “can say to the cabinet: ‘Look here. These people really mean to bomb our cities, and they have the equipment with which to do it. We'd better go slow.” In that way, Marshall suggested, “war might be averted.”  Nor, he added, was this simply a clever bluff. Even if the scheme failed and war occurred, “we'll fight mercilessly. Flying fortresses will be dispatched immediately to set the paper cities of Japan on fire,” Marshall explained in language unusually graphic for him. “There won't be any hesitation about bombing civilians—it will be all-out.”88  These were such extraordinar