LULE LICLIULUeL LU LUE VACUO UL UULUULUs UL a LUC UUs (LUE WNaloes VV AUeLLL Church in West Berlin and the Peace Memorial in Hiroshima) preserved as testimony to wartime devastation. Often dwarfed by new construction, these ruins sometimes appear out of place, too incon- sequential as reminders of past fury. In Eastern Europe, the inadequacies of socialist reconstruction perversely enhanced remembrance, for the rubble took decades to clear, but even there the physical testimony has mostly disappeared. What testimony remains is largely implicit: all those shining, rebuilt city centers do remind, in passing, that something else once stood there. Other testimony may be exhumed some day in archeological digs uncovering the unexploded bomb or the foundation of some forgotten building. An astonishing sign of human capacity to recover, the disappearance of the traces of aerial warfare parallels the passing of vivid recollection. As John Hersey noted in 1985 about Kiyoshi Tanimoto, one of Hiroshima’s survivors: “His memory, like the world’s, was getting spotty.”!  This book is primarily an explanation, not a remembrance, of the rise of strategic air war. But fragile remembrance today follows naturally from two of my major themes: the profound difficulties people faced in comprehending air war even as it unfolded, and the manner in which thinking about bombing before August 6, 1945, has shaped attitudes and approaches to the nuclear question. Almost as soon as Hiroshima was destroyed, the reflex reaction of most observers was to regard the atomic age as revolutionary and the previous history of air war as irrelevant, just as earlier commentators on the bomber tended to dismiss the previous history of warfare. In both cases, declarations of the past’s irrelevance masked the persistence of old habits. This book examines that persistence, showing how ideas about air war, and indeed the habit of regarding bombing as an abstract idea, developed in the prenuclear era and persisted