yway. The tactical elements involved were assembled in a rush, and no subordinate was likely to question a commander about the ethical and strategic issues posed in changing the course of war. Nor was there time or inclination to consult much with Washington. It is doubtful that “Norstad didn’t have an idea what I was thinking about,” as LeMay later wrote, for LeMay had offered hints in his March 3 letter, and Norstad himself knew perfectly well the options open to the bomber commander—he had urged them himself. But the teletype machines did not hum with LeMay’s ideas, and by the time Norstad arrived on the morning of March 9, the orders for a great fire raid had already been cut, on the eighth.©°  What Norstad’s arrival did provide was an opportunity for LeMay to sound out the Washington brass regarding the mission he proposed to run. Norstad was perfectly willing to give LeMay the rope with which either to hang himself or to run up the banners of glory. Norstad seemed to LeMay “a typical staff man,” unwilling to commit himself. LeMay “did gain the impression that being a little unorthodox was all right with Hap Arnold.” (“So this is what you call being a little unorthodox?” he joked in his memoirs. “Want to be president of the Department of Understatement?”) Norstad and Arnold wanted results. They did not want to commit themselves to the method LeMay proposed to try until they knew the results. LeMay put it this way in his memoirs: “All right, by God. If I do it I won't say a thing to General Arnold in advance. Why should I? He’s on the hook, in order to get some results out of the B-29’s. But if I set up this deal, and Arnold O.K.’s it beforehand, then he would have to assume some of the responsibility. And if I don’t tell him, and it’s all a failure, and I don’t produce any results, then he can fire me.” Time had played a few tricks on his memory. On the eighth LeMay had notified Arnold of his pending mission. But LeMay had the essence of it right. He was in muc