erience in bombing others in China, despite the warnings served up in test fire raids, despite some vivid reporting on the fate of Germany’s cities, little had been done. Before March 9, perhaps 1,700,000 residents had already left the city. But except for the evacuation of schoolchildren—carried out not to protect them but to save them “as a human resource in the abstract”—their exodus owed little to the government, far more to the lash of fear. Some 6,000,000 remained. On the government's part, waterways had been too much trusted to stop flames, firebreaks had been widely but incompletely cleared, concrete shelters had rarely been constructed. Antiaircraft defenses were technically inadequate except for a fairly efficient radar detec- tion and warning system. With defense overwhelmed, the battle, insofar as there was one, took place between civilians on the ground and technicians in the air.§”  Tokyo did not explode, it descended into “an ‘infernum’ ... like that which Dante... describes in his Divina commedia.”®* A few months later, the atomic bombs would erupt without warning and with apocalyptic instancy, most of their fury telescoped into seconds of transcendent destruction. There is no way to compare different experiences of terror when each has its own kind of totality, but Tokyo held a different horror and fascination. It was a process of destruction, not a simple act. As the American bombers poured gasoline and chemicals into the inferno, the observer could see the destruction take place and watch the thing come alive, becoming some living, grotesque organism, ever changing in its shape, dimensions, colors, and directions—as if witnessing a preview of the coming August attraction, one shown in slow motion and stop action. In Hiroshima and Nagasaki, most victims did not know what hit them, confronting personal extinction first; the survivors only later suffered the shock of communal annihilation as they crawled out of their wreckage and met the parade of th