cities, and many others elsewhere. But the trained crews and radar sets necessary for precision attacks remained slow to arrive in the Marianas, while the urgency to strike at particular factories and fortresses was gone. As Hansell later put it, “The new tactic ... was both easier to perform and to measure.”}42 Earlier, fire raids had been viewed as a backup measure to capitalize on and round off precision attacks. Now that relationship was neatly reversed: the cities would be destroyed, then the remains would be picked over.  In June, Arnold arrived at Guam for discussions with LeMay. LeMay recounted their meeting:  He asked the question ... when is the war going to end? Well we’ve been too busy fighting it to figure out a date. But it’s about over though. Give me thirty minutes and I'll give you a date. Well I got my plans and operations fellows and said, look, run in right quick and look see how many target areas we got left. .. . If there is no industry left up there, there can’t be much war left going on.  LeMay told Arnold that he would run out of targets by about September 1, and that “with the targets gone we couldn’t see much of any war going on.” Proudly recounted by LeMay as an indication of his command’s efficiency and dedication, the incident was a revelation of the air force approach to war, rich with the emptiness of strategic reasoning about how to win the war and of the desire even to formulate it. Destruction would win the war, and the war would have to end when the destruction was complete. LeMay’s statement to Arnold was of a piece with the summary statement of his strategy LeMay offered in his memoirs: first establish bases, then “bomb and burn them until they quit. That was our theory, and history has proved that we were right.” It was of a piece with how the United States—not always, but at its worst—waged the war.143  Page 297 of 368 68%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON such conception beyond trying to apply “maxim