2 manifesto, the most discussed of the war. But their accusations of corruption, conspiracy, and incompetence were as arresting as their strategic arguments. Not their least appeal was their spiteful but satisfving explanation of disaster at Pearl Harbor. Thev spoke to familiar issues largelv rooted in domestic politics, and critical  Page 123 of 368 28%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  nied it, and celebrated the national genius for pseduction with ealy a Q<hiyas was Woe qendswee ane av eite  That celebration was the theme in the most trivial but pervasive medium of advocacy, the corporate advertising which did much to define the war’s nature and purposes simply because government was reluctant to assume that task. Advertising offered verbal and visual images of the air war that were rarely instructive about its realities. It stressed the romance of aviation and the technological prowess of American business, the fruits of which were to flow to the postwar civilian. There were exceptions, as in the Nash-Kelvinator ad linking its peacetime manufacture of refrigerators with the war against Japan: “Ice Cubes for Japan!” promised that flying boats would deliver not only bombs but “hate and vengeance” to Tojo. But even ads like NashKelvinator’s visually depicted air war in highly stylized or romanticized ways that rarely suggested the scope and nature of the destruction bombers might deliver and pictured airplanes more often in tactical than in strategic missions. The Boeing Company took the high road in its ads, among the finest technically and the most restrained of the war. In doing so, however, it struck another common note in wartime advertising. Wary of inflammatory language, Boeing emphasized the company’s technical achievements, both in its copy and in its high-quality photographs of soaring bombers and sophisticated production lines. Even when Boeing depicted combat, as it did with the Eighth Air Force’s great Schweinfurt raids, it e