f international law are strictly observed, modern war involves terrible dangers to the non-combatant and civilian population.” It seemed that “the only really practical solution would be to... prohibit all bombing from the air,” a prospect Williams confessed was quite impractical, leading him finally to declare that “the ultimate aim of law must be the disappearance of war”—an approach, Eliot pointed out, that had been tried out for a gener- ation and found wanting.®>  A more promising course was to define morality in terms of utility. The French Catholic philosopher Jacques Maritain argued that the bombing of cities was reprehensible not just because it was intrinsically wrong to attack innocents, but because “terror” and total war prolonged war. They defeated the very end of victory by arousing resistance, and they poisoned the peace thereafter as well. Whatever was unnecessary for victory, he maintained, was “bestiality.” This was a slippery standard by which to measure acts of war, for by it the most ruthless bombing of cities was justified if it could be plausibly argued (and plausible arguments are notoriously easy to construct in war) that it would contribute to victory. Yet at least Maritain’s formula provided a rough standard, and it appealed not to unenforceable rules of international law or flimsy consciences of statesmen and enraged populations, but to their practical interests: the moral might be the efficacious. At a time of growing doubt about the utility of city-bombing, it seemed to promise restraint. When war came, the reasoning employed by Maritain, while often used to justify bombing, was also the argument most successfully invoked to challenge it.6©  The image of the bomber in American thinking changed subtly over the twenty years preceding the outbreak of the European war. In the 1920s, the danger of air war had seemed grave but abstract, remote from American concerns. By the end of the 1930s, the reality of its occurrence abroad made the dange