reat of its continuance was losing its credibility, and Japan had no reason to suspect something more.  There was also the problem of what would happen to Japan after surrender. If Washington had reached no clear consensus on this matter, Tokyo could not divine it on its own. There were teasing phrases: “unconditional surrender” was limited to Japan’s armed forces, not explicitly extended to its government or its dynasty; the “freely expressed will of the Japanese people” to choose their own government was granted under certain conditions. Moreover, the Soviet Union had not signed the proclamation. But none of these signs pointed clearly to the value or necessity of Tokyo's immediate acceptance. Without a Russian signature, time to maneuver still seemed to remain. If the Allies did not declare they would abolish the throne, they did not say they would preserve it. And if thev regarded Hirohito as one of those “war criminals” to whom thev promised “stern justice.” would there be an emperor left whom the “freelv expressed will” could enthrone?  Page 337 of 368 77%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Even that explanation of American behavior is incomplete, however. Had preemption of Russian entry been an overriding objective, Truman and his aides would have more willingly pursued  the assurances on the throne and hesitated less about them in the final moment. Even men who shared similar suspicions of Soviet ambitions—Grew and Byrnes are the most notable examples—could not agree about the content of American messages to Japan. Timing the bomb’s use to come after Soviet entry was not rejected late in July, but rather it was never seriously considered before then. The timing of the bomb’s use always had been dictated by operational considerations—when it was ready—irrespective of other threats to Japan that might be applied. Moreover, just as no one could predict that the bomb would end the war quickly, no one could be certain that Russian entry w