emotions, anxiety and the grief over loss of buddies.72  Distance from the enemy occurred because of the nature of air combat but even more because of demands of aviation that arose outside of combat. Flying itself posed many of those demands, particularly for the men of the Twentieth Air Force, who were required to make round trips of up to four thousand miles, often across the treacherous heights of the Himalayas or the trackless expanses of the Pacific. On those missions, takeoff alone posed peril, for the planes were so heavily loaded with bombs and gasoline that the slightest mechanical or human failure could abort a mission or destroy a bomber. Then came the long flight whose success depended on the most careful calculations of altitude, speed, and fuel consumption. Even in October 1944, when the enemy’s air defenses were still formidable, LeMay’s crews operating out of China found that “take-off .. . is the high point of any flight. All crews, in discussing a mission, invariably talk about their take-off and not about flak, fighters, or other enemy opposition.” Likewise crews operating from the Marianas “began to fear their own aircraft and our field orders more than the devices of the enemy.” Ditching was frequent on B-29 flights of some fourteen hours, especially when winds of 150 miles sabotaged calculations of fuel consumption, and in the Pacific the downed flier was often never found and rescued. As Ernie  Deda ean neta d UL vee crnen arene his pewssten fre nas ley terraintes ndenseting tn ae, be TAT at nee thn Laven thin cit inn cern lneern nin aed) tLaan ater ne narra Laeen 4 an nanan Lan nnth than. an thn eeenee Laan  Page 209 of 368 48%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  ... How can there be writhing, mangled bodies? How can this air around you be filled with unseen projectiles? It is like listening to a radio account of a battle on the other side of the earth. It is too far away, too separated to hold reality. (May 29, 1944