more effective mobilization of the war effort. More pointedly, as the joint staff planners saw the issue, release of the stories should be saved until later in order to “steel public opinion to the damage which, at that time, we are about to inflict upon the Japanese homeland.”  At the Office of War Information, Elmer Davis shared similar concerns. Against the incomprehensible Japanese enemy, he worried, “it is more difficult to demand of the nation the exacting sacrifices” necessary for victory. In January 1944, when the government decided to lift the ban on atrocity stories, Davis got more specific. American knowledge of atrocities “would also serve to nullify any voices that might be raised here if we should undertake bombing of Japanese cities.” But what worked at home might backfire against Americans in Japanese hands: playing up atrocity stories only increased the likelihood that Japan “will execute all prisoners” taken from American bombers, perhaps indeed all other Americans the Japanese held as well, so Arnold’s intelligence officer warned. The legitimacy of that concern was evidenced by the execution earlier of three Doolittle raiders and by death sentences later imposed on B-29 aviators who fell into Japanese hands. But there was  Page 166 of 368 38%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON making further. Britain in particular generated endless debate over matters peripheral to the main American effort, without forcing articulation of the fundamentals of strategy. Among the American services, the inner war over favored methods, routes, and commanders never ceased. Bound by informal rules of unanimity and watched over by a commander-in-chief tolerant of disagreement among subordinates, the Joint Chiefs did the only thing a committee could do: it compromised: If no choice could be made among approaches to Japan through the central Pacific or north from Australia or in the air with strategic bombers, all three would be taken. If one servi