e circumstances. Roosevelt may have had such a war in mind when he remarked on the twenty-seventh that the Japanese had just learned about the B-17s’ deployment to the Philippines. That same day he also received Marshall’s curiously elliptical recommendation that “prior to the completion of the Philippine reinforce- ment, military counteraction be considered only if Japan attacks or directly threatens United States, British, or Dutch territory.” Presumably, military action prior to such Japanese attacks would be acceptable once sufficient bombers were in place and would be taken immediately even without direct assault on American installations if Japan attacked the Allies’ holdings. That is, the United States might yet spring its own surprise. If so, Roosevelt needed, in the absence of such an assault, a pretext to enter the war and use the bombers. He may have sought it by ordering the Asiatic Fleet on naval patrols whose likely purpose, according to a careful historian, was “to provoke a Panay-type incident” which might “justify an American declaration of war.” Given the priority Roosevelt attached to the European war, it is out of the question that he wanted war with Japan and unlikely that he sought an incident to justify declaring it. War seemed inevitable; the only hope was to delay or enter on favorable terms. For those purposes, Roosevelt may have accepted a chance to trigger the kind of undeclared war which his naval patrols in the Atlantic had helped provoke. Marshall himself was aware that under the loose authorization given MacArthur, reconnaissance missions might be flown over Japanese territory, in violation of international law, and “might cause the Japanese to fire the first shot.”106  Any historian’s case for such a provocative strategy must remain speculative in light of a documentary record that does not clarify whether Roosevelt’s intentions were complex and devious, simply confused, or both. But certainly Roosevelt and his advisors were amateurs