ve duty by Roosevelt, nonetheless remained an informal advisor to Arnold and the aviation industry and flew tactical combat missions in the Pacific. His observations were acute:  You press a button and death flies down. One second the bomb is hanging harmlessly in your racks, completely under your control. The next it is hurtling down through the air, and nothing in your power can revoke what you have done.  ... How can there be writhing, mangled bodies? How can this air around you be filled with unseen projectiles? It is like listening to a radio account of a battle on the other side of the earth. It is too far away, too separated to hold reality. (May 29, 1944)  One is separated from the surface of that island as though he were viewing it on a motion-picture screen in a theater on the other side of the world. A plane in the sky, an island in the water; there is no thread of realization, of understanding, of human feeling that connects the two. In modern war one kills at a distance, and in doing so does not realize that he is killing. (September 10, 1944)75  To be, sure, the implications of the distance Lindbergh described were ambiguous. Detachment from killing can make it easy but can also provide perspective on it; it can both lessen and increase hatred toward an enemy. Wartime historians noted that men opposing the Germans seemed to be “more vindictive toward the Japanese” than the ground soldiers actually committed to Pacific fighting, an observation confirmed in postwar studies. Men in training displayed more vindictiveness toward both enemies than did men in combat. American soldiers held more vengeful attitudes toward the Japanese than toward the Germans, with whom “identification was relatively easy”: many American troops in the Pacific and a majority in Europe and the states wanted to “wipe out the whole Japanese nation.” But attitudes toward the Japanese were also more superficial and volatile, and combat often triggered a “discovery that much dirty figh