that, he offered a political argument that turned the defects of bombing —its inaccuracy and its destructiveness—into virtues. “The conduct of war will be determined by whether the purpose is to destroy the enemy or to capture him, whether the prey must be killed or trapped alive.” In America’s case, it seemed clear that “because we have no imperial purposes, but in every case want only to remove a threat to the normal life of the world, American strategy must be geared for the war of elimination,” a task for which the bomber was ideal. In short, with an irony de Seversky did not appreciate, a brutal strategy arose from America’s benign purpose.27  Surprisingly, there was little challenge to de Seversky’s assumptions. True, to analysts like Hanson Baldwin, prophets like de Seversky were “false gods.” But Baldwin accepted a large role for strategic bombing, including the night bombing of German cities practiced by the British. Significantly, George Fielding Eliot found that the weakness of an exclusively aerial strategy lay not in its savagery but its restraint. It might win the war. “But it is not the quickest way to win the war, for it is neither using all our power, nor is it absorbing the enemy’s reserve strength in all categories.” To idle Allied armies and navies seemed foolish, for “the most humane way to fight a war is to prosecute it with the utmost fury until victory is won; this will always cost less in lives.” These propositions were deeply grounded in sound doctrine and military tradition but offered only utilitarian arguments against an air strategy. And because Eliot and Baldwin viewed war as the application of rational calculations on the most efficient means of victory, they could not appreciate air power’s attraction as a weapon of vengeance.28  War had attenuated the spectrum of debate on air power. Where once alternatives (however arbitrary) had been offered in the clash between prophets and skeptics, now public argument was largely confined to di