approachable flaming braziers.” Beyond that, it seemed “useless . . . to elaborate.” War against cities was terrifying but barely imaginable. The certainty of quick victory made description seem unnecessary, and the horror of bombing was perhaps enhanced by letting the reader conjure up his own nightmare. Any suggestion that events on the ground might be more complicated, might go beyond panic and surrender, would have robbed predictions of their promise that air power could be decisive.*  Peace through chemistry was a variation on the promise of deliverance through technology. Armed with dubious statistics indicating that death rates from gas attacks in World War I were far lower than those from shot and shell, prophets like Liddell Hart argued that “gas may well prove the salvation of civilization from otherwise inevitable collapse in case of another world war.” Nonlethal gases in particular might secure “the fruits of victory, but without the lasting evils of mass killing or destruction of property.” Such optimism about the benefits of aerochemical warfare was a minority view. Yet even an apocalyptic view of airborne gas warfare also strengthened claims for its decisiveness. Besides, the proponents of aerial bombing had other ways to address the moral issues it raised, shown by Hugh Trenchard’s tortured distinction between bombing “for the sole purpose of terrorising the civilian population” and bombing “to terrorise munition workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work.” By and large, however, the moral case of the prophets rested only on their assertion that bombing would bring wars to mercifully speedy, if costly, conclusions. Since bombing was sure to be so frightful, its destructiveness aroused little worry—a terrorized populace would surrender before destruction proceeded far at all.©  Certainty about the bomber’s efficacy rested on an appreciation of new technology, but also on unquestioned belief in the fragility of modern societies. All th