ce the fall of 1940. The initiative came from Admiral Harold Stark, the Chief of Naval Operations, who gave cogent exposition to a Europe-first strategy. He identified defense of Britain, victory in the Atlantic, and defeat of Germany as priorities, while the United States should avert war in the Pacific and assume only a defensive posture there if it came. Roosevelt neither authorized Stark’s memorandum nor formally approved the results but he tacitly accepted it as the basis of upcoming talks with British planners. Strategy now had a formal definition.*?  American—British deliberations, conducted in secret in Washington from January 29 to March 29, 1941, reaffirmed the broad outlines of Stark’s approach and sanctioned strategic air power in the waging of the war. To be sure, compromises were made and differences remained. The planners recommended “a sustained air offensive against German Military Power” only as preparatory to a land invasion of the Continent: since army and navy officers dominated the talks, a more forceful statement of the bomber’s role was not to be expected. American planners also distrusted the faith of Churchill and his staff that bombardment, blockade, and peripheral campaigns could win the war without large-scale invasion, although their own president substantially shared the British view. Subsequent talks in August identified Anglo-American differences further without resolving them. The American Joint Board thought the British placed undue reliance on bombing to destroy “gen- eral civil morale.” Attacks should be aimed “against specific objectives which have an immediate relation to German military power.”®  Despite such differences within and between the British and American delegations, their prescriptions for victory accorded broadly with the strategic planning now forcefully undertaken by the Army Air Forces (AAF). The president was the catalyst to the AAF’s initiative at planning. On July 9, he sent the war and navy secretaries his r