d it. Simi-  Page 289 of 368 66%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Vay WIS VOUgEL UL (pio @ aUL UU 11 LOL We, LOMB IU US, ALU PALL JUULGUS/ GURU WICUBCU LAUUY Ue OLAS Ul LULGLL USO UCUIULL, Le ALI LL CUNSLELUUIU TL, LLULg 2 LUCK LU LLL UL the thousands who must be burned to death,” wrongly characterized the fatalities as unavoidable by-products that can occur even in “the most perfect precision bombing.” Still, the paper also took satisfaction:  If it is necessary, however, that the cities of Japan are, one by one, burned to black ashes, that we can, and will, do. And with each city thus attacked, we remember the treachery of Pearl Harbor and find calm satisfaction in the knowledge that the Japanese of one more city have learned there is a bill, which must be paid, for treachery, that retribution for such a deed is implacable.  Only those willing to proclaim vengeance could admit the carnage—had to admit it to have the full satisfaction of vengeance. Similarly, only those who admitted the carnage acknowledged vengeance as an American motive. Those who did not profess hatred saw the bombing as just a necessary act of technique against an enemy whose fanaticism was singular, carried out by men with “a peculiarly detached and scientific attitude.”121  There was, then, the familiar pattern: relief at the prospect of quicker victory; celebration of American technical genius, courage, strategic superiority, and war-borne potential for world mastery; and denial or silence about destructive and vengeful instincts. Terror was acceptable as long as it seemed inadvertent. Since the acts that inflicted revenge also seemed militarily necessary, vengeance could be secured without often being spoken.  Impatience and exhaustion with the war that spring strengthened the impulse to destroy the Japanese. Observing that impulse, a British official in the United States noted how long Americans had wanted to finish up in Europe “in order to throw themselves wit