d Roosevelt in July, arguing that bombing might “produce an internal convulsion or collapse” in Germany. So the president seemed to argue in talking to Hopkins, who in August 1941 characterized FDR as “a believer in bombing as the only means of gaining a victory.” Hopkins, intimate with FDR and faithfully reflecting his views, himself broadcast to the British an exaggerated promise that American “airplanes [in British hands] tonight may be dropping bombs on Brest, on Hamburg, on Berlin, helping to safeguard our common heritage.” Morgenthau, already convinced that the United States should use England “as a stepping stone to bomb Germany,” elicited from Roosevelt another statement of faith in the bomber when he asked the president how he would “lick Hitler.” Notwithstanding the failure of the blitz, FDR replied that he had been “again and again” telling the English (who did not listen, he complained) that “if they sent a hundred planes over Germany for military objectives that ten of them should bomb some of these smaller towns that have never been bombed before. ... There must be some kind of factory in every town,” and “that is the only way to break the German morale.” Like many others, Roosevelt blurred the distinction between military objectives and wholesale attacks on civilians or saw the former as a convenient pretext for the latter.*¢  By now Roosevelt probably “wished to take the United States into the war” but perhaps not all the way. The arsenal policy was still vital; with the new Lend Lease law and Russia’s entry into the war, a mounting proportion of American production was flowing to the Allies. But war by proxy did not alone promise victory. Air power carried that promise for Roosevelt. Events that autumn strengthened this line of thinking. The British could fight with little else but the bomber and their navy for the moment. The Russians might tie down the Nazi armies, but even optimists could not predict their eventual victory. While American naval f