ty of scientific war also made “the idea of heroic death .. . a lie and every exhortation to win martial laurels a crime.” Through history, war had been only the product of “the minds of a few” who manipulated the masses to support it. Now the machine culture would banish the “hateful words” of the warmongers. “Even the air, in which the traveller could once perceive real differences, is becoming homogenous. Wherever men are, there also is the smell of machine oil.” Machines would “bring people together more quickly than could the conferences of their statesmen.” They were “compelling us toward peace.” The young would be educated to the horrors of war and learn that “great foreign cities are friendly neighbors which can now be reached by aeroplane in a few hours.” Noting cursorily how new devices like the airplane made conflict more terrible, Ludwig concentrated on his main theme, how new inventions could help abolish war.*2 In writings like Ludwig's, the danger of modern war seemed at once more intense and more circumscribed—a far greater peril if it occurred, but one now far less likely to occur.  Despite all that World War I suggested about the problem of science and war, when concerned Americans examined the machine, they confined that problem to a small corner of their thoughts or ignored it altogether. When the Academy of Political and Social Science devoted an entire issue of its Annals to aviation in May 1927, only one brief article by Billy Mitchell examined its military uses. A few years later, President Hoover's prestigious Committee on Recent Social Trends examined the impact of science but omitted its implications for war entirely. In general, too, few engineers, indus- trialists, or scientists wrote expansively about war and military aviation. Even the brash army aviators became more cautious after Mitchell’s court-martial.5+  Those who pondered the fate of the airplane certainly differed widely in politics and temperament, journeying to a point of con