d dovetail the bomber offensive with the planned invasion, partly because they had by then set a date for the invasion. Too, Marshall now put the greatest stress on success of the bomber offensive, seeing it as essential if dwindling reserves of manpower were not to be exhausted by invasion and casualties were not to become intolerable. Without bombing, invasion “would be a visionary matter,” he told the Joint Chiefs on May 15. But otherwise Allied strategists focused on the tactics and logistics involved in carrying out the Eaker plan, offering little scrutiny of its strategic rationale. Though nominally a blueprint for RAF operations as well, Eaker’s plan in fact spoke largely to the American effort. Allied strategists made little provision for coordinating the RAF and AAF campaigns, instead retreating again into the comfortable formula that the two were “en- tirely complementary.”2  This was hardly the case. Without the closest cooperation, the RAF might destroy vast urban areas but leave important industries still substantially functioning; similarly, the AAF could attack those industries without achieving the cumulative effect desired. The two forces operated “along lines not so nearly parallel as some of the Americans originally had assumed.”!2 By pursuing divergent objectives, the Allies honored only in the breach a fundamental maxim of strategic air war (indeed, of all war) on which the better prophets had insisted: limiting objectives, adhering to them tenaciously, attacking them repeatedly. Indeed, only by abiding by that rule could Allied air forces salvage what military and moral virtue remained in their weapon. Widely dispersed efforts threat- ened to cause—to use an anachronistic but appropriate term—overkill: redundant and pointless destruction.  1943: THE COLLAPSE OF RESTRAINTS  The potential for overkill was borne out in the summer of 1943, as Bomber Command struck German cities with increasing ferocity, Eaker responded to Arnold's lash with raids a