explosive force.” If scientists shielded themselves from understanding the novel lethality of atomic weapons, surely the politicians could have done so with greater ease.122  Reticence also characterized American leaders. To nearly all, of course, the bomb’s advent raised important problems. In the armed services, the race was on to grasp the implications of atomic energy for the size and missions of the contesting parties. Within a few weeks of Hiroshima, active imaginations in the air force were proposing that the United States operate “a world wide police system ...to prevent the manufacture of atomic bombs,” complete with orbiting satellites for spying, moon-based rockets with nuclear warheads, and computer guidance controls.128 At State, Byrnes immediately plunged into an experiment in nuclear diplomacy with the Soviets that quickly failed. Few had much to say about Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In the air force, Arnold and LeMay were unrepentant. Though not inclined to think the bomb necessary for winning the war, they were content in its use even if it had shortened the war only by a few days, and they embraced its entry into the American arsenal.  In the Pentagon, the most deeply worried man was Stimson. He never expressed regret about the bomb’s use, although he did about the failure to issue assurances on the emperor. Yet he had long pondered the implications of nuclear energy, and in the knowledge of imminent retirement he cleared his agenda of other matters and focused on the nuclear question. Too, the results from Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which Stimson received in great detail, must have at last undercut his illusions about the air force’s targeting. On the eighth, he noted how Truman “mentioned the terrible responsibility that such destruction placed upon us here,” and his statements to the press on the bomb, in contrast to the prideful style of the president, stressed that “any satisfaction we may feel must be overshadowed by deeper emotions. The result of t