nt course was not so much rejected as never seriously pondered; its implementation would have required a painful reversal of momentum already deeply established, by an administration whose untidy methods (it took months simply to hammer out the wording of the Potsdam declaration) make it foolish to think it could have abruptly reversed years of interest in bringing Moscow into the Pacific war.10  The temptation to regard the bomb as eliminating hard choices among priorities could not become an operating policy in a few weeks. Resistance to making hard choices preceded the bomb’s arrival, which at most simply made more tolerable the prevailing confusion. Confusion arose out of uncertainty about America’s purposes in the war, out of the disorderly processes of policy, and out of Truman’s understandable difficulty in mastering the machinery designed to help him set a course. It also grew out of a long-standing view of air power as a weapon capable of fulfilling so many purposes that hard choices and precise rationales for its use did not seem necessary. In turn, the confusion about methods and goals in achieving Japan’s surrender helped men to make decisions without full consciousness of their consequences. Therein lay the tragedy of American policy over the summer of 1945, more than in the specific failure to risk assurances to Japan necessary to secure surrender. American leaders bore a heavy responsibility, and none treated it cavalierly. But war’s momentum and confusion, combined with air power’s inviting ease and multiple attractions, allowed responsibility to be exercised in decisions whose consequences, for the war and for mankind, were not firmly addressed.  After the war, Truman took full responsibility for ordering atomic bombs to be dropped on Japanese cities. His claim has diminished upon inspection, even of some of the statements Truman himself later made. “The final decision of where and when to use the atomic bomb was up to me. Let there be no mistake ab