reme insecurity in individuals, and the necessity of producing the unusual or facing extinction.” Von Neumann quipped after Hiroshima that mankind, “having failed to solve the problem of living together, had at least succeeded in achieving togetherness by cosmic suicide.” Perhaps he was “vulnerable to seduction by ‘the gadget,’ that is, by the promise of nuclear weapons as a means to salvation.” In the power to inflict total death lay also the power to control life itself—those who could take life could also give it and thereby triumph over their own mortality.58  Or so we can speculate, while acknowledging the scantiness of the data on which such speculation rests. But even those—perhaps the vast majority—who felt grave doubts about perfecting the technology of death had ways to ward off those doubts. Trivializing language was one means—the bomb could be regarded as a mere device, a “gadget” (not a term merely serving the needs of security, since some wartime code names did connote the grandness of aspirations—OVERLORD for the Normandy invasion). Destructive intentions could be denied. “The bomb will never be dropped on people,” Ernest Lawrence reportedly said. “As soon as we get it, we'll use it only to dictate terms of peace.”*2 Here was an echo of hopes that had reverberated through decades of effort to perfect the  Page 199 of 368 46%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  te “think objectively,” as Dwight MacDonald had called it.  Was there a darker attraction? The core of scientific work, especially for the atomic scientists, was the technology of death itself. Attractive because of the intriguing problems it posed and the promise of victory it carried, that technology also conferred power over life and death itself—with the atomic bomb, absolute power. Some felt angst over creating such power; others perhaps welcomed the opportunity to seize the very powers of the gods themselves. In science, freedom and knowledge had always been insepa