the hope arose that, as Churchill put it, “the burning of Jap- anese cities by incendiary bombs” would “bring home” to the Japanese people the foolishness of their course or at least compel Tokyo to return home some of the forces spearheading its advance.  Of course the effort to enlist Moscow failed. Litvinov rebuffed Hull’s overtures, adding his sensible doubts about the utility of bombing cities. Washington and London hesitated to press Stalin too hard into action against Japan that might jeopardize Allied fortunes in the struggle against Hitler. Meanwhile, the British preferred an Allied twist on the Pearl Harbor attack by having carriers “steal  see Aw Tan 2d beneen on th nie Albian ATA nin wba alan ann a anin aren OLinn 20 2 Lenn fae La baen atin linn Tanne 4 nen nant 25 Lannlann 25 4h 4 OL asian cal nwen A nnnedin nw tn Aan nen 1 Awnald sho  Page 113 of 368 26%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  From Intimidation to Annihilation  “Perhaps the best way to offset this initial defeat is to burn Tokyo and Osaka.” That possibility, posed two days after the Pearl Harbor disaster by a key army planner, was already galvanizing the nation’s officials. Frantically renewing the bid for Siberian air bases, President Roosevelt made an indirect approach to Ambassador Litvinov on the eighth, then gave Secretary of State Hull the thankless task of following up on his initiative. Although the American air force in the Philippines was mauled in the first days of hostilities, MacArthur cabled Marshall on the tenth that an attack on Japanese cities through use of Soviet airfields promised nothing less than a “golden opportunity . . . for a master stroke while the enemy is engaged in over-extended initial air efforts.” Marshall concurred. The speed and magnitude of Japanese successes muted talk of a quick victory through air power. But in Manila and Washington and in London as well the hope arose that, as Churchill put it, “the burning of Jap- anese citi