ecollections were similar. Byrnes argued that the atomic bombs, for all their casualties, did not cause “nearly so many as there would have been had our air force continued to drop incendiary bombs on Japan’s cities.”5°  Yet such arguments rarely entered moral reasoning while the war was still going on. A Monsanto employee, urging the bomb’s use, argued that “a more fiendish hell than the inferno of blazing Tokyo is beyond the pale of conception. Then why do we attempt to draw the line of morality here, when it is a question of degree, not a question of kind?” It was a good question from a very obscure project worker whose superiors left little record indicating that they raised it. Indeed, given that most high-level officials comprehended the firebombing so inadequately and indifferently, it could not have served as a point of departure for reasoning about the bomb.  Furthermore, the claim that the atomic bomb saved the Japanese from the horror of continued fire raids was loose indeed, leaving unclear whether Japan was saved from a day’s fire raids or a month’s or a year’s. The calculus of alternative carnage was haphazard. It rested on unprovable assumptions that without use of the bomb the war would have continued for some lengthy period and on confidence—which most of the bomb’s managers refrained from claiming they had—that the bomb’s use would terminate the war quickly. It also rested on the assumption that without employment of the bomb, the Twentieth Air Force would have inflicted an unending succession of holocausts on the Tokyo model. But March 10 was not a repeatable success. It would have required many dozens of incendiarv raids to inflict a death toll comnarable to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. To he sure. onlv a handful of fire raids would have niled un a similar record of destroved urban acreage but without the  Page 319 of 368 73%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Compton also claimed later tnat he and Uppenheimer grossly underest