E COLLAPSE OF RESTRAINTS  The potential for overkill was borne out in the summer of 1943, as Bomber Command struck German cities with increasing ferocity, Eaker responded to Arnold's lash with raids against Nazi industries, and in the Mediterranean theater, where most American bombers were still stationed, the AAF attacked Italian targets. In bombing Rome, the AAF successfully avoided most of the religious and historical buildings whose threatened destruction had bothered Allied consciences. Before and after the Rome raid of July 19, the RAF aimed its blunter sword at Italy’s northern cities. Striking a powerful blow at Italian morale and Mussolini’s government, the two air forces achieved the war’s most decisive demonstration of old promises that the bomber would win wars through shock rather than sustained destruction. But Mussolini’s government was by then a hollow shell, its collapse too easy to permit large claims for air power. Further-more, so slight had been enemy opposition to the Rome attack that General Carl Spaatz thought the raid “too easy” to prove much of interest to the air force.12  Meanwhile, from England the Anglo-American air forces opened major offensives. In tonnage as well as havoc wreaked Bomber Command still shouldered the heavier burden. Its main technique, pioneered in 1942 with the thousand-plane raids, remained massive assaults with incendiaries on urban areas. By 1943, the technique had much advanced because new tactics and devices aided target identification, the control of bomber operations, and confusion of enemy defenses. Harris first waged the widely touted Battle of the Ruhr but achieved his greatest and most revealing suc- cess in four furious assaults on Hamburg during late July and early August.  At Hamburg, everything came together for Harris. The city’s location by water gave it a vivid profile to the eyes of men and radar, one rarely possible in the air war on Germany. Bomber Command addressed the chronic problem of “creep-b