by liberal one-worlders, self-conscious practitioners of realpolitik, scientists creating the new technology, and conservators of strategic tradition like Marshall. Of course a common perception did not always lead to the same prescriptions about the future role of American air power. It did encompass anx- ieties and aspirations on which Arnold’s air force capitalized with considerable success.  It also buttressed Arnold’s effort to fulfill his second objective in postwar policy: developing the technology for future American air superiority by institutionalizing the air force’s relationship with the scientific community. That relationship had been evolving along two related lines during the war. Scientists were inventing new weapons, and they were on occasion assisting in the integra- tion of those weapons into tactics and strategy.  Page 183 of 368 42%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON AINOLQ'S Stall was especlally aeterminea to centralize tne release OF all InTOrMation aDout the 1 wentletn Alr Force tnrougn its wasnington neaaquarters ratner than tnrougn nea commanaers  and correspondents. Centralization facilitated control, and with it consistency and the timing of release for maximum effect. More than that, release from Washington reinforced the image of the Twentieth as a “global” air force whose operations cut across the traditional theaters and lines of command. The image desired was of “a global weapon the organizational and operational concept of which is unique among the Armed Forces of the United States.”!7 The insistent use of the term “global air force” established an image weighty in both its geopolitical and bureaucratic content: the promise of a future air force capable of patrolling the globe, one so independent of ground and naval operations that only an independent organization could maintain it.  “I believe the best thing we can do is to continue to report facts only without any emphasis on the interpretation of these fa