that confined killing only to that necessary for victory.32  At the same time, air strategists, through some mixture of hubris, desperation, and expediency, had themselves set up rational process as their standard. Strategic air power was to transcend war as traditionally fought, with its futility and irrationality, its wasted effort and senseless killing. It did not because no new method of war can do so. The bombers and fighters succeeded through combat and through aiding traditional forms of combat, not, primarily, by strategic devastation (much less the threat of it once so highly regarded), however vast it was.  1943-44: THE TWISTING PATHS TO TOKYO  The airmen themselves recognized some of these paradoxes and disappointments, which acted as another source of urgency behind the effort to bomb Japan. Until well into 1944, the AAF in the Far East remained scattered over that vast theater, lacking centralized command and sometimes clear strategic direction. By January 1944, the Americans had reclaimed the Aleutians, taken Tarawa, prepared to invade the Marshalls, and were moving through New Guinea and the Solomons. The pace was slow, especially in the China-Burma-India theater. But air power, naval and marine as well as the army’s, had its successes, among them the spectacular feat of shooting down Admiral Yamamoto’s plane, Chennault’s exploits with his shoestring air force, the assistance to MacArthur in his end runs around Japanese strongpoints, and, in combination with American submarines, heavy attrition of Japanese shipping. These achievements, it has been noted, “seem hardly to confirm postwar ac- cusations that the Air Force is interested only in strategic bombardment.”4°  It was just as true that much of this activity, involving dispersion of the air force and its subordination to naval and ground commanders, had incurred Arnold’s wrath. Nor did it yet fit into an overarching strategic plan for victory in the Pacific. Even more so than in waging the Europea