hen surely “the workers in shop, factory, or harbor will melt away after the first losses.” In focusing on working-class reaction to bombing, air power arguments fused apprehensions about a delicate social organism with commonplace fears about the economic failings of capitalism. Particularly in England, it was feared that bombing might trigger “Bolshevik upheaval.” “The Red Scare could so easily be tied to the Air Scare,” as one historian has put it.8  The next war, then, would be a test of shattered nerves. In hours, Liddell Hart speculated, London would find “the business localities and Fleet Street wrecked, Whitehall a heap of ruins, the  Page 24 of 368 6%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON LO NOLe LNat cities Would DecoMe UNapproacnaDle llaming Draziers. beyona wat, it seemed useless... lO elaborate. war agalNst Cities was LerrilyiNy Dut Darely lMaginabDle. 1 ne Cervalnty Ol quick  victory made description seem unnecessary, and the horror of bombing was perhaps enhanced by letting the reader conjure up his own nightmare. Any suggestion that events on the ground might be more complicated, might go beyond panic and surrender, would have robbed predictions of their promise that air power could be decisive.*  Peace through chemistry was a variation on the promise of deliverance through technology. Armed with dubious statistics indicating that death rates from gas attacks in World War I were far lower than those from shot and shell, prophets like Liddell Hart argued that “gas may well prove the salvation of civilization from otherwise inevitable collapse in case of another world war.” Nonlethal gases in particular might secure “the fruits of victory, but without the lasting evils of mass killing or destruction of property.” Such optimism about the benefits of aerochemical warfare was a minority view. Yet even an apocalyptic view of airborne gas warfare also strengthened claims for its decisiveness. Besides, the proponents of aerial bombing h