mocracy is twofold,” he wrote. “It must resist fascist aggression from the outside. It must watch that in resisting external aggression, it does not become a fascist state at home.” The concern was legitimate, but it also shifted his focus away from the destruction the bomber might inflict toward the harm the victim nations might do to themselves in response. Unavoidably, too, the emphasis on the psychological effects of bombing carried with it the familiar implication that defeat in air war might come quickly, with minds shattered but bod- ies intact.54  Page 65 of 368 15%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON enemy’s fear of destruction, not simply a fear his offensive might fail, would make him pause. But Eliot, like so many Americans, abhorred the political and economic regimentation they assumed would accompany creation of an expeditionary army sufficient to arouse an enemy’s fear of devastation. At this point, political ideals, not cold calculations of national interest, again guided Eliot’s thinking. “Why should we go to war to defend freedom if we must begin by destroying it with our own hands?” Eliot reconciled the imperatives of national security and political freedom by embracing sea power, which he argued could intercept any invasion and inflict intolerable pain by blockade against an enemy.4&  It was a curious choice on Eliot’s part, defended less by strategic reasoning than by the claim that adequate naval power could be mobilized through voluntary methods. Precisely the same argument could have been made for air power, but Eliot did not foresee that the bomber could replace the battleship as the nation’s foremost offensive weapon. Demonstrating the common inversion of thinking on these matters, he warned against the development of short-range aircraft useful only in a land war abroad and argued for long-range bombers capable of assisting the fleet in patrolling the seas. Only in passing did he note that “if the day ever comes whe