ss terrible in my mind than the fire raids on Tokyo, if it brought a quick end to the war, would save more Japanese lives than it snuffed out.” Conant’s recollections were similar. Byrnes argued that the atomic bombs, for all their casualties, did not cause “nearly so many as there would have been had our air force continued to drop incendiary bombs on Japan’s cities.”®°  Page 317 of 368 72%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  view” an advantage as “the former capital of Japan” and “an intellectual center for Japan,” for “the people there are more apt to appreciate the significance of such a weapon as the gadget.” As the committee later put it, the people of Kyoto were “more highly intelligent and hence better able to appreciate the significance of the weapon.” This was a leap more into nuclear absurdity than nuclear psychology, for it was not clear how “highly intelligent” people could appreciate if they were dead nor what difference it would make if they could. Nor was the reasoning clear for discussing the “pos- sibility of bombing the Emperor’s palace.”53  The truth was that the committee was casually speculating on this critical matter. Everything else it discussed—weather, height of detonation, radiological effects—was in some measure calculable. But no one could suggest anything precise about how to define or measure “psychological” effect, the committee had few criteria from on high to guide it, and its members included no one versed in Japanese political psychology or the psychological effects observed in earlier bombing raids.  Nonetheless, the Target Committee concluded that “psychological factors in the target selection were of great importance.” Or more accurately, that they were overriding. For in discussing “Use against ‘Military’ Objectives” the quotation marks around “Military” indicated that these men were discussing a euphemism, and their concluding words suggested that they regarded the bomb’s effect  mn “any small and st