us, even devious negotiations with the Soviets ensued. Washington, already interested in an Alaska-Siberia route for ferrying Lend-Lease aircraft to the Russians, tried to exploit conversations over that possibility to gain information needed for basing bombers in Siberia. But Stalin told Harriman in September that American crews could not ferry aircraft through Siberia lest they jeopardize Soviet neutrality with Japan.2?  The pattern of American failure was set but not easily admitted. Bombing Japan from Vladivostok “would be a comparatively simple matter,” Marshall was told in August. “The power” of an arrangement for shuttle-bombing “can hardly be over-estimated,” Stimson wrote FDR on October 21; indeed it seemed enough that “it might well remove Japan from the Axis powers.” Stimson took up the matter with Harriman on the same day and then sought Hull’s help in making arrangements with Moscow. Staff studies continued to emphasize the decisive potential of bombing from Soviet bases. The American effort foundered, however, on the declining probability that Japan would attack Russia, on Soviet secretiveness and suspiciousness, and on American mistrust as well, for when Arnold proposed that the White House take up the matter with Stalin, the army general staff objected that Stalin might betray the scheme, even use it to provoke a Japanese-American war that would remove the Japanese threat to him. The delicate game of deterrence, so dependent on playing the Russian card, also ruled out open solicitation of Soviet help. As the formal effort to secure Soviet help was collapsing, Marshall and his staff weighed a desperate plan to fly a bomber or two from Alaska into Vladivostok, perhaps unannounced, and then onto the Philippines, over a route so untried that “both airplanes and crews might be lost”—all this to obtain the data on Soviet bases that Moscow was zealously guarding. Even after Pearl Harbor, the diplomatic effort to gain access to those bases con- tinued. It se