ve reasons. On average, almost 4 percent of the force were killed or missing in action on each mission, and the mean number of missions completed for the entire group was 14.72, barely past the halfway point.® Of course the airmen themselves could calculate these loss rates in their rough and sometimes misleading fashion, as generals like LeMay knew well. But no calculation of odds could anticipate their uneven distribution—how one squadron might be decimated in a few weeks and another emerge almost unscathed after many missions.  The airman’s anxiety in combat took peculiar forms. Confinement in a highly cramped machine often caused a sense of helplessness experienced also by the submariner. The greater risk of  panties hirtha anamer ume a fanronma nracnant in tha ums acainoet tha lananaca utha camatimas triad and hahandad aieman far allacad um avimace Una hambar avaure alon onfFarad tha onanial otrain af  Page 202 of 368 46%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON of work on the bomb—among the Chicago scientists, whose more theoretical work nad been completed earlier. by contrast, few scientists at Los Alamos, working at fever pitch unt the very last  moment, felt they had time to question. A sheer delight in problem solving consumed them, heightened by the enormous pressure under which they labored, by the sudden leap into enterprise of such importance that the younger scientists experienced, and by the intellectually charged atmosphere Oppenheimer provided. Freeman Dyson later discovered that “they did not just build the bomb. They enjoyed building it,” their pleasure, Dyson believed, the source of the guilt some felt more than the destruction their work caused. But doubt rarely emerged among the scientists until their deeds were done. While the war went on, their mentality resembled the one described by Dwight MacDonald, and prevailing as well in the establishment of nonnuclear scientists, officers, and civilian experts. For most of them, de