probably done as much as any one military man to win this war.” But regarding what Arnold’s bombers actually did, Berle found nothing to ponder. Neither did most civilian officials in Washington. Across the Pacific, army commanders like General Robert Eichelberger had good reason to pay attention to the air war but did so very late or not at all.45  British leaders showed that intimate familiarity with the effects of bombing did nothing to enhance awareness of its course in the war’s final months. Among Churchill’s colleagues, silence, ignorance, or illusion prevailed. Even Churchill, for years a close observer and shrewd protagonist of air power, followed this distant war only as a series of battles and campaigns on land and sea. His blind spot was not confined to the Pacific war: “In Churchill’s voluminous war memoirs . .. Bomber Command’s whole campaign [against Germany] received less space than the sinking of a single Ger- man warship,” one writer has acidly noted. But his only comment on the Pacific aerial campaign suggested he was simply unaware of its scale:  It appeared [he wrote in justifying the atomic bomb’s use] that the American Air Force had prepared an immense assault by ordinary air-bombing on Japanese cities and harbours. These could certainly have been destroyed in a few weeks or a few months, and no one could say with what very heavy loss of life to the civilian population. But now, by using this new agency, we might not merely destroy cities, but save the lives alike of friend and foe.  In fact, by August the assault on most of those cities had been executed, not simply prepared. Churchill seemed to believe that the atomic bomb would short-cut, rather than climax, the American assault on Japanese cities. Truman may have shared the same misconception. “Our air and fleet units,” he recalled in his memoirs, “had begun to inflict heavy damage on industrial and urban sites in Japan proper.” The notion that American bombing had only “begun” in the summ