nion polls, which might have clarified public debate, were surprisingly uninstructive. True, along with much subjective evidence they indicated consistent if not clear-cut distinctions between views of the nation’s two enemies. Americans were more likely to describe pejoratively the Japanese than the Germans and especially later in the war to view the Japanese people, not just their government, as America’s enemy. No one doubted that the Japanese were the more hated enemy, in good part for racial reasons. An equally telling difference between views of the two enemies, however, lay in the pervasive shallowness of American knowledge of the Far East. As Jerome Bruner commented in 1944, “Probably never has a modern nation fought an enemy about which she knew so little as we of Japan.”53  Early in the war, Americans expected victory to come more easily over Japan than over Germany, although such expectations diminished with time. By decisive majorities, they expressed their desire to bomb Japan’s cities and to move the bulk of American air power to the Pacific. But there were no precisely comparable questions asked about bombing German cities. Unless the absence of such questions alone is evidence that bombing Germany generated less interest, comparisons are difficult, although most Americans probably thought that bombing could more easily defeat Japan than Germany. Taken collectively, these polls probably indicated a desire to prosecute strategic air war to its fullest but also substantial doubt about the prophets’ claims that doing so could almost alone win the war. But questions about bombing both Japan and Germany also disappeared from the polls after mid-1943. This inattention to issues raised by strategic bombing after mid-1943 paralleled the decline in public debate and media attention to them following the initial wave of air power tracts.*4  Americans came to and expressed their acceptance of strategic air power in more complex and indirect ways than polls could