aterial.” This statement squarely confronted the connection between the immediate and the long-run: the needs of the latter could not be met without short-term sacrifice. Brewster’s position probably doomed his appeal, for even superiors straining to fathom the bomb’s lasting impact wanted its immediate advantage. But his appeal probably did more to touch Stimson and his colleagues than the cautious documents of Franck, Szilard, and others. In a handwritten note penned on the eve of the Interim Committee’s May 31 meeting, Stimson forwarded Brewster’s “remarkable document” to Marshall, praising the “logic” of this letter by “an honest man.” But however provocative, one letter from an obscure engineer could not carry much weight.75  Others had doubts. As Admiral Leahy showed, they could arise from military and technological conservatism. To be sure, Leahy’s belittlement of the bomb’s feasibility and power meant that the bomb’s use was hardly a major issue for him. But after Trinity, and even more after Hiroshima, Leahy reacted sharply, and not only because he thought the navy had already won the war. It was because he placed the bomb in an evolution of modern weaponry he found repugnant, drawing on the same indignation that led him to reject chemical and bacteriological warfare as violations of “every Christian ethic I have ever heard of and all of the known laws of war.” In Berlin for the Potsdam Conference, he found himself witnessing “a great world tragedy,” a violation of “the civilized laws of war” inflicted by both Allied bombing and Russian artillery. Of course the “civilized laws” had long been violated; even honored, they often allowed great bloodshed. But Leahy properly reflected the sense among some professional officers that modern weaponry had ended war as an honorable fight among men at arms.” ’Bomb’ is the wrong word to use for this new weapon,” Leahy wrote at the end of his memoirs. “It is a poisonous thing that kills people by its deadly radioactive r