ruction. His objective was “national protection” against “the possibility of attack on vital American zones.” Roosevelt had given bolder expres- sion to the needs of American defense. But a revolutionary growth in air power was given a most traditional rationale.4°  The address did little to guide strategists but much to reopen public debate about air power’s role in preserving American isolation. Some anti-interventionists mixed enthusiasm for air power with condemnation of FDR's request for fifty thousand planes, puzzled by the anomaly of Roosevelt’s bold call for such a huge force to serve such limited ends. Critics like the aviator Al Williams suspected deceit. “The airplanes are for Europe.” Williams flatly declared, arguing that Roosevelt was “creating panic and terror” in order to secure planes for the British and plunge the nation into war. No other explanation seemed credible to those who preached that economy of force was the supreme virtue of air power: a few hundred or a few thousand planes could insulate the Americas from at- tack, an attack whose likelihood Williams disparaged in any event.4!  Skewed by issues more political than strategic, the renewed debate on air power again informed Americans poorly about the role air power might play in the escalating world war. It was further skewed by Lindbergh, now at the center of resistance to Roosevelt, who believed that “this youngster ... has accepted Nazi methods.” Lindbergh’s criticisms of Roosevelt, however strident, were not always myopic. He caught the incipient globalism of Roosevelt’s policy. “If we say that our frontier lies on the Rhine, they can say that theirs lies on the Mississippi,” he argued. But Lindbergh’s views on air power—widely publicized and endowed with his prestige as pioneer in the air—were unenlightening about the issues Americans would face should they enter the war. Echoing the Mitchell of the midtwenties, he celebrated the invulnerability of the United States to attack by sea o