als like the New York Daily News'’s “Rickenbacker Didn’t Go to College” argued that taxi drivers “could be turned into swell combat pilots” and was unworried “that we may pick up some pilots who don’t know .. . the proper way for a gentleman and an officer to navigate a teacup.”8” The AAF itself dropped its college requirements, but the change did little to alter the status, real and perceived, of the airmen.  Elite status was not confined to the American air forces and was not caused solely by the glamor and role of aviation, for the marines also enjoyed prestige as a select group. But the important difference between the two was their divergent criteria for selection; the marines were an elite but not a technical elite, admirable men but hardly pioneers of modern warfare.  The airmen’s higher status and more sophisticated training also reflected and strengthened their stronger drive for upward social mobility. They expected promotion to come faster than other army men did—expectations borne out by practice—and they anticipated greater social and economic rewards to come their way after the war. They might find rewards by staying in the air force, which nearly everyone assumed would be far larger after this war than before it. Believers in the “winged gospel,” a vast majority of AAF pilots also expected to own their own planes after the war. Most of all, airmen counted on their technical skills to open up good civilian jobs for them, an expectation wartime commentators encouraged. When Dixon Wecter reviewed the fate of wartime veterans in 1944, he saw the airman’s salvation in a “huge peacetime aviation program to cover the earth. ... On a planet where communication and transportation hold the front rank as never before, American technology is on the march.” Fortune promised a quick payoff for the airman because American business looked to him more than to other servicemen as the best source of postwar talent. Air force personnel constituted “an ivory hunter’s game