y personalizing the issue of air power, his court-martial, along with the turmoil and intrigue which accompanied it, decisively shaped America’s image of the new weapon.  Mitchell and his supporters, skillful publicists with ready access to the press, easily caricatured their opponents as foolish old men—“lineal prototypes of the champions of the long-bow”—or as petty, vindictive bureaucrats bilking the taxpayers into supporting outdated modes of warfare. “The older officers in both our services understand rifles, siege guns, and battleships,” the New York Globe explained. “They do not understand aeroplanes, poison gases, aerial torpedoes.” In Mitchell’s view, aviation was a victim of “conservatism,” a habit of basing “everything on precedent.” Admiral William Fullam, one of the navy heretics, condemned officers with heads “buried in the sands of conservatism,” and Admiral William Sims agreed that most naval officers were “hide-bound, unfitted and uneducated.” “Fossilized admirals” were the culprit in the view of the Toledo Times. Mitchell, conjuring up images so useful in modern American politics, promised to “jar the bureaucrats out of their swivel chairs” and take his case “to Congress and the people.” Senator Borah’s enemies were those “interested in armament contracts ... and the bureaus and bureaucracy” which would not stop until “paralyzed by the power of public opinion.” The very setting of Mitchell’s court-martial in a dingy building reeking of “government squalor” suggested his martyrdom by a tawdry and faceless bureaucracy, a replay of old progressive battles pitting the people against the special interests.34  Mitchell and the aviators seemed like courageous warriors for truth and progress. Newspapers noted his “devil-may-care recklessness” and his “romantic sort of personage.” “We may wait,” the Cleveland Press gushed, “a hundred years for another such display of courage.” To his legal counsel, Congressman Frank Reid, Mitchell was “a 1925 John Brown,” w