Arnold’s genial smile obscured his ruthlessness. LeMay’s gruff appearance—a touch of Bell’s palsy froze his face into a half-snarl—hid a certain gentleness of speech and rough affection for others. He worked his subordinates hard but rarely showed the capriciousness and ruthlessness that Arnold displayed. His job with the 20th Bomber Command was a thankless one. But if critical of the poor quality of his staff, crews, and planes, LeMay made few excuses or complaints, pursued the job of expanding operations with zest, and enjoyed an unreserved praise that Arnold bestowed on few others—all the while knowing that the 20th was not to achieve much of strategic import.  The attributes shared by LeMay and Arnold—their close attention to the air force’s interests, their dynamic manner with their organizations—also aided them in the other goal Arnold pursued, the independence and stature of the air force which its wartime success was to enhance. If Arnold lacked a strong conception of strategy and national interests, he had foresight into the political and technological requirements of the postwar air force. By the fall of 1944, two closely related objectives guided him in his quest to make the air force the dominant arm of the peacetime military establishment: the presentation of a favorable image of the air force to politicians and public and the harnessing of civilian expertise to the development of future military technologies. Others joined him in these efforts, although Arnold often set their tone.  The air force’s efforts at self-promotion, long intense but rarely subtle, gained a sophistication in 1943 and 1944 for which its civilian leadership was partly responsible. Secretary of War Stimson and Robert Lovett, the assistant secretary for air, warned against a hard-sell campaign that might backfire against the air force by revealing its ambitions too baldly and by promising more than the air force could deliver. Lovett wanted “a conservative and constructive educatio