as an attractive theory disconnected from American realities. The challenge for Americans was less to learn to wage strategic bombing than to guard against it. In theory, the most effective defense was to reply in kind. But inasmuch as planes of foreign powers lacked the range to attack the United States except from bases or aircraft carriers in the western Atlantic, interception, not retaliation, was sufficient. Mitchell therefore advocated a mixed air force of fighter, pursuit, and bombing aircraft, not the all-bomber force suitable only for offensive war that Douhet embraced. More cautious airmen, convinced that aerial support for the army and navy would remain a primary function, put still less emphasis on strategic bombardment.  Mitchell’s limited definition of American needs in the air may also have stemmed from his modest definition of American interests. Global economic interests existed for the United States, he acknowledged; but having proclaimed the end of American “isolation,” he also asserted that “America could entirely dispense of her sea-going trade if she had to, and continue to exist and defend her- self,” a view that not all airmen shared.22  Only in the Far East did war seem likely to Mitchell, and in that regard he mirrored the nation’s inconsistencies regarding isolationism. Many Americans nursed a belligerent attitude toward Japan that they avoided with regard to European powers. Following suit, Mitchell imagined an offensive use of the bomber in the Far East though otherwise he stressed the defensive. Making little attempt to define American interests, Mitchell was moved perhaps by visions of race war, which triggered reckless talk on both sides of the Pacific in the 1920s. To be sure, he justified his proposed bomber force as a deterrent against Japanese attack on America’s colony, the Philippine Islands. But there was almost a note of relish in his description of the course to be followed if deterrence failed. An American aerial offensive r