ility of supposedly irrational uses of military force.  Writing for an American audience, Winston Churchill unwittingly demonstrated this last flaw in the skeptical argument. Churchill contended that “air bombing of the noncombatant populations for the purpose of slaughter” would be counterproductive on both moral and practical grounds: it would cost the attacking force dearly, it would “infuriate the nation” attacked (and its friends, like the United States, in case England was attacked), and it would be dissipated by measures of civil defense. Even if a population wanted to surrender, he asked in raising a much overlooked question, “how would they make their will felt?” The Germans briefly, and Churchill himself more systematically, were soon to ignore these sensible arguments. How much Churchill ever believed them may be arguable, for it was Churchill who five years earlier had described London as “the greatest target in the world, a kind of tremendous, fat, valuable cow tied up to attract the beast of prey.” Perhaps his knowledge of radar later changed his mind on London's vulnerability.  In any event, Churchill did give a hint as to how the bombing of cities might yet occur. Terror bombing of urban areas might be useless, but if the RAF disrupted daylight attacks aimed at precise targets, an enemy could “only drop bombs indiscriminately upon built-up areas, protesting, of course, that there are military objectives somewhere thereabouts.” Churchill had led his readers right  Page 62 of 368 15%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON bombing of cities had caused in World War I and its tendency to arouse rather than subdue a fighting spirit. “War will not be waged against women and children,” one popular piece asserted. “Terrorism was given its trial during the World War and only wasted military resources and brought on counter-terrorism.” A corollary line of argument was to deflate the threat of gas war by noting its limited utility in the las