ailty, and of man’s resourcefulness that made aviation a benign attraction, a fusion of frontier spirit and machine-age discipline. Few wanted to hear Lindbergh say that his famous flight involved slight risk.  Achievements like Lindbergh’s were greeted as signposts on the road to an imminent aerial millennium. Sketched out before the war, the virtues of flight were now elaborated in a frenzy of celebration. “Aviation enthusiasts tended to view flight as a ‘holy cause,” and with religious fervor they outlined its potential to democratize, uplift, and pacify the nations that touched it. The conspicuous roles in aviation assumed by women in the late twenties and thirties popularized that perceived potential. As pilots, stunt fliers, saleswomen, and stewardesses, women served narrow interests: given the dominant image of women as less mechanically adept and physically courageous than men, their highly visible presence in the skies was deliberately contrived by the aviation and airline industry to make flying seem safe, easy, and accessible. The pioneering women fliers “domesticated the sky, purging it of associations with death and terror.” For their part, these women found in aviation a socially acceptable outlet from traditional feminine roles. Privately, some felt the same sense of power and mastery usually ascribed to men, foreseeing the day when they “got the chance to fly bombers against the enemy after casualties decimated the regular male crews.” Publicly, their skill at promoting aviation as an extension of the traditional domestic sphere of women made their image a culturally acceptable one. In addition, opportunities envisioned for women—and to a lesser extent for blacks—sustained the image of aviation as a kind of vertical frontier in American history, a new arena of opportunity for social mobility. At the same time, feminizing aviation further reinforced its pacific image, for women would presumably bend aviation toward benign and uplifting purposes.’  Ext