d because doing it rescued the AAF’s flagging fortunes. Even in the summer Arnold and his staff had no clear alternative to Marshall's strategy. They pursued the campaign of fire as zealously as the invasion strategists, offering only the vague promise that destruction would make Japan surrender. Furthermore, the only pressure on the AAF to restrain its targeting came from Stimson, a man firmly reconciled to the necessity of invasion unless the atomic bomb forced surrender. Hansell was right on one score: the bombing campaign revealed the bankruptcy of Ameri- can strategy. But it was the air force as much as the army that had exhausted its storehouse of ideas.27  The bombing campaign waged and planned over the summer of 1945 indicated as much. Like Harris’s RAF late in the European war, LeMay’s air force had trouble reorienting itself despite improving technical proficiency. At the least, having incinerated Japan’s major cities, LeMay or Arnold might have concentrated on remaining military or industrial objectives. Instead, the summer campaign of fire turned against nearly five dozen lesser urban areas. With the targets much smaller and the bomber force increasing to seven hundred or more, several cities could be attacked in one mission. The results were immensely gratifying, destruction reaching 99.5 percent of one city’s acreage (Toyama), and American losses astonishingly low.  If in the spring the rationale for fire attacks had been casual, in the summer it rested even more on what was operationally easy rather then strategically vital. On the night of July 16-17, for example, B-29s unloaded 790 tons of incendiaries on Oita, a town of some 60,000 people that had, in the words of the later survey report, “no major industry,” though “a vital naval air depot” that apparently was not attacked. Railyards did lie in the targeted area, but the survey’s listing of buildings destroyed in the raid ran to the distressingly unimportant: banks, a soya sauce factory, two schoo