t become “impossible . . . to reconcile the Japanese to us... rather than to the Russians.”132  The nub of the matter was the connection Stimson made in his own mind between power and morality. For him, power was not just a necessary evil, but a potential way to serve moral ends, victory over Japan and a reordering of international relations. Little in Stimson’s long record of government service had led him to doubt that connection. But firebombing and the atomic weapon threatened to sever it, for their destructiveness created an evil that might overwhelm any good that could come from them. At the same time, Stimson could not resist the temptation to employ them for desired short-run gains. He wriggled free of this dilemma by his ritual of scrutinizing air force bombing policy and preserving Kyoto. That ritual was not meaningless: if it sanctioned a course of bombing whose nature Stimson refused to acknowledge, it also preserved the residue of moral concerns that might be acted upon later, foreshadowing the final breakdown of the connection between power and morality which Stimson had so long confidently posited. For Japan, however, the ritual offered scant protection.  Page 292 of 368 67%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  eS ee Be nn ne RR Rn ee Sy Src rn ne en ce nr oo  In military terms, s, the most relevant event was the firebombing of Tokyo. Its success might have raised questions about the need to use the bomb: was not LeMay achieving roughly the same effect with his incendiaries that the atomic scientists could promise? Conversely, it might have stilled residual moral concern about the bomb’s use: had not the very horror of the March 10 conflagra- tion made the bomb’s legitimacy a moot point? Contemporary records leave unclear the extent to which these questions were raised in the spring of 1945. Because the orders for Tokyo's firebombing had not come from Stimson’s level and because the nuclear bomb’s use was largely unquestioned t