elinquished his authority over the British and American strategic air forces to bomber commanders whose cooperation remained minimal and autonomy substantial. In the war against Japan, the chiefs’ oversight was even less in evidence. Eisenhower owed his command to the heavy responsibility the army bore for operations and the necessity for some coordination of land, sea, and air forces in the congested arenas of European combat. In the Pacific, the army, navy, and air force so equally carried the burden of prosecuting the war that choosing a representative from any one was sure to enrage the others. The various Allied forces largely fought independently of each other, and the main drive against Japan itself was so exclusively an American affair that the Combined Chiefs had almost no voice in shaping American strategy. Efforts to create a unified command in the Pacific made little headway. Arnold wanted a supreme commander over all Allied forces, or barring that, over all AAF air forces in the theater. So he recommended to Marshall. But when a similar proposal came before one of Marshall’s assistants, he rejected it: “Command of great masses of airplanes from Washington,” he told Arnold, “is no more justified than would be the command of the Pacific Fleets by Admiral King from Constitution Avenue, or General Marshall’s attempts to fight the ground battles of the Pacific from the Pentagon.”4  Inasmuch as Arnold already had such a command over the Twentieth Air Force, the rebuff only pointed up the anomalous nature of his authority. Nominally, he commanded the Twentieth as an agent of the Joint Chiefs, but they issued few directives on how the campaign against Japan should proceed, except when coordination with other armed forces seemed imperative. Over the summer of 1944, Marshall had moved the Joint Chiefs to a firm statement of expectations to invade Japan, thereby shaping air strategy insofar as it would have to assist invasion. Thereafter, the Joint Chiefs’ meeting