clear era.  Most commentators confronting the aerial weapon have offered only two mutually exclusive alternatives: doomsday or deliverance. Designed to alert—to express a sense of the immense danger in an uncertain future—their attempts to view that future in either-or terms nonetheless carried a hidden agenda of seeking certainty by imposing simplicity upon the unpredictable. Even Jonathan Schell’s justly noted The Fate of the Earth, at one level a grim celebration of uncertainty, climaxed with the baldest certitude about the “choice” humankind faced between two paths in the nuclear era: “One leads to death, the other to life.”4  The continuity in habits of thought and practice regarding aerial warfare arose from several circumstances. The sheer magnitude of the danger, unevenly perceived but relentlessly growing, alone invited an apocalyptic outlook. The peculiar impersonality of long-range bombing made it possible both to imagine the worst and to turn away from it. Above all, the power of historical tradition —the persistence of the original terms on which the bomber was contemplated—was at play. Established at the turn of the century, the positing of a choice between doomsday and deliverance defined the alternatives for most observers throughout the century, even though the meaning of the alternatives and the perceived relationships between them underwent repeated modification.  The continuities of thought and practice in turn easily arouse pessimism about the chance of overcoming the threat of aerial warfare. If both the danger and the ways of thinking about it change so little, what way out can there be? Proposals addressing the danger, advanced with considerable eloquence in a number of recent appeals, would themselves require another book at this point. Some suggestions, however, are possible, and in keeping with the focus of this book they concern how we think about the problem of aerial warfare rather than specific political or strategic solutions.  One su