gave his brother “my full authority to use any strong arm measures,” including forcing out Newsweek's other directors. Lovett also exploited other contacts with eastern financial and publishing elites to bend coverage of the war to favor the AAF. By granting privileged access to newsworthy war stories, Lovett could get trusted reporters to cover the air force. Moreover, privilege was a two-way street—it was helpful that a former Newsweek editor, Rex Smith, became public relations officer for the Washington headquarters of the Twentieth Air Force.12  The air force was not alone in these practices. The rivalry among the services for headlines was fierce, inasmuch as the stakes were high. But the air force’s effort was more intense, for while admirals and ground generals sought only to preserve existing institutional relationships, the air force tried to change them by winning independence from the other services. Whereas Marshall devoted little time to the conduct of public relations, they were a major preoccupation for Arnold by 1944, made more critical by the air force’s declining chance to win the war on its own and to secure favorable coverage in the face of accelerating ground and naval operations. “The hot pilot is being supplanted in national esteem by G.I. Joe,” warned a staff study in August.13  By autumn, the air force’s anxiety about its political prospects threatened to spill into the conduct of immediate operations. While not specifically invoking those prospects, Lovett explained to the air staff on November 27 that “the Air Forces are being given a ‘second chance’ in Europe” and he “urged that something drastic be done in order to take advantage of this second chance.” Lovett’s favored proposal was for a “Jeb Stuart Air Force” of fighter-bombers “scampering all over Germany ... shooting up targets of opportunity, strafing rail and communication centers and generally causing a breakdown in morale among the German people.” Arnold and his staff were skepti