e menacing images, one moment “their long, glinting wings, sharp as blades” as they caught the light, another appearing as “black silhouettes gliding through the fiery sky,” only to reemerge “shining golden against the dark roof of heaven or glittering blue, like meteors, in the searchlight beams spraying the vault from horizon to horizon.” With each flash of light, the bombers would be momentarily frozen in the sky, like giant insects caught in amber. Then, as the fires spread and coalesced to produce a steadier glow, “ghastly reflections of the fire” were seen “on the wings of those silvery ghosts.” In the sustained, garish light, the insects gained motion. They appeared to the people below to be “attracted like giant silver moths to the towering blaze,” or like huge charcoal bugs when soot from the fires blackened their undersides, hellish incarnations of the pesky moths that circled the lightbulbs of Japanese homes.®  Even the bombs themselves were visible. They “descended rather slowly like a cascade of silvery water.” These were the M-47 napalm-filled bombs designed to start the big fires, or more likely the five-hundred-pound M-69 clusters which burst above ground into smaller magnesium incendiaries. As the display took on unimaginable proportions, victim and attacker had strangely similar images burned in their memories: of “light flashed everywhere in the darkness like Christmas trees lifting their decorations of flame high into the night,” and (from above) of a city “illuminated like a forest of brightly lighted Christmas trees.” These things took on an unholy beauty even as the city boiled, as people with the luxury to observe tried to relate an alien experience to something familiar. Like every form of war, this one had its strangely compelling attractions: “All the Japanese in the gardens near mine,” recorded a French journalist on the fringes of the holocaust, “were out of doors or peering out of their holes, uttering cries of admiration ... at this gr