nese atrocities seemed to demolish remaining “compunctions of public opinion,” as the New York Times’s Hanson Baldwin reported; willingness to initiate gas warfare was given occasional expression in crudely sensational articles. Meanwhile, American officials were feeling the pressure of the Chinese government for retaliation.  Strategy in Europe and an unexpected Japanese move held the American government back. The army wanted “nothing... done to give the Germans an excuse to use a potent weapon such as gas, which could cause the failure of OVERLORD-ANVIL.” The Allies’ D-Day strategists had already been upset when German planes unknowingly attacked and sunk an American cargo ship preparing to unload mustard gas at a Sicilian port, killing hundreds of Americans and Italians and sparking fears that the Germans had been given an excuse to initiate gas warfare by blanketing Allied invasion forces with deadly chemicals, perhaps even radioactive gases or particles. Furthermore, while Americans ran no risk of retaliation at home, European and Asian cities would face reprisal strikes by German or Japanese airplanes carrying gas weapons. At the same time the Japanese government made “one of the unique decisions of the war” by announcing a ban on further use of gas by its forces and by embarking on unilateral disarmament of its chemical weapons. Restraint in chemical warfare, then, arose out of a balance of forces, an informal system of mutual deterrence. Lingering moral inhibitions, along with persistent doubts about the utility of gas and germs, also held the Allies in check. At that the lure to Allied leaders of taking the offensive kept surfacing—as when Churchill groped during the summer of 1944 for any scheme, even anthrax bombs, to counter the new German V-weapons. In the end, neither the British nor the Americans resorted to the more fiendish prod- ucts of their laboratories. In the Asian conflict, frail doubts and inhibitions would have been even a weaker curb on Ame