an’s capitulation remained conditional on the emperor’s continued sovereignty. Byrnes, worried about the “crucifixion of the President,” at first would brook no waffling on terms. Finally, the clever wording was devised that made the emperor “subject to the authority” of the American occupational commander, a formula saving face on several scores by acknowledging the em- peror’s place without offending Americans at home and by writing the Russians out of a role in occupation.142  Page 352 of 368 80%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  In its short history, aerial technology had promised benefits in peace as well as war. These seemed attractive in their own right and as impediments to war: new wealth and economic interdependence would discourage nations from taking up arms. The same potential seemed to inhere in the new atomic technology. Of course, its first use had to be military, but Stimson declared that “fission holds great promise for sweeping development by which our civilization may be enriched when peace comes,” a limitless source of energy for Americans and for the “well-being of the world.” The mushroom cloud loomed too large to allow the optimism earlier experienced about airplane technology. Nonetheless, variations on Stimson’s vision continued to offer hopeful counterpoint to the new dangers.146  Americans tried to draw satisfaction out of the bomb’s advent. Finishing a terrible war and facing a horrifying new technology, they naturally grasped for any sign of better things to come. As they did so, they displayed the power of historical tradition, resorting to familiar categories to try to explain and control the novel. It remained for MacDonald to explain that those categories would not work and simply to point out their reappearance. Regarding the great powers, he asked whether they  will foreswear war itself because an “atomic” war would probably mean the mutual ruin of all contestants? The same reasons were advanced before W