elf a moral concern. But in 1945, as earlier in the war when bombing strategy was formulated, speedy victory at minimum cost remained the implicit moral justification for what the airmen wanted to do.  In moral as in strategic matters, however, the methods used to examine problems shaped the content of thinking about them. Preferring expert analysis, the air force sometimes turned over the problem of “evaluating the ‘breaking point’ of Japanese populations under air bombardment” to its operations analysts. The analysts’ tentative conclusions often followed the prevailing wisdom: for all the harm that bombing of cities might do, it would “not necessarily induce sudden neuropsychological collapse of any widespread character.” What was more striking was the language of social and psychological analysis employed. While the “psychologically ‘tighter’ Japanese,” notable for their “sadism-masochism duality,” might survive bombing as well as Europeans, “when a ‘break’ comes the effect is more violent and extreme than with Europeans.” The problem was one “of discovering a technic for the demoralization of a community.” One promising approach was to exploit class an- tagonisms by bombing “workers’ dwelling regions, while (to some extent) sparing upper-class zones.”82  These observations drew upon the language, techniques, and sometimes the specific analyses of a pathbreaking group of social scientists working the new field of “national character” studies. At first glance, their contributions promised to offset the crude racial stereotyping of wartime culture, for they explicitly repudiated racist language and biological determinism. In practice, however, they probably strengthened the impulses of that culture. By drawing on cultural anthropologists’ work on primitive peoples, which focused on “the web of tribal behavior, communal cults, and the like,” wartime students of Japan “reinforced the impression that the Japanese were dressed-up primitives,” thus subtly confirming pop