tly did not seek out allies to back him up. By this time, Marshall had deferred to the consensus of the Interim Committee. Bard’s superior, Forrestal, was eager to change the surrender formula, but he feared  Page 322 of 368 73%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON imperative to save the world from it. At times, particularly in Stimson’s complex and shifting formulations of the problem, some were tempted to do both. Similarly, in dealing with the Soviet Union, the Interim Committee believed that the United States should “push ahead as fast as possible in production and research to make certain that we stay ahead and at the same time make every effort to better our political relations with Russia.”®® Others more clearly staked out one position or the other, Byrnes becoming the most notable exponent of the virtues of atomic intimidation.  While the choices were posed in familiar terms, discussion proceeded with little reference to the world’s recent experience in confronting new military technology. The informal system of deterrents against gas warfare was an encouraging example, the record of the submarine and the bomber disillusioning, and the consequences of interwar agreements on naval arms ambiguous. Neither encouraging, alarming, nor uncertain precedents were reviewed for instruction, even by the few policymakers who had had experience with arms control efforts. When a sense of the past entered into deliberations, other matters were at issue, such as the troubled record of Soviet-American relations. Marshall at least cautioned against disparaging Russian fidelity to wartime agreements and suggested that “it might be desirable to invite two prominent Russian scientists to witness the Trinity test.” Even that step seemed too bold for most of the Interim Committee, however.§*  At bottom, the awesomeness of the new weapon made the past seem irrelevant even as men unconsciously drew upon it. The bomb was seen as severing rather than unfolding f