my Air Forces is now proceeding on an unauthorized project to manufacture 12,000 JB-2 buzz bombs” (modi- fied German V-1s), Eaker was reminded. He had “no doubt but that neither the V-1 nor V-2 is as effective as bombing.” But the AAF wanted the V-1 used for experimental reasons and to lay its claim to these new devices, Arnold worrying that “Ground Forces are about to take over rocket development.” Airmen were not naive about the dangers of plunging into the next stage of the century’s technological revolution. Arnold was reminded that because of rocketry and nuclear weapons, the United States and other nations “will face destruction on a scale undreamed of in the wildest, most sensational fancies of fiction writers and comic strip artists,” ultimately “endangering human survival.” But to the air force the only recourse was to beat any potential enemy in the race to possess ul- timate terrors.37  Many Japanese had by now experienced the science-fiction fantasy. With variations due to the changing nature of targeting and the hard-won lessons of the Japanese, the hardships they endured were essentially extensions of those observed in the spring, and only a few salient features of the summer need be noted. Despite the accelerated pace of bombing, its economic effects were perhaps least important, certainly less dramatic than those of the spring raids. More workers fled factories and cities, but their absence made little difference because industrial capacity had been so reduced that a surplus of usable labor still remained. Industrial capacity probably declined only by a marginal amount as a result of the summer’s area bombing; only a systematic attack on coastal shipping and inland transportation could have significantly magnified the economic paralysis caused by blockade and the initial spring fire raids. Of course the Japanese economy was sheared in so many ways that measuring the effect of one kind of destruction is difficult. But in economic terms the summer’s fi