ty he offered the same recommendation to “Truman and other advisors.” But Eisenhower regarded his views as “merely personal and immediate reactions; they were not based upon any analysis of the subject.” At the height of his fame, Eisenhower was too good an army man to claim authority in a theater of war for which he had no responsibility.8°  The probability is that more forceful objections would not have changed the outcome. Many reasons have been offered (most at the time, but some more in retrospect) for the atomic attack on Japanese cities: the precedents set by firebombing, the psychological impact of the nuclear bomb, the lives to be saved by quicker termination of the war, the desires for revenge, the assertions of Japanese fanaticism, the need to justify an enormous investment, the technicians’ desire to test their creation in the most dramatic way, the alarm that might be felt by the Russians, the supremacy the bomb’s use might confer on the United States, and the shock to be given to a war-mad world. Other arguments, about the dangers and impracticality of warnings or demonstration, for example, were more intricate.  Yet it was not as if these many justifications came together to form some critical mass whose force compelled the bomb’s use. In the physics of the bomb, the malfunction of one component would prevent formation of a critical mass. But in deliberations about the bomb, the discrediting of one component in the rationale for use would not have disturbed its persuasiveness. Only some shock to an entire system of values would have altered history. There was a parallel to the firebombing. In both cases, the action taken did not hinge on the views or influence of one or a few men or on the persuasiveness of one argument. If one argument was weak, others were mobilized. If, for example, a more convincing case had been presented for the feasibility of anoncombat demonstration of the bomb, it would have changed few minds, partly because men had different