h the air scare, this said nothing about how dictatorships would respond to war’s horrors. In any event, no one worked out the en- suing chain of events in any detail. Even the references to panic in World War I that peppered writings in the 1920s largely disappeared.  Indeed, numerous flaws in American air doctrine went largely unexamined. The invincibility of the unescorted bomber formation was an article of faith; Flying Fortress was no idle choice of name for the B-17. In theory, bombing by daylight permitted the necessary precision, while the bomber’s speed, thick skin, bristling armament, and high altitude provided the requisite defense. But unexpectedly strong enemy air defenses, in conjunction with foul weather and human error and all the other things that can go wrong in war, would disrupt navigational precision. Only a slight disruption in the air would translate into gross inaccuracies on the ground, especially inasmuch as Air Corps calculations on bombing accuracy already rested on shaky probability theory. And if planes nonetheless found and bombed targets accurately, their destruction still might not achieve the expected effect if the targets chosen were in fact not critical to the functioning of the enemy state, or if they had been dispersed by an enemy in anticipation of attack, or if they possessed unused capacity (slack, it was later called) so that only a surviving remnant met critical needs. By the same token, a damaged target might be repaired quickly, or some alternative to the critical bottleneck might be jerryrigged—an alternative rail line expanded, a vital material imported, a new industrial process substituted. The Air Corps recognized that target selection involved an extraordinary economic sophistication that it lacked. The resourcefulness of combatants in World War I—albeit under conditions that seemed leisurely to visionaries of air war—might have argued for more caution on this matter. And these uncertainties, the stuff of countless l