xperts. Yet there were ways to reconcile the heroic impulse with impersonal realities. The very magnitude of the carnage was reassuring evidence “that miracles of heroism were possible in that decadent, commercial age.” Armies were engines of impersonal destruction, men “mere cogs,” yet men identified with the engines in a way that “turned the whole genre of attacks on technology on its head. Death through one’s own machines, which, since Marx’s early writings, had seemed the absurd extreme of alienation, now restored to the warriors a comfortable sense of themselves.”46  Similarly, the warplane embodied not so much a conflict between heroic traditions and machine-age anonymity, but a happy fusion of the two. Americans in the Lafayette Escadrille could identify crudely and completely with their machines:  Two valve springs you'll find in my stomach, Three spark plugs are safe in my lung,  The prop is in splinters inside me,  To my fingers the joy stick has clung.4”  At the same time, to others and often to themselves, aviators were knights of the air locked in individual combat, proof that the mechanical age possessed gallantry, the only men “freed from much of the ruck and reek of war by their easy poise above it.” These “gentlemen-warriors” were celebrated as exemplars of the heroic tradition, not as pioneers of a new kind of warfare. At times, war itself commanded aesthetic awe rather than dismay. An American correspondent reported from London how “wonderstruck eyes watched the drama of the skies.” “In the gracious loveliness of a perfect summer’s day when the sky was blue and gold and clear,” the Gotha bombers seemed less like instruments of “death and destruction and unendurable suffering” than like “little silver birds.” People “stood watching vastly interested, a little excited, but not in the least frightened.”48 Finding such reassurance and satisfaction, Americans looked away from the role of the warplane as an agent of destruction.  By November 1918, the b