imo:might give up the fight, they grabbed at this new straw. Here was a way to awe the Japanese, while arrangements to funnel American planes and crews through a dummy private corporation would preserve secrecy.  Page 98 of 368 23%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON that destruction of the enemy’s ground armies was the only sure path to victory. But doubts about the survival ot Britain and Russia ran large in the War Department, making a land invasion of the  Continent seem remote at best: hence even conservative officers acknowledged the imperative of first weakening Germany by bombing. Strategy, then, along with Roosevelt’s wishes about how to fight the war, made the War Department amenable to a vision of air war that would have seemed repugnant and fanciful a few years earlier.  “THE PAPER CITIES OF JAPAN”  In 1941, American policymakers thought they had the chance to implement that vision—not immediately in Europe but in the Far East. Their efforts to do so marked the decisive transition from fantasy to attempted action.  The occasion arose when American grand strategy began conferring a new importance on the Far East. The tightening connection, real and imagined, between the Far Eastern and European crises was bringing Tokyo and Washington closer to conflict. For Tokyo, the defeat of the European colonial powers in their war with Hitler afforded Japan the chance to move south into French Indochina and toward the mineral-rich Dutch East Indies in an effort to salvage Japan's fortunes in its war with China and slip the noose of American economic sanctions. For Washington, Japanese expansion imperiled the lifeline of its European allies to their colonies and their capacity to sustain the war against Hitler. By September 1940 in particular, when the Japanese completed the Tripartite Pact with Berlin and Rome, the two crises seemed to have merged into one. Acceptance of further Japanese expansion ran the twin risks of further weakening the A