ughter on them from the air, for “meeting Japan’s bayonets with bayonets is playing into her hand.” The United States had to rely on its “mechanical superiority” and realize “the tremendous striking power of an air force directed at the paper cities of congested Japan.” Against American bombers, “Sam- urai swords will be found rusty and their rice mustardized.”24  But these early ideas about air war against Japan were infrequent and had a casual quality reflected in a lack of preparation for realizing them. No bases or plans were readied. Incendiary bombs, the mainstay of any probable air war against Japan, were not developed. Elsewhere too, inconsistency and superficiality defined the dominant attitude. To be sure, war with Japan was a concern among army and navy planners. They focused especially on the defense of the Philippines, which seemed to pose insoluble dilemmas: no one was sure how long the islands would remain in American hands, much less how the navy could defend them over the distances involved and with the limits on strength imposed by arms treaties and tight budgets. But the mere assumption that a Pacific war would be primarily a naval show discouraged participation by the Air Corps and the army in planning. Then, too, planning itself was a sideshow in the army, described by one student as “comparatively bar- ren of strategic theory and interest” before 1938.25  Similar casualness and inconsistency prevailed in higher political circles and in the nation at large, which exhibited toward the Far East a “mixture of moral globalism and fear of military involvement” that could be reconciled only by “tortured argument,” as Akira Iriye has written.26 James Farley once recalled that at one of FDR's first cabinet meetings, the new president took note of Japan’s vulnerability to bombing from the Aleutians, but the claim lacks verification. Roosevelt had previously been in touch with Mitchell, but he was a committed navalist, on record as condemning Mitchell’s v