inally on the mark—was gradually paralyzing the enemy’s movement in the air and on the ground. In other ways, however, Allied bombing still seemed adrift among conflicting visions of the road to victory. Renewed attention was given Germany’s aircraft industry, whose new jets helped provoke a mood just short of panic among Allied strategists (Spaatz even worried about a German death ray). An ill-chosen attempt to knock out German vehicle production further delayed Spaatz’s oil campaign. As always, Harris was inclined to plaster cities. By the fall, Allied air forces were also sliding into a campaign against the German railway system, so dense and blessed with reserve capacity that attacks on it were slow to show results. In addition to all these efforts, the heavy bombers repeatedly laid carpets of bombs in front of advancing Allied ground forces—destroying many occupied and enemy towns, to the consternation of some air commanders. In January, in the wake of the Nazis’ Ardennes counteroffensive, some three-fourths of the American strategic bomber effort was in fact not strategic at all, but tactical.  The surprise Ardennes attack was a major setback, making it clear, so Stimson told the president, that the United States could not hope “to break down organized German resistance. . . by constant bombardment.”!2 What saved the bombing campaign from at least the appearance of failure was first of all the sheer weight of effort the Allied air forces now maintained, the British and Americans each throwing more than one thousand bombers into daily operations. With so much firepower, dispersion of effort was affordable, if wasteful and destructive. Critics argued that a clear priority, either for oil or transportation, could have saved lives and speeded victory, but largesse did not compel clarity. In effect, strategic bombing climaxed in a broad-front campaign that mimicked as well as complemented the strategy Eisenhower pursued on the ground.  Progress by ground forces als