fully loaded, the B-17s near Manila could hardly reach the southernmost Ryukyus, much less the main Japanese cities, which lay some eighteen hundred miles from the bombers’ bases. One solution to this large dilemma was to send the longer-legged B-24s, with slightly greater range and higher ceiling, and to stage bomber attacks out of advance bases in northern Luzon or further north on smaller Philippine islands, though bases there would be highly vulnerable to Japanese attack.2©  Instead, as Marshall revealed on November 15, the War Department hit upon an even more fanciful scheme to solve the basing problem: bombers would shuttle between the Philippines and Soviet bases near Vladivostok or on the Kamchatka Peninsula; bases in China were also considered. After dropping bombs on Japan’s cities, the Luzon-based aircraft would have only a comparatively short flight to Siberian airfields, where they would refuel, reload, and return to their main bases after dropping more bombs on Japan on the way back.  The scheme, as old as Mitchell’s writings, generated enormous enthusiasm despite the impossible obstacles against realization. The practical difficulties alone were formidable. To maintain Siberian bases the AAF would have had to deliver supplies through Japanese-infested waters or maintain a difficult air ferry route through Alaska, and then work in a land alien climatically, linguis- tically, culturally, and politically. Some Washington officials were mindful of these problems. That they nonetheless persisted in the shuttle-bombing scheme suggests that they foresaw no prolonged campaign against Japan requiring prodigies of logistics—a few surprise missions, even as Marshall suggested simply the threat of such missions, would overawe the Asians.  The political obstacles to the Siberian arrangement were even more daunting. The Soviet Union, already in a death struggle with Germany, hardly wanted to provoke war with Japan by allowing American use of Russian bases. Still, J