ll for “methods short of war” and for specific legislation on rearmament. But meanwhile Roosevelt had done a good deal else to sow confusion. His attempt to direct some orders for airplanes to government plants deflected attention from issues of military policy. Critics eagerly attacked rearmament plans “as a cloak for further pump-priming” and “the most idiotic ever advanced in any country,” sometimes suggesting that Roosevelt’s foreign policy was designed to lift the nation out of depression by leading the country into war.!2 Potentially as dangerous was Roosevelt’s failure to distinguish clearly between American rearmament and aid to the French. Conflating the two jeopardized the former because the latter generated such intense suspicion. The cause célébre was the crash on January 23 of Douglas Aircraft’s latest medium bomber—with a French test pilot on board. The crash blew the cover of adminis- tration secrecy about French aircraft orders, precipitated an ugly row, and sensationalized anxieties about sly Europeans taking advantage of guileless Americans and about presidential secrecy and usurpation of authority. A political battle, bound up with the complementary struggle over neutrality legislation, raged for over a year, until a final French order was negotiated after strenuous admin- istration efforts. Critics saw American rearmament as a subterfuge for supplying planes to Europe or feared that French orders would sap the industrial capacity needed to produce American planes.2°  Yet the jeopardy to administration plans was not fatal. It was eventually able to show that foreign orders would actually speed American rearmament—by financing plant expansion, by reducing | the unit costs of airplanes purchased for the American Air Corps, and later by clearing off of American shelves large numbers of obsolescent craft which otherwise would have served as a drag  Wt lat eat at Lc a re a - a a 2 Pe ee | a sees See Ce. > ae  Page 80 of 368 19%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AI