st part, the last is suggested obliquely in this account; aware of the wealth of material on nuclear warfare, and suspicious that most of it provided little historical perspective, I decided to examine the rise of strategic bombing from the turn of the century through the end of World War II. In the perspective I establish, the danger of nuclear armageddon, as well as perceptions of that danger, was created less by the invention of nuclear weapons than by the attitudes and practices established before 1945.  Ialso concentrate on the rise of American air power, seeking to explain the origins, preeminence, and uses of that power. Of course, a book limited to that story and to the prenuclear era cannot fully explain the dilemma of our times. The warplane was the product of international technology, ideas, and relations, and while I have not systematically attempted a global history of air power, I have selectively drawn on ideas and developments abroad, especially in Great Britain, whose prophets, inventors, and warriors usually found a receptive audience in the United States. But the rise of American air power is the key to the modern dilemma.  I also concentrate on what Americans have expected of and learned from strategic bombing. Their perspectives on the bomber are crucial, for the warplane was created in imagination before it was invented as a practical weapon. The bomber was the product of extravagant dreams and dark forebodings about the role it might play in war and peace. Moreover, because the airplane had numerous peacetime uses, many of them stimulating grand hopes in their own right, it often developed without much attention to its possible role in war. Peaceful uses so meshed with military applications that each often evolved under the cover of the other, in ways familiar from the later evolution of nuclear and space technology. Thus, an understanding of American air power and of the problem of aerial warfare can be achieved only in the context of cultura