r today.”®” The limits on foresight and awareness of Macmillan’s generation rarely resulted from willful denial of possible dangers or unwillingness to think about the issues involved.  Still, evidence was available, in the lesson provided by World War I, of the need to examine critically the impact of new weapons on warfare. The world had already once suffered grievously from the failure to anticipate the impact of the machine gun, the submarine, and the entire apparatus of industrial warfare. Moreover, the war had shown the danger of assuming that governments would make calculations about these weapons in a thoughtful or rational way. They had displayed the capacity to waste vast numbers of men in operations of marginal or negative utility, and soldiers and citizens had shown a remarkable capacity to endure this waste. Perhaps only a desperate wish that such a nightmare never recur can account for the failure to look more closely at the Great War’s meaning.  In a variety of ways, the remoteness of air power formed the secret of its appeal. Air war lay on the periphery of American concerns about their security, and as some Americans imagined using it, it posed few moral or strategic dilemmas. To its detractors, its limited utility insured limited use; to its defenders, its power promised to keep war itself distant, its precision to bring quick and sanitary victory if war occurred. Where something more could be conceived, in contemplating war with Japan, the attraction was too casual to arouse much conern. For both defenders and detractors, the possibility of attack against the United States, although frequently invoked to defend American aerial armament, was farfetched. In brief, Americans could develop air power—or for that matter oppose it—without much regard for the likelihood or consequences, moral or selfish, of using it. They entered World War II with an impoverished legacy of concern about air war, with few standards by which to judge its wisdom, indeed with