eople left the city in the raid’s aftermath, desperately trying to sell off whatever possessions they could not drag along. They accelerated what became “one of history’s greatest migrations.” By summer, one-seventh of the nation’s population (and a much larger proportion of urban dwellers) had relocated from the cities to small towns and rural areas. By war’s end, Tokyo had lost over four million of its residents. It was as if the vital energy of this and other cities “had suddenly been poured into a few transportation funnels.” Even in Germany and Britain, air raids did not induce such a huge movement compressed into so little time. Too, the flight in Japan took place with far less assistance by the central government, going forward largely outside its control. It testified, therefore, to the cohesion and discipline of Japanese society that the exodus rarely erupted into overt panic, which was mostly confined to the raid itself.22  As evacuation went forward, the gruesome work proceeded of pulling bodies out of buildings and canals, clearing them from the streets, and piling them up for mass burial or incineration. The city staggered back into some of its normal routines. A few of the more deadly results expected from incendiary raids by some Americans did not take place. An outbreak of contagious diseases, for example, was headed off because incinerated areas “were, in effect, sterilized. Rats and mice, lice and fleas, were destroyed along with other animals,” and nothing remained to sustain any new insect or vermin population. Mass exodus also minimized the outbreak of diseases. The raid shattered the medical system, but no immediate medical catastrophe ensued, in part because the wounded were so many fewer than the dead. A crushing burden on the city’s housing supply arose, however, despite exodus: housing in Japan’s cities, densely packed before the raids, never had the cushion of extra space or the time to recover that characterized the bombed-out cities of E