nawa. Such reasoning revealed how policy remained tied to the pro-  gress of traditional military strategies, all the more because no one from the services made a case that blockade and bombing might provide sanctions to induce surrender.  Only in one way did bombing strategy enter the calculations made on the twenty-ninth about delaying a statement to Japan. Delay, Grew noted, was deemed necessary “for certain military reasons, not divulged.”!4 Without a doubt, those reasons involved the atomic bbmb—unmentioned because some conferees (Eugene Dooman, Elmer Davis) knew nothing of it. Those knowledgeable probably reasoned that whatever the psychological impact of bombing upon the Japanese, it would only be vaster and more certain when it took an atomic form.  Both at the time and after the war, Grew thought the aftermath of the May raids was a missed opportunity to bring peace.15 Perhaps he was right, but more important was the absence of concerted effort by others even to weigh the possibility. It was as if the political and psychological impact of bombing, having been so long exaggerated when so little had been possible, was slighted now that it approached realization. Bombing had always loomed larger as an idea, an abstraction, than as a practical weapon. Perhaps the idea in its new, nuclear form dazzled men and overwhelmed their attention to the ongoing impact of bombing.  But the bomb hardly explains the indifference to firebombing among people ignorant of the Manhattan Project. Despite exceptions, the media generally treated the bombing as a routine matter disconnected from the question of surrender. A veiled implication of an early peace appeared in LeMay’s public statement that “in a few months we will be running out of targets.” but the press did not follow it up. In commentaries linking bombing to surrender, the most frequent focus was on the possibility of starving Japan into surrender, a scenario recognized as unlikely to yield early results. Coverage of L