to do my job! No!” LeMay protested years later when queried about his relationship with Arnold. “I never got a direct order from Arnold that I remember,” a recollection generally supported by the documentary record. He doubtless felt less harried than his predecessor, and he was not one to worry about the formalities of command relationships.  Yet with Norstad as a like-minded surrogate for Arnold, communications between Washington and the field had not changed much since Hansell’s tenure. As usual, rituals of deference to a combat commander’s authority mixed with polite nudges and the occasional injunction. Norstad quickly told LeMay that “what General Arnold wants is the greatest possible number of bombs dropped on our priority targets in any given period of time.” He was reminded that he would shortly have “the biggest and best air striking force in the world today.” LeMay hardly needed the reminder.54  Around the first of March, Arnold, or more likely Norstad, apparently ordered a maximum effort from LeMay against Japan. On his own, LeMay was realizing that his “outfit had been getting a lot of publicity without having really accomplished a hell of a lot in bombing results.” Furthermore, by March 3 LeMay knew that Norstad himself would pay a call to Guam within a few days. Anticipating that visit, LeMay gave Norstad a hint of what he might find upon arrival. “We have been having a hell of a time with the weather lately,” he commented unsurprisingly. One “out” would be “to try night bombing. I don’t believe it is an efficient method of operation but this is another case of a few bombs on the target being better than no bombs at all.” He promised to be “working on sev- eral very radical methods of employment of the force.”5¢  If LeMay was vague, it was because he was uncertain, not evasive, about what he could do to redeem the B-29 operations. In the next several days, a solution jelled. Primarily a commander and tactician, not a strategist, he conceived the solut