n terms of the “Oriental” psychology, whose workings Stimson often mused upon. With the enemy already defeated, the added physical destruction the bomb inflicted was seen as incidental; its decisive impact would be on the minds of men.  Guiding those like Stimson who were attuned to surrender strategy, that reasoning did not shape the preoccupation with psychological impact shown by many others involved in nuclear policy. Another explanation may have been simply an underappreciation of the bomb’s killing effect. Until the first nuclear test on July 16, many scientists guessed far too low on the bomb’s destructive yield. Compton also claimed later that he and Oppenheimer grossly underestimated fatalities—they would number “some 20,000 people”—because they had “not anticipated that when the attack was made practically no one would have sought shelter.” The recollection hardly seems credible, since both Compton and Oppenheimer knew that the bomb would be delivered without warning and by a single plane unlikely to prompt war-weary Japanese to flee to shelter.52  A focus on the psychological impact of the bomb also arose out of uncertainty about how to distinguish it from LeMay’s firebombing in its purely destructive and lethal impact. Oppenheimer had turned to discussing the bomb's “visual effect” after noting that the result of “one atomic bomb on an arsenal would not be much different from the effect caused by any Air Corps strike of present dimensions.” At the same meeting, Groves had offered as one reason against making several simultaneous atomic strikes the assertion that the “effect would not be sufficiently distinct from our regular Air Force bombing program.” Earlier, the Target Committee had been firmly told, in words that hinted almost at a rivalry between the nuclear and incendiary bombers, that the Twentieth Air Force had “the prime purpose in mind of not leaving one stone lying on another.” It was “laying waste all the main Japanese cities,” and its comman