was made acceptable by the claim that it “would be a kindness—even to the enemy,” for decisive ferocity would in the long run save enemy lives.®°  Troubled Americans acknowledged the widespread killing of civilians, accepted their innocence, labeled their killing murder—then designated it as justifiable homicide, as the only recourse if victory were to be secured and Allied casualties minimized. Yet the nature of the necessity they invoked must be examined. Few Americans (and they not very plausibly) could argue that survival itself was at stake. By necessity, most Americans did not mean the prospect of imminent and complete destruction, a contingency which might justify strategic devastation of enemy cities. Instead, they meant the requirements of victory, total victory at that, and with minimum suffering and loss for the victors. For them, that argument had a compelling moral sanction. It also was dangerously open- ended, for it could justify almost any action that accelerated triumph. Perhaps the best that might be said of their reasoning is that its sanction extended only to the limit of victory, excluding the pur- suit of vengeance and other goals whose criteria were even less measurable.  In the end, what characterized debate on bombing was not the absence of moral argument, but its casualness. The circumstances and characteristics of air war, not just moral laziness, helped to make argument casual. Americans entered the war with little tradition of realistic debate about air power to draw upon. Until 1944, they waged a war of limited offensives in which their bombers came into play only slowly, in which the production effort commanded much popular attention, and in which journalists and politicians were ill-equipped or disinclined to raise moral issues. To those who sought vengeance, bombing offered it without much need to proclaim it. To those who sought a narrower justification for air power, seeing its morality as inhering in its utility, measuring that ut