ences. Brigadier General Lincoln, the army’s keenest mind on these matters, complained at the end of June that a key State Department official “is trying really only to insure that the terms will cause no criticism in the U.S.” “Shall we state a flat intention to allow the Japanese to retain the structure of a constitutional monarchy,” Lincoln asked, “and tempt the Japanese public, or state the opposite intention and please... the US public, or leave the matter vague and impress neither side, probably?” It was a good question, the kind War posed better than State, and an accurate prediction of the course to be taken.®4  A more subtle problem involving signals, one that bore directly on the bombing campaign, involved the potential for conflict between word and deed. From May to August—in official statements, propaganda, broadcasts, and the shower of leaflets—the United States was trying to suggest that Japan might surrender and still be assured a liberal and humane peace. But even a cursory reading of Japanese statements showed how much the firebombing sent a conflicting message or at least one which the enemy government could use to cry hypocrisy.  Put in slightly different terms, the problem of aligning deeds with words drew some attention, particularly with respect to invasion. It was raised at the June 18 White House meeting and conveyed by Stimson to the president on July 2, when he argued that the proposed ultimatum be “tendered before the actual invasion has occurred and while the impending destruction, though clear beyond peradventure, has not yet reduced her to fanatical despair.” In general, however, only lower-level officials spelled out the problem insofar as firebombing raised it. “As greater damage is done to Japanese cities,” observed the army’s intelligence chief in May, “the Japanese will be more inclined to fanatical resistance to the end.” The challenge was to calibrate the infliction of further pain against the need to leave something for the enem