would be tremendous” in the bomb’s use on a city. As Stimson summarized the group's consensus, with the bomb “we should seek to make a profound psychological impression on as many of the inhabitants as possible.” To insure that impression, surprise seemed essential—-one reason among many for rejecting a demonstration, which would limit the numbers observing the blast.51  Stimson and his colleagues presumably meant by “psychological impression” that the bomb’s terror would drive home the futility of further kamikaze resistance. Some, most likely Stimson, also imagined that the bomb’s impact would strengthen the position of the peace faction and allow Japan’s leadership to save face in surrendering.  A clue to their intentions is found in the earlier deliberations on the atomic bomb by the Target Committee. First convened on April 27, it consisted of a few military officers associated with the bomb project and a large group of operations researchers and scientists, among whom the most illustrious were Von Neumann and Oppenheimer. Oppenheimer and Groves in turn conveyed its findings to the Interim Committee, and subject to civilian approval, Groves had final authority to choose targets. From the start, the Target Committee dealt mainly with technical and tactical factors involved in the atomic attack, attending to the political and strategic dimensions of targeting in a hurried and ambiguous fashion. At the first meeting, some attempt was made to single out military or industrial targets. The Yawata steelworks were suggested, and target analysts were instructed that “the target and/or aiming point should have a high strategic value.” Even that phrasing was equivo- cal, however, and since the target criteria also included “large urban areas . .. in the larger populated areas,” they were expansive from the start.52  Soon the committee slipped into the murkier realm of nuclear psychology, developing the phrasing and orientation which Stimson’s group inherited. In meetings