. And the growing number and striking power of Amer- ica’s long-range bombers emboldened the architects of American policy.  Roosevelt, of course, was still intent on the use of economic sanctions to curb the Japanese. On July 26 he froze Japanese assets, a move that virtually halted Japanese trade in American goods, especially the petroleum products Japan so much needed. The relationship between that move and rearmament in the Philippines was unclear. Chronology alone suggests that the economic and military measures developed independently: the efforts of MacArthur and Marshall to deploy new air power to the Philippines and to return MacArthur to active duty as commander of American army forces in the Far East preceded news of Japan’s new move south, which prompted FDR's freeze order. Eager to delay war in the Far East, most military men, particularly in the navy, were critical of the embargo as provocative and probably saw it as simply heightening the probability of war and therefore the urgency of finding some way to deter it. Roosevelt might have regarded the economic and military measures as complementary deterrents or as forming a kind of carrot-and-stick approach to Tokyo, since his original intention had been to modulate the embargo so as to leave incentives for Japan to be cautious. More likely, there was no grand design here, not even in Roosevelt’s fertile mind, but simply parallel, ad hoc responses developed in competing bureaucracies and bound together  Page 100 of 368 23%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  erat — tc a oa a ea a ee  Enthusiasm for air power continued despite abandonment of the China plan. Significantly it often infected civilians more than military officials, in part because civilian leaders tended to place more faith than officers in any form of deterrent—hence repeated proposals from Roosevelt for various forms of naval action as well. The president urged his strategists to consider “the possibility of bombin