n atomic weapons, and some day “the spark would be struck that would send the whole world up in one flaming inferno of a third world war.”  But Brewster went beyond James Franck and Leo Szilard, who rejected immediate use as setting a bad example but skirted the decision about ending the war. He did not “want to propose anything to jeopardize the war with Japan,” but he recognized that victory was no longer the issue, and “horrible as it may seem, I know that it would be better to take greater casualties now in conquering Japan than to bring upon the world the tragedy of unrestrained competitive production of this material.” This statement squarely confronted the connection between the immediate and the long-run: the needs of the latter could not be met without short-term sacrifice. Brewster’s position probably doomed his appeal, for even superiors straining to fathom the bomb’s lasting impact wanted its immediate advantage. But his appeal probably did more to touch Stimson and his colleagues than the cautious documents of Franck, Szilard, and others. In a handwritten note penned on the eve of the Interim Committee’s May 31 meeting, Stimson forwarded Brewster’s “remarkable document” to Marshall, praising the “logic” of this letter by “an honest man.” But however provocative, one letter from an obscure engineer could not carry much weight.75  Others had doubts. As Admiral Leahy showed, they could arise from military and technological conservatism. To be sure, Leahy’s belittlement of the bomb’s feasibility and power meant that the bomb’s use was hardly a major issue for him. But after Trinity, and even more after Hiroshima, Leahy reacted sharply, and not only because he thought the navy had already won the war. It was because he placed the bomb in an evolution of modern weaponry he found repugnant, drawing on the same indignation that led him to reject chemical and bacteriological warfare as violations of “every Christian ethic I have ever heard of and all of the know