s, transfer out of combat duty, the promise of advancement in military or civilian life.”  Sanctioned by the air force, the contractual perception of the airman’s duty strengthened the disjunction between means and ends characteristic of the air war. Duty involved the performance of technical tasks. The ethic was not a military one bound to the achievement of victory as it was for most other servicemen, but a professional one, related of course to war but both more finite than the war and transcending it because so many of the rewards were to carry over into the peace. Other men in combat performed tasks—bayoneting an enemy soldier, operating a machine gun—which had little or no counterpart in civilian life, whose only utility lay in war itself. They were simply warriors. To a considerable degree, airmen were technicians and professionals who happened to be wa- ging war.  This model of service in air combat, recognizable as still another expression of air war’s inseparableness from a civilian context, placed airmen in the vanguard of a historical transformation in definitions of military service. Traditionally defined, such service was different and apart from the broader society, undertaken by men with a higher sense of duty, whose loyalty lay with the organization, whose objective was to win wars, and whose rewards could not be justified by the civilian marketplace. They had not merely ajob but a calling if professionals, an obligation if conscripted. The status, rewards, and duties of combat airmen moved them toward an entrepreneurial or occupational model of service. Self-interest was defined as distinct from the war-winning purpose of the organization; rewards were defined by and carried over into the civilian marketplace; the rituals of military life were subordinated to the attainment of skills and status useful in a larger world. And because the distinction from the civilian world was eroding, civilians performed many tasks once assumed only by military men,