e airmen to be amoral technicians. As in the writings of Douhet, Liddell Hart, and Mitchell, arguments for air power carried a strong if superficial moral justification. If American airmen advanced that justification less explicitly in the 1930s, it was in part because they were largely speaking to each other, not yet urged in public to defend themselves. In 1934, a retired air officer stressed how the actual damage that gas war “can do to civilians is slight in comparison with the terror that it is capable of spreading,” and he compared this mode of war with the ones practiced in World War I: “Which method then actually is the most humane? The millions of widows, orphans, and maimed from the World War could give the most convincing answers.” A leading proponent of precision bombing argued that “a determined air armada... may actually prove to bea more convincing argument against war than all the Hague and Geneva Conventions put together.” If ethical arguments were neither profound nor sustained, they were unavoidable. Scenarios of quick victory simply implied a moral justification that needed little explicit statement.22  As in World War I, morality and utility remained discrete but closely related categories in debate about air war. Moral means were not necessarily useful, and useful means were not necessarily moral, but for the airmen, a measure of moral validity adhered to methods of war that achieved quick victory and minimized prolonged suffering. In this regard, the historical significance of the doctrine of precision bombing was not its repudiation of moral concerns but its role in quieting consciences anxious about the future of air war. Proponents of precision bombing believed that it would reap the long-standing promise of air power without inflicting unreasonable harm to humanity. Of course, the promise of air power had always inhered in its capacity to bring terror. Precision bombing did not entirely divorce the two, but it pushed terror so far into the