on the widely held (if also disputed) notion that the Japanese would crack under the strain of bomb- ing. In short, the use made of the concept of national character permitted pejorative stereotyping under the guise of social science.83  To be sure, not all social scientists wanted to justify indiscriminate bombing, or even did so unwittingly. And certainly their influence was limited; as one complained in a different context, “The administrator uses social science the way a drunk uses a lamppost, for support rather than for illumination.” Yet this lamppost was brightly lit—widely noticed in both official Washington and the popular press. Its impact extended beyond the occasional justification for terror bombing it provided. More important was the social scientists’ effort to objectify the enemy, reducing him to an anonymous category for the application of technique. In war there are many ways to achieve distance from the enemy and from what is done to him. In fighting an elusive enemy, civilian experts cast that elusiveness in new terms rather than clarifying it. Not for them was there the explicit language of racial vengeance. Rather, the language of pathology sanctioned in more subtle and disguised ways the destruction that others justified in bloodier but franker terminology.®  By December 1944, as the final air campaign against Japan began, the distance on air war achievable through bureaucracy, methodology, and strategy was also evident culturally and intellectually. A fanatical and cruel enemy deserved punishment, but an unworthy one did not command a commitment in blood to realize that punishment. Bombing might limit the costs. But if, as one high-ranking officer worried, “they will not give up even when faced with certain annihilation,” it was by no means clear if even bombing satisfied the conflicting needs.85 An enemy that continued to fight beyond the point of defeat, as measured by all the conventional standards, was baffling; hence the conclusions of t