rol and reported him to the doctors, who granted his wish to be grounded. His case compressed the multiple sources of strain for fliers: the role of blind chance (facing death even before going to battle), the loss of comrades, the cumulative impact of repeated missions, and the sense of helpless confinement. In the Eighth Air Force, only 2 percent of fliers suffered what the historian Thomas Coffey calls “nervous breakdowns,” but such a figure disguises a great deal: a host of lesser emotional disturbances, plus those expressed in or diagnosed as physical disabilities or disciplinary problems.” In short, the damage could be staggering, both emotionally and physically, both in the air and on the ground where the bombs were dropped, and those who faced and witnessed it could not regard war simply as an application of technique distinct from kill- ing and destruction.  Yet the emotional mechanisms airmen used to cope with danger necessarily diminished their sensitivity to combat and destruction. They might become, commented air force psychiatrists, “effective, careful fighting men, quiet and cool on the ground and in the air” but “drained of most feelings other than those having to do with combat.” Likewise in the RAF: “The men who fared best were those who did not allow themselves to think at all. Many crews argued that emotional entanglements were madness.” The nature of combat often aggravated this coolness, this “psychic closing- off” as Robert Jay Lifton calls it in a very different context, making it difficult to sustain a sense of engagement in a human, deadly struggle.72  Several factors diminished further the sense of struggle. Most obviouslv. the enemv was rarelv met face to face. His death and destruction were either unnoticed or observed at an imversonal  Page 204 of 368 47%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Even for them, however, the emotional toll was exacting, and doctors who treated serious emotional problems among crewmen f