THE INVERSION OF DREAM AND REALITY  In the last week of May 1945, American bombers almost fulfilled an old fantasy about air power, that a catastrophic attack on an enemy’s capital would shock it into surrender. Like much else in the air war, success came about inadvertently. The fire raids against Tokyo on the nights of May 23-24 and 25-26 were designed to finish off the capital as an incendiary target and speed capitulation. But by now fire raids were almost routine, and nothing beyond scorching the remaining areas of Tokyo was expected. Five years of inconclusive bombing had deflated expectations for the terror value of a single aerial blow, and the great March 10 raid must have seemed the best chance to revive them.  Indeed, the most striking result of the new attacks in political terms, the blaze that roared through the emperor’s own quarters, apparently was wholly unintended. The imperial grounds, because they stood out so starkly on photographs and radar scopes, did serve “as a convenient checkpoint for navigators.” But bomber crews had been instructed to avoid hitting the imperial quarters “since the Emperor of Japan is not at present a liability and may later become an asset.”! But both raids were directed at areas adjacent to the imperial grounds. Bombs either fell accidentally into the royal quarters, as some eyewitness accounts suggest, or flames that leaped “like bounding tigers” simply spread there, as the terse official American history implies. Either way the air war now came home to the very seat of imperial authority.2  Of course much else perished in these two nights: shrines and temples, hospitals and factories, citadels of commerce and government and learning. Or, to use the familiar American indices of triumph, over five square miles on the first raid and nearly seventeen on the second night. From the Japanese point of view, perhaps the scales of justice were righted a bit because another inadvertent casualty of the raids was apparently the dea