m bomb in July 1945, the possibility of atmospheric ignition from an atomic bomb alone was sufficient to induce Enrico Fermi to “invite bets ... against first the destruction of all human life and second just that of human life in New Mexico.” The scientists were staring at opposites inextricably joined: ultimate control over the universe (at least humankind’s small portion of it) and absolute loss of control. Even if few scientists felt the attraction and danger at such an ultimate level, others continued working despite their warning (signed by Fermi among others) that an international arms race in atomic weapons could spell national suicide for the United States, provoking a sudden attack that “might literally wipe out even the largest nation.”=>  The scientists pondered the nature of uranium and plutonium spheres at the instant before fission: “By their calculations, no living creature could ever see such a sphere. It would destroy itself before the eye could deliver an image to the brain.” But before brought to a critical mass, the sphere could be handled, and “the thing was warm,” seemingly moving and pulsating with life, creating a “thrill of realization and dread,” as ifthe men held in their own hands the secret of nature and of power over it. Working on the bomb instilled a sense of ultimate potency, a triumph of man over nature. “Nuclear explosives have a glitter more seductive than gold to those who play with them,” Dyson has commented. “To command nature to release in a pint pot the energy that fuels the stars, to lift by pure thought a million tons of rock into the sky, these are exercises of the human will that produce an illusion of illimitable power.”5©  Dominated by men, Western science has aspired to unlock the secrets of the natural world. Often its practitioners have also sought immortality through escape from that world, a world so often associated with women and femininity. By their colloquial language, the men at Los Alamos hinted at such aspi