ovocation of the kind experienced by the British occurred, and it shaped how Americans defined and justified what they did when war did come. Furthermore, overlaying the differences between the United States and Great Britain in the 1930s were similarities in the sense of distance from which use of the bomber was viewed. In both, the terms of strategic debate were largely defensive; in both, the democracies’ potential for bombing cities was largely hidden. For both, the Munich crisis triggered a change in thinking about the bomber and accelerated the momentum to use it. For neither did it quite appear that way at the time.  * Range is a misleading measure of a warplane’s capability. More informative is its radius of action, the distance which it can travel and then return to base—a figure that is usually well under half the range depending on the vagaries of weather, navigation, the size of bomb loads, and the enemy’s countermeasures.  The Attractions of Intimidation  Page 73 of 368 17%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  UppUoe 1e WAU Ue Ld AEB OL LUE UO RCV UU Us CUCL YUL, LLULE UL OCLLol, UL UolUg 4o LUCY CLUE CU VV OWUG WO 4) W4U GUL LUUPUVELOU Lg aLy UL CULL ALU aL Was, Wit Lew oLausuaLus by which to judge its wisdom, indeed with little feeling that standards were needed. Millis’s characterization of Americans’ attitudes toward their future security by 1938 applies nicely to their consid- eration of the bomber as well: “Thus the shadow of the future was already plain; but there was nothing with which to give it substance.”58  Arguably, different American responses to the bomber would have made little difference. In facing Germany, the English never had the Americans’ luxury of freedom from retaliation. Too, the RAF, an independent service since 1918, had less need for the self-justifying theorizing about strategic air war that characterized American airmen. It operated in an atomosphere of more urgent and sophisticated concern about the