ngton, already growing cautious about claiming too much, had to control further its desire to exploit the Twentieth Air Force’s work in the press.*2  Well it did, too, for that force’s 20th Bomber Command was not destined to achieve much of strategic import. Operating under every imaginable condition of adversity, the gas-guzzling B-29s had to haul most of their fuel, bombs, and other supplies from rear bases in India, on flights so long they burned up most of the fuel to be off-loaded and allowed for only a painfully slow accumulation of stocks at forward bases. The Twentieth Air Force, though commanded from Washington in strategic matters, also had to operate through a labyrinth of rivalrous and overlapping commands in the Far East. The 20th’s record became a classic example of how, as Marshall knew, a mammoth effort could yield only a “pin point” effect. Tied to a long and fragile tether, the B-29s could reach only the southernmost targets in Japan, and those only with a reduced bomb load and on infrequent missions.  They should not have been sent to China. The military dividends of their operations mainly took the form of training for crews and commanders and shaking down of the untested bombers —necessities of war which could have been met elsewhere to more effect and with less waste. Even those dividends were compromised by the lead time the early missions offered to the Japanese for testing out their antiaircraft and civilian defenses in advance of the heavy assaults to come. Marshall and his staff had apparently considered junking the whole China project in February; it was scaled back in the spring even before it got started and doubts resurfaced in the summer. What kept the project going was Roosevelt’s insistence, rooted in political and diplomatic calculations, and the reluc- tance of his military subordinates to offer challenge on a matter so dear to him.*!  Of course, the services had never developed the strategic plan with which to contest such operat