Roosevelt Foundation; the Rockefeller Foundation funded a year’s leave, enabling me to draft the manuscript; Northwestern University covered most of the costs of preparing the manuscript. Richard Davis provided friendship and a quiet refuge where I could review my own work critically. James Beal was patient and understanding in the face of my many absences to work on this book; I owe him a spe- cial debt.  Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire September 1985  Evanston, Illinois June 1986  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Location 152 of 12433 1%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON provided Irienasnip ana a quiet reruge wnere | could review my OWN Work critically. James Beal was patient ana unaerstanaing 1n tne race or my Many absences tO WOrK ON TNs DOOK; 1 OWe Nim a spe- cial debt.  Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire September 1985  Evanston, Illinois June 1986  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  The Age of Fantasy  Before the final battle in A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court, the hero’s companion boasts, “We shan’t have to leave our fortress, now, when we want to blow up civilization.” After his electric battlefield has done its work, Hank Morgan, the Yankee genius, surveys the results. “Of course we could not count the dead, because they did not exist as individuals, but merely as homogeneous protoplasm, with alloys of iron and buttons.”! Mark Twain’s fantasy, full of doubt about the future of mankind and men’s wars, satirized the attractions and dangers of a dehumanized technology of  war: destructive passion disguised as cold science, peril clothed in progress, imperialism masked as ingenuity. In the decades after Twain wrote, the attractions were more persuasive, especially when men and women anticipated the role that aircraft might play.  THE LIMITS OF FANTASY  Twain had not foreseen the airplane, but in imagining more generally the consequences of modern weaponry, he had establish