ng, destruction reaching 99.5 percent of one city’s acreage (Toyama), and American losses astonishingly low.  If in the spring the rationale for fire attacks had been casual, in the summer it rested even more on what was operationally easy rather then strategically vital. On the night of July 16-17, for example, B-29s unloaded 790 tons of incendiaries on Oita, a town of some 60,000 people that had, in the words of the later survey report, “no major industry,” though “a vital naval air depot” that apparently was not attacked. Railyards did lie in the targeted area, but the survey’s listing of buildings destroyed in the raid ran to the distressingly unimportant: banks, a soya sauce factory, two schools, a Presbyterian church. On the night of August 1-2, 1,593 tons—as the survey report noted, incendiary tonnage often far exceeded target requirements—fell on a town of similar size, Hachioji. “Industrially, economically, militarily, and commercially the city was unimportant, except for being a railroad junction and a refugee center for Tokyo.”28  To be sure, airmen could not always gauge in advance a city’s importance. But by now a great deal could be learned, for photographic surveillance went on unimpeded. Some cities attacked did have demonstrable importance to Japan’s war effort. Ammori, a city of 100,000 people, lay at the “choke point” in the transportation corridor between Honshu and Hokkaido. LeMay’s attack there on the night of July 28-29 produced a conflagration killing 728 people and burning out most of the city, although it was unclear whether the transportation facilities themselves had been disabled. Likewise, against the industrial city of Ube on July 2, “the usual ‘fire storm’ phenomenon” occurred, but it did not spread to the large industrial buildings in the city. Hamamatsu was, in LeMay’s words, “the garbage-can target,” the place where B-29 crews that aborted missions to assigned targets regularly dumped their bomb loads. To boot, Halsey’s battleships