and crews might be lost”—all this to obtain the data on Soviet bases that Moscow was zealously guarding. Even after Pearl Harbor, the diplomatic effort to gain access to those bases con- tinued. It seems, again, that Marshall’s statement of November 15 was hardly whimsy.22  But it was certainly naive, no more so than in its trust that policymakers could manage the press and orchestrate leaks to the Japanese in a way that would frighten them into submission without forcing them into retaliation. True, perhaps Marshall's intentions were not what he said on the fifteenth; perhaps he knew the threat to attack Japan was empty but hoped it would gain credibility through carefully staged leaks. Yet if he had wanted to plant a leak, one or two reporters would have sufficed; calling in bureau chiefs was standard practice for seeking an inclusive ban on publications of secret information.%* Most likely, Marshall wanted to preserve secrecy until the proper moment. Both he and Stimson derived from American code-breaking an overconfidence that Japanese knowledge of the bomber buildup could be detected. Stimson was “very anxious to avoid any boasting” about the deployment, preferring to let “these facts sink into the Japanese of their own impact,” and he had prepared for Marshall the draft of an announcement about it “when the news breaks of the arrival of the flying fortresses at Manila.” As Marshall told an aide on November 1, after December 10 “it would be advantageous for the Japanese to learn of our really effective reinforcements.” Yet after his November 15 meeting with the press, any continuing efforts on Marshall’s part left behind a documentary trail of only teasing bits of information. He probably met with Roosevelt immediately after his morning conference with the press, but there the trail largely ends.102  One possibility is that the scheme aborted because of an unplanned leak. The flight of dozens of B-17s across the Pacific was a big secret to manage. The crisis in