National Defense Research Committee in 1940. Thus well before American entry into the war, the airmen had more experience with the conditions under which scientists and industrial laboratories would help the military.  Its contacts with civilian expertise had also been strengthened by the close relationship between military and civilian technology inherent in the field of aviation. Among all military technologies, aviation had the clearest benefits for civilian commerce. Therefore civilian agencies of government, like the Department of Commerce and the Bureau of Standards, as well as private de- velopers readily cooperated with the prewar Air Corps.  The air force’s law peacetime status worked to its wartime benefit in other ways. After World War I, disgruntled airmen often left the service, but indoing so some forged close links with civilian technology—Eddie Rickenbacker in the airline industry, Jimmy Doolittle as head of Shell Oil's aviation department after graduate work at MIT. More broadly, because the officer corps of airmen had been so small before the war and then swamped with demands for expansion, it was forced after 1940 to recruit heavily from the ranks of civilian talent and to turn to private industry for help. This was the case, for example, in organizing a worldwide military air transport system, whose development the airline industry assisted, seeing peacetime advantages in doing so.  Even in rarefied areas of strategy much the same thing happened. Lacking its own intelligence staff, the prewar Air Corps had never examined in depth what target systems of any enemy would be the most vulnerable to destruction. For that reason, in December 1942 Arnold authorized a Committee of Operations Analysts, its members mostly civilians, to supplement the air staff's efforts in that regard. A MacArthur or an Eisenhower rarely had to enlist civilian help to decide which island to take or what part of France to invade—for those decisions ample precedent and talent