entless determination.”22 But pending such agreement, whatever success the AAF was to achieve had to be largely independent of the British effort.  1943-44: THE RETURN OF BATTLE  Eaker sought to get it by striking Germany’s bottleneck industries, in line with the classic precepts of American bombing doctrine. Unable to persuade Harris to undertake such a campaign, some British experts welcomed Eaker’s effort. Even Harris, although unsympathetic to American methods, promised that if diversions could be stopped, “we can push Germany over by bombing this year.” Now, too, Eaker had a respectable force—three hundred or more bombers could be sent out with some regularity, and only shortages of crews prevented a higher rate of attack. He was also running out of excuses acceptable to Arnold for failing to make effective attacks on Germany. Curtis LeMay, Eaker’s most promising combat commander, later wrote with typical sarcasm that the new offensive “was the outgrowth of a search by those intellectual souls in Plans and Intelligence to find an easy way of winning the war in Europe. That’s just about like searching for the Fountain of Youth—there is no such thing; never was.” But the doctrine behind the summer offensive had been the airmen’s own creation. Combined with political pressures, it led Eaker, who earlier had expanded his operations cautiously, to campaign recklessly.23  From late July through much of October, Eaker’s bombers flew in desperate assaults on German factories, particularly those supplying the Luftwaffe fighter force. On August 17 came the first of two peak efforts. Divided into two forces, 376 B-17s were to strike far into Germany, LeMay’s group at the Messerschmitt factory at Regensburg, another at the ball-bearing complex at Schweinfurt. The two forces were to be synchronized to divide and confuse enemy fighters, LeMay’s to go in first, then fly across the Alps to a base in North Africa. But because of bad weather LeMay’s bombers went on alone, bereft