l, and those who were mostly had fallen from the ranks. Arnold had the doctrinal flexibility to adjust to the shifting strategies of the war. He owed his pre- eminence not to strategic imagination but to the energy with which he prepared his organization for war and lashed it into operation.  In this regard, Arnold and LeMay resembled the outstanding American military figures of the war, General George C. Marshall and General Dwight Eisenhower, whose greatest talents lay in organization and diplomacy. The airmen differed from the army generals in one important way, however. Marshall and Eisenhower knew history, and by virtue of long association with military and political leaders, they understood politics. They preferred, as the deepest traditions of American civil-military relations taught them, to ground their decisions in arguments from military utility; but they comprehended Clausewitz’s precepts about war as an extension of politics, and they willingly responded when civil authority altered strategy to fit political needs.  Arnold and LeMay rarely thought to invoke Clausewitz—or Grant and Sherman. They had defined their service and their careers against military tradition, both doctrinal and ritualistic, and were contemptuous of standard operating procedure. LeMay disdained the conventions of military dress, acknowledgment of superiors, and close-order drill and delighted in the air force’s “reputation for sloppy uniforms, slatternly salutes, and general shoddiness,” practices which indeed had official sanction in air force policy.” Disinterest in military tradition and in strategic doctrine went hand in hand. When LeMay and Arnold wrote their memoirs, neither said much about strategy; their memoirs faithfully reflected the focus of their wartime experience.  Similarly, LeMay and Arnold lacked a strong sense of the political and ideological meaning of war, the one being fought in 1944 or the ones that might come in the future. Fascism, genocide, hegemony, freed