le in more sophisticated ways. A cohort of officers had a decade or two of experience in aviation and had passed beyond the youthful stage of infatuation with the joys of flying. The Air Corps Tactical School had established a body of literature and a tradition of theorizing about aviation. Mitchell’s fate had taught airmen that glamorous stunts and daring pronouncements were insufficient to achieve recognition of air power.  The new doctrine of precision bombing was the product of their efforts and the vehicle of their ambitions. Briefly, airmen, especially at the tactical school, argued that strategic air power could contribute to victory or secure it by attacks on the enemy state, especially its economic institutions. These attacks need not be indiscriminate, indeed should be targeted at only a few key components whose destruction would disrupt the functioning of the entire state. The enemy’s will or capacity to fight would then collapse.  Americans took the lead in developing daylight precision bombing for reasons historians have been hard pressed to identify. Perhaps, it has been argued, they drew on an American tradition of technical elegance—a dubious explanation, inasmuch as American technology had usually been geared more to volume than precision, and other nations with a tradition of technical elegance, such as the Germans, did not develop the same doctrine of bombing. Perhaps strategic geography played a role, inasmuch as years of defending military aviation as a weapon for intercepting ships on trackless oceans placed a high premium on navigational and bombing accuracy. Technological advances in the 1930s at least made the new doctrine more plausible. New bombsights and bombers—first the B-10, then the four-engined B-17, with its bristling armament and its long range of twenty-four hundred miles*—made accurate penetration deep into enemy territory seem possible. But airmen began formulating precision bombing doctrine before 1935, when the first B-17 flew