oted by one authority, whereby nations “whose policy was  Page 67 of 368 16%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  cities only insofar as the corrupt Nationalist government had failed to protect its people. “wholesale t bombing for sheer terrorism would bea costly, worthless gesture,” he generalized; ‘ “it is a political catchword to scare you, but you won’t find it in the militarist’s practical handbook.” From the Council on Foreign Relations came speculation in 1938 that Japan’s military leaders “may have discovered that indiscriminate bombings were defeating their purpose by arousing the Chinese to more determined efforts.”58  Few observers, whether skeptical or alarmist about the possibility of air war on cities, minimized the horror of the attacks they described or entirely ruled out their occurrence in future wars. But most played down their decisiveness and therefore, by implication or assertion, the likelihood that they would be employed in the future. Spain, Fortune noted, was perhaps “too Spanish” to prove a great deal, but it still indicated the failure of Douhet’s theory. Only the fascist bombing of Guernica and Barcelona disturbed this prevailing line of argument. A typical conclusion was to admit that there might be another “Guernica in another major.war” but to emphasize “the stupidity of the fascist military mind.”52  At the same time, it is true, the media gave wide coverage to the air raid preparations of the major European countries, especially in the months before and after Munich. Describing massive plans for evacuation of cities, shelter-building, and gas mask distribution, they conveyed the imminence of air war and the magnitude of hysteria abroad about it. But many writers emphasized the pol- itical rather than the military dimensions of air raid precautions. “When you go to London you forget about war,” one account began, suggesting the sense of unreality in British air raids preparations. Another writer went so far as