ally, making decisions on the basis of operational necessity made sense only if it contributed to winning the war, and doing so at less cost. Often neither was the case. A classic example was the British bombing of Lubeck in 1942, a city almost devoid of military or economic importance but so densely built up that it made an ideal target. As Max Hastings has written, it “did not attract the attention of the bombers because it was important, but became important because it could be bombed.”*? Furthermore, such practices continued long past the point where operational necessity still governed. In the British case, Harris’s city-destroying campaign was sustained, albeit over considerable opposition, long after the RAF had developed methods of navigation and targeting permitting far more precise attacks on selected economic and military objectives. In the American case, the campaign from China bases continued until January 1945 despite overwhelming evidence of its futil- itv and the availabilitv of Marianas hases far sunerior in onerational terms.  Page 172 of 368 40%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON apocalypse, now carrying it out, the bomber still elicited those reactions it had before the war and would after it: the twin temptations to employ it and look away from it.  When the war was just over, Liddell Hart postulated that in warfare  aggressors—unless they are merely barbaric hordes—tend to rely on improved use of conventional weapons, and to avoid widespread destruction, whereas the incensed victims of aggression tend to be far more reckless. That is a natural tendency—because aggressors are calculating. They plan to achieve their gains with the least possible damage, both to themselves and to their acquisitions, whereas the vic- tims of aggression are driven by an uncontrollable impulse to hit back regardless of the consequences.5=  Liddell Hart wrote before the shattering of myths about the coolly calculating Nazi regime—which in fact