tractions. Its promise to reduce or end bloodletting on the ground had been an even stronger attraction after World War I. The moral and imaginative effort required to bridge the gap between promise and reality had always been immense. If people in the relative luxury of peace could not reconcile their benign and horrific images of air war, they were hardly more likely to do so in the maw of war.  THE IMPORTANCE OF AWARENESS  Casual attitudes certainly helped Americans to accept bombing, but the case can be made that they did little to shape the actual course of bombing. The example of the British, so terribly knowledgeable about air war but so bent on unleashing the bomber’s fury against German cities, apparently strengthens that case. If Americans had known more and confronted better what they did know, they might not have objected more. Even if they had, their government might have followed the same course.  Did American leaders fashion that course partly in response to public opinion? Direct evidence is, not surprisingly, slight, though more abundant regarding the Pacific war. Yet public pressures did not need to be overt, or overtly recorded, to be felt. They needed little restatement in part because they had been felt keenly by men like Marshall and Roosevelt even before Pearl Harbor—by then, they had already anticipated wartime pressures and come to share many of the assumptions behind them. After December 7, public opinion was evident in the wide attention given to the prophets of victory through air power, in the applause for the Doolittle raid and early Anglo-American efforts against Germany, and in fears expressed about mounting American casualties. National leaders shared those fears. According to Averell Harriman, “Roosevelt was very much affected by World War I” and “had a horror of American troops landing again on the continent and becoming involved in...trench warfare with all its appalling losses.” Marshall, himself acutely sensitive to casualty fig