, armed forces could serve national policy in three ways: by preserving “national existence” (an obvious function), by assisting “the active acquisition of foreign territory” (ruled out by national repudiation of territorial imperialism), and by “the coercion of enemy nations whose policies were in conflict with our own.” That coercion might be necessary to protect American economic and political interests abroad, and air power held the promise of coercive power without deploying large armies of occupation which antagonized foreign subjects and drained national resources. The components of this argument for air power were scattered about in Air Corps doctrine but were never convincingly assembled. Airmen, like other officers, routinely identified economic conflict as a prime cause of war. But their dominant focus remained on how to fight wars, not on what a later generation would call politico- military strategy. Then too, some officers rightly doubted whether Americans who preferred their causes to be moral would regard economic interests as worth defending through war. Despite sug- gestive comments earlier by Mitchell and now by younger officers, no one articulated a vision of air power as the instrument of American economic hegemony.23  Thus Roosevelt’s ideas on the diplomatic counterweight that air power might provide were echoed in the Air Corps, particularly among big-bomber advocates, but not strongly enough to capture Roosevelt’s attention. He formed no alliance with the bomber enthusiasts, probably as yet unfamiliar with their ideas.34 Roosevelt also did not enter the continuing fray within the War Department over production of long-range bombers. Aided by Marshall, the Air Corps’ bomber advocates did reverse War Secretary Woodring’s earlier decision to eliminate heavy bombers entirely from Air Corps procurement. Two hundred fifty Flying Fortresses were included in the January 1939 program for a fifty-five-hundred-plane air force. But actual orders were lim