g the scantiness of the data on which such speculation rests. But even those—perhaps the vast majority—who felt grave doubts about perfecting the technology of death had ways to ward off those doubts. Trivializing language was one means—the bomb could be regarded as a mere device, a “gadget” (not a term merely serving the needs of security, since some wartime code names did connote the grandness of aspirations—OVERLORD for the Normandy invasion). Destructive intentions could be denied. “The bomb will never be dropped on people,” Ernest Lawrence reportedly said. “As soon as we get it, we'll use it only to dictate terms of peace.”52 Here was an echo of hopes that had reverberated through decades of effort to perfect the aerial bomber.  By defining their work as a kind of fail-safe effort against the possibility of a Nazi bomb, scientists also maintained the illusion of benign purposes. At the time of the Trinity test, Samuel Allison offered James Conant his belated realization: “They’re going to take this thing over and fry hundreds of Japanese!” Somehow, he had believed until then that it would be otherwise. Oppenheimer kept doubt at bay in different ways. Trinity “betokened a greater explosion to come—one that would shake mankind free from parochialism and war.” Oppenheimer, like many scientists, also preserved an image of his own restraint and humaneness by measuring these virtues against the aggressive designs attributed to the military. He wanted the bomb made and tested, said a colleague, so that it would not “become a secret of the military which they could use to control the government with after the war.” The running battle with General Leslie Groves and the military command engaged in by some scientists reinforced the scientists’ sense of moral and intellectual superiority. For some, too, not even this war shattered their faith in an international community of science rescuing the world from stubborn nationalism.  But the most powerful protection against exp