f personified resistance, and he communicated the less evident attractions of air war: the awe it inspired, the rallying of the spirit it induced, the national bonding it forged. “There’s almost a small-town atmosphere about the place,” Murrow reported from London. “I’ve even heard a conversation between total strangers in a railway car—something which was unthinkable in peacetime.” He concluded that “class distinction” crumbled “in an air-raid shelter at three o’clock in the morning.” Reporting the conviction that England would survive, Murrow unquestionably informed Americans. But to Murrow, “there are no words to describe the thing that is happening.” If much of his reporting belied that claim, reticence still governed. He preferred to “talk about the people underground,” about the frightened and the brave, the dislocated and the determined, almost never the dead and the wounded.  Murrow’s message was hopeful. Night bombing was “serious and sensational. It makes headlines, kills people, and smashes property; but it doesn’t win wars. It may be safely presumed that the Germans know... that several days of terror bombing will not cause this country to collapse.” The implicit message was that air war against England, like that waged earlier against Spain and China, had proved its futility as well as its barbarism. It was the fascists’ method of war, terrible but hardly the wave of the future. On the few occasions he mentioned Britain's efforts to reply in kind, his reporting was perfunctory, with a passing reference to the necessity of “fanaticism.” Or he described the RAF bomber pilot visiting London’s ruins “who had been over Germany so many times... and said: ‘I’ve seen enough of this. I hope we haven’t been doing the same thing in the Ruhr and Rhineland for the last three months.” The RAF, Murrow suggested, bombed targets, not people.48  The print media often reinforced these hopeful messages about the blitz. They were implied in a cautious, sophisticated study t