omised a quick payoff for the airman because American business looked to him more than to other servicemen as the best source of postwar talent. Air force personnel constituted “an ivory hunter’s game preserve” for the businessman, and the AAF veteran would go into the airline industry and indeed all forms of enterprise, his preferences having “a great deal to do with the character of U. S. business ten and twenty years from now.” In part because of this promised payoff, airmen were more content with their assignments, less desirous of transfer to other duties than other servicemen.88  The airman’s link with civilian business and technology was also tightened by methods and sources of air force recruitment and by the AAF’s reliance on civilian institutions for training and logistical support. Shortages of permanent military personnel and facilities had led it, well before Pearl Harbor, to turn to civilian “contract” schools to provide primary training for pilots and other flying personnel as well as for many technical specialties. The AAF gradually took over or phased out most of the contract schools but not before thousands of pilots received their first instruction from civilians; other flying personnel were trained at institutions like the navigation school operated by Pan American Airways. The influence of a technical model for military service could also be meas- ured in the declining place of military drill and other forms of traditional military training.®?  Page 212 of 368 49%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  LELILId, LAL dil LULLE ALLIIUDSL LiveLteou ule PYG UL LLC ALilly. AWALELLEDSDS UL PLEDLIBE Wad CLILUIAICEU VY LIE LAVULADIE LITALINICLIL, LAP PLUIIULIVIL, di1U BELICLUUS AWadLUDd ALIU UCLULALIUINDS aililiel Leceiveu, and by the AAF’s success in public relations.8&  Of course status could inspire resentment. Other servicemen sometimes thought themselves slighted. Editorials like the New York Daily News’s “Rickenbacker Didn’t G