lly implicit, as when it ran photographs of Japanese dead incinerated in the great Tokyo earthquake and fire of 1923. The photographs at least made the point that Japanese cities would be easy targets for firebombing. Indeed, Life’s photographs relating to the Pacific war were generally more graphic and suggestive than those for Europe. Yet its characterizations of the Japanese enemy gradually became more complex. Perhaps the Japanese saw human life as “essentially cheap” because of horrible experiences like the 1923 fire as much as because of “the tradition of the Samurai.” In a lavish photographic essay that appeared in September 1944, Life noted that “war is the closest of all relationships between nations,” and as if to emphasize the common humanity of the warring cultures, its photos of Japanese in everyday tasks, even the sheer vividness of these color photographs, humanized an enemy once regarded only as bucktoothed, ugly, and menacing.52  But these changes came only after a deluge of propaganda, often crudely racist, about the Japanese. Any doubts they raised about the utility and morality of the Allied bombing effort arose too late to affect a momentum of effort by 1944 fully accelerated. Similarly, in England a lively debate developed only after the RAF’s bombing was already reaching its wartime peak. The debate over air power—itself a debate on limited terms—had already receded, and naval and ground operations were crowding the air war off the front pages. In sum, what Americans could learn from the media about the air war was not always blindly praiseworthy of bombing or simplistically degrading of the enemy, but even a limited appreciation of the war’s complexity came mostly after the course of bombing was already set.  THE LIMITS OF CONTROVERSY  Public opinion polls, which might have clarified public debate, were surprisingly uninstructive. True, along with much subjective evidence they indicated consistent if not clear-cut distinctions between views o