ey learned into their strategic plans.  The best that might be said is that air officers, despite or because of their naivete, did no worse than officers more experienced in Far Eastern relations. By the time the bombing began, official policy was rightfully cautious about the psychological intimidation it might inflict. Japanese air raid protection was known to be weak, but the bomber commanders of the Twentieth Air Force were instructed to question the claim that “in the event of bombing, collapse will be rapid.” The airmen who fought the Japanese had learned the hard way to discount coarse stereotypes about how “Japan-  aca airnlanac urara mada ait nf hambhan and nanar” and ta racard tha Tananaca 20 9 farmidahla if nat altnacathar eamnrahancihla anamy Drauwrar hanac far dariciva newehalacical affacte fram hamhinag  Page 244 of 368 56%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON PULILY tlAKELS. UL LUULDSE, LIE ISSUE Wadd Lilld ly LIE PLESIUELILS LU UELIUE. DUL KUUDEVELL Ld LELY LUUICALEU 1d VIEWS—IL 1d UUUULLUL Lid L 11d SUVULULIALED EVEL! LItdL ly LidteU Lie IddUEDd LOL Liiti—aiiu ue  hardly prepared the ground of public opinion by claiming that “we can force the Japanese to unconditional surrender or to national suicide much more rapidly than has been thought possible.”22  The air force entered this uncharted jungle of bureaucratic and policy conflicts the least equipped of the three services even to see it, much less to mark a course. In its doctrine, the connection between bombing and surrender had rarely moved beyond the level of assumption. By background, air officers were especially insular—the least traveled, the most poorly versed in language skills and direct knowledge of enemy cultures. Organizationally the AAF had never gone through the experience of securing a surrender; nor did it have the intelligence apparatus of the army and navy for studying the enemy. Responsibility for reading the enemy’s mind and formulating a surrender strateg