e ones against various kinds of bombing, plus visionary schemes to create an international air force—all taxed the patience and ingenuity of diplomats. The bomber, one nation’s means of defense, was another’s way to attack. Eager to ban the bomber from Europe, England still wanted it to police the empire. The technical obstacles to inspection and enforcement were vexatious, above all because it was too easy to convert airliners to bombers—agreement to limit naval arms faced no similar barrier. Of course, banning civilian aviation was impossible, while proposals to internationalize or cartelize it foundered on commercial jealousies and on the league's weakness.  Successes were few and limited in scope. The most drastic restriction was the ban on German military aviation written into the Versailles Treaty. The most famous disarmament gathering, the Washington Conference on the Limitation of Arms in 1921-22, established such high ceilings on aircraft carriers that it did more to promote than to retard their development. The Washington dele- gations threw up their hands at devising a formula for restricting the numbers, types, or bombing methods of aircraft, passing that thankless task on to jurists at the Hague court—they drafted some sensible rules, which had not gained the force of international law when war broke out in 1939. A lengthy effort at Geneva in 1932 to agree upon restrictions or rules ended in failure, notwithstanding President Herbert Hoover’s dramatic proposal to abolish all offensive weapons. As for chemical and bacteriological warfare, a danger so intertwined with the aerial menace, the major powers followed much the same course. Vague restrictions were formulated at Versailles and Washington and more severe ones were written into the Geneva protocols hammered out in 1925, but these were not to take effect until ratified by the home governments of the contracting powers, which often qualified their acceptance or (in the case of the United States and J