, Lang- don-Davies argued, it was only because the German and Italian masterminds of the attack cut it short lest they reveal to the world the secret of their new technique of war.*>  In general, however, contemporary experiences altered few positions. Prophets found the evidence necessary to sustain their arguments or merely ruled the record before 1939 too inconclusive to merit much attention, while skeptics usually had their doubts reinforced. Louis Fischer, reporting admiringly on how “Madrid Keeps Its Nerve,” described how bombing stiffened the morale of the Loyalists and convinced them of the rebels’ desperation.5* In the Saturday Evening Post, an American army officer observed that bombing had proven “disappointing to the theorists of peacetime.” When Franco’s rebels bombed Madrid, “Did the Madrilefios sue for peace? No, they shook futile fists at the murderers in the sky and muttered, ‘Swine.”” His conclusion: “Terrorism from the air has been tried and found wanting. Bombing, far from softening the civil will, hardens it.” Aviation, the army man argued unsurprisingly, had scored its greatest success in close support of infantry operations.*”  Similar conclusions were usually drawn from China. An indignant editorial in the New York Times judged Japanese bombing of Chinese cities “as stupid as it is brutal,” doubting that “hundreds of headless coolies cluttering the debris-littered streets of Canton” did anything to “impair the strength of China’s arms.” One popular writer argued that air power had been effective against Chinese cities only insofar as the corrupt Nationalist government had failed to protect its people. “Wholesale bombing for sheer terrorism would be a costly, worthless gesture,” he generalized; “it is a political catchword to scare you, but you won’t find it in the militarist’s practical handbook.” From the Council on Foreign Relations came speculation in 1938 that Japan’s military leaders “may have discovered that indiscriminate bombings were