rce was alert to any signs that the criticism it feared after the Dresden raids might reappear regarding Tokyo. Already on March 11, as the chief public relations officer in Washington noted, “Some speculation [has] begun here on shift from selected military targets to area bombing.” The next day, McKelway on Guam was informed that “commentators [were] having [a] field day searching implications ... which imply this is area bombing and speculating whether this means departure from policy of precision bombing.” McKelway was quickly in- structed to counteract “editorial comment ... about blanket incendiarv attacks unon cities. ... Guard against anvone stating this is area hombing.”113  Page 284 of 368 65%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON irony both to firebombing and nuclear attacks: “To expunge a tew people to stop a war right at the start is unacceptable. Or atew hundred people, or a tew thousand. Or—go all out on it—a tew hundred  thousand. But over a long period of time, wearily killing them off, killing millions under the most horrible circumstances—That is acceptable.” A homely analogy made his point better: “I think now of that elderly wheeze about the stupid man who was not basically cruel—he was just well-meaning. The guy who cut off the dog’s tail an inch at a time so that it wouldn’t hurt so much.”102  Not a bad argument—but there is no evidence that LeMay made it in 1945. He never thought through whether the only alternative to firing Japan’s cities was to kill off its population an inch at a time, particularly when the enemy was already deeply wounded, not fresh and girded for protracted war. In truth, though he needed a moral argument to still his conscience, he probably rebelled against the demand to have to make it. For a soldier “to worry about the morality of what we were doing—Nuts. A soldier has to fight. We fought. If we accomplished the job in any given battle without exterminating too many of our own folks, we consider