lnerability to bombing from the Aleutians, but the claim lacks verification. Roosevelt had previously been in touch with Mitchell, but he was a committed navalist, on record as condemning Mitchell’s views and later as declaring chemical warfare “inhuman and contrary to what modern civilization should stand for.” In 1937 and 1938, he had the State Department condemn Japanese bombing of civilians in China as “barbarous” violations of the “elementarv vrincivles” of modern moralitv. Secretarv of State Cordell Hull also arranged an informal embargo on the sale of aviation  Page 57 of 368 14%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON did not entirely divorce the two, but 1t pushed terror so tar into the background, placed so much distance between the act and the result, that 1t had much the same ettect. Like the strategy of economic  blockade practiced by both English and Germans in World War I, it proposed to attack the enemy population indirectly, by disrupting and starving it rather than by blasting and burning. But if no quick victory came and the enemy’s will remained the objective, then airmen might have to strike at it through systematic rather than selective destruction, that is, by direct attacks on the civilian popula- tion. If that possibility remained alive, then both the moral and practical case for precision bombing became vastly more problematic.  Mostly out of view, these tensions and potentialities in the theory of air power emerged more starkly in contemplation of war with Japan. His court-martial having cut the last bonds of discretion, Mitchell gave such contemplation a more fanciful and menacing twist than he had in the 1920s. Now he regarded American action in the Far East as an instrument of American expansion. “It is westward that our course of empire will take its way,” he grandly pronounced. He also portrayed Japan as scheming to attack not only American possessions but the United States itself, construct- ing secret “air fortre