all may have come as a relief to Roosevelt and his advisors. Air war “had assumed, in their eyes, as in everyone else’s, a shape more dreadful than was to be justified by the event. All sorts of catastrophic happenings—great air raids over Paris and London, panics in the markets, death and destruction on the wholesale plan—were momentarily expected.” But the long-feared knockout blow did not materialize.3®  Roosevelt requested the belligerents to avoid bombing open towns. Britain, France, and Germany, all too uncertain of their capabilities to take the first plunge, happily agreed. He authorized small increases in the armed forces. But he did not focus on air power as he had a year earlier, instead turning toward revisions in the neutrality laws that would permit belligerents to purchase by “cash and carry.” He also reportedly came down hard on the War Department when he learned of its planning to equip an expeditionary force, insisting that “we won’t send troops abroad. We need only think of defending this hemisphere.” Such a statement hardly ruled out eventually “assisting the democracies with our Navy and Air Force,” as reporters paraphrased the president’s thinking, but it hardly emboldened planners either. Predictably, Air Corps officials continued to work the rich vein of hemisphere defense in defending appropriations for long-range bombers.?2  “FIFTY THOUSAND PLANES A YEAR”  Germany’s dramatic breakthrough in France in May 1940 spurred Roosevelt to a breakthrough of his own in air policy. For the first time in over a year, he gave air power top priority, now expressing it in terms so grandiose that they dwarfed his earlier statements. Addressing a joint session of Congress on May 16, Roosevelt called for a production capacity of “at least 50,000 planes a year,” a standing force of naval and military aircraft of the same size, and renewed congressional commitment to the sale of aircraft to Britain and France. Calculated to shock Americans into rethinking their