r oper- ations. It was a formula sufficiently broad to paper over much disagreement and avert most open conflict.  But it still simmered. The formula threatened the AAF’s hope to deliver the long-promised decisive blow. In 1942, Arnold still clung to that hope, trying through Harry Hopkins to reach Roosevelt, complaining of “the failure of the democracies to recognize any of those simple facts” about the dangers of dispersing bombers to ground commanders, promising “a real break in [German] morale” with heavier bombing, and finally pleading directly to the president that “air action ... properly supported and extended by the action of surface forces will win the war.” Arnold’s civilian superiors, Stimson and Lovett, were offering much the same message in 1942. For his part, Hopkins was a sympathetic recipient of that message, deriving “thrill and encouragement” from the RAF’s first great raids on German cities, whose “inevitable destruction” he eagerly awaited. Nor did Roosevelt disagree in principle with Arnold, but he also wanted operations on the ground started.®  The other conflict involved the relative merits of British night area and American daylight precision bombing. In dramatic, one-thousand-bomber raids, the RAF Bomber Command turned against German cities in the spring of 1942. Its head, Arthur Harris, sought to destroy German industrial and urban life as well as to silence his critics at home. American airmen suspected the British approach was wasteful and ineffective, but they were not inclined to press criticism of men with far more experience—to Eaker, Harris was “the senior member in our firm’”2—as long as Americans were allowed to test their own methods. Difference was in any event transformed into virtue: the two efforts would supposedly complement rather than compete with each other.  With the major strategic differences postponed or papered over, the shape of the American bombing effort often emerged indirectly in decisions about production, logi