nerves. Dislocation of the economy superseded dismemberment of the society but with the same end in view, the destruction of the will to fight.  The similarity in objectives was important. Later, in World War II, much was made about a distinction between British night bombing to terrorize German cities and American daylight precision bombing designed to immobilize the enemy’s war-making capacity. In 1945, when Americans joined the British in area bombing, much was made of the collapse of this distinction. However, although the distinction was real, it had never been clearly drawn in American doctrine. In the 1930s, Americans never decisively opted for the enemy’s war-making capacity as their objective. They proposed to attack the enemy’s will, only by more humane and economical methods. In Mitchell’s curious distinction, which found its way into Air Corps doctrine in 1926, air attack was “a method of imposing will by terrorizing the whole population . . . while conserving life and property to the greatest extent.” Later the Air Corps discreetly dropped references to “terrorizing” the enemy but still listed “attacks to intimidate civil populations” among its objectives in official doctrine and hinted at such attacks in public statements.12  Neither their own consciences nor the revulsion against the past war’s carnage shared by many Americans permitted the airmen to be amoral technicians. As in the writings of Douhet, Liddell Hart, and Mitchell, arguments for air power carried a strong if superficial moral justification. If American airmen advanced that justification less explicitly in the 1930s, it was in part because they were largely speaking to each other, not yet urged in public to defend themselves. In 1934, a retired air officer stressed how the actual damage that gas war “can do to civilians is slight in comparison with the terror that it is capable of spreading,” and he compared this mode of war with the ones practiced in World War I: “Which method then actu