nated threats might follow any of several possible sequences.  The strong possibility exists that few American leaders wanted to wait. Perhaps they felt that immediate use of the bomb was justified because no one could be sure of when Stalin would enter until he did so, but the second atomic attack on Nagasaki after Russian entry suggests that assurance on this score would have made little difference. They resisted delay less because they thought they could keep Stalin from grabbing what he wanted (he would grab no matter what the timetable) than because they wished to limit the Russian claim to a role in securing Japan’s defeat.  Even that explanation of American behavior is incomplete, however. Had preemption of Russian entry been an overriding objective, Truman and his aides would have more willingly pursued the assurances on the throne and hesitated less about them in the final moment. Even men who shared similar suspicions of Soviet ambitions—Grew and Byrnes are the most notable examples—could not agree about the content of American messages to Japan. Timing the bomb’s use to come after Soviet entry was not rejected late in July, but rather it was never seriously considered before then. The timing of the bomb’s use always had been dictated by operational considerations—when it was ready—irrespective of other threats to Japan that might be applied. Moreover, just as no one could predict that the bomb would end the war quickly, no one could be certain that Russian entry would do so. Even Marshall had hedged his bets: it would be “decisive . . . at that time or shortly thereafter if we land in Japan.” In that climate of uncertainty, it seemed to make little sense to delay on either option, atomic bombing or Russian intervention. And there were palpable risks in forestalling the latter. If then the bomb failed quickly to win the war and if word later leaked out that the war had been prolonged because Americans delayed Russian entry—all this allowing the Russians of