erprise of such importance that the younger scientists experienced, and by the intellectually charged atmosphere Oppenheimer provided. Freeman Dyson later discovered that “they did not just build the bomb. They enjoyed building it,” their pleasure, Dyson believed, the source of the guilt some felt more than the destruction their work caused. But doubt rarely emerged among the scientists until their deeds were done. While the war went on, their mentality resembled the one described by Dwight MacDonald, and prevailing as well in the establishment of nonnuclear scientists, officers, and civilian experts. For most of them, destruction was something they produced, not something they did. Their own president had preferred to view the war in those terms. Others ably acted upon it.®!  THE WARRIORS  Did the men in American warplanes also regard the war as a matter of production and technique rather than destruction and killing? The question may seem silly, for obviously these men killed and were often themselves killed. Far from being able to separate means and ends, they were the human connection between them. The dangers they faced were awesome, their losses sometimes stagger- ing, though also wildly varying. A closer look, however, suggests that even the warriors often saw the perfection of technique as more important than the tasks of killing.  It is true, of course, that army fliers ran enormous risks. The Army Air Forces, its mean wartime strength one-fourth of the total army, took only about one-ninth of the army’s battle casualties. But breaking down that large figure better reveals the risks airmen faced, for it includes the great number of men injured in combat, the one risk which was lower for airmen. They ran almost the same risks as others in the army of being killed, however, suffering 52,173 of the 291,557 battle deaths inflicted on all Americans during the war (the RAF lost 70,253 in operations, 47,268 in Bomber Command). Since combat personnel comprised a sm