e air force which its wartime success was to enhance. If Arnold lacked a strong conception of strategy and national interests, he had foresight into the political and technological requirements of the postwar air force. By the fall of 1944, two closely related objectives guided him in his quest to make the air force the dominant arm of the peacetime military establishment: the presentation of a favorable image of the air force to politicians and public and the harnessing of civilian expertise to the development of future military technologies. Others joined him in these efforts, although Arnold often set their tone.  The air force’s efforts at self-promotion, long intense but rarely subtle, gained a sophistication in 1943 and 1944 for which its civilian leadership was partly responsible. Secretary of War Stimson and Robert Lovett, the assistant secretary for air, warned against a hard-sell campaign that might backfire against the air force by revealing its ambitions too baldly and by promising more than the air force could deliver. Lovett wanted “a conservative and constructive educational campaign.” He shifted emphasis in public relations from extravagant pronouncements by airmen to the careful shaping of media reporting.  The shift in tactics did not preclude muscular methods, but they were now employed behind the scenes. Angered by Newsweek’s treatment of the Eighth Air Force in 1943, Lovett turned to Averell Harriman, whose brother was Lovett’s partner at Brown Brothers and a director of Newsweek. Harriman’s response was encouraging. “I have not supported Newsweek for 10 years through its grave difficulties to allow our hired men to use the magazine to express their narrow, uninformed or insidious ideas.” If persuasion would not change the magazine’s tune, Harriman gave his brother “my full authority to use any strong arm measures,” including forcing out Newsweek's other directors. Lovett also exploited other contacts with eastern financial and publishing elites