er 14 conference in a notable confrontation in which Roosevelt, for the first and last time, addressed the austere general as George. In the following weeks Marshall developed his own methods for balancing aerial rearma- ment against the other needs of the army, at a cost of some $2 billion, quadruple the figure Roosevelt had in mind. Rarely invited to the councils of diplomacy, painfully remembering the disasters of mobilization in 1917, he and other military officers saw their job as preparing to fight, not as waging a diplomatic war of nerves, though no more than other Americans did they believe that fighting was certain to occur. Airplanes without trained fliers, good facilities, and an effective ground army could not fight.  But Marshall and the army also met Roosevelt on his own ground, challenging his belief in the deterrent value of a shop-window air force. “Airplanes will not impress foreign leaders and their general staffs,” wrote Marshall's superior. “The absence or weakness in the other two elements required to make an effective air force—facilities and skilled personnel—will be known and accurately evaluated by potential enemies.” Marshall increased the pressure on Roosevelt by enlisting his old mentor, John J. Pershing, to plead with the president for a balanced force. Like Arnold, he also worked on the president through an unlikely comrade, Harry Hopkins.25  Eventually Roosevelt altered his original proposal. He complained to his military advisors that he “had sought $500,000,000 worth of airplanes, and he was being offered everything except airplanes.” He would not accept a figure of $2 billion for rearmament. But he revised the breakdown of the $500 million figure so that it included $200 million for “non-air armaments” and targeted $120 million for the logistical and training needs of the Air Corps. That left only $180 million for airplanes—a staggering sum by contemporary standards but enough for just 3,032 new planes (only half of them combat typ