ecisely because the “birds of hell” would bring “shrieks of agony” and leave men “crazed with fear,” they would also leave “the capital of a great nation, a great army, costly defenses and armament, all at the mercy of few hundred bird men.” Airplanes, it was hoped, might end “war as we had known it.” The sight, the sound, even the prospect of aeronautical terrors might make nations end war speedily or capitulate before war began or even banish war altogether. Such predictions shaded off into another category of prophecy, one that saw a less direct but no less benign implication for war in the airplane’s advent. Stefan Zweig saw in Blériot’s flight the seeds of “a European community spirit, a European national consciousness” making national frontiers “useless” because “the spirit of these times .. . visibly seeks unity and world brotherhood!” In the United States, the romanticism of other possibilities was even more fervid. Poets extolled aviators as “winged Argonauts of trackless air” whose “Golden Fleece” would be “Man’s Brotherhood.” One American transformed the airplane into “a mechanical messiah whose coming would wondrously transform life and society,” as her vision has been described: it seemed that “the airplane had irrevocably cleaved history into two epochs.” It was even leading to “the emergence of an ’aerial’ person” according to the prominent feminist Charlotte Perkins Gilman.  These were predictions not so much about the impact of the airplane on war or peace as about the expected salutary course of technological progress. People did not look at the airplane and then deduce its impact on human affairs. Rather, they took general propositions about the benefits of technology and applied them as confidently to the imagined airplane as they did to other weapons and inventions—or more confidently, since the airplane was endowed with more virtues. It was as easy for some to prophesy, as Victor Hugo did in 1864, that flying machines would make armies “vanish,