ood out so starkly on photographs and radar scopes, did serve “as a convenient checkpoint for navigators.” But bomber crews had been instructed to avoid hitting the imperial quarters “since the Emperor of Japan is not at present a liability and may later become an asset.”! But both raids were directed at areas adjacent to the imperial grounds. Bombs either fell accidentally into the royal quarters, as some eyewitness accounts suggest, or flames that leaped “like bounding tigers” simply spread there, as the terse official American history implies. Either way the air war now came home to the very seat of imperial authority.2  Of course much else perished in these two nights: shrines and temples, hospitals and factories, citadels of commerce and government and learning. Or, to use the familiar American indices of triumph, over five square miles on the first raid and nearly seventeen on the second night. From the Japanese point of view, perhaps the scales of justice were righted a bit because another inadvertent casualty of the raids was apparently the death of sixty-two imprisoned Allied airmen.3 And yet, just as terror was now delivered more routinely, it was also received more matter-of-factly, without the communal shock felt on March 10 or the same casualties now that the civilian populace had shrunken.  But the men close to the throne, so callous to the mass suffering in previous raids, now flinched even as Tokyo’s masses became more resigned. The emperor, the court, and high officials remained safe in underground shelters. But the sights and sounds of the royal quarters burning offered a profound shock. The marquis Kido, always in close touch with the emperor, recorded the shame of officials, who felt dishonored by this desecration of the imperial grounds. Never before or after—not with the March 10 raid or the atomic bombings, much less the hundreds of other raids—did Kido note more than the barest details of air raids. But on this occasion he carefully accounted