b’s use in that cause was generally taken for granted. Still, the committee considered how the manner of its use would affect the speed with which the war was concluded. In turn, deciding how to employ the bomb sometimes slipped over into pondering whether to use it at all. To that degree, and in that roundabout way, the atomic bomb’s novelty did compel the high-level attention and decisions absent in the recourse to firebombing.  Marshall raised the issue of the atomic bomb’s use on May 29 while consulting with Stimson and McCloy to prepare for the Interim Committee’s meetings. Marshall suggested the bomb’s first use come “against straight military objectives such as a large naval installation.” If that achieved “no complete result,” Marshall wanted “to designate a number of large manufacturing areas from which people would be warned to leave,” without identifying the specific target in advance. “Every effort should be made to keep our record of warning clear. We must offset by such warning methods the opprobrium which might follow from an ill considered employment of such force.” Marshall was suggesting more restraints on the bomb’s use than any other official at his level ever proposed; some of them were consistent with those offered by dissenting scientists. But choosing to regard the bomb’s use as raising moral and political issues beyond his purview as a general, Marshall did not press his argument; McCloy advanced it in modified form at the June 18 meeting with Truman, but Marshall did not support him, deferring instead to contrary recommendations from the Interim Committee.5°  The question of use arose again during a luncheon break in the committee’s long meeting of May 31. Either Ernest Lawrence or Arthur Compton broached the possibility of some sort of demonstration of the weapon short of full use against a city. The question emerged once more during the afternoon’s formal deliberations. Perhaps because Marshall missed the luncheon and the afternoon sessio