success. A renewed effort to streamline target objectives and tighten Anglo-American coordination fell victim to the differing bombing methods of the two air forces and to their wish to continue informal coordination that allowed each largely to go its own way. A truly unified effort threatened to subordinate one part to another. Simplification of priorities made little headway, and interest in a combined command for all Anglo-American strategic air forces was never serious. Finally in February, the two allies revised priorities by providing for “mutually supporting attacks” on the part of the RAF and AAF to be “pursued with relentless determination against the same target areas or systems.”22 These were fine words, and the priority assigned to the German air force was now incontestable, the essential prerequisite for both OVERLORD and further bombing. But no mechanism yet existed to enforce adherence, particularly on the RAF’s part, to stated objectives.  In lieu of such a mechanism, a measure of centralized control emerged only at other levels. A unified command was created for the U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe, placed in the charge of General Carl Spaatz. At the tactical level, where no fiction of complementarity could disguise the need for intimate coordination during the coming invasion, an Allied Expeditionary Air Forces was cre- ated subordinate to Eisenhower, the newly appointed Supreme Commander. The command structure was thus set by the start of 1944, except for temporary alterations dictated by OVERLORD.  Eaker was the victim of this reshuffling. Arnold made him commander of Allied air forces in the Mediterranean—perhaps not a step downward on paper but one which Eaker bitterly resented and contested. Arnold, often brutally blunt, offered him only bureaucratic phrases about “the dictates of world-wide air operations.”33 The official line was that Eisenhower wanted Spaatz with him in England because the two had already worked together so closely, and