e speculation about the manner of death left behind by witnesses and survivors who entered the blackened area. But it is almost a black hole of speculation. The number killed was possibly double the number injured, probably a higher ratio than at Hiroshima and Nagasaki,” suggesting that escape and survival were harder in this conventional raid than in the atomic blasts. Most survivors started their journey to safety already on the fringes of the storm, and accounts of the struggle at its center are few. Furthermore, the Japanese government made few efforts to study the pathology of death and injury, a contrast to German medical resourcefulness that American survey teams later regarded as “almost unbelievable.” Later, the political notoriety, scientific interest, and symbolism attached to Hiroshima and Nagasaki so eclipsed the Tokyo fire raid that far less interest developed in collecting its victims’ recollections and examining their experience.  Eastern Tokyo—some sixteen square miles, a larger area than LeMay had even targeted—was totally burned out. With it perished at least eighty-four thousand people, and probably far more —by some reckonings the highest toll of any air raid, conventional or atomic, during the war or for that matter of any single man-made catastrophe.”¢ Most likely, with many schoolchildren already evacuated and younger males in military service, women and old people suffered grossly disproportionate losses.77  Because the fire burned out so quickly, the carnage was soon visible. A Danish diplomat witnessed “a long procession of silent people, men, women and children,” passing by at dawn, “quiet and forlorn.” “Refugees began to pour in by the hundreds” to a Catholic university campus: “All were silent and calm, but the horror they went through reflected in their faces. ... All the caravans I met had an atmosphere of deep silence about them.” Only a few sounds were to be heard—the coughing and gasping of victims with scarred lungs, the occasiona