n the war itself.2>  Fixing limits on combat service played a major role in the morale of aircrews. The completion of a set tour of missions became their consuming goal. It was one reason they often resisted reporting physical and emotional difficulties, for dropping out of rotation risked diminished status, severance of comradely bonds, and increased danger posed when crewmen unknown to each other worked together. Most important, knowledge that their combat duty was finite gave “the hope of surviving . . . some basis in reality” and helped counteract the acute sense of depression and abandonment that accumulated as comrades were lost and isolation from home increased. It also made airmen, despite the peril they faced, less likely than other army servicemen to regard their work loads as unfair or excessive.2&  The policy of fixed tours profoundly strengthened the task-oriented mentality of bomber crewmen. Many of them “felt that 30 missions was their ’debt to society’—that in order to do their share they must fulfill their ‘contract’ by completing the quota.” They expressed their investment in a “contractual commitment” through their gallows humor: their tendency to regard every man lost on the last five missions as “an unnecessary tragedy” and their practice of forming Lucky Bastard clubs which awarded certificates to crews completing their duty. The contract spelled out their duties but also their rewards—assured status, transfer out of combat duty, the promise of advancement in military or civilian life.”  Sanctioned by the air force, the contractual perception of the airman’s duty strengthened the disjunction between means and ends characteristic of the air war. Duty involved the performance of technical tasks. The ethic was not a military one bound to the achievement of victory as it was for most other servicemen, but a professional one, related of course to war but both more finite than the war and transcending it because so many of the rewards were to carry o