hewing messianic claims for the role of science in decision making and in saving mankind. Instead, in perhaps a reflection of how the engineer’s mentality differed from that of the physicist, he relied on a self- effacing demonstration of how scientific expertise could solve military problems, particularly in bridging the gap between the invention of new devices and their effective use in warfare—the heart of operations research. His methods earned from Stimson, Arnold, and Marshall a trust they did not bestow on more strong-willed scientists. Bowles returned respect in good measure. If Arnold was  n “opportunist” with “the instincts of a lower animal,” insensitive to the issues and nuances of strategy, he was what the air force needed to get a “bunch of overgrown chauffeurs into shape.” Bowles himself was after all an opportunist, though of deft skill rather than brutal force, determined to get on with winning the war, as impatient with questions of strategic theory as he was with the grander philosophizing of some of his scientific colleagues. No wonder, then, that he “loved the old man,” who in turn “had so much faith in me it was dangerous.”43  Bowles brought to his far-flung activities the scientist’s joy in observing and the wonderment of the small-town boy thrown into high-powered circles. He showed few strong feelings about the enemy or the war’s purpose. When he visited Saipan late in the war, he found inspiration in the “spirit of this enterprise, its magnitude and beauty” that carried him “into the realm of enchantment so long as one can throw into the distance the dread and the horror of war.” Despite that horror, there was “the thrill and the satisfaction that real achievement carried with it” and admiration for the nation’s “ability to do on a big scale” and for the “great silence and seriousness of men” taking off in their B-29s to bomb Japan. Untroubled by the technology of war he helped to develop, he did raise for himself one good question about th