irection from the top and little initiative of its own to refine surrender strategy. To the extent that any such strategy emerged at all, it was more the product than the cause of LeMay’s March 10 spectacular. Arnold certainly hoped that bombing alone might end the war, but as usual, his emphasis was on achieving “the maximum weight of effective bombs on Japanese targets” with the intent of destroying “whole industrial cities.” It was left to others to translate that effort into a scheme for victory.138  It was spelled out by Arnold's staff. Further bombing delivered when Germany collapsed might “bring home the futility of continuing the war” to Japan’s masses and leaders. Furthermore,  Page 294 of 368 67%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  out by other anxieties,  Such a claim seems to fly in the face of evidence offered by high officials about the gravity with which they viewed the attainment of victory over Japan. Stimson later testified eloquently to the decisive role the pursuit of victory played in motivating his acceptance of the bomb’s use. Similarly, Truman later wrote that as of May, “the thought now uppermost in my mind was how soon we could wind up the war in the Pacific.” Yet a critical distinction must be made between what was uppermost as a goal and what was paramount as a concern. Neither Stimson nor Truman gave the attainment of victory urgent attention, for victory was assured. Instead, they filled their days with the lengthy and fractious dilemmas arising in Soviet-American relations. Not until May 16, in fact, did Truman even attempt to learn what the military’s plans were for securing victory. Only in June did he and Stimson begin thinking seriously about how to speed victory. As for the bomb in the context of the war with Japan, Truman, as he knew, had inherited such a weighty legacy assuming its use that for him to question it would have required exceptional intellectual and political courage.132  Military officers, h