al during the World War and only wasted military resources and brought on counter-terrorism.” A corollary line of argument was to deflate the threat of gas war by noting its limited utility in the last war and the impossibly large tonnages of gas that would be necessary to achieve decisive success. Puncturing the myth of bomber invincibility was another favorite theme, at times worked out by substituting for it a new myth of uncannily accurate antiaircraft systems employing new devices like the “Sperry-Wilson data computer,” said to compile target data and aim guns instantly. “Perhaps sooner or later the bombing of cities will come to be officially recognized as a form of euthanasia for desperate patriots. That it will ever become a really popular pastime may be seriously doubted.”35  Skeptics reasserted a traditional definition of war objectives and strategy. The trouble with air power, a naval officer wrote, is that it “can take nothing. It can hold nothing. It cannot stand its ground and fight.” A more sophisticated analysis of modern combat in Fortune dismissed prophecies like Douhet’s as “pure romance,” suggesting that no changes in technology had been decisive enough to overshadow traditional forms of warfare. A prominent army general reminded his audience “that every war must be won—finally—by sending men into enemy territory—and holding it.” Mocking the prophets, he concluded: “After Samson smote the Philistines ‘hip and thigh’ and slew a thousand men with the jawbone of an ass, we may guess that some dreamers of that time would have equipped their military forces with asses’ jawbones, exclusively. That would have been a grave mistake then, and it would be now.” Similar sentiments lay at the heart of the 1934 report by a prestigious committee chaired by former Secretary of War Newton Baker, and they ran through a wide range of popular writing. Even after Poland’s fall, Harper’s ran an article entitled “Bombing Cities Won't Win the War” that maintained that “