more than one quarter of the time spent in building a Lancaster bomber... . This being so, a Lancaster has only to go to a German city once to wipe off its own capital cost, and the results of all subse- quent sorties will be clear profit.2®  On occasion, the effort to quantify the air war aroused suspicions, particularly among some professional officers. Reviewing European operations, the Joint Intelligence Committee once stressed that the benefits of bombing “an organic whole” were not measurable by indices of housing burned down and factories destroyed. Hansell warned in the summer of 1944 that in measuring the effectiveness of the AAF, “Mere tonnage of explosives is a fallacious criterion. In the final analysis, the victories are achieved because of the effect produced, not simply because of the effort expended.” As he wrote in his memoirs, however, “statistics of tons of bombs dropped and of sorties flown are easily compiled, seem factual and specific, and are impressive. Photographs of burned-out cities also speak for themselves.” No one successfully challenged the general approach whereby numbers measured results, informed rhetoric, and displaced subjective analysis.32  To be sure, achieving the proper balance between use of hard calculations and entrapment in them was difficult, all the more so because operations research was new and used in such haste. After all, it had flourished in part in response to the carelessness of the subjective claims previously made for air power—hardheaded men would subject them to proper scrutiny. Operations researchers remained properly appalled at the sloppiness of many of the calculations on which bombing proceeded. Concluding his indictment of one set of figures, Landsberg recalled what was easily forgotten: “No matter how efficient the incendiaries are, if the target is not hit, love’s labor is lost.” Bowles, too, became “concerned over the insidious practice in the Air Forces of measuring air activity in terms of bombs dr