t often developed without much attention to its possible role in war. Peaceful uses so meshed with military applications that each often evolved under the cover of the other, in ways familiar from the later evolution of nuclear and space technology. Thus, an understanding of American air power and of the problem of aerial warfare can be achieved only in the context of cultural and intellectual history. The ways people have thought about air power proved so remarkably consistent, despite rapidly changing technology over a half-century, that a mere recital of a particular invention or an individual bombing raid sheds little light on the appeals and uses of air power. The bomber in imagination is the most compelling and revealing story.  Location 64 of 12433 1%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON 24. Illustration of Hiroshima under attack by A. Leydenfrost, in Life, 20 August 1945, 25.  Preface  Four decades after the end of World War II, visible reminders of the bomber’s destructiveness are few: an occasional memorial to the victims of bombing or a ruined building (the Kaiser Wilhelm Church in West Berlin and the Peace Memorial in Hiroshima) preserved as testimony to wartime devastation. Often dwarfed by new construction, these ruins sometimes appear out of place, too incon- sequential as reminders of past fury. In Eastern Europe, the inadequacies of socialist reconstruction perversely enhanced remembrance, for the rubble took decades to clear, but even there the physical testimony has mostly disappeared. What testimony remains is largely implicit: all those shining, rebuilt city centers do remind, in passing, that something else once stood there. Other testimony may be exhumed some day in archeological digs uncovering the unexploded bomb or the foundation of some forgotten building. An astonishing sign of human capacity to recover, the disappearance of the traces of aerial warfare parallels the passing of vivid recollection. As John Hersey not