away from war. The glories and the dazzle of aviation, even the struggle over military aviation, took it elsewhere. Then too, in peacetime men were inclined to worry more about what the machine culture would do to their souls and pocketbooks than to their survival. Given these concerns, they read history selectively, emphasizing how earlier developments in transportation had knit together nations and continents, downplaying how they also had intensified the scale and de- structiveness of war. War itself continued to seem remote to most Americans anyway, but all the more so because the airplane would keep it distant.  A subtle process led Americans to this point. Of course, one should not exaggerate the depth or the firmness of the outlook described here; the peril and promise of air war were hardly the liveliest concerns of most Americans. Yet the haphazard nature of concern for air war in one way made attraction to it more elusive and compelling. Aviation drew on sources so diverse and inspired images so complex that responsibility for it rested everywhere—and nowhere. From that very ambiguity arose a general complicity for evading the intractable problems that arose from the advent of war in the air. In 1934, an English writer indicted his civilization for the doom that hung over it: “Mankind is Frankenstein,” he lamented, and “science, especially the science of aviation, is his monster.” The “nice boy” aviator, the mild-mannered scientist, the phony politician, and the unthinking masses had collaborated in the imminent death of Western civilization by the “senseless wickedness” of air war. “At none of these can we point and say ‘that is the criminal!’ ”55  *In Alfred Vagts’s classic definition, militarism referred to any activity that did not contribute to the purpose of military forces—to prevent or win wars. Its contemporary meaning often emphasized something slightly different—a tendency of military institutions and their allies not only toward self-aggrandize