production reached the level it would otherwise have sustained or that production alone measured enemy strength. But American success primarily took subtle, indirect forms: the strain on the Luftwaffe, particularly the depletion of its best crews, encountered in prolonged combat with the day bombers; lost production time as factories were dispersed and reorganized, often into less efficient operations; other demands on German sources—not just aircraft and crews, but the two million soldiers and civilians tied down in ground-based air defense. In short, progress came through grim attrition of the enemy, and in the battle of attrition no clear winner had yet emerged. Even indirect gains had paradoxical effects—dispersal interrupted production but also made enemy factories harder to strike in the long run.  The AAF’s troubles derived in part from three miscalculations recurrent in the air war. Allied intelligence usually overestimated damage, especially the long-run disruption it would cause. It also underestimated Germany’s resilience. In turn, these Allied miscalculations obscured the virtues of relentless return to the same targets. By the end of October, Eaker’s bombers were in no position to be relentless anyway. Yet there is little evidence that air commanders saw the need for early follow-up against ball-bearing manufacture.25 On a tactical level, lessons were learned better. Opinion was unanimous that the American bomber offensive could not continue without long-range fighter escort. The primacy of the unescorted bomber had always been a boast by the youthful air force, politically useful but not strategically essential. Its weakness had long caused concern, too, but in a war of vast operations and demands only the utmost urgency would counteract prevailing policy. That came only in the summer and fall of 1943, yielding an improved P-51 Mustang fighter that was to play a decisive role in the air battles of 1944.  Meanwhile OVFRTARD the Allied invasion of France