ke Roosevelt, he had a keen eye for public opinion but not the same certainty about how to guide it.  An unsteady guiding hand aggravated confusion about the signals received and sent out by the American government with regard to Japan. From Tokyo they came in clamorous volume, through allies and neutrals, through conventional intelligence methods, and through interception of coded Japanese messages. The latter revealed with particular clarity Japan’s desperation to have Moscow mediate an end to the war as well as the coldness of Moscow’s response, leaving American intelligence experts with “a mental picture of a spaniel in the presence of a mastiff who also knows where the bone is hidden.” Most of all, intercepts outlined the minimum Japan needed to accept surrender, made clear in a July 17 cable by Foreign Minister Togo: “If today America and England were to recognize Japan’s honor and existence, they would put an end to the war.” It was not hard to see through the euphemisms. “Honor” meant retention of the throne, though whether that meant Hirohito himself was less clear. “Existence” meant that Japan would remain a political entity. Stimson, Marshall, and Grew all roughly grasped what Japan would accept, their interpretation buttressed not only by decoded messages but by a good deal of conventional political analysis. Still, the American intelligence apparatus had gaps; it uncovered much less about what Tokyo’s military figures were think- ing, except their continued preparation of suicidal methods for resisting an invasion.81  The messages Washington sent were at least as confusing as those it received. In the councils of government, Leahy was a blunt, if intermittent, advocate of modifying the surrender formula. But his V-E Day address thundered that “Japan must be beaten into defeat, into unconditional surrender” and invoked memories of Pearl Harbor. On July 31, General Arnold prepared a bellicose speech that struck Stimson as “virtually a new ultimatum to Jap