t of ground forces. Those prospects faded in the summer of 1942, but TORCH (the North Africa invasion) again siphoned off many of the bombers from General Ira Eaker’s Eighth Bomber Command. American heavy bombers first struck occupied Europe in the summer of 1942—raiding Ploesti from Egyptian bases on June 12 and targets in France from English bases on August 17. At that, the bombers were rushed into battle prematurely in order to present Allies and Americans a show of American contribution to the European war as well as to lay claim in the headlines for the AAF’s vision of its role. Not until the next year—much later and in far smaller numbers than Arnold had once hoped—could American bombers penetrate German air space. American strategic bombing, then, was at once a high priority and a distant reality in 1942.  Throughout the war, Anglo-American strategists faced two basic issues which they resolved by transforming conflict into complementarity. The weightier issue was whether strategic bombing would independently win the war in Europe or at least make any invasion essentially a coup de grace. That had been the hope of both Churchill and Roosevelt in 1941. That expectation, however, had arisen in good part from the necessity of imagining a war of limited liability, with Britain lacking the force and the United States the sanction to send ground armies into France. Pearl Harbor and the German declaration of war opened up, particularly for American officers, a return to a more traditional definition of strategy. That definition varied with its proponents, but to Marshall, the dominant American figure, it meant assigning heavy bombers a major role, first in softening up Germany by direct attacks on it, then in assisting an invasion. Bombing would be complementary to other oper- ations. It was a formula sufficiently broad to paper over much disagreement and avert most open conflict.  But it still simmered. The formula threatened the AAF’s hope to deliver the long-prom