ories, mine sea-lanes, or level cities was largely for Arnold and his subordinates to decide.  At Arnold’s level, however, the decentralization of authority ceased. The AAF’s Washington headquarters closely supervised field commanders, above all LeMay and Hansell in the Twentieth Air Force. Spaatz’s operations in Europe were well grooved by the fall of 1944; major questions of tactics and strategy had been thrashed out or papered over. Operations against Japan were still embryonic and problematical. Not only was it Arnold’s nature to examine them closely, but the peculiar command structure of the Twentieth invited careful oversight. While the American strategic forces in Europe had their headquarters in England, the two bomber commands in the Far East—LeMay’s at Kharagpur and Hansell’s in the Marianas—were headless entities, their headquarters lodged far away in the Pentagon. By September, authority over them was held by Arnold himself as commanding general of the Twentieth, assisted by Norstad, who doubled as the Twentieth’s chief of staff and AAF’s deputy chief of staff, and by Kuter, the AAF’s assistant chief of staff for plans.  It was a unique relationship. No other major overseas field force of the American war, in any service, had its operational headquarters in Washington. The contrasting relationship Marshall had with his field commanders is instructive. He was in close contact with them, but it was not Marshall's style to hound and badger. He relied more on persuasion, and by 1944 commanders like Eisenhower and MacArthur had such status, confidence, and experience that close supervision from Washington would have appeared unseemly—indeed, if there was ever a feudal baron in this war, MacArthur outdid the air force generals. Lacking the prestige of the great ground generals, Spaatz and LeMay and Hansell were subject to much tighter control from the Pentagon. Norstad reassured Hansell that he had “the utmost latitude in accomplishing [his] mission,” but lati