rose when places of religious or political value were threatened, such as the Vatican, the abbey at Monte Cassino, and the Swedish legation in Berlin. The fate of civilians commanded no attention comparable to that given famous buildings.1¢  Roosevelt did hint at a distinction between American bombing of Germany and Japan by suggesting that only in Germany did the bombers aim at specific economic objectives. In January 1943, he promised vaguely to “bomb them [the Japanese] constantly from the air,” while the targets for Germany were more precisely described: “their war factories and utilities and seaports.” Later, he held out a promise to avoid merely “inching our way forward from island to island across the vast expanse of the Pacific,” and instead to take to “the skies over Japan.” On June 12, 1944, he expressed the hope that “we can force the Japanese to unconditional surrender or to national suicide much more rapidly than has been thought possible.” Loosely worded, these references to strategic bombing if anything declined during Roosevelt’s last year of life, just when the pace of that bombing was rapidly accelerating.1!  Roosevelt rarely spoke of the bomber as an instrument of vengeance against the enemy. In alleging Nazi responsibility for beginning air war on cities, he stated that “the Nazis and the Fascists have asked for it—and they are going to get it.” But like his desire “to eliminate from the human race Nations like Germany and Japan,” this was a deviation from his usual characterization of the war's purpose in positive terms of reconstituting the defeated enemies as peace-loving nations and securing a permanent peace. Unconditional surrender was demanded, but retribution he reserved for enemy leaders and war criminals alone. On the other hand, Churchill, who found “poetic justice” in aerial assault on Germany and Japan, found the rhetoric of revenge more congenial.12  By word, then, Roosevelt offered Americans little inducement to anticipate or desir