ing one or two million men to line the trenches.” Over the following months an organization took shape in France designed to plan a strategic bombing effort. In one officer's bleak view, bombing was necessary “in order that we may not only wreck Germany’s manufac- turing centers but wreck them more completely than she will wreck ours next year.” With round-the-clock bombing, the enemy’s “manufacturing works ... and the morale of the workmen would be  Page 15 of 368 4%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON That alone perhaps argued for its strategic employment. Yet in that capacity too, air power could not sustain hopes that it would transcend the conditions and attitudes that prevailed in ground  warfare. Commanders spent their aircraft in the same futile charges against the enemy. Even air defense against strategic bombing took an offensive form, guided by the assumption that real defense was impossible except by destroying the enemy’s bases and factories. Destructive without being decisive, strategic bombing threatened only to nationalize the battle of attrition on the ground, testing how long entire peoples rather than armies could exhaust each other, provoking civilian populations into a grim offensive against each other that mimicked what the soldiers did on the battlefield. Far from transcending the horrors of modern war, military aviation—like submarines and poison gas, two other weapons deemed capable of the decisive breakthrough—had the moral utility only of democratizing those horrors still further.  Observers until 1917, Americans brought little new insight to these matters. Determined to keep at arm’s length from their allies, they still followed strategic doctrines established by the Fochs and Trenchards more often than they realized. Upon entering the war, most Americans had few firm views on the morality and strategy of employing the air weapon other than a general revulsion at its more ruthless uses, deep faith in America’s prod