estruction necessary to achieve it.  Beneath the widespread acceptance of the necessity of war and victory was a poor grasp of the war’s costs and purposes. John Blum has reminded us that “only the United States among the great powers was ‘fighting this war on imagination alone.” Complaint about the war’s unreality to Americans was a wartime commonplace, particularly when soldiers and journalists compared the stench of battle in which Americans fell with the cheerful, easy affluence so many Americans at home now enjoyed. The liberal journalist Ralph Ingersoll lamented that even on the battlefield, “fascism is still an unreal thing tothe American. ... He cannot really hate it.” He “must fight simply . .. so that he can get back home—to a land that has now, in his memory, grown so lovely that there is no meanness in it.” Life magazine repeatedly regretted that Americans had only a “Hollywood” view of the war which the administration did little to deflate (and which Life’s abundant consumer advertising itself did much to abet). The persistence of these complaints measured one effort at greater realism but also the difficulty of achieving it. The remoteness of air war to Americans was in part rooted in the remoteness of war itself.4  In strategic terms, too, there was little urgency to grapple immediately with the role of air power. Contrary to the prevailing expectation that the bombers would bear the initial brunt of the American effort, there was little for them to do over the war’s first winter. Lack of bombers and bases left the army and navy largely to repel the enemy’s blows. Roosevelt hardly felt free to save the new bombers coming off production lines for strategic employment, not while commanders clamored for bombers to support ground and naval operations, not while he felt it urgent to get American ground forces into action in order to blunt accusations of incompetence and to enlist popular investment in the war.  The result of all this was that the gulf betw