nging the nation into an all-out war. The knockout blow fells only the orderly process of government, not the blind urge to fight on; it yields no mercifully brief decision, only long descent into global destruction. If Wells misjudged the capacity of governments to retain their authority amid national calamity, he under- stood, with an eye to the Paris Commune, the popular passions and national tenacity which would make a myth of the notion of a decisive, paralyzing attack from the air.  A sensible appreciation of the military limitations of the airplane led him to much the same conclusion. Warplanes “could inflict immense damage; they could reduce any organised Govern- ment to a capitulation in the briefest space, but they could not disarm, much less could they occupy, the surrendered areas below. They had to trust the pressure upon the authorities below of a threat to renew the bombardment. It was their sole resource.” “The Germans,” he added, “had struck at the head, and the head was conquered and stunned—only to release the body from its rule.” Even turning part of New York City into “a furnace of crimson flames” brought no victory. Wells’s key insight was that aerial warfare was “at once enormously destructive and entirely indecisive.” It might inflict in- calculable bloodshed rather than freeing man from it.15  In imagining vast aerial armadas rising almost overnight into the skies, Wells grossly underestimated the economical and technical demands of air war—a misjudgment made by many others for decades. The awesomeness of the destruction he foresaw also taxed Wells’s capacity for dramatization: terrible events were viewed through the eyes of a hapless and negligible victim. In between the abstract and the individual lay possibilities of vast destruction that even Wells could not fully capture. His own penchant for apocalyptic visions did not allow him to consider whether nations might learn to live, however badly, with this new weapon, harnessing it to older