onal efficiency sharply reduced accidents.3  The whole mess had conflicting implications for military aviation. It undermined the aviator’s claims that they were ready to function as an independent service. Yet it also appeared to validate their charge that conservative ground officers had short-changed the Air Corps and throttled its growth. It thereby not only compelled modest increases in appropriations for the Air Corps but climaxed still another round of controversy about the merits of an independent air force. As in previous battles over this issue, the army aviators did not achieve their goal of independence. Indeed, most had become too cautious since the Mitchell affair to pursue it openly. But they inched further along the road to organizational autonomy. Army aviation, already promoted from Air Service to Air Corps in 1926, secured establishment in 1935 of a General Headquarters Air Force, which theoretically gathered all operational units under one command responsible only to the army chief of staff. In all, army aviation had accumulated some capital out of its own embarrassment.  These marginal gains existed largely on paper, however. The relentless squeeze on military budgets brought on by the depression overshadowed all military politics. Army leaders felt caught in a bind. They regarded aviation as the most expensive item in their budget, one whose growth would dissipate the strength of the ground army and the integrity of the officer corps. On the other hand, they feared that economizing on aviation would offend a public enamored with air power and hand over to the navy the initiative in developing aviation. The army general staff never escaped this bind. Douglas MacArthur, the chief of staff early in the 1930s, followed a shifting course. One moment he allied with pacifists and proponents of disarmament by proposing the abolition of military aviation to the World Disarmament Conference, doing so in hopes of freeing up funds for the ground army. At o