ns and doctrines to employ them. The issue became less whether to use aircraft in war than how. Even late in the war, battlefield (tactical) uses had priority: for reconnaissance, observation, and artillery spotting; for command of the air space while performing those functions; and for strafing troops and enemy positions. Most field commanders wanted nothing more from their aircraft. The stalemate of slaughter on the ground, far from encouraging them to seek out new ways of gaining a decision, only made them hungrier for aerial resources that might somehow tip the balance in battle, thereby justifying the monstrous expenditure of men and machines and rescuing their reputations.  Aside from technological advances, what encouraged some military men to assign a more ambitious role to airplanes remains unclear. The few strategists who articulated such a role rarely indicated the source of their ideas. Probably the prewar fantasies of air war had at most an indirect influence. Instead, strategic air war* grew haphazardly. A complex mix of popular passions, political ambitions, strategic desperation, military rivalry, and wartime momentum brought the bombers to London and Cologne.  As in most wars, responsibility for introducing new terrors was unclear in this one. Precedent of course existed in artillery shelling of cities. As for aerial bombs, German planes dropped a few on Liége and Paris during the war’s first weeks. The British struck German Zeppelin sheds in September 1914. The French first dropped bombs on a German city in December, just weeks before the Germans struck at Dover. Zeppelin attacks on England followed in 1915, and soon the bombing spread to all theaters of war. Austrians and Italians traded notably punishing blows against cities. The French, wary of setting the wrong precedent for German bombers, generally confined their large effort to attacks on military and industrial targets. But by war’s end, bombs had hit every capital of the warring European p