r current intentions the proponents of the Strategic Defense Initiative may have, their successors may employ the new space technology to different ends. Furthermore, the record of war undermines confidence that democratic states are the more rational actors in this regard.  The behavior of nation-states prompts a third suggestion—to be skeptical about the other (and more widely held) solution to the problem of aerial war, the hope that visions of destruction will shock the world into controlling or abolishing the aerial weapon. That solution, too, has afforded little progress. The shock indeed has been there and felt keenly by many people for many years, but translating it into effective political action has met with only a few limited successes and a general run of failure. It may well be that merely the persistent hope for the potency of the shock has in it- self been a crippling illusion.  If technology cannot solve its own problems and if it cannot force the awakening leading to its control or abolition, then what hope is there beyond continued reliance upon the terrors of deterrence? Hope begins with an awareness that air power has prospered through the twentieth century because its destructiveness has been as appealing as it has been repellent. The bomber and the rocket have been embraced not only in spite of their horrors but because of them. Therefore, one path away from the nuclear dilemma lies in the recognition, as Dwight MacDonald suggested in 1945, that the good of atomic fission cannot be separated from the bad. Either both are renounced or neither are, barring some unforeseen technological or political development that allows them to be svlit. This means renouncing all the intangible gains seen as flowing from the mere possession of nuclear weavons. as ovvosed to their actual use: the status of a great power. the anvearance of  Page 358 of 368 81%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  plecisivir VULLIVIlip wuulUu Lepidce Syotel