ject chemical and bacteriological warfare as violations of “every Christian ethic I have ever heard of and all of the known laws of war.” In Berlin for the Potsdam Conference, he found himself witnessing “a great world tragedy,” a violation of “the civilized laws of war” inflicted by both Allied bombing and Russian artillery. Of course the “civilized laws” had long been violated; even honored, they often allowed great bloodshed. But Leahy properly reflected the sense among some professional officers that modern weaponry had ended war as an honorable fight among men at arms.” Bomb’ is the wrong word to use for this new weapon,” Leahy wrote at the end of his memoirs. “It is a poisonous thing that kills people by its deadly radioactive reaction, more than by the explosive force it develops.”76  Perhaps a similar revulsion led Marshall, after the news of Hiroshima had arrived, to tell Groves and Arnold “his feeling that we should guard against too much gratification over our success, because it undoubtedly involved a large number of Japanese casualties.” Groves and Arnold, terribly comfortable with the new technology, pushed aside Marshall's doubts, taking note of “the men who had made the Bataan death march.”?? Marshall and Leahy did not share their interest in revenge. Better than most policymakers, they recognized that the bomb was not an “apparition” making a “psychological” impression or important as only a new device imperiling humanity’s future; it was a military instrument for killing vast numbers of people. There was moral realism in that perspective and political foresight as well, Marshall speaking from experience with how brutal victories complicate the victor’s task after war. Those whose perspective on the bomb appeared to be narrowly military were as likely as any to explore restraints on its use, for their military experience led them to recognize the bomb’s physical destructiveness. But recognition and cautious exploration were as far as Marshall and Le