ruction did serious damage to Japan’s war economy and thereby was implicitly justified.1°5 But its importance in 1945 was another matter altogether. Japan’s industrial economy, like that of every combatant, had undergone a concentration into larger enterprises to achieve economies of scale and reflect accompanying shifts in the location of economic power. Large numbers of men (by conscription) and women (by economic necessity) had been drawn into the factory system, and “the drift toward oligopoly,” Thomas Havens notes, saw “11,000 small shops forced to close in Tokyo alone by mid-1943.” Doubtless many of those were in the rapidly collapsing consumer sector, but as the Strategy Bombing Survey later concluded: “By 1944 the Japanese had almost eliminated home industry in their war economy.” Factories with fewer than 250 workers still played a vital role, but these were hardly backyard drill presses. Simply the well-known dispersal of war industry out of the cities made the cottage industries a less practical source of supply.1°  Beyond industrial concentration and relocation, other factors reduced the importance of the feeder system. The war plants it fed were themselves caught in a spiral of declining production, partly because of the direct destruction in some precision attacks and in area raids that spilled over onto them, even more because the lifeline of supplies from outside Japan was being strangled by American attacks on shipping. The attacks on Japanese cities hastened that decline, but LeMay’s bombers destroyed a feeder system that would soon have had few working factories to feed, killed or “dehoused” workers from factories whose machines were starting to go silent, and smashed plants whose chimneys were already going smokeless. In short, much of LeMay’s bombing simply made the rubble of Japan’s war economy bounce. Furthermore, by an economist’s standard the destruction achieved was an inefficient way to secure desired ends. Targeting housing, firebombing “