ks ... and the morale of the workmen would be shattered.” Even the army’s Chief of Staff, Peyton March, seemed attracted by ambitious talk of new bombers able to strike fifteen hundred miles from their bases with a bomb load of forty-five hun- dred pounds.32  It was largely just talk. The enchanting prospect of an armada of American bombers bringing swift and painless victory, part of the vision of an efficient and disciplined America, fell victim to the production failures, tangled communications, and faulty planning that embarrassed Woodrow Wilson and the progressives. The voluntaristic system of organizing war production assumed that “the wheels of private enterprise spun freely even while neatly meshed with those of public authority.”4° With no way in practice to mesh the two, gears clogged, output stopped, strategy and logistics became disconnected. Responsible officials, desperate to meet production quotas regardless of strategic specifics, stamped out the planes that were easiest to make—trainers and observation craft and obsolete types that would never darken the skies over Essen or Berlin. Despite mammoth appropriations, not one night bomber made it from factory to front. Even production of lesser aircraft was dis- appointing.. That sorry performance appeared even worse, as Secretary of War Newton Baker recognized, because of naive claims made for the airplane and for American uniqueness:  We were dealing with a miracle. The airplane itself was too wonderful and new, too positive a denial of previous experience, to brook the application of any prudential restraints which wise people would have known how to apply to ordinary industrial and military developments. As a consequence, the magicians of American industry were expected to do the impossible for this new and magical agency, and this expectation was increased by the feverish earnestness with which all Americans desired that our country should appear speedily, worthily, and decisively in the war.41  The