virtually what they wanted in the surrender terms.”2>  Marshall did not speak for everyone. Arnold, for example, later recalled that he and his British counterpart agreed at Potsdam that “our next enemy would be Russia.” But any suspicions he had about Moscow did not stop Arnold from welcoming its entry into the war. On July 23, when Stalin restated his intention to enter the war, Arnold’s reaction was joyful: “To me, that was good news, because it might mean closer air bases, from which we could literally rip Japan to pieces.” Arnold’s mind was, as ever, fixed on expanding his operational opportunities. He knew the bomb had been suc- cessfully tested, but he did not foresee it as ending the war before the Russians swept in.2°  Other service leaders, however, may have had such a hope. Even before Trinity, King had insisted that the Russians “were not indispensable,” though that was not exactly the issue. His civilian boss, Forrestal, shared similar views. Another navy man, Admiral Leahy, “indulged in a hope that Japan might get out of the war before the Soviet Government came in.” None of these men had Marshall’s stature or access to Truman, but they had influence. More important were the views of Stimson: “The news from Alamogordo . . . made it clear to the Americans that further diplomatic efforts to bring the Russians into the Pacific war were largely pointless. The bomb as a merely probable weapon had seemed a weak reed on which to rely, but the bomb as a colossal reality was very different.” Stimson, caught between the perils and temptations of nuclear diplomacy, did not follow the consistent line this passage from his memoirs might suggest. But the hope, which Stimson also attributed to Truman, was likely there.2?  It burned with much more clarity in the mind of the new secretary of state, Jimmy Byrnes, a man almost desperate to deny the Russians the concessions in the Far East made at Yalta, which he found acutely embarrassing in light of his service to Roose