xt year—much later and in far smaller numbers than Arnold had once hoped—could American bombers penetrate German air space. American strategic bombing, then, was at once a high priority and a distant reality in 1942.  Throughout the war, Anglo-American strategists faced two basic issues which they resolved by transforming conflict into complementarity. The weightier issue was whether strategic bombing would independently win the war in Europe or at least make any invasion essentially a coup de grace. That had been the hope of both Churchill and Roosevelt in 1941. That expectation, however, had arisen in good part from the necessity of imagining a war of limited liability, with Britain lacking the force and the United States the sanction to send ground armies into France. Pearl Harbor and the German declaration of war opened up, particularly for American officers, a return to a more traditional definition of strategy. That definition varied with its proponents, but to Marshall, the dominant American figure, it meant assigning heavy bombers a major role, first in softening up Germany by direct attacks on it, then in assisting an invasion. Bombing would be complementary to other oper-  Page 116 of 368 27%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON in strategic terms, too, there was little urgency to grapple immediately WItn tne role OF alr power. Lontrary to tne prevailing expectation tnat tne Dombpers WOUuLC Dear tne Initial brunt OF tne  American effort, there was little for them to do over the war’s first winter. Lack of bombers and bases left the army and navy largely to repel the enemy’s blows. Roosevelt hardly felt free to save the new bombers coming off production lines for strategic employment, not while commanders clamored for bombers to support ground and naval operations, not while he felt it urgent to get American ground forces into action in order to blunt accusations of incompetence and to enlist popular investment in the war.  The result