is defenses against invasion.” “As the Germans long ago dis- covered,” reported the Kansas City Star, “final victories are never gained by terrorizing civilians.” Press coverage adopted just the tone the AAF wanted.12  Nonetheless, Arnold was worried, not only about the slow progress of the Twentieth Air Force, but about the air war against Germany. Spaatz’s devastating campaign against the German petroleum industry—assisted by Allied intelligence that was finally on the mark—was gradually paralyzing the enemy’s movement in the air and on the ground. In other ways, however, Allied bombing still seemed adrift among conflicting visions of the road to victory. Renewed attention was given Germany’s aircraft industry, whose new jets helped provoke a mood just short of panic among Allied strategists (Spaatz even worried about a German death ray). An ill-chosen attempt to knock out German vehicle production further delayed Spaatz’s oil campaign. As always, Harris was inclined to plaster cities. By the fall, Allied air forces were also sliding into a campaign against the German railway system, so dense and blessed with reserve capacity that attacks on it were slow to show results. In addition to all these efforts, the heavy bombers repeatedly laid carpets of bombs in front of advancing Allied ground forces—destroying many occupied and enemy towns, to the consternation of  came air ceammandare Tn Taniuary in tha waka af the Navice’ Ardannac eaiintarnffanciva eamathraafourthe af the Amarican etratacic hamhar offart urac in fact not etratacic at all hut tactical 11  Page 256 of 368 58%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON letter to Possum Hansell. On January 1, Arnold sent Hansell a cheerful New Year’s testament to his “pride” in the 21st’s achievements. But the long arm of Washington, whose grip of command and communication Hansell had helped to mold, was reaching out to him. Later he wished he had rejected Norstad’s advice that “the normal run of diffi