. Because prophecy necessarily leaped ahead of technology, it often read like fanciful or bloodless abstractions, as if designed, like science fiction, less to depict future dangers than to express current anxieties. That tendency was offset in the European case by the visible urgency of the aerial problem there, which led Europeans to speculate sooner and more boldly about the bomber than did Americans. The rehearsal for all-out air war that Europeans had just witnessed and their anxiety about the prospects for lasting peace dictated attention to air power. The French so vigorously promoted their air force that they even touched off English fears of aerial attack across the Channel. All the imperial powers experienced growing difficulties in controlling their restive empires as well as dread of the Bolshevik threat to international and internal stability. They searched for ways besides military preparedness to achieve security—the League of Nations and arms control, for example—because ravaged economies and war-weary constituents gave governments no other choice. At the same time, national fatigue also strengthened the appeal of air power as a supposedly cheap and humane weapon.  In that context, two very different men, Giulio Douhet and Basil H. Liddell Hart, articulated the emerging doctrine of strategic air power. Prophets and polemicists as much as theorists, they fleshed out ideas first sketched before and during the war and now widely aired in the press and among military men. Douhet (1869-1930), the Italian officer once imprisoned during the war for his outspoken defense of air power, gained a sympathetic hearing from Mussolini’s regime, although The Command of the Air (1921, with later addenda), written in Italian, only slowly gained an audience as reports and translations of it spread. Liddell Hart (1895-1970), the British military critic and historian, enjoyed an esteemed career after injuries incurred on the battlefields of France forced his retirement f