urces form an uneven and incomplete record often difficult to use. United States Army aviation was a new organization constantly changing in its internal bureaucratic structure and its relationship to its superior authorities, the army and the War Department. Therefore the Army Air Forces and its predecessors were less consistent and thorough in retaining and filing records than the older military services. Many air force records were widely scattered through the records systems; many found their way into the private manuscript collections of leading air force officers; some cannot be located at all. Some specific problems in documentation are discussed in notes and in the comments on sources which precede the notes for chapters. For the purposes of this book the most useful collections pertaining directly to the air force were the AAF Records, the HQ USAF Records, the HQ 20th AF Records, the personal collections of Arnold and LeMay, and the varied materials of AFSHRC. Among other collections, the most useful were the WD Staff Records, the Stimson Diary and SecWar Records, the FDR Papers, and JCS Records. The bulk of archival material on the atomic bomb is in two collections, the Harrison-Bundy Files and the MED Records.  AAF Records Records of the Army Air Forces, Record Group 18, National Archives Building, Washington, D.C.  AFSHRC Albert F. Simpson Historical Research Center, United States Air Force, Maxwell AFB, Alabama.  Andrews Papers Papers of Frank Andrews, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.  Army AG Records Records of the War Department Adjutant General’s Office, Record Group 407, National Archives, Washington, D.C. Arnold Papers Papers of Henry Harley Arnold, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.  Bowles Papers Papers of Edward L. Bowles, in possession of Bowles at time of author’s use.  Chennault Papers Papers of Claire L. Chennault, Hoover Institution, Stanford University, Palo Alto, California.  FDR Papers Papers of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Franklin D.