onfusion is that Americans wanted a quick and cheap victory but also a complete one.88  Those American leaders who recognized that choices had to be made had done little to prepare Americans to make them. The divergence between the public and private utterances of Leahy was not unique. Grew, the most forceful advocate of an open mind on the emperor's fate, earlier had conjured up visions of a Japan whose fanaticism was almost limitless, whose intent was to invade the  Page 330 of 368 75%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Therefore any official statement had a dual audience (more, if allies are counted), posing problems that sometimes took on baroque complexity. Messages aimed at home could mislead the Japanese, while messages for Tokyo could disturb Americans. Some messages to Japan were designed only to play at home. The renewed demand for unconditional surrender drafted in the midst of the Okinawa battle was intended to head off any Japanese peace feelers tempting to war-weary Americans. McCloy, the assistant war secretary, recognized the problem in speaking to two audiences: Americans “would properly and promptly resent it if the services seemed to be arguing, without sound reasons, against the possibility of surrender discussions.” And while threatening “the extinction of the Japanese people” might please some Americans, “we must not deny the Japanese people all hope,” if their suicidal resistance was to be averted. This demand was not issued, but policy on surrender terms remained plagued by the problem of dual audiences. Brigadier General Lincoln, the army’s keenest mind on these matters, complained at the end of June that a key State Department official “is trying really only to insure that the terms will cause no criticism in the U.S.” “Shall we state a flat intention to allow the Japanese to retain the structure of a constitutional monarchy,” Lincoln asked, “and tempt the Japanese public, or state the opposite intention and please