ive air force. “These planes are not individually a finished element of such air power,” Stimson reminded Roosevelt, adding in an analogy the president might appreciate: “The process of commissioning a plane is not unlike the process of commissioning a battleship, and you know how long that takes.” Hastening to counter any dispersal of the limited supply of planes, Stimson urged that their deployment was “not a static but a dynamic question.” The new bombers should be treated as “a great pool of American power” best used now in the Philippines, not, as Arnold put it to Stimson, on missions of “doubtful efficiency” out of England against Germany. Above all, as Stimson stressed, “A strategic opportunity of the utmost importance has suddenly arisen in the south-western Pacific. Our whole strategic possibilities of the past twenty years have been revolutionized by the events in the world in the past six months. From being impotent to influence events in that area, we suddenly find ourselves vested with the possibility of great effective power.” The American bomber force was still an “imperfect threat,” but “if not promptly called by the Japanese, [it] bids fair to stop Japan’s march to the south and secure the safety of Singapore, with all the revolutionary consequences of such action.”82  Soliciting Hopkins’s view of Stimson’s stern words, Roosevelt confessed himself “a bit bewildered” by them. But Stimson had already cleared his views with Hopkins and did so, with Marshall's help, again on October 30, and apparently no further argument with the president ensued. Even earlier, Britain’s Lord Halifax told Churchill, Roosevelt was already saying “a good deal... about the great effect that... planting some heavy bombers at the Philippines was expected to have upon the Japs.” On November 5, Roosevelt received from Marshall and Stark fresh assurances about the “potency” of the Philippines threat. On November 7, playing for time until the new threat was ready, Roosevelt reje