arrassment. All of these arguments, plus the dividend of “creating further destruction in an already frantic condition in Germany,” appear to have been accepted by Roosevelt. They were also pressed by him on Churchill, who had reneged on his earlier approval by citing the danger of German retaliation—a curious pretext in light of German initiation of pilotless air war and Allied firebombing of German cities. But time ran out to make use of the new weapon.2&  In the United States, popular reactions to Dresden and to the final fury of bombing in Europe were muted. The print media generally gave routine coverage to the raids on Berlin and Dresden and to the AP report describing “deliberate terror bombing” as Allied policy. At the same time, widely publicized pictures and descriptions of how the great cathedral of Cologne was left standing offered ritual reassurance that for all its destructiveness, Allied bombing had somehow been selective and humane in its targeting. Newsreels did acknowledge that “allied strategy called for the levelling of towns if it meant saving the lives of our boys” and pointed the viewer's attention to a city “literally dying before your eyes.” But in February and March, the headlines were usually seized by the advances of ground forces in Germany, the Philippines, and Iwo Jima and by the Yalta Conference. Coverage of the air war had a routine, more-of-the-same tone to it.22  That tone even crept into the few blunt criticisms offered in the religious press. Commonweal expressed bitter but helpless resignation. It effectively captured how governments had used euphemisms to obscure their barbarism: “ ‘Evacuation of the homeless’ creates ‘a traffic problem.” But “all the best violent words were used up long ago,” and none seemed “left to argue the question of ‘deliberate terror bombing’ ” or to wonder “about how to win the war without making Europe a desert.” The socialist Norman Thomas condemned Allied bombing practices against Japan as well as G