h an imperial role: in an air force huge by 1944, he was more than ever dependent on a growing headquarters staff and on a heart whose failings repeatedly removed him from day-to-day control of the air force. Yet if not always wielded personally by Arnold, power usually remained in his headquarters. “It is a current saying that you cannot run a war from Washington,” Norstad commented in September. “The fact is, however, that all of this war has been run to a larger degree than most people realized from Washington.” If anything, Washington’s grip tightened late in the war, for the completion of the tedious business of mobilizing men and planes by 1944 left headquarters free to exercise the “very real prerogatives of command over world-wide operations.”  Officers at headquarters regarded such centralized control as another operational imperative. To weave bomber operations into the broader fabric of strategy, informed judgments had to be made from Washington, by men who had a global perspective on strategy, not by the theater commander who saw “the general situation through glasses prescribed by the local optician,” as Arnold pointedly put it to Chennault. In particular, coordination of the widely separated bomber commands of the Twentieth Air Force seemed impossible from any other vantage point, all the more so since the Pacific theater had no unified command. As usual, operational necessities were only part of the story, however. Centralized command also satisfied air force ambitions. Only with it could the airmen prevent theater commanders from seizing control of the bombers in pursuit of “tempting local plums”; only with it could they cultivate the image of a global air force with revolutionary consequences for world geopolitics; only with it could Arnold have the operational command he had never before enjoyed. And only centralization permitted maximum use of the techniques of operations research and bureaucratic management enjoying favor in Washington—the full e