d the pressure to build bigger fleets. Of course there was also an aviation industry, peopled by its share of scoundrels and fast-buck artists and dogged in the 1920s by its wartime reputation for delivering dangerous goods behind schedule for outlandish prices. But in a market saturated with surplus warplanes, the industry was in shambles for much of the 1920s, hardly a match in the public mind for the naval lobby. In addition, because airmen often crossed swords with industrialists or died because of industrial misdeeds, the prophets of air power often appeared as opponents rather than as agents of greedy capitalists; in the years after Mitchell's court-martial, his more hysterical defenders viewed him as the victim of nothing less than a vast “Air Trust” conspiracy. In sum, the call for constructing an air force seemed to come from a handful of low-level offi- cers fighting to protect a better idea from corrupt interests.  mon tee hea as ae 7 ders ce .ou cote 1 om + ne see . c a : wa a  Page 32 of 368 8%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  ep aa Ce ue eee an Beet ewe Pe re Rae Cay Cea ee Peep eae Sa cater ew es  Although futile, postwar efforts at arms control nonetheless shaped Americans’ views of the bomber by establishing one context in which they pondered its significance. Less concerned than Europeans with national survival, Americans keenly debated aviation’s impact on national efficiency and economy. The crux of the issue, tiresomely and sensationally debated, was whether the bomber could replace the battleship and the surface fleet as the primary instrument of coast defense. Mitchell’s argument was that it could, at great savings to the taxpayer. Battleships were defenseless against bombers, useless in attacking other nations with air power, and wasteful as a way of guarding against an enemy threat from across the seas. The airplane could do the job cheaply, if freed from the clutches of the army and navy and organized into a sepa