e, in Japan and even more Germany, war brought the mounting subordination of powerful interests, a sense of common purpose derived only from ideological and patriotic goals insufficient to induce full cooperation.  Of course, in the United States and Britain, reward for cooperation took more concrete forms. “If you are going to try to go to war, or to prepare for war, in a capitalist country, you have got to let business make money out of the process.”35 Stimson’s famous dictum was applied with particular force to the production of aircraft. The payoff for industry lay not simply in the immediate profits —ample though they often were—but in squeezing out marginal competitors, forging permanent links with the national government, gaining the inside track on research into new technologies, and absorbing state-financed capital expansion at highly favorable rates after the war. The last was particularly important for industrialists harboring a “mortal terror of a sudden cessation of hostilities” rooted in their knowledge of the industry’s cutthroat ways and its dependence on the boom-and-bust cycles of military spending. The business of aviation reminded one manufacturer “of those toy rubber balloons you buy at the circus. Blow them up and they look like a fat pig. Release the pressure and they collapse with a plaintive dying sequel [sic], a wrinkled remnant of overstressed rubber.” Few firms believed they could count on a reliable military market after the war; government guarantees were designed as a hedge against its collapse. Not even a considerate government provided full protection against excess capacity, and wartime profits had to be limited, or at least artfully disguised, lest the industry face again the bitter complaints of profiteering endured after World War I. Still, expansion was remarkable, and government generous. Nearly $4 billion—one-sixth of all wartime investment in manufacturing—went into the aviation industry. Washington provided 89 percent of it.