also in touch with the frightened leaders of the European democracies.  Of these channels, Lindbergh was at once the most troublesome and the most fruitful. He made three publicized trips to Germany, the last in October 1938, all endorsed by the American military attaché in Berlin and the Air Corps’ General H. H. Arnold. There followed two secret visits in which he attempted to negotiate an extraordinary deal for French purchase of German aircraft engines. Lindbergh held a naive, if not unqualified, sympathy for the German position and the Nazi regime. His disastrous experiences with invasive American reporters had induced respect for a German “sense of decency and value which in many ways is far ahead of our own.” His penchant for stereotyping national groups and for a kind of technocratic elitism led him to admire the Luftwaffe’s achievements and to disparage the staunchness of England’s opposition to the Nazis. But these predispositions did not lead him to atypical conclusions about European aviation nor did they prejudice those conclusions in FDR's eyes. At the height of the Munich crisis, Kennedy cabled to Washington Lindbergh’s judgment that “Germany now has the means of destroying London, Paris, and Praha if she wishes to do so,” and Lindbergh’s counsel to accept Hitler’s demands in order to avert “the loss of European civilization” and “something akin to Communism running over Europe.”®  For almost two years Bullitt had also been cabling alarms. In November 1936, impressed by the speed of his own aerial travel through Europe, he wrote Roosevelt that “these dinky little  Page 75 of 368 18%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  In Europe, the prospect of aerial holocaust was one reason that the British and French governments appeased Hitler’s demands for the Sudetenland. With Barcelona’s bombing still vividly recalled, the decisiveness of a German knockout aerial blow against the capitals of the democracies was unquestioned by the summer