ena of opportunity for social mobility. At the same time, feminizing aviation further reinforced its pacific image, for women would presumably bend aviation toward benign and uplifting purposes.’  Extolled in terms of national progress and superiority, aviation also provided welcome counterpoint to fears about what progress might bring. “Here is Charles Lindbergh, minding a machine over 3,000 miles of ocean,” observed Stuart Chase, a sophisticated cultural critic. “So close was he bound to it, that he spoke of himself and it as ‘we.’ In a sense he loved it, and all the world loved him for that affection. I have not heard him called a robot.”47  For Chase, the airplane was a sign of the harmony of man and machine, one countering contemporary fears that mass production made modern culture vulgar and monotonous. As of 1929, he explained, airplane-building still employed skilled craftsmen fashioning “not disembodied standard parts ..., but a living unity, with a character of its own.” He admitted that soon aircraft assembly lines would “spew out their millions of interchangeable parts,” a possibility suggested by Henry Ford’s widely publicized interest in aircraft manufacturing. “We may weep for the spirit of craftsman- ship here crucified,” Chase conceded, but the “standardized airplane” would allow the masses to fly, and it “need send no hostages to loveliness. Her design and her medium call for the micrometer and the superlative finish of the grinding tool. These can if they choose deliver a more just and lovely thing than craftsmanship could ever achieve,” Henry Ford’s visionary advertisements depicting sleek aircraft landing at trim airports promised the same. As Chase’s rhapsody indicated, aviation offered to fuse the best qualities of an older tradition of individual ingenuity with the benefits of the more impersonal age of the machine.4%  Cultural commentators like Chase and the historian Charles Beard anxiously tried to balance the virtues and dangers of the ma