thorities as remote, detached persons who were indifferent to the welfare of the men.” That conception could be more powerfully countered by a commander's willingness to share the danger, as LeMay did. As psychiatrists commented, but good commanders have long known, “Nothing is worse for morale than a leader who leads from the rear,” particularly for American soldiers, whose lack of ideological and intellectual commitment to the war made their morale highly dependent on perceptions of equitably shared danger and group cohesiveness. So many officers died, some of considerable rank, that the lower ranks could not easily feel sacrificed to the ambitions of their superiors. Too, because combat commanders were not responsible for aircrews’ discipline on the ground, the petty frictions that often arose in the army between officers and enlisted men were rare in the combat air force.22  But the manifold strains defeated some men. One Eighth Air Force tail gunner first encountered his dread on a training flight in England during which the bomb-bay door of another plane flew off and sliced away the tail section of his bomber. Trapped in the plummeting tail, the sergeant could not smash the Plexiglas but dug a hole in the metal skin, got his body out of the craft up to his shoulders, finally worked free, and got his parachute open shortly before hitting ground, uninjured. He landed near his crashed plane and, after a failed attempt to rescue his comrades, watched them burn. Insomnia and nightmares then set in, but he insisted on starting combat missions—it was the common pattern for crewmen to save up physical and emotional complaints until their tours of duty were nearly done. But when his bomber was damaged in combat, crew members detected that his strain was getting out of control and reported him to the doctors, who granted his wish to be grounded. His case compressed the multiple sources of strain for fliers: the role of blind chance (facing death even before going to bat