gency and came too late to affect the subsequent course of bombing. Dresden itself was struck not only on February 14 by the Americans, but again on February 15, March 2, and April 17. Perhaps the additional raids seemed necessary because for all that the city’s marshaling yards had justified the initial firestorm, in fact they had escaped major damage, and railway lines had quickly resumed operations. Only the exhaustion of targets and the desire not to complicate further the task of occupying Germany brought the campaign against its cities to a halt in mid-April.25  Meanwhile, there was also little sense of restraint in the consideration given another project, the use of remotely controlled worn-out bombers against Germany. The patent inaccuracy of such bombers stirred Admiral Leahy’s fear of an “inhumane and barbarous type of warfare with which the United States should not be associated.” But Leahy’s doubts were overcome by reassurances from the air force that accuracy had been improved and would not be any worse than in the radar bombing already going on. Besides, the use of war-weary bombers against Germany would be a warm-up for employing them against Japan, and as Leahy advised Roosevelt, tests would be of “inestimable value” for postwar development of guided missiles, a field in which German superiority had caused Anglo-American embarrassment. All of these arguments, plus the dividend of “creating further destruction in an already frantic condition in Germany,” appear to have been accepted by Roosevelt. They were also pressed by him on Churchill, who had reneged on his earlier approval by citing the danger of German retaliation—a curious pretext in light of German initiation of pilotless air war and Allied firebombing of German cities. But time ran out to make use of the new weapon.?&  Inthe United States, popular reactions to Dresden and to the final fury of bombing in Europe were muted. The print media generally gave routine coverage to the raids on Berlin