d made chemical and biological warfare the object of lavish anxiety, extensive preparations, and grisly testing that sometimes gpt out of hand. In the Pacific, not even the scruple of the Geneva Protocol bound the Americans and the Japanese, neither having officially signed the agreement. Up to 1944, the United States had concentrated on deterring its enemies’ introduction of chemical weapons. The Japanese, never having experienced the use of gas in World War I and the revulsion it triggered, employed it on occasion in China without suffering the American retaliation Roosevelt had promised in 1942. By January 1944, American restraint was weakening. The Army Chemical Warfare Service and some air force officers advocated use of gas in battlefield situations and possibly in mass attacks on Japanese cities. The publication of stories on Japanese atrocities seemed to demolish remaining “compunctions of public opinion,” as the New York Times’s Hanson Baldwin reported; willingness to initiate gas warfare was given occasional expression in crudely sensational articles. Meanwhile, American officials were feeling the pressure of the Chinese government for retaliation.  Strategy in Europe and an unexpected Japanese move held the American government back. The army wanted “nothing . .. done to give the Germans an excuse to use a potent weapon such as gas, which could cause the failure of OVERLORD-ANVIL.” The Allies’ D-Day strategists had already been upset when German planes unknowingly attacked and sunk an American cargo ship preparing to unload mustard gas at a Sicilian port, killing hundreds of Americans and Italians and sparking fears that the Germans had been given an excuse to initiate gas warfare by blanketing Allied invasion forces with deadly chemicals, perhaps even radioactive gases or particles. Furthermore, while Americans ran no risk of retaliation at home, European and Asian cities would face reprisal strikes by German or Japanese airplanes carrying gas weapons. At