d expectations. The importance attached to Soviet entry had been declining since Yalta: some Japanese armies had already been sent home from the Manchurian frontier, the remainder could no longer be transferred because of the success of the American blockade, and in any event they were now pinned down by the Soviet armies massing on the border; in that respect, Stalin had already met one American object- ive even without entering the war. Meanwhile, the Americans’ seizure of new bases closer to Japan made the Siberian airfields less attractive.  But more important, in Marshall’s view the talk of the “necessity” of Soviet entry phrased the issue misleadingly. Victory was no longer at issue, only its costs and duration, and Soviet participation in the war still seemed likely to reduce them, both by the sheer force of arms and by the political shock of its entry. Therefore on July 24, a week after the good news from Trinity, Marshall supported the Combined Chiefs’ renewed decision to “encourage Russian entry.” He did so in part out of pessimism about Japan’s early surrender. In the face of Japanese fanaticism, the Allies’ job, as he and Stimson had put it on June 19, was “to coordinate all threats possible to Japan,” not to pick and choose among them in a way that might only delay victory. More than that, Marshall was reasoning in a cold-blooded way. The United States had little to lose and much to gain by Moscow’s entry, since the Soviets would get what they wanted anyway and might as well pay for it by helping the United States out. As he told Stimson on July 23, “Even if we went ahead in the war without the Russians, and compelled the Japanese to surrender, that would not prevent the Russians from marching into Manchuria anyhow and striking, thus permitting them to get virtually what they wanted in the surrender terms.”2>  Marshall did not speak for everyone. Arnold, for example, later recalled that he and his British counterpart agreed at Potsdam that “our next ene