hen the steel structures became unbearably hot. A head above water was no guarantor of safety, as the noxious fumes and superheated air still snuffed out life or fired the water until “the luckless bathers were simply boiled alive.” The few large open areas were also tempting havens, but there too life was sucked from the air, and many died “like so many fish left gasping on the bottom of a lake that has been drained.” Most of the few concrete buildings survived the conflagration structurally, “small islands in the sea of destruction,” ironic monuments to the legacy the West had given Japan. To these buildings police directed panicked crowds, but sometimes incendiaries pierced roofs of corrugated steel or reinforced concrete, or smoke filtered in and asphyxiated the refugees, or fires sucked out their oxygen, or heat penetrated to ignite the building’s interior or bake its inhabitants.”  That, at least, is the gruesome speculation about the manner of death left behind by witnesses and survivors who entered the blackened area. But it is almost a black hole of speculation. The number killed was possibly double the number injured, probably a higher ratio than at Hiroshima and Nagasaki,”3 suggesting that escape and survival were harder in this conventional raid than in the atomic blasts. Most survivors started their journey to safety already on the fringes of the storm, and accounts of the struggle at its center are few. Furthermore, the Japanese government made few efforts to study the pathology of death and injury, a contrast to German medical resourcefulness that American survey teams later regarded as “almost unbelievable.” Later, the political notoriety, scientific interest, and symbolism attached to Hiroshima and Nagasaki so eclipsed the Tokyo fire raid that far less interest developed in collecting its victims’ recollections and examining their experience.?5  Eastern Tokyo—some sixteen square miles, a larger area than LeMay had even targeted—was totally burned ou