ut there the trail largely ends.102  One possibility is that the scheme aborted because of an unplanned leak. The flight of dozens of B-17s across the Pacific was a big secret to manage. The crisis in the Far East had already invited press speculation. Back in March, Joseph Alsop had discussed the “body blow” to Japan that would come from using B-17s based in China. On August 8 and again on October 31, U.S. News had speculated brazenly about possible American incendiary attacks delivered from American bases or from Vladivostok on Tokyo, that “city of rice-paper and wood houses.” If nothing else, such speculation illus- trated the ease with which some Americans contemplated bombing Japanese cities and their confidence that Japan would be an easier mark than Germany.121  The critical disclosure of American plans came on November 19 from the New York Times’s Arthur Krock. Krock revealed the reversal in American strategy regarding the Philippines and outlined how heavy bombers based there could launch a “pincer attack” and “drop bombs on Japan, land in Siberia, refuel, and rebomb and repeat the enterprise on a return trip to Manila.” What is more, Krock speculated that Japanese envoys in Washington either had learned of this plan from Roosevelt and Hull or would do so by “reading this dispatch.” Either way, this new dimension to strategy would “probably have an important effect on the progress of the American-Japanese peace discussion.” Here, Krock concluded, was “reassuring” news for the United States.  Krock had not attended the November 15 meeting with Marshall, but his well-informed account must have been based on it. Krock’s story elicited no recorded comment from Marshall. However, it may have diminished hopes for fine-tuning the release of information just when other complications were also arising—disappointment in negotiations with the Soviets, doubts from Marshall’s own air aide about the strategic wisdom of a quick attempt to bomb Japan, and delays in shippin