F force attacking Berlin on the night of March 23-24, and 94 out of 795 British bombers dispatched to Nuremburg at the end of the month. Harris had boasted to Churchill, “We can wreck Berlin from end to end” if the Americans joined him, which they did. “It will cost us 400-500 aircraft. It will cost Germany the war.” Instead, it forced Harris to suspend much of his city-busting campaign; he never resumed it with the single-minded intensity shown over the previous year.3>  Meanwhile, Harris, Spaatz, and Churchill were strenuously opposing plans to divert their strategic forces to strike the rail network in western Europe in preparation for the invasion. The bomber commanders wanted to get on with the assault on Germany itself, both still convinced that invasion was not necessary, Spaatz now appreciating the vulnerability of Germany’s highly concentrated petroleum industry. If the invasion must go on, Spaatz argued, better to leave the rail system to interdiction by tactical air forces, a method more effective and less likely to inflict casualties on French and Belgian civilians. Besides, another “diversion”—against German V-weapon launching sites—was already diluting the strategic assault on Germany.  But with Harris still scoffing at “panacea” targets like oil, he and Spaatz hardly presented a united front, despite support from Churchill, who moaned that the transportation plan “will smear the good name of the Royal Air Forces across the world.” Spaatz himself was willing to place all air forces temporarily under the command of Eisenhower, who threatened to Churchill to “go home” if denied that command.#©  Pressed with special vigor by the young British scientist Solly Zuckerman, the transportation plan for attacking marshaling yards was implemented. Its success, though still disputed forty years later, was considerable, and the thousands of casualties among friendly civilians were still far fewer than anticipated in more dire forecasts. Meanwhile Spaatz, on the che