ides, officials were aloof to the destruction, glimpsed few dramatic possibilities in the bombing, and worked through cumbersome bureaucracies responding slowly to changing conditions. Circumstances of the moment also delayed quick response. Leadership changed on both sides in April, with the fall of Koiso’s government and Roosevelt’s death; cautious men searched for their footing in the new political terrain. The fire raids had momentar- ily halted, and the drama of Okinawa seized attention.  At the time, then, the fire raids only lubricated the wheels of slow change. Though a naval officer, the new premier, the frail and elderly Admiral Suzuki, was not closely associated with the war effort; army influence in his cabinet declined in favor of the navy, long less hopeful about the rewards of a fight to a finish and, unlike the army, virtually without an armed force to carry it on. Fear that American bombing would unleash revolutionary upheaval did motivate some senior statesmen at the time; dark prophecies of prewar years about proletarian uprising, seemingly undercut by the actual experience of war, now were borne out, at least in the fantasy life of some leaders. But the fear that triggered a sense of urgency also bred extreme caution: A radical move toward peace seemed impossible without setting off the very violence that such a move was supposed to forestall. So the Suzuki government tried to straddle two horses. It probed the possibilities for peace, fruitlessly and strangely by negotiation with the Soviet Union—still officially a neutral but Japan’s mortal enemy at home and abroad, many of its leaders thought. At the same time, the new government tried to strengthen Japan’s resistance to the Allies, hoping to placate die-hards at home and to wrest some victory-in-defeat forcing the Americans to a compromise peace. Militarily, the only recourse was mas- sive kamikaze attacks by sea and air against American forces.  In retrospect, the hope invested in kamikaze t