ip, impenetrable confusion. For this kind of war, at least as a friendly nation experienced it, they had a front-row seat. Immediacy was almost total.  Same like Murrow. exnloited it brilliantly for the commercial. artistic. and nolitical nurnoses that sided them. As Archihald Mact.eish said of Murrow. “You hurned the citv of London in our  Page 90 of 368 21%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON tic attacks would some day be feasible but were of no immediate worry. “The Air defense of America is as simple as the attack is difficult.”42  Yet once again anti-interventionists like Lindbergh prepared the ground for Roosevelt’s developing emphasis on air power. It was precisely hemispheric defense that Roosevelt was now emphasizing. Lindbergh could haggle about the numbers of planes needed, but both politics and personal experience compelled him to embrace air power. Indeed, Lindbergh particularly favored the development of long-range bombers to provide an aerial version of the naval “chastity belt” around the Americas that Roosevelt had already proclaimed. Intent on keeping the United States out of war, Lindbergh did not explore what role those bombers might play in war. Nor did he pay much attention to Germany’s air blitz, if only because England’s successful resistance undercut his argument that aid to the Allies was futile. Between Roosevelt and Lindbergh, as between interventionists and their critics more generally, the danger and potential of the bomber were less an issue than the common coin spent to sustain political positions. This pattern persisted up to Pearl Harbor in public discourse. Air power was at once alluring, relatively noncontroversial, easily lost in the vortex of issues swirl- ing across the United States, such as well-worn controversies over creating an independent air force and the navy’s role in the air age.43  Some popular writers tried to be more informed. In writings like United We Stand! Defense of the Western Hemisphe