up.”22  Indeed, in the years before Pearl Harbor, a curious inversion of logic in debate about aircraft types moved Americans further away from recognizing the role their new bombers might play. Critics suspicious that Roosevelt was maneuvering the United States into a European war saw danger in the production of short-range tactical aircraft, inasmuch as their only foreseeable use would be to accompany American ground forces in battle against the Axis powers. Better, one writer argued, to construct three or four thousand long-range precision bombers, which could intercept an attack on the United States far from its shores. “Public uncertainty notwithstanding,” he asserted, “the function of a bomber is not primarily the destruction of defenseless women and children. Neither is the  Page 59 of 368 14%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  AGULOL POY UU By + bea, CULE, Ge UG Gb COU LBC, CURL UO yg VEE OG US VUE. UU LS GU UE JUpULCOe dite y CUP LeS 4a CER Gk UE ECU AU OLU Ua Ca paieutry 2ucius ULoee ue  the inferior eyes and ears of Asians supposedly made them poor fliers. Yet in part because Americans deprecated the prowess of the Japanese, mention of bombing them required little consideration of how aerial victory would be accomplished. Hence contemplation remained occasional, almost offhand.  Racism was hardly peculiar to Americans, mirrored as it was among those Japanese caught up in their own visions of racial destiny. It weaved its way through the whole course of Japanese- American relations. But in contributing to early notions about bombing Japan, it helped expose important dynamics behind the rise of American air power. Those notions revealed the aggressive fantasies about air power that aviators and other Americans usually held in check, suggesting that the humane rationale imbedded in the doctrine of precision bombing was frail and disposable. Simi- larly, they showed how the idea of air power was informed by fears and passions reachin