ns about moral and military purposes. The media demonstrated some awareness of the nature of bombing operations late in the war, but then to help Americans appreciate and sustain the costs of war, not to raise fundamental questions about its content.  Perhaps the acceptance of strategic air war meant that Americans had suspended moral debate, accepted the bomber on utilitarian grounds, and revealed again their supposed “tendency to refer to war in absolute terms.”=5 But while the religious and pacifist press sometimes displayed that tendency, its stance and role in wartime debate also revealed more complex reasons for the accept- ance of air war.  Implicitly or explicitly, it is true, the religious press often confessed its inability to advocate restraints on the conduct of air war. Reacting to the Doolittle raid, the Christian Century could only express regret about the intensification of air war and “commit to the mercy of God those upon whom the bombs may fall.” One source of restraint, arising out of prewar law and theology, lay in the test of utility, the principle that “greater violence must not be used than is necessary to achieve the purpose in view.” But there seemed no way “to draw a line between discriminate and indiscriminate bombing.” Indeed, it seemed “idle to try to put a check upon the way in which weapons are used. If we fight at all, we fight all out.” More than that, the Christian Century assumed that bombing did have military utility. That left the religious press no alternative except to do what Commonweal did: condemn the bombing of cities as “indefensible morally, no matter how efficacious militarily.” Such condemnation set a high moral standard but was consigned to practical irrelevancy because few Americans would sacrifice a weapon whose utility even Commonweal felt forced to acknowledge. That acknowledgment was perhaps the most telling component of the dissenters’ position. With surprising ease, they relinquished the argument that might mos