mensurate with losses inflicted by more conventional forms of warfare, in the siege of Leningrad, for example, or in the battle for Manila in 1945, where perhaps one hundred thousand civilians died mostly from ground fighting and artillery. In August 1945, the further use of firebombing opened no new vistas, taught the world’s powers nothing they did not already know, and led to no new arms race. Atomic warfare was secret and its introduction was likely to speed up a competition for arms carrying grave consequences. And its spread would threaten lives and habitats on a scale dwarfing anything achievable through known means of warfare (except possibly chemical and biological weapons). In political terms, nearly all parties to the bomb’s development recognized this; hence the concern with secrecy and the desperate attempts to peer into the future. In moral terms, however, in assessing the presumed equation between the evil of con- tinued firebombing and that of using the new weapon, these considerations either disappeared or were seen as further justification for rushing the weapon into battle.  The legacy of firebombing was not technical, for the atomic bomb still involved a quantum leap in that regard. It lay instead in the ways of thinking about bombing that it perpetuated. The persistent focus on the bomb’s visual and psychological effect fell squarely in the long tradition of regarding bombing more as an idea, an “apparition,” than as a reality of war. The technology was revolutionary, as the bomb’s managers appreciated to a degree, but the perspective was traditional. Imagined as conventional bombing had been, the atomic bomb would smite the enemy and reorder the affairs of man because the very appearance of it, over a city and the globe, would be awesome. As such, it would establish at last the validity of powerful fantasies about the shock value of bombing.  Just how far men went to deny the physical reality of the atomic bomb—and in doing so draw on the legac