me on many times.” Their government had instructed Japanese that they had “only two choices before them: to be victorious, or perish.” Victims of faithful obedience to their leaders’ edicts, having at first little reason to know their futility, fire fighters and citizens stayed to quench the flames with their thousands of wet mats and waterbuckets. Or they cowered in the promised safety of shallow slit trenches—Tokyo’s water table turned anything deeper into a cesspool—that had indeed earlier provided a little protection when high explosives had fallen. Too quickly to allow easy escape, the bombs “scattered a kind of flam- ing dew that skittered along the roofs, setting fire to everything it splashed and spreading a wash of dancing flames everywhere.”§  Tokyo was unprepared. Despite Japan’s own experience in bombing others in China, despite the warnings served up in test fire raids, despite some vivid reporting on the fate of Germany’s cities, little had been done. Before March 9, perhaps 1,700,000 residents had already left the city. But except for the evacuation of schoolchildren—carried out not to protect them but to save them “as a human resource in the abstract”—their exodus owed little to the government, far more to the lash of fear. Some 6,000,000 remained. On the government's part, waterways had been too much trusted to stop flames, firebreaks had been widely but incompletely cleared, concrete shelters had rarely been constructed. Antiaircraft defenses were technically inadequate except for a fairly efficient radar detec- tion and warning system. With defense overwhelmed, the battle, insofar as there was one, took place between civilians on the ground and technicians in the air.S”  Tokyo did not explode, it descended into “an ‘infernum’ ... like that which Dante... describes in his Divina commedia.”®8 A few months later, the atomic bombs would erupt without warning and with apocalyptic instancy, most of their fury telescoped into seconds of transcendent dest