d tactical air forces.”63 The image of air power as a fascist weapon obscured the paradox, concealing the Anglo-Americans’ developing interest in strategic air war and muting their concern about the morality of that interest.  The association of air power with fascism was one reason why the ethical issues posed by air war received little attention in the 1930s. Of course, fascist bombing elicited vigorous moral condemnation, but it was largely reflexive. Few defined what was immoral about bombing cities beyond the fact that it involved killing “the wrong people” and was done by fascists, who were, ipso facto, immoral in method and intent. This simplicity of judgment was part of a larger problem, as Michael Howard has commented: “The liberal conscience in the mid-thirties was equally revolted by war and by Fascism, and so found it easy to believe that the two were one and the same.” In the case of air war, labeling the fascists’ bombing of civilians as murder was surely valid, but morally it was not very instructive, for much of war is murder. In retrospect, the American State Department’s vigorous condemnations provide a kind of moral yardstick by which the later crumbling of American standards can be judged. At the time, reflexive condemnation offered no distinctions from other kinds of murder that even democracies practice—by siege, shelling, or economic blockade, for example —and few guidelines for the future handling of the bomber. It was unclear whether the nature of the victim or the intent of the attacker determined the moral status of bombing, and thus whether a “supreme emergency” for the democracies might sanction their own resort to the kind of bombing they had condemned.®  To those who gave these ethical issues extended consideration, few recourses were apparent. Bombing, John Fischer Williams recognized, came with fewer twinges of conscience because the assailant’s “hands physically have no blood upon them.” Rules of war might be useful, Eliot argued, n