justifying the bombing of Germany’s cities; but the argument that such bombing was an unavoidable necessity overlooked what the bombers could have done in North African operations and in the critical Battle of the Atlantic. Like the Luftwaffe, the RAF was soon forced to bomb at night, although for a while longer the language of precision bombing provided a figleaf for attacks on the Nazis’ cities and morale. Cities were the only target RAF night bombers could hit, and satisfying ones for a beleaguered power seeking revenge and straining to impress Americans and Russians with their ability to inflict it. Whatever the intentions on either side, the result for both was aimless, even counterproductive bombing campaigns. As one historian has commented, “If the object had been to stimulate the German war economy and to encourage the Germans to fight, no better technique than the clumsy [British] air offensive of 1940-1943 could have been devised.” Much the same might be said of the German blitz of Britain.4¢  Covering the blitz, America’s radio journalists possessed a supreme opportunity for enlightening Americans about air war on cities. Radio had seized first place in the homes of Americans as the medium for reporting events abroad and for heightening awareness of them. Having become virtual “tools of the administration” in their undisguised sympathy for the Allies and for American intervention,4” radio’s best journalists, like Edward R. Murrow, had a compelling motive for rendering dramatically the story of London in flames. And radio could cover the bombing of cities like it could no other form of war. Correspondents did not face so starkly the problems encountered on the battlefield or the seas: rapid movement, disruption of electronic communications, military censor- ship, impenetrable confusion. For this kind of war, at least as a friendly nation experienced it, they had a front-row seat. Immediacy was almost total.  Same like Murrow. exnloited it brilliantly for t