lling thousands when targets were in urban areas, accelerating Japan’s devastating decline in food stocks, and perhaps, if its effects had worked more slowly, prolonging the suffering of civilians and of Japanese and American soldiers. Still, there would have been a difference: less destruction. Malnutrition was occurring anyway—at most, it would have been worse. Factories shuttered but not destroyed could have been re-opened; malnourished but alive children and workers could be returned to health; isolated but uncharred cities could have revived.  Yet even if LeMay and his superiors had grasped the weakness of their economic argument for area attacks, it is doubtful that they would have acted differently. The momentum behind razing Japan’s cities had developed too long and too intensely to be arrested by the collapse of any one argument. Others were available. If not the workers’ drill presses, then their contribution to the factory system would have justified attacking their lives and housing; or there would have been arguments for undermining the entire urban infrastructure of Japan or for creating class animosities and mob terror to corrode the enemy’s will to fight. Each of these justifications had already been voiced months or years before the March 9 raid. If each successively posited a more distant connection between what the worker did and what Japan needed to sustain war, such looseness would have bothered few, certainly not LeMay. In his opinion, expressed after the war, “There are no innocent civilians. It is their government and you are fighting a people, you are not trying to fight an armed force anymore. So it doesn’t bother me so much to be killing the so-called innocent bystanders.” Even if the “{nnocent bystanders,” in an atomic conflict, “might be entire nations that aren’t even at war,” that would be a situation which “bothers me,” but “it doesn’t change the picture of what you are trying to do any.”108  However, LeMay’s conscience could not rest