t among those powerful enough to aid his cause. The attention of press and public opinion was usually fleeting and superficial, directed at the spectacle of sinking battleships and squabbling bureaucrats. After Mitchell’s court-martial, much of the entertainment ended, and commentary on national defense at times barely mentioned aviation.3”  In all likelihood, these setbacks made little difference to military aviation. Henry Harley Arnold, the air force’s commanding general in World War II, later assessed the fate of Mitchell’s early plans by concluding that “military aviation really couldn’t have amounted to very much then, even if everybody had agreed with him.”38 Furthermore, the bitter feud of the twenties contributed  Page 35 of 368 2%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON as petty, vindictive bureaucrats bilking the taxpayers into supporting outdated modes ot wartare. “The older officers 1n both our services understand rifles, siege guns, and battleships,” the New York  Globe explained. “They do not understand aeroplanes, poison gases, aerial torpedoes.” In Mitchell’s view, aviation was a victim of “conservatism,” a habit of basing “everything on precedent.” Admiral William Fullam, one of the navy heretics, condemned officers with heads “buried in the sands of conservatism,” and Admiral William Sims agreed that most naval officers were “hide-bound, unfitted and uneducated.” “Fossilized admirals” were the culprit in the view of the Toledo Times. Mitchell, conjuring up images so useful in modern American politics, promised to “jar the bureaucrats out of their swivel chairs” and take his case “to Congress and the people.” Senator Borah’s enemies were those “interested in armament contracts... and the bureaus and bureaucracy” which would not stop until “paralyzed by the power of public opinion.” The very setting of Mitchell's court-martial in a dingy building reeking of “government squalor” suggested his martyrdom by a tawdry and faceless bur