that “we know what they know about us and they dont /sic/ know that we know it.” The moment was soon arriving to show America’s hand, but adroitly. Information about the buildup must not leak through the press but “from the White House or the State Department directly to Japanese officials—presumably [Saburo] Kurusu,” the Japanese special envoy flown to Washington to assist in negotiations. Privacy was critical in order to prevent a loss of face which would compel Japanese “fanatics .. . to demand war immediately.” Given discretion, Japanese officials “can say to the cabinet: ‘Look here. These people really mean to bomb our cities, and they have the equipment with which to do it. We'd better go slow.” In that way, Marshall suggested, “war might be averted.”  Nor, he added, was this simply a clever bluff. Even if the scheme failed and war occurred, “we'll fight mercilessly. Flying fortresses will be dispatched immediately to set the paper cities of Japan on fire,” Marshall explained in language unusually graphic for him. “There won't be any hesitation about bombing civilians—it will be all-out.”28  These were such extraordinary comments that their intent, even their authenticity, has been much debated. Marshall’s scrupulous biographer, Forrest Pogue, acknowledged that the Chief of Staff overrated air power at the time but concluded that Marshall was “no Billy Mitchell” and discounted Marshall's bolder statements on bombing Japan as, if accurately recorded, betraying at most a passing excess or an attempt to hush up the press.®2 But Marshall’s remarks should not be dismissed. Not one but two accounts of the conference survived, and Marshall himself graciously accepted their authenticity and correctness in 1949.29 More important, the War Department and Marshall himself frequently considered offensive missions. As Marshall knew, the AAF was rushing to the Phil- ippines incendiary bombs, whose utility against military targets was low and whose use the army had ignored be