usand-plane raids, remained massive assaults with incendiaries on urban areas. By 1943, the technique had much advanced because new tactics and devices aided target identification, the control of bomber operations, and confusion of enemy defenses. Harris first waged the widely touted Battle of the Ruhr but achieved his greatest and most revealing suc- cess in four furious assaults on Hamburg during late July and early August.  At Hamburg, everything came together for Harris. The city’s location by water gave it a vivid profile to the eyes of men and radar, one rarely possible in the air war on Germany. Bomber Command addressed the chronic problem of “creep-back”—the tendency of aerial “fringe merchants” to bomb short of the aiming point and thereby disperse the whole bombing pattern—simply by turning it into a virtue: exploiting the tendency by laying out a carpet of bomb drops. Most critically, the RAF finally introduced “Window”—bundles of aluminum-coated strips which overwhelmed enemy radar. Earlier withheld for fear that the Germans would copy it—they did, since few technical advances in the war waited long for mimicry—Window temporarily blinded fighter defenses. Even the weather cooperated: hot and dry. The second Hamburg raid ignited the war’s first great firestorm.  It was a meteorological phenomenon in its own right. Dropped by 731 attacking bombers, incendiaries started thousands of fires while high explosives blasted open paths by which they could rapidly travel. As they merged and intensified, their greed for oxygen sucked in the fresher air from the fringes of the cauldron, the bellowslike draft creating terrific winds that sent bodies, trees, and parts of buildings flying through air heated to 800° centigrade. Naturally centripetal, a fire that “ ‘drew’ like a giant chimney,”!2 the storm nonetheless expanded as “creep-back” widened the area de- manding its gaseous fuel.  The firestorm erupted so rapidly that the population caught in it was trapped. Meas