r for Harris. The city’s location by water gave it a vivid profile to the eyes of men and radar, one rarely possible in the air war on Germany. Bomber Command addressed the chronic problem of “creep-back”—the tendency of aerial “fringe merchants” to bomb short of the aiming point and thereby disperse the whole bombing pattern—simply by turning it into a virtue: exploiting the tendency by laying out a carpet of bomb drops. Most critically, the RAF finally introduced “Window”—bundles of aluminum-coated strips which overwhelmed enemy radar. Earlier withheld for fear that the Germans would copy it—they did, since few technical advances in the war waited long for mimicry—Window temporarily blinded fighter defenses. Even the weather cooperated: hot and dry. The second Hamburg raid ignited the war’s first great firestorm.  It was a meteorological phenomenon in its own right. Dropped by 731 attacking bombers, incendiaries started thousands of fires while high explosives blasted open paths by which they could  Page 149 of 368 34%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  How they could diverge was already evident in the spring of 1943, when the British and Americans once again reviewed bombing policy. The occasion arose in May when Eaker’s command presented its operating plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive (Operation POINTBLANK as it was codenamed) to the Joint and Combined Chiefs. On some points, Eaker’s plan represented a dubious but politically necessary compromise. By placing priority on submarine yards and bases, the plan did not reason from operational necessity—from what the bomber could do—and instead, despite mounting appreciation of how invulnerable the submarine targets were, responded to assessments of what needed to be done in winning the Atlantic battle. With more success, the AAF also employed B-24s in direct aerial operations against the subs at sea. But to admit that the submarine war was better won that way would have undercut long-sta