he same to men like himself. Zuckerman’s own parochialism mirrored what he attacked in others. “Operational problems, I discovered [after the war], savoured more of the characteristics of biological enquiry than of those encountered by chemists or physicists.” Apparently not only were most officers unfit for the task of analyzing operations, but many scientists as well. In arguing for his plan of attack against the German railway network, Zuckerman “constantly resorted to biological analogies,” as he recalled—without a hint that such analogies might color his argument. The scientists’ pretense to objectivity, so abrasive to military men though they did not know how to challenge it, disguised both professional ambitions and intellectual predispositions.42  In truth, scientists like Zuckerman and Dyson were naive and confused about what science had to offer to war-makers. Much of Zuckerman’s memoirs presumes that there were “right” conclusions to be drawn by objective analysis from intelligence data, if only air officers had not operated on vested interests. His conviction that postwar systems analysis used in selecting strategic objectives had banished “the kind of naive economic analysis” evident in World War II is almost macabre in its faith in the objectivity of scientific systems. Dyson’s confusion ran deeper. On the one hand, his memoirs construct a dismaying account of how British airmen needlessly perished because commanders ignored the advice of scientists. On the other, he concluded that “the more technological the war becomes. the more disastrouslv a bad choice of means will change a good cause into evil”: no one was more eloquent than Dvson in explaining how “science and technologv.. .  Page 196 of 368 45%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  bombing cities indiscriminately, but this is morally justified, as it is helping to win the war. A year later I said, Unfortunately it seems that our bombing is not really helping to win the wa