n aircraft in use against Chinese and Formosan targets were medium and heavy bombers regularly flying at lower levels and achieving greater precision than B-29s. And of course the enemy’s morale and government were hardly targets in Formosa and China, except for those limited institutions and areas specifically supporting Japanese rule and operations: in American eyes, both China and Formosa were non-Japanese except by virtue of occu- pation, inhabited by friendly peoples promised liberation from the Japanese yoke.  And yet much the same pattern of bombing unfolded there as in Japan. First came precision strikes, then area incendiary raids, against Hankow in December and especially against Formosan cities in the spring. The progression was similar even though the precision strikes against Chinese and Formosan targets had been demonstrably more successful. Furthermore, the incendiary raids clearly targeted large residential areas and achieved a scale against them proportional to that accomplished against Japan itself. Five of Formosa’s eleven principal cities were almost completely destroyed, another four half ruined, with predictable casualties: 6,100 killed and thousands more wounded (by Japanese estimates which, if they followed the homeland pattern, were probably low), and over a quarter of a million people made homeless. The weaponry was the same as LeMay’s—at least 62,445 gallons of napalm. Against Chinese cities, area bombing apparently continued until for- bidden late in July 1945.10  The issue is not whether there were legitimate military targets in Formosa and China. There were and these were hit. Much more was hit. To some degree, the rationale was similar to the one used to justify the torching of Japan’s cities. As the official historians wrote, “So many of the significant targets of Formosa were situated in the island’s cities and towns that area bombing was frequently employed. The resulting destruction, it was assumed, not only would reach supplies of