e a giant chimney,”!2 the storm nonetheless expanded as “creep-back” widened the area de- manding its gaseous fuel.  The firestorm erupted so rapidly that the population caught in it was trapped. Measures that were sensible in a high-explosive attack—rushing to shelters and basements—were disastrous because the fire drained these quarters of oxygen, asphyxiating inhabitants, then baking the bodies through radiant heat or, if the fire burst through collapsing walls, melting them into “a thick, greasy black mass” or leaving behind what the Germans called Bombenbrandschrumpfleichen (incendiary-bomb-shrunken bodies). Radiant heat was particularly deadly, working in the same odd ways it would at Hiroshima and Nagasaki: “In many cases, when stockings were worn, they were not even singed, although the skin and underlying structures were severely damaged.” The quick-witted could only flee into “a blizzard of red snowflakes” where they often became human torches in the streets, found “marked with a waxen pallor like dummies in a shop window”; or they succumbed from heat or as- phyxiation even if they reached waterways. Probably more than forty thousand Germans died.  As the Hamburg police-president commented, “The calamity is as much perceived in the process of destruction as in the accomplished fact.” Not merely death but the manner of death, not merely destruction but its otherworldly suddenness and totality triggered among survivors the sense of a world-ending event, one “transcending all human experience and imagination.” Theirs was a speechless horror, one usually identified later only with the victims of atomic bombing. For the few who escaped the vortex of the storm, the experience dwarfed all other emotions. Even the police- president’s report allocated few words to “the murderous lust of a sadistic enemy.” It was the death of the city itself, not antecedents and results, that he struggled to comprehend.13  Page 149 of 368 34%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CRE