than to explain why the story unfolded as it did. Similarly, while they often quarreled with each other, generating those feuds and conflicts that are the stuff of much military history, in the end it is more instructive to trace what diverse groups had in common as they thought about and practiced aerial warfare.  Some readers may also find my explanation of American war-making unduly or unfairly critical, especially in its suggestion of how racist attitudes and assumptions helped shape the bombing campaign against Japan. As the inevitably skeptical question puts it: if Americans were racist in incinerating Japanese cities, then how can one explain Britain's firebombing of Hamburg and Dresden? The answer, it seems to me, is relatively simple: similar consequences can arise out of different motives and impulses. Of course, British and American bombing had much in common as well, but Japanese-American racial antagonisms added special fuel to the combustible mix of wartime motives for bombing. By the same token, racism was hardly the only impulse behind American bombing: I suggest that among policymakers, if not in the public at large, a technological fanaticism often governed actions, an approach to making war in which satisfaction of organizational and professional drives loomed larger than the overt passions of war.  The methods I have employed in researching and writing this story are familiar ones. A large literature of published sources is available. At many points I have also drawn heavily from archival sources, although they are often exasperatingly uneven in quality and quantity. My use of oral history, a popular technique in recent decades, has been limited. I have followed chronology in a broad way, but I sometimes set it aside to characterize certain moods, ideas, and practices that defy precise chronological placement.  Above all, I have emphasized the diversity of the appeals that air power has had for Americans. The result is a somewhat eclectic explana