hat happened at Dresden. “These attacks [on cities he listed] have not been hailed as terror attacks against populations. ... There has been no change of policy ... only a change of emphasis in locale.” The wording simultaneously implied that “terror attacks” were taking place, and yet that they were not because they had not been “hailed” as such.23  Whatever concern Dresden evoked among American leaders was limited. The matter apparently never came to Roosevelt’s attention. Stimson was upset over a German account that made “the destruction seem on its face terrible and probably unnecessary,” but his stated reasons for concern were political: since Dresden was in the “least Prussianized part of Germany,” he explained to Marshall in an eerie echo of the dashed hopes of its residents, it needed to be saved as the “center of a new Germany.” There may have been more than this to Stimson’s anxiety. Stimson knew the language of realpolitik, but he was also a moralist. But for the moment Dresden was a passing concern for him. For his part, Arnold’s response to Stimson’s concern was characteristically brutal: “We must not get soft—war must be destructive and to a certain extent inhuman and ruthless.”24  The “careful investigation” Stimson requested was pursued with little urgency and came too late to affect the subsequent course of bombing. Dresden itself was struck not only on February 14 by the Americans, but again on February 15, March 2, and April 17. Perhaps the additional raids seemed necessary because for all that the city’s marshaling yards had justified the initial firestorm, in fact they had escaped major damage, and railway lines had quickly resumed operations. Only the exhaustion of targets and the desire not to complicate further the task of occupying Germany brought the campaign against its cities to a halt in mid-April.25  Meanwhile, there was also little sense of restraint in the consideration given another project, the use of remotely controlled worn-out bo