ns of flame high into the night,” and (from above) of a city “illuminated like a forest of brightly lighted Christmas trees.” These things took on an unholy beauty even as the city boiled, as people with the luxury to observe tried to relate an alien experience to something familiar. Like every form of war, this one had its strangely compelling attractions: “All the Japanese in the gardens near mine,” recorded a French journalist on the fringes of the holocaust, “were out of doors or peering out of their holes, uttering cries of admiration ... at this grandiose, almost theatrical spectacle.” The men in the bombers smelled the soot and the burning flesh and tried to avoid choking or vomiting, or spotted the cauldron while still far out at sea, or bounced suddenly against the top of their aircraft when uprushes of superheated air—the thermals from the blaze—propelled their air- craft upward thousands of feet in a few seconds or flipped them over. There were unknown sensations. attractive and repellent. in what thev were doing.®>  Page 271 of 368 62%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON public relations precisely because he “despised” it. He quickly appreciated that the press—some fifty reporters were now on Guam—was more easily handled if it knew what to expect. The newsmen  were briefed about the major mission to come, and their stories were written up partly in advance, ready to be released as soon as “the first bombs-away messages” were received. The method not only protected secrets, it insured the best coverage in the states for the mission: Americans could learn of it before Japanese broadcasts deflated and distorted the news. In short, reporters substantially covered the event before it occurred.  “FLAMING DEW”  On March 9, just before midnight, residents of Tokyo began noticing a strange display in the skies over their city. They had been through air raids before, and some, like their counterparts in Europe’s threatened cities, had devel