uncertain, not evasive, about what he could do to redeem the B-29 operations. In the next several days, a solution jelled. Primarily a commander and tactician, not a strategist, he conceived the solution in tactical terms. He mulled his ideas over with key combat commanders and extracted the statistical information he needed from his staff. Could the bombers fly in at five or six thousand instead of twenty-five or thirty thousand feet? To some, the question seemed absurd. Flak was bad enough at high altitudes; obviously, at six thousand feet it would be “slaughter.” But LeMay’s statisticians determined that few planes actually had been lost to flak, and he had a hunch that Japanese antiaircraft guns were suitable only for high-altitude fire. At worst, perhaps a one-shot surprise could be pulled on the enemy’s defenses, before returning to the safety of great height. Furthermore, the cover of night alone offered safety; perhaps he could strip the bombers of their defensive gunnery and its operators, save weight and risk fewer men, and load instead more tons of bombs. Flying at low altitudes also saved fuel—no jet stream, more room for bombs. Attacking in a bomber stream rather than flying in a fixed formation would save more fuel—load more bombs, six tons for each plane. New incendiaries were available, including napalm: use an all-incendiary load, space its distribution right, drench the most flammable area of Tokyo (103,000 inhabitants per square mile), pray for good surface winds, and the conflagration Washington long sought might be fired, especially now that over three hundred B-29s could be sent out on a mission. The big factories were not there, but the cottage industries that apparently fed them were, and the fires might spread into the factory areas.57  Here were the “several very radical methods.” Many had been for months proposed by operations analysts and tested cautiously by Hansell, and Washington had repeatedly urged further incendiary runs. How much L