tion about what bombing did to win the war.” The “whole damn thing from now on is politics and publicity,” and it was time the generals realized that “effective public relations is never an immaculate conception—it’s generally rape and always at least vigorous courtship.” Neither Arnold nor LeMay needed persuasion on that score, and it must have been gratifying that as the surrender was signed, 426 B-29s circled overhead, parading the triumph of “Victory Through Air Power” just as “Caesar’s legionnaires had paraded theirs in Rome when the short sword was queen of the battlefield.”122  Other matters of public image were at stake in the waning days of the war. The AAF’s public relations experts were also furious about MacArthur’s attempts to convince the press “that the Nips were ‘sincere and honest and trying to be helpful” regarding surrender arrangements. The airmen found “great danger in all this for us,” fearing that sympathy for the Japanese would “make the announcement of Jap civilian casualties turn against the Air Force. Make us look like barbarians, the Jap govt an injured, innocent body of harmless little brown men.” LeMay was told it was urgent for the air force to release its own version of the casualty figures “at the right time. And the right time is after I’ve collected some atrocity stories about what Japs did to our B-29 crews when they were shot down.”123  A “wave of sympathy” for the Japanese also troubled General Groves. Twice on August 25 he talked with Lieutenant Colonel Rea at the Oak Ridge Hospital regarding Radio Tokyo’s broadcast about Hiroshima’s victims. ‘““Now it is peopled by [a] ghost parade,” Groves quoted from the broadcast, “ ‘the living doomed to die of radioactivity burns.” Since these reports were being picked up by the American media, Groves was angry and incredulous. He thought he had solved the problem of radioactivity by avoiding a ground burst of the bombs, so he blamed “a good dose of propaganda” on the “idiotic performance”