pose and March 1942 as their deadline for building up their force. The parallel went further: in both cases the forces were too small and too hastily thrown together to be much more than a bluff, and in neither case was the weakness of the bluff fully appreciated. Meanwhile, the promise of American air power was used to satisfy not only the British but the Dutch and the Chinese. All were brought in on the new secret.8  By early November, Washington’s plans for its Far Eastern bombers were well advanced. In the rush to get them there, in the unspoken temptation to regard their existence alone as decisive, in the careless mixture of awe and deprecation of Japanese abilities, the question of what to do with them when they reached the Philippines received hasty, sometimes conflicting answers from the military staff. The intent was grand: deter Japanese expansion, interdict it if it flowed southward, even, as both Stimson and Marshall conjectured, wean Japan from the Axis powers. As translated into operational plans, the most obvious mission for the bombers was to defend the Philippines against invasion by attacking any landing force in its ships or on the beaches. With the Philippines so neatly astride Japan's sea routes southward, the bomber could also disrupt Japanese convoys and bomb airfields on Formosa. The Philippines’ proximity to Japan, long seen as their weakness, now became their advantage.  These missions, though within the range of B-17s and the B-24 Liberators now also in the pipeline, were ambitious indeed for an untried air force stationed far from home base. But War Department plans did not end there. For one thing, the bombers might be useful in situations short of war. “There is war in China and there is war in the Atlantic at the present time, but in neither case is it declared war,” Marshall reminded his staff, echoing Roosevelt’s views. Pending full-scale hostilities, MacArthur might carry out reconnaissance over Japanese-held territories, perhaps e