lians’ roles were never clearly sorted out along professional lines. For example, many nominally scientific positions were filled by nonscientists. Operations research was once defined by C. P. Snow as the capacity to “think scientifically about ... operations.”32 But the AAF’s Committee of Operations Analysts (COA) was dominated by lawyers and businessmen, many of national prominence—Elihu Root, Jr., Thomas Lamontof J. P. Morgan, John Marshall Harlan (later a Supreme Court justice), Fowler Hamilton—and others such as the Boston lawyer Guido Perera, the COA’s de facto chairman for much of the time. Prominent economists like Edward S. Mason figured significantly, as did the Princeton historian and political scientist Edward Mead Earle, a pioneer in academic service to the military establishment. The task of “thinking scientifically” was never alone the scientist’s job.  Lawyers and businessmen found themselves in such work in part because the air force lacked the professional staff to do it itself: analysis of an enemy’s strategic systems required a knowledge of foreign industrial economies gained through legal or business experience. More important than their technical expertise was the assumption that businessmen and lawyers possessed the talent to think logically about these problems, the connections to draw in specialized expertise, and the freedom from operational demands to give these matters sustained attention. Perera himself, responsible for recruiting COA staff, naturally turned to men of similar background. Indeed, linkages of class, education, and geography, especially at the top rungs of business and law in the Northeast, were vital in recruiting civilians, all the more so with two elite easterners, Stimson and Lovett, at the highest level of the War Department.  These linkages appeared again late in 1944, when the United States Strategic Bombing Survey was constituted to examine the results of the bombing effort. Franklin D’Olier, past national commande