er removed from office in “some form of nervous collapse,” and a third under medical observation. On the eve of OVERLORD, Arnold found his staff “so wrapped up in our various and current affairs that we do not take any time to think ahead” and again urged his men to cut down on paperwork and take time off; but few did. “We have placed a premium on the operator rather than the theorist,” one colonel dared to complain in November. Arnold’s drive to increase operations made the complaint substantially correct. Arnold himself was again that month regretting “that we have probably lost a certain degree of initiative and imagination and that all of us are, perhaps, war-weary.”!1  Arnold’s injunctions to his staff to ease up and look ahead were oddly similar to the advice given him regarding his own health. During the war, he experienced four heart attacks, and on orders from his doctors and from Marshall, after each he rested briefly. But he could not really acknowlege the precariousness of his own health any more than he could the dangers of an overtaxed organ- ization. He soon slipped back into a pace that he imposed on others and that helped alienate him from his wife and family. He was, like LeMay, a transparent man who never elicited the contrasting impressions that a Roosevelt or an Eisenhower triggered; he lacked guile and subtlety, the capacity to act deviously or operate on multiple levels. Arnold also differed from some other military leaders— Marshall and Stimson, for example, also tired and overburdened men—in his stubborn refusal to delegate authority and in his inability to find outlets for affection and relaxation. Ambition—for him- self and his air force, between which he could not distinguish—was his guiding star.  In personality, LeMay was a different case. Arnold’s genial smile obscured his ruthlessness. LeMay’s gruff appearance—a touch of Bell’s palsy froze his face into a half-snarl—hid a certain gentleness of speech and rough affection for others. He