rest in an operation which “would be of interest if we were thinking in terms of a two year’s reduction of the Japanese homeland.” In an unrecognized irony of the moment, heightened expectations of invasion aggravated the impatience to get on with the destruction of Japan’s cities, rather than comprising an alternative to strategic devastation. The air force never denied the efficacy of a mining campaign. It simply lacked the patience, and saw it nowhere else, to give it a try.35  In November, as pressure to conduct further incendiary tests mounted, air officers increasingly mimicked the language of the civilian analysts: “Dehousing industrial workers causes a greater loss of man hours per ton of bombs dropped than can be accomplished by any other method.” “Dehousing” was becoming the favorite euphemism for a variety of virtues perceived in an incendiary assault, some spelled out—workers’ absenteeism, lower morale, paralyzed systems—some usually left unspoken: the maimed bodies and bewildering toll of the dead. Target analysts recognized that such assault would inflict scant damage on primary military and industrial establishments. But few questioned the moral or strategic wisdom of the planned campaign. Some worked very hard to make the enemy population the objective of the bombers. Helmut E. Landsberg, a German meteorologist advising the Twentieth Air Force staff, produced a report entitled “Disease Rates after Tokyo Earthquake of 1923” and concluded that “if an influenza epidemic is started as a result of a saturation attack upon the big cities, absenteeism in industrial plants can be expected to soar.” Better yet, he suggested, “the casualty rate will be increased if the attacks are made during the cold season,” when survivors crowded into public buildings and hospitals would spread “serious epidemics.”3°  Throughout the war’s last year, the attempt to quantify the air war went forward. On May 1, 1945, W. B. Shockley, one of the leading operations analysts, conc