d by European rivals on the eve of World War II—forces, that is, designed to intimidate or to demonstrate resolve but often backed by an apparatus of command, logistics, training, and reserves of dubious quality.2 In the nuclear age, as in the 1930s, one of the oldest temptations of air power was evident, the temptation to regard it as serving less the needs of battle than the opportunity to avoid it. Given the frightful consequences of actual war, that temptation has only deepened in the nuclear era. More than ever the aerial weapon promises to provide an  Page 355 of 368 81%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Epilogue  Today, few Americans know much about what happened at Hamburg, Dresden, Tokyo, and scores of other cities during World War II. The atomic bomb’s use against Japan—or rather, how people have chosen to remember and regard it—has largely obliterated awareness of the bomber’s earlier toll. In a longer view, however, continuity in the history of aerial warfare seems as striking as change. For all that 1945 demarcates the start of a second age in that history, indeed in human history, the burden of the atomic age has been similar to the one shouldered by an earlier generation.  Continuity has been most apparent in how people have thought and argued about bombing. The disputes they pursued for four decades after 1945, though more arcane because the technology became more rarified, were depressingly similar to earlier debates. Much as they did a half-century ago, for example, the American armed services still quarreled vigorously over which should control aerial technology and which can best survive its advances. Disagreement about the accuracy and potency of air power, though burdened with obscure terms like fratricide in recent times, echoed in substance the debates that swirled around Billy Mitchell in the 1920s. Argument about the vulnerability of military forces to an enemy’s first strike, renewed with particular force several