ve built up ideas in the Army, the Navy, and among civilians of what we can do with our B-29s.” The enormous investment poured into the B-29 had to be justified. “These airplanes are quite expensive and carry with them a crew of 12 men, and yet our results are far from what we expected and from what everyone else expects.” Politics once again accounted for Arnold’s demand to step up operations, as Hansell had discerned.3®  Page 261 of 368 60%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON our ‘invasion’ strategy into a ‘blockade’ strategy, at least temporarily, by our inability to assemble [the] forces required.”32 The air force thereby gained more time to exercise the muscle of the B-29s. But there was no fundamental reorientation of strategy, not even really a reconsideration of it. And what the air force gained in time it lost in potential bases because Kyushu would provide airfields for B-17s and B-24s flown back from Europe.  To be sure, there were other ways to accelerate the air war against Japan. The B-29s operating out of India and China had never been able to reach Japan with justifiable tonnages. By January the air force had formalized its decision to remove the bombers from the continent, coincident with LeMay’s move to the 21st Bomber Command. Many of the planes of his old 20th Bomber Command went to the Marianas. The British offered another source of added firepower. For political reasons, British leaders were loathe to be left out of the final drive against the Japanese homeland. For political reasons, their American counterparts were reluctant to allow the British to, as Mac-Arthur put it, “reap the benefits of our successes.” Of course, some contribution from across the Atlantic was acceptable to most Americans. Arnold’s air force was willing to entertain the basing of British Lancaster bombers in the Philippines or Okinawa. A more promising British contribution to the air war— the transfer of its famous Mosquito aircraft, for which Ame