r than lives or planes. But so far neither Mr. Churchill nor Mr. Roosevelt has said anything to counter the German propaganda that the peace will be worse than the war.” If not entirely fair to Roosevelt and Churchill, McCormick had at least addressed the problem of politics and morality raised by the bombing campaign, by asking if nations at war were bound to end the bloodletting through the least destructive means as long as fundamental objectives were secured.  Between the celebration of revenge by Kantor and the suspicions of overkill by McCormick stood a more commonplace reaction to the bombing, the kind of bland denial demonstrated by the New Republic. The liberal weekly deplored “bombing defenseless people merely to instil terror in them” but implied there were no defenseless people in modern war, and besides, “so far as we are aware,” terror bombing “is not the practice of the RAF and the AAF.” The truth was that most of the liberal press was too concerned for the political outcome of the war to have much interest in its military conduct. Dissent from the course of bombing was confined to the fringes of American politics, and even there few mounted an effective case that bombing ran beyond the requirements of victory. That  en four didA__ that avran diccantare nenally anrantad tha military utility af hambhina—maneiurad aaain fram ctill anathar narenactiva tha nareuncitranace of tha air naurar areimant 57  Page 136 of 368 31%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  ATALLL UL ALIELICALL dit PUWEL ULILL LIS Wal 5 1ddL YEA, CALEPL 101 WUULILULT dD PLUILISdDULy LLULE ULL LLB LU CULLIC. AUUVE all, ALLEL ILALIS PLTLELL OU LU VIEW LiLe DULL CLLULL 111 Lie CatcguLico—pivuucuiuit and technology—that reflected their virtues and avoided explicit questions about moral and military purposes. The media demonstrated some awareness of the nature of bombing operations late in the war, but then to help Americans appreciate and sustain the costs of war, not