ypes of the champions of the long-bow”—or as petty, vindictive bureaucrats bilking the taxpayers into supporting outdated modes of warfare. “The older officers in both our services understand rifles, siege guns, and battleships,” the New York Globe explained. “They do not understand aeroplanes, poison gases, aerial torpedoes.” In Mitchell’s view, aviation was a victim of “conservatism,” a habit of basing “everything on precedent.” Admiral William Fullam, one of the navy heretics, condemned officers with heads “buried in the sands of conservatism,” and Admiral William Sims agreed that most naval officers were “hide-bound, unfitted and uneducated.” “Fossilized admirals” were the culprit in the view of the Toledo Times. Mitchell, conjuring up images so useful in modern American politics, promised to “jar the bureaucrats out of  thair eurival chaire” and tala hic raca “ta Canarace and tha nannla” Canatar Rarah’e anamiac wrara thacea “intaractad in armamant eantrarte and tha huraane and huraaneracy” uthich wand nat ctan  Page 32 of 368 8%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON venturing abroad.  Above all, arguments for air power fed on a widespread image of naval armaments as the foremost expression of modern militarism.* After a long naval arms race, one widely seen as a major cause of World War I and renewed after the war’s end, battleships served as the primary symbol of the burden and danger of militarism. The power of the naval lobby—dozens of senior admirals and naval bureaucrats linked with friendly congressmen and powerful industrialists—suggested that vested interests lay behind the pressure to build bigger fleets. Of course there was also an aviation industry, peopled by its share of scoundrels and fast-buck artists and dogged in the 1920s by its wartime reputation for delivering dangerous goods behind schedule for outlandish prices. But in a market saturated with surplus warplanes, the industry was in shambles for much of the 1920s, hardl