se it might follow.14  Liddell Hart reached the same point by a different route. He rejected destruction as an end in itself: “Of what use is decisive victory in battle if we bleed to death as a result of it?” The goal of war was nothing more than “a resumption and progressive continuance of .. . the peace-time policy.” But nations often have far more ambitious or vicious goals. Passionately desiring to restore limits to the purpose and conduct of war, Liddell Hart did not acknowledge that aerial war might mark the final breakdown of such restraint. “New weapons,” Liddell Hart wrote in condemning a generation of commanders, “would seem to be regarded merely as an additional tap through which the bath of blood can be filled all the sooner.” More than he recognized, however, his alternative posed the same danger.15  Some observers argued that air war promised deliverance from the horrors of the trenches only by opening up “hideous vistas” of greater destruction. Churchill pronounced that the bomber gave mankind the means to “accomplish its own extinction.” Another Englishman rightly wondered if bombing would “smash the will to war. You may only harden it, intensify it.” Others feared that two combatants roughly equal in air strength might hesitate altogether to attack enemy cities, settling into an uneasy “balance of terrors” (to use a term introduced in the 1930s) or else descending into “the edifying spectacle of two nations hammering away at each other’s capital, with no immediate object but mutual destruction.” Of course, either outcome would upset the prophets’ calculations.1®  As the criticisms of aerial prophecy suggested, the twenties and thirties marked a shift away from the confident attitudes of earlier times about technological advances. The enemy was no longer a foreign power but “the immense destructiveness of modern weapons.”!” Similarly, in thinking about air war, possibilities were imaginable beyond the contrasting predictions of the airplane as eithe