ench warfare with all its appalling losses.” Marshall, himself acutely sensitive to casualty figures, made a special effort to keep Roosevelt informed of them “because you get hardened to these things and you have to be very careful to keep them always in the forefront of your mind.” Roosevelt also recognized the limits on American tolerance of sacrifices in another world war and knew that, as Harriman put it, “if the great armies of Russia could stand up to Germans,” the strategic opportunity existed to limit American losses. No similar opportunity existed in the Pacific, which only made the incentive to employ air power there more intense.®1  At the same time, pressure to employ air power was not strong enough to lead the Roosevelt administration into an exclusive reliance on it. Alarm about casualties did not always push policymakers toward expanding the strategic role of bombers. With the invasion of Europe imminent, 1944 opened with widespread “anticipation of vast American losses.”®? Insofar as Allied leaders responded to that anxiety, they diverted the heavy bombers away from Germany into a massive effort to weaken German defenses in France against invading forces. More broadly, countervailing considerations reined in a rush to air power: it was still too untested a weapon to place all bets on it, and even where an aerial strategy was more concertedly pressed, as was the case in the war against Japan, formidable undertakings on the ground and at sea were required to secure bases placing Japan within reach of American bombers.  What facilitated official reliance on air power was less irresistible public pressures than the previous acceptance and general attractiveness of strategic bombing. The congruence of official and public expectations was indicated simply by the lack of friction between them. Another consideration inviting use of air power, then, lay in the lack of political conflict that its use entailed.  Amore alert and concerned citizenry might have m