lowing a more traditional definition of strategy, they suggested that destruction would lead to victory by undermining the war-making capacity of an enemy; deprived of the sinews of war or the means to transport them, its military forces would gradually become unable to fight on. But that line of argument presumed that the enemy’s forces were the objective and promised no quick victory. More often airmen talked of destroying the “enemy’s will to resist . .. centered in the mass of the people.”!2 Defining the objective in that way did not mandate direct attacks on a civilian population, inasmuch as its will might be shattered when the population witnessed the paralysis of its economy or military forces. Neither did it exclude such attacks, a matter on which there was con- siderable hedging.  The planners’ vacillation about whether the final objective would be the morale of the population or its war-making capacity was a critical weakness in their doctrine. A 1926 text asserted that “complete destruction of vital parts of the enemy’s sources of supply” would lead “eventually ... to the collapse of the whole system.”23 In the masterful evasion of Muir Fairchild, an important tactical school instructor who wrote in the wake of Poland’s defeat in 1939:  The industrial mechanisms which provide the means of war to the armed forces, and those that provide the means of sustaining a normal life to the civil population, are not separate, disconnected entities. They are joined at many vital points. If not electrical power, then the destruction of some other common element, will render them both inoperative at a single blow. The nationwide reaction to the stunning discovery that the sources of the country’s power to resist and sustain itself, are being relentlessly destroyed, can hardly fail to be decisive.14  This was a disturbing mixture of confidence about success and evasion about how to achieve it. Admittedly, Fairchild finally considered the enemy’s will as the ultimate ob