offered President Roosevelt a pithy summary of Munich’s lessons: “If you have enough airplanes you don’t have to go to Berchtesgaden.”! Roosevelt understood the message. In varying ways he acted on it during the three years following the crisis of September 1938. Once again, however, contemplation of aerial holo- caust and preparation to wage it easily diverged.  After the Munich crisis, it is true, the British, German, and American air forces all moved, in fumbling and differing ways, toward the use of the bomber on enemy cities. Yet from the American perspective, the specter of air war if anything continued to recede. In part this was because other considerations still intruded. Too, reports from abroad continued to suggest that the bomber, at least as a weapon of attack on civilian masses, was less terrifying in actuality than it had been in anticipation. More than that, while fear of air war remained, the bomber’s deterrent value outweighed its actual military employment in American calculations. Especially in meeting the crisis in the Far East, American policymakers found the bomber an alluring instrument for minimizing, even averting, American participation in war. The mobilization of American air power rapidly accelerated without forcing attention to the terrors and limits of its use.  THE LESSONS OF “INTERNATIONAL BLACKMAIL”  Page 73 of 368 17%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  FS ge a ne en a a Sma ne ane n  ne  e  n e S  tomosphere of more urgent ar  sophisticated concern about the prospect of air war and the possibility that air war might be less conclusive than either the prophets or skeptics had allowed. Yet before the war the English placed great emphasis on the strategic bomber, and during the war the RAF would use the bomber with a vindictiveness unexcelled by Americans. In short, a richer legacy of debate in England did nothing to di- minish the practice of strategic air war.  But the casualness of debate among Americans d