acing extinction.” Von Neumann quipped after Hiroshima that mankind, “having failed to solve the problem of living together, had at least succeeded in achieving togetherness by cosmic suicide.” Perhaps he was “vulnerable to seduction by ‘the gadget,’ that is, by the promise of nuclear weapons as a means to salvation.” In the power to inflict total death lay also the power to control life itself—those who could take life could also give it and thereby triumph over their own mortality.5%  Or so we can speculate, while acknowledging the scantiness of the data on which such speculation rests. But even those—perhaps the vast majority—who felt grave doubts about perfecting the technology of death had ways to ward off those doubts. Trivializing language was one means—the bomb could be regarded as a mere device, a “gadget” (not a term merely serving the needs of security, since some wartime code names did connote the grandness of aspirations—OVERLORD for the Normandy invasion). Destructive intentions could be denied. “The bomb will never be dropped on people,” Ernest Lawrence reportedly said. “As soon as we get it, we'll use it only to dictate terms of peace.”*2 Here was an echo of hopes that had reverberated through decades of effort to perfect the aerial bomber.  By defining their work as a kind of fail-safe effort against the possibility of a Nazi bomb, scientists also maintained the illusion of benign purposes. At the time of the Trinity test, Samuel Allison offered James Conant his belated realization: “They’re going to take this thing over and fry hundreds of Japanese!” Somehow, he had believed until then that it would be otherwise. Oppenheimer kept doubt at bay in different ways. Trinity “betokened a greater explosion to come—one that would shake mankind free from parochialism and war.” Oppenheimer, like many scientists, also preserved an image of his own restraint and humaneness by measuring these virtues against the aggressive designs attributed to the military. He