ber’s potential for deterrence and diplomatic coercion: it would ward off attack, secure victory without unleashing its fury, and even help “establish world dominion,” in Mitchell’s words. If air power’s importance were above all political and psychological, then the practicality of its actual operations was a secondary concern. Air Corps officers, however, hestiated to explore this higher level of strategy. Insofar as they gave international politics much thought, they held to a rather commonplace notion of “ceaseless warfare among the major powers” fueled by struggle for world markets. Their task was to prepare to wage and win wars, not to formulate schemes to prevent them. Deterrence and coercion were the responsibility of the highest reaches of the War Department and the White House, charmed circles closed to airmen. Airmen did not overlook the obstacles to precision bombing because they imagined a subtle deterrent role for their bombers.18  The limitations of American thinking about precision bombing indicate what a short distance its proponents had traveled from Douhet, Liddell Hart, and Mitchell writing in the 1920s. In particular, the path Wells had taken twenty years earlier in exploring the psychology of air war remained largely unexplored. From one perspective, the new doctrine appeared more refined and humane in its focus on select economic targets rather than on the lives and homes of civilians and their leaders. Yet it did not clearly substitute economy for morale as an objective but rather saw economic targets as a more effective point of attack on the enemy’s nerves. Dislocation of the economy superseded dismemberment of the society but with the same end in view, the destruction of the will to fight.  The similarity in objectives was important. Later, in World War II, much was made about a distinction between British night bombing to terrorize German cities and American daylight precision bombing designed to immobilize the enemy’s war-making capacity