.. The whole business will be over in a couple of hours. With lungs full of diphenyl chlorarsine, we shall not need to worry about anything ever again.” If Chase intended this to be grim humor, it also suggested morbid release from the horrors of conventional war.  The arena of war had become both deadlier and narrower: “It hardly pays to discuss any mechanism of warfare except the airplane,” Chase said, inasmuch as aviation had “reduced all other weapons... to so much scrap iron.” Chase neatly banished the scourge of war as it had been known. There were no dangers other than air war to worry about, no intermediate possibilities between peace and holocaust; war was reduced to the problem of one weapon. Perhaps for this reason, when he posed solutions to the problem, Chase did so with astonishing dispatch, simply advising rulers to take the lead “in relentlessly suppressing war machines.” Chase admired the airplane as symbol and agent of progress in the machine culture; he feared it as an instrument of war. He juxtaposed the two possibilities nicely, but they remained alongside each other, not integrally related. Hesitantly, Chase also offered hope. After the two-hour war, “the surviving West, together with the East, will then ban the machine from war—which means, of course,” he added with telling simplicity, “the banishment of war. ... Or so the conclusion hangs, neatly balanced between the hope and the belief, within my mind.” He also neatly balanced terror and redemption.*4  At midpoint between two world wars, that was where American perceptions of the airplane rested, at the intersection of peril and promise, with most people cautiously choosing the path of reassurance. They did so because the urge to see science as beneficent remained strong. Attention thus drifted away from war. The glories and the dazzle of aviation, even the struggle over military aviation, took it elsewhere. Then too, in peacetime men were inclined to worry more about what the machine cultur