ers and of Truman’s later claims about them may miss the essential point: he did decide that the bomb should be used. Yet the technicalities confirm the truth of Groves’s characterization of Truman’s role. The burden of decision “fell upon President Truman.” Nevertheless, “as far as I was concerned, his decision was one of noninterference—basically, a decision not to upset the existing plans.”1°8 And if the technicalities made no difference in the outcome, they showed how the outcome could be made more acceptable. Decisions had to be made, yet if no final orders had to be signed, they could be made incrementally and felt to flow from the logic of events. Hamburg, Dresden, Tokyo, and countless other cities had been destroyed without the signed orders of prime minister or president. It was fitting that they were also not required for Hiroshima or Nagasaki.  TRANSCENDENCE AND CONTINUITY  The Japanese government rejected the Potsdam ultimatum, in part for reasons mirroring its enemy’s concerns. As in Washington, the public image of messages had to be weighed carefully when the medium was the airwaves. Accordingly, the government censored the ultimatum, leaving bellicose passages intact and deleting phrases that might tempt the Japanese into thinking that peace could come on tolerable terms, though broadcasts and leaflets from the American side released the full text.  Tokyo’s reaction to the proclamation also revealed how serious was the American problem of coordinating words and deeds. The Allies had threatened “prompt and utter destruction,” but, as Tokyo’s thinking has been described, “Japan had already been visited with nearly utter destruction. ... How, the Big Six wondered, could devastation be made more prompt or utter?” American bomb- ing had gone so far that the threat of its continuance was losing its credibility, and Japan had no reason to suspect something more.  There was also the problem of what would happen to Japan after surrender. If Washington had reac