can superiority in the air and to the air force’s emergence as the dominant military service. Contemporaries generally explained the forging of a close alliance among the air force, industry, and science in the same way they explained so many developments of the war: as a product of technological and operational imperatives. In their view, the very nature of air war—its pre- mium on the most sophisticated technology—compelled a more vigorous use of civilian talent.  As did the argument from operational necessities in its other forms, this version had a truth to it. The cutting edge of military technology did lie largely in the weaponry of air war. But that argument confused effect with cause, technological determinism with elites’ choices. The technology of air war was at the cutting edge in part because of the political decisions men made. If the pace of technological change alone had been the determining factor, the navy might have matched the air force’s success in employing civilian talent, for it had long pioneered new technologies, and its carrier aviation had many of the same technological needs as the air force. And yet its use of civilian science and industrial technology was generally less aggressive than the air force’s and marked by more fractious relations between scientists and the officer corps. Another example is more pointed: despite great technological advances, the Luftwaffe was notably deficient in recognition of civilian talent and ability to work harmoniously with it. Much the same was true of the Japanese air forces as well. At most, technological change offered a broad challenge which nations and particular organ- izations met in very different ways.  The success of the AAF in meeting that challenge was due substantially to its historical development, the background and temperament of its officer corps, and the political and class relation- ships among American elites. Oddly, much of that success derived from the prewar air force’s alienation