ince 1918, had less need for the self-justifying theorizing about strategic air war that characterized American airmen. It operated in an atomosphere of more urgent and sophisticated concern about the prospect of air war and the possibility that air war might be less conclusive than either the prophets or skeptics had allowed. Yet before the war the English placed great emphasis on the strategic bomber, and during the war the RAF would use the bomber with a vindictiveness unexcelled by Americans. In short, a richer legacy of debate in England did nothing to di- minish the practice of strategic air war.  But the casualness of debate among Americans did this: it allowed attraction to strategic bombing to develop even when no provocation of the kind experienced by the British occurred, and it shaped how Americans defined and justified what they did when war did come. Furthermore, overlaying the differences between the United States and Great Britain in the 1930s were similarities in the sense of distance from which use of the bomber was viewed. In both, the terms of strategic debate were largely defensive; in both, the democracies’ potential for bombing cities was largely hidden. For both, the Munich crisis triggered a change in thinking about the bomber and accelerated the momentum to use it. For neither did it quite appear that way at the time.  * Range is a misleading measure of a warplane’s capability. More informative is its radius of action, the distance which it can travel and then return to base—a figure that is usually well under half the range depending on the vagaries of weather, navigation, the size of bomb loads, and the enemy’s countermeasures.  The Attractions of Intimidation  Writing from Paris at the height of the Munich crisis, Ambassador William Bullitt offered President Roosevelt a pithy summary of Munich’s lessons: “If you have enough airplanes you don’t have to go to Berchtesgaden.”! Roosevelt understood the message. In varying ways he acted on it