tance through the fall and winter of 1944 sug- gested anew the impossibility of securing unconditional surrender without a fight to the finish. The abundance of resources amassed by the Allies made such a fight possible.  The definition of Allied strategy, along with the vagueness about its details, complicated the task of airmen in articulating a rationale for the bombing of Japan. Some airmen still hoped to force Japan’s capitulation through blockade and bombardment alone, and there had been evidence in Roosevelt’s own statements and in the media to indicate political support for such a strategy. But the airmen could hardly work out a scenario for victory by the means they preferred without appearing to contest official joint and combined policy. Speculation by airmen certainly occurred, but that did not constitute a strategy. And of course few airmen attached priority to the refinement of strategy.  If invasion was assumed to be the method of securing final surrender, there was in fact little room for imaginative calculations on how force was to be useful. Surrender was simply to be imposed as the inevitable result of the invasion, occupation, and dismemberment of the enemy state. Strategic plans were worked out in detail, but the planners usually worked backward, from the point of invasion to the preliminary operations necessary to make it possible. Accordingly, there was little point in debating how bombing might change the enemy’s government or its terms for peace, not unless the air force challenged agreed-upon assumptions. With strategic bombing now viewed as a way of softening up the enemy, airmen had little incentive to defend the strategic vision they had never abandoned.  Some leeway remained for strategic imagination. Air force planners needed to determine which industries, military installations, and geographical areas should be bombed to prepare for invasion, what conditions within Honshu the ground soldiers should expect after the bombing campaign wa