area in which I had expected firmest support.” Hansell later explained Arnold’s expression of concern as a political act necessary to protect the AAF: with a mighty force of newsmen in the Marianas to look on, Arnold wanted no inaugural disaster. If Hansell, not Wash- ington, made the decision to go ahead to Tokyo by day, “the ill effects” of any disaster “would be less severe on the future of the Air Forces.”  The mission finally got off on November 24, with the feared disaster averted—Japan’s air defenses would never match Germany’s—but scarcely the achievement implied by newsreels proclaim- ing “B29’s Rule Jap Skies,” “Tokyo aflame,” and the “setting sun of Japanese aggression.”4 Only a fraction of the bombers hit the designated target.  For a first effort, it was not a bad one. Dedicated to precision bombing, Hansell and other officers would do much to improve accuracy by new methods of crew training, especially in use of electronic equipment. But one obstacle would plague B-29 commanders for the next nine months. They could not change the weather. At high altitudes, the newly discovered jet stream, with winds of 150 miles per hour or more, disrupted formations, sabotaged fuel calculations, deflected bombs, and forced bombers either to race past targets downwind or lumber dangerously over them if they flew into its teeth. At times, when attempts were made to bomb upwind, it seemed that “the damn target backed right off the radar; we were going backward over ground.”> Foul weather also limited opportunities for visual sighting of targets to a precious few days a month—at that, days not anticipated with the accuracy possible in Europe, where prevailing weather patterns first passed over Al- ied meteorological stations. All these conditions also compounded navigation over oceans offering few visual opportunities for confirming location.  Weather played havoc with Hansell’s subsequent missions against the Japanese aircraft industry. In December, crews repeatedly fai