s would come in part if the AAF made the painful decision to switch to night bombing and help the British multiply the number of “dead” German cities. Such savagery undercut the old moral rationale for strategic bombing. Michie gloried in the RAF’s destruction of cities, yet maintained that the objectives of bombing should be economic. In short, writers like Michie were tracing for their readers the shift in bombing methods from selective paralysis to sustained destruction, while struggling to minimize the moral and military questions such a shift raised.24  It was de Seversky, the colorful Russian-American aviator and manufacturer, who most grandly revealed and brutally resolved the tensions in thinking about air power building for a generation. In the tradition of futurist writing like that of his mentor Mitchell, de Seversky couched aggressive designs in the guise of what others might do, beginning with a sketch of the United States under awesome aerial attack by an unnamed enemy waging “systematic, scientific” destruction, “the planned wrecking of a great nation.” Proposing a fleet of aerial leviathans capable of circumnavigating the globe, he was also following Mitchell's vision of aggressive isolationism, portraying an American air force patrolling the world without having to depend on allies and bases over- seas. Not all disciples of Mitchell took that direction. De Seversky, however, sounded nationalist themes.25  De Seversky also worked both sides of the aisle in the debate between selective disruption and systematic devastation. On the one hand, since civilians had proven they could endure tremendous bombing, their morale was a dubious target, economic objectives were preferable in wars against advanced nations, and precision bombing could disable them: “by piercing vital organs and nerve centers the entire mechanism can be paralyzed.” Here was the old, familiar, and enticing organic metaphor. But the language of precision faded as de Seversky pronounced t