ving met that test, he cut off further argument.  At the same time, officers like LeMay did not want to admit how brutal their method of war had become. Of course there was no confusion among AAF officers about what they had done. “The heart of the city is completely gutted by fire,” LeMay commented in his diary immediately after the raid. “It is the most devastating raid in the history of aerial warfare.” It was equally clear what lay ahead—as Arnold wrote LeMay, the air force would destroy “whole industrial cities.”111  Still, even in statements not designed for public consumption, air officers sometimes wrote as if LeMay’s fire raids represented no change in policy. Thus the official mission report on the March 10 assault stressed that its purpose “was not to bomb indiscriminately civilian populations. The object was to destroy the industrial and strategic targets concentrated in the urban areas.” In reasoning similar to that employed in defense of bombing Dresden, it seemed that because “these operations were not conceived as terror raids against the civilian population,” they were in fact not such. LeMay’s raids were undertaken “without abandoning the concept of precision destruction.” Because the shift to area incendiary raids had been so long in the making, because precision attacks did continue, because economic effects (however diffuse) remained an objective, and because precision methods remained so central to the defense of American strategic air power, even airmen did not always real- ize they were crossing a threshold.112  But the denial of intent to destroy entire cities and create terror became increasingly hard to maintain. The weeks following the March 10 assault saw self-deception gradually transformed into the conscious deception of others. The air force was alert to any signs that the criticism it feared after the Dresden raids might reappear regarding Tokyo. Already on March 11, as the chief public relations officer in Washington noted, “Some sp