was no soul-searching moment when his hand trembled above an order he had to sign. The order to Spaatz for the Twentieth Air Force to “deliver its first special bomb” was dated July 24, citing the explicit “approval of the Secretary of War and the Chief of Staff,” and was confirmed on July 25 by Marshall and Stimson in communication between Potsdam and War Department headquarters in Washington. It was signed by General Thomas T. Handy, Marshall’s acting chief of staff in Washington. Truman probably gave verbal approval for the order, but he signed nothing. Whether he confirmed the order either verbally or in writing after Japan’s response to the Potsdam declaration is doubtful. As Groves recalled the handling of final orders, “I didn’t have to have the President press the button on this affair.”107  To quibble over the technicalities of orders and of Truman’s later claims about them may miss the essential point: he did decide that the bomb should be used. Yet the technicalities confirm the truth of Groves’s characterization of Truman’s role. The burden of decision “fell upon President Truman.” Nevertheless, “as far as I was concerned, his decision was one of noninterference—basically, a decision not to upset the existing plans.”108 And if the technicalities made no difference in the outcome, they showed how the outcome could be made more acceptable. Decisions had to be made, yet if no final orders had to be signed, they could be made incrementally and felt to flow from the logic of events. Hamburg, Dresden, Tokyo, and countless other cities had been destroyed without the signed orders of prime minister or president. It was fitting that they were also not required for Hiroshima or Nagasaki.  TRANSCENDENCE AND CONTINUITY  The Japanese government rejected the Potsdam ultimatum, in part for reasons mirroring its enemy’s concerns. As in Washington, the public image of messages had to be weighed carefully when the medium was the airwaves. Accordingly, the government censo