translations of it spread. Liddell Hart (1895-1970), the British military critic and historian, enjoyed an esteemed career after injuries incurred on the battlefields of France forced his retirement from the British army in 1924. His flirtation with strategic air power was provocative but brief. Paris, or the Future of War (1925), published simultaneously in England and the United States, was a notorious tract of the times but it gained less enduring attention than Douhet’s work, in part because Liddell Hart slowly soured on his own ideas.  Page 20 of 368 6%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON anew saggy yy st vpreeyy  During the 1920s, the most sensational episodes in American aviation were Billy Mitchell’s demonstration in 1921 of how bombers could sink battleships and Charles Lindbergh’s flight across the Atlantic in May 1927. Bracketing several years of speculation about the future of aviation, the two events signaled danger to a few observers but offered reassurance to most, particularly about how individualism could persist in the wake of mass war and in the midst of mass culture. The significance attached to the heroics of Mitchell and Lindbergh helps explain how the bomber became acceptable to Americans as an instrument of warfare. Though less forcefully than Europeans, they had learned from World War I how terrifying future aerial war might be. Yet in general their attrac- tion to the aerial weapon deepened in the 1920s.  It did so in part because it rarely had to be tested against visible or disturbing military realities. In both Europe and the United States, military aviation stagnated. A glut of aircraft left over from the war, tight purse strings in most national treasuries, and the absence of immediate enemies curbed investment in bomber design and purchase. In much of the British Empire and for American forces in Nicaragua the bomber proved a cheap way to inflict an imperial sting on obstreperous subjects. But for these operati