nications systems. An invaluable rehearsal for 1940, this effort offered few immediate benefits for the British. Weather, navigational difficulties, and mechanical break-downs did as much to slow the German attacks, and British antiaircraft shells proved a sometimes deadly menace to the population they tried to protect, as did the many false alarms of a hair-trigger warning system. Ger- man attacks did drain English resources; but that consideration made some authorities hesitate to invest too heavily in air defense, lest doing so invite the very German bombing they hoped to deter.  The Germans exaggerated the rewards, however. They assumed that the resources diverted would have played a critical role on the front, when aviation was in fact not that decisive as yet. Had the English government kept those resources in France, they would only have “encouraged their generals to squander even more of their manpower on futile attempts to storm impregnable positions.”24 In addition, Germany’s bombing enthusiasts ignored the drain of air war on their own resources. Though numbering only in the dozens, the Zeppelins and later the lumbering Giant bomb- ers, with a wingspread scarcely shorter than that of the B-29s of World War II, imposed a considerable cost on the Germans as well. Not for the last time, airmen employed a facile but faulty calculus.  The German command also sought to damage the English economy, directly by destruction of physical plant—a farfetched possibility given the weight and accuracy of the bombers’ effort— and indirectly by causing demoralization and panic in the work force. “The German people,” one communiqué warned, “has become a hard race with an iron fist. ... The hammer is in our hands, and it will fall mercilessly and shatter the places where England is forging weapons against us.” In fact, it fell randomly, noisily, but hardly mercilessly. Results were occasionally spectacular, especially when German bombers struck in darkness, as the English ai