outposts, Arnold ordered LeMay home to give the air force view on strategy. Furthermore, according to LeMay a mix-up about dates made him arrive too late to make his case. That job fell to General Ira Eaker, a veteran of such high-level conferences, but hardly intimate with operations in the Pacific.18  In any event, Marshall dominated the June 18 meeting, and with him the broad-front strategy that also had guided American operations against Germany. By no means did he neglect the bomber. He relayed estimates that by the time of the proposed Kyushu invasion on November 1, “our air action will have smashed practically every industrial target worth hitting in Japan as well as destroying huge areas in the Jap cities.” But neither Marshall nor anyone else raised the possibility that action of this sort might obviate the need for invasion. In Marshall’s eyes, the United States still could not afford the luxury of choosing one way to beat Japan. It had to assemble all methods—blockade and bombardment; invasion; and “the entry or threat of entry of Russia into the war.”  Therefore deliberation focused on the hazards and prospects of invasion—with pointed references to the squeamishness of Churchill, the American public, and the men in arms destined to endure it—rather than on other alternatives. Truman was clearly worried. He feared “creating another Okinawa closer to Japan,” a peril the Joint Chiefs could not rule out, and an extended though uninformative discussion took place regarding what the casualties might be. Likewise, he raised the danger of “more closely uniting the Japanese” if “white men” landed on their shores. At the same time, Truman would take no bold step away from the invasion dilemma, such as modifying the surrender formula. He “did not feel that he could take any action at this time to change public opinion on the matter.” And though the possibility of a speedy end to the war through atomic bombing hung over all the deliberations, it went unmentioned un