y had been doing so long. Like other temptations, it was hard to translate into consistent policy.  The best argument that attitudes toward the Soviet Union and the new weapon affected American surrender strategy has to do with what was not done. Here the issue is not the failure to offer assurance regarding the emperor; that had little to do with Soviet-American relations. But there was another possibility. Given the importance some Americans attached to Russian entry—in Marshall’s words of June, it might be “the decisive action levering them into capitulation at that time or shortly thereafter if we land in Japan”—and given as well the evidence that Tokyo regarded Russia as its last hope in securing a negotiated peace, might the Americans have encouraged Stalin to sign on to the Potsdam declaration? Or might they have held off on using the atomic bomb just the few days needed to suggest the effect upon Japan of Russian action? In his diary on July 17, Truman himself had predicted “Fini Japs” when Stalin entered the war: damning evidence against his later claim that he thought use of the bomb necessary to avert a horrible invasion.1%  The very silence of memoirists on these critical possibilities as well as on the role Russia in the end played in securing surrender suggests that they did not want them explored. The risks of delaying the bomb’s use would have been small—not the thousands of casualties expected of invasion but only a few days or weeks of relatively routine operations. Moreover, there were foreseeable rewards in delaying a short time: buttressing the case for using the bomb if use became necessary. And no American strategist had suggested particular advantage—in terms of beating Japan—in hav- ing the bombs go off before Stalin’s armies marched; the coordinated threats might follow any of several possible sequences.  The strong possibility exists that few American leaders wanted to wait. Perhaps they felt that immediate use of the bomb was justified be