e war’s conclusion in Europe also produced a letdown, and the Japanese lacked the “dramatic identities and historical associations of the Nazi or even Fascist leaders.” Therefore the Pacific war was relegated to the “category of a bitter and heavy duty” to be completed as rapidly and cheaply as possible. “It is as if all available emotion had been expended upon the great individual monsters like Hitler, Goebbels, Goering, Mussolini, with little feeling left, at any rate at the moment, for the nameless mass of vermin as the Japanese are conceived to be.”!22 The American hatred of Japanese was intense but formless. A faceless and despised enemy made revenge welcome for its evil deeds, and now also for the burden placed on Americans to continue a war now won against the more identifiable villain.  What LeMay had done on March 10 was to bring Americans the pleasure of revenge in the guise of military necessity. His own deliberations were of course much narrower in scope, and his genius lay less in recognizing the potential of firebombing than in pulling together the tactical factors that realized it. Without creating the momentum to destroy cities, he skillfully channeled it. Simi- larly, his decision to carry out the March 10 raid was not particularly influential; it was success itself that guided the course of bombing in the war’s remaining months.  THE MOMENTUM OF DESTRUCTION  However destructive, the March fire raids produced no dramatic reorientation in the policies of either of the warring governments. On both sides, officials were aloof to the destruction, glimpsed few dramatic possibilities in the bombing, and worked through cumbersome bureaucracies responding slowly to changing conditions. Circumstances of the moment also delayed quick response. Leadership changed on both sides in April, with the fall of Koiso’s government and Roosevelt’s death; cautious men searched for their footing in the new political terrain. The fire raids had momentar- ily halted, and th