ent.  These linkages appeared again late in 1944, when the United States Strategic Bombing Survey was constituted to examine the results of the bombing effort. Franklin D’Olier, past national commander of the American Legion and in 1944 chairman of the board of the Prudential Insurance Company, presided, and Henry C. Alexander, a lawyer and partner in J. P. Morgan, assumed active direction. Boston lawyers, including Perera, again played an important role, as did George Ball and Paul Nitze. There were less conventional figures, such as the economist John Kenneth Galbraith; they were especially evident on the lower levels of the survey staff—the poet W. H. Auden, the young Marxist economist Paul Baran. But by 1944 these class and professional connections, in a war which had already thrown these men together in other duties, were largely self-sustaining. “All in all,” notes a historian regarding recruitment of the survey staff, “the process was rather more ‘clubby’ than most Americans might tend to presume.”“° At bottom recruitment reflected also the rapprochement with corporate and professional elites achieved by the Roosevelt administration at the start of the war.  For professional officers, motivation for war work was in one sense a moot point—war was their job anyway, and no additional motive was needed. Scientists, lawyers, and businessmen had to change what they were doing, and therefore motivation tended to be more discrete and focused. But their diversity was notable. The most st famous among them, the atomic scientists, included men  Oaatn~ Lenann Laat Ant Dk De ee nk et en 28 ee Tl me Acne cel ono lee hale wath Maas ainda mien me nisl one Blin ala tne) cwiecliat aie 2 cenfen ak Len cal cuee Sivas atenin ee Disk acenle ee met picito mond  Page 192 of 368 44%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON tary purposes.  THE CIVILIAN EXPERTS  Civilian experts prosecuting the air war are more difficult to characterize than officers because civilian