n civilians without appearing to use terror tactics.” Planning officers had cause for continued concern, however, for the precise effect of the Hamburg raids on German production was difficult to measure, and intercepts of diplomatic messages from Japan’s Berlin embassy offered discouraging evidence. More certainly, American experts appreciated that the “numbness and apathy” caused among Germans by Allied bombing might allow only for the further consolidation of Nazi rule.12  Confirmation of that apprehension came over the following winter from a “secret source,” apparently an agent in Berlin. True, on many accounts the agent’s report was encouraging. It described a capital that, after massive RAF raids in November, “has ceased to exist,” mired in defeatism and verging on total anarchy. “To sleep, to take a rest, a bath, or change linen, is the first concern,—not going to work or doing one’s duty.” Germans resented privileges accorded the Nazi elite and resented the destruction the working population endured. “Everybody may abuse everybody. ... Theonly man whom you may not abuse, but whom everybody makes responsible for the destruction of Berlin, is Chancellor Hitler.” Pillage and theft were rampant, the native population petrified that “barbaric hordes” of foreign workers “will plunder the houses and shops still undestroyed.” Returning soldiers were dispirited, officers and businessmen eager for the opportunity to overthrow the vile regime.  Page 152 of 368 35%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON —that area raids were only an efficient means of destroying economic objectives, dictated by operational necessity—dissolved, though able historians characterize the area attacks misleadingly as  “indiscriminate bombing of industrial targets.” Harris, who at least had the virtue of an ugly honesty rare in high circles, was closer to the mark in his memoirs, when he referred to “the destruction of factories” as only “a bonus.” The rationale for Briti