failure to do something so simple and critical to an evaluation of success suggests how the application of expertise served to make the mo- mentum of destruction more thoughtless than refined.  To be sure, much skill entered into the designation of bomb targets in the war’s last two years. Yet the Committee of Operations Analysts, an elite of American experts, was perhaps no more shrewd in its recommendations than the air officers who had far more hastily drawn up rudimentary estimates of air force needs and strategy at the start of the war.*” That the initial hunches turned out to be so good was perhaps less a reflection upon the skill of the civilian experts than upon the difficulty in reducing decisions about war to systematic formulas. It also reflected the fact that the ex- perts did not see their job to be one of connecting the refinement of means to the pursuit of ends—to a concept of how victory was to be achieved.  It was better to bomb well than badly, as Freeman Dyson once thought of the American effort against Japan.*8 In many ways, the talent available to the AAF helped it to do so. Yet, ata minimum, virtue inhered in a better method of bombing only if it related to the ultimate goal of victory. Even if bombing’s ability to win the war could be firmly established, other moral considerations come into play: the humanitarian concerns raised by Bush; the possibility of alternative means that might accomplish the same goal with less bloodshed; the consequences after victory of introducing an especially fearsome method of war. It might, indeed, not be better to bomb well, not if to do so only piled on redundant destruction. Because civilian experts usually avoided looking into the abyss of these issues, they became by default the responsibility of strategists and commanders in uniform, insofar as they were recognized at all.  THE FAILURE OF STRATEGY  Page 232 of 368 53%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON were doing. “By means of tech