rity, and war-borne potential for world mastery; and denial or silence about destructive and vengeful instincts. Terror was acceptable as long as it seemed inadvertent. Since the acts that inflicted revenge also seemed militarily necessary, vengeance could be secured without often being spoken.  Impatience and exhaustion with the war that spring strengthened the impulse to destroy the Japanese. Observing that impulse, a British official in the United States noted how long Americans had wanted to finish up in Europe “in order to throw themselves with all their strength upon the hated Japanese savages.” But the war’s conclusion in Europe also produced a letdown, and the Japanese lacked the “dramatic identities and historical associations of the Nazi or even Fascist leaders.” Therefore the Pacific war was relegated to the “category of a bitter and heavy duty” to be completed as rapidly and cheaply as possible. “It is as if all available emotion had been expended upon the great individual monsters like Hitler, Goebbels, Goering, Mussolini, with little feeling left, at any rate at the moment, for the nameless mass of vermin as the Japanese are conceived to be.”!22 The American hatred of Japanese was intense but formless. A faceless and despised enemy made revenge welcome for its evil deeds, and now also for the burden placed on Americans to continue a war now won against the more identifiable villain.  What LeMay had done on March 10 was to bring Americans the pleasure of revenge in the guise of military necessity. His own deliberations were of course much narrower in scope, and his genius lay less in recognizing the potential of firebombing than in pulling together the tactical factors that realized it. Without creating the momentum to destroy cities, he skillfully channeled it. Simi-  Page 289 of 368 66%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Vay WIS VOUgEL UL (pio @ aUL UU 11 LOL We, LOMB IU US, ALU PALL JUULGUS/ GURU WICUBCU LAUUY Ue OLAS Ul LUL