uctive ones.47  A later sketch of the airman by Brendan Gill, one of the talented writers at the New Yorker during the war, succeeded where Steinbeck failed, in part because the accumulation of experience in bombing by 1944 facilitated realism. Too, in the “Young Man Behind Plexiglas” Gill let the airman speak for himself. Through Ted Hallock, a twenty-two-year-old bombardier who had completed thirty B-17 missions in Europe, Gill identified some of the same virtues and characteristics Steinbeck had, but their meaning was ambiguous, the tone somber. Hallock saw himself less as a member of a team than as “a cog in one hell of a big machine,” one he both admired and resented, all the while knowing that “fliers have to be expendable, ... that’s what Eaker and Doolittle had us trained for. That’s what  maravie” Analadaiuic ta hie nacitian in tha air favan ume hic ralatianchin ta hie hamboiaht ahaut urhish “tha mara T faund aut tha mara ineaniaue and inhiman it enamad Tt ure onmathine hiacar  Page 133 of 368 31%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON section background of America but they are the top part of the cross section.” Seeing a democratic elite, Steinbeck saw no tension between democracy and elitism. Stressing that the bomber crew had to cooperate democratically to fly successfully, he neglected their lack of choice about where to fly and what to bomb.44  Steinbeck’s portrayal was uneasy because he sought to compress two differing views of America into his perspective on the airman. Like Lindbergh fifteen years earlier, the airman was presented as both individualist and joiner, relic of the past and harbinger of the new era, free spirit and disciplined technician, democrat and superman, “Dan’l Boone and Henry Ford.”45 Steinbeck was not necessarily wrong, for disparate qualities coexist in the American character. But Steinbeck did not acknowledge how uneasily the characteristics with which he endowed airmen mingled. To liken crewmen to quail h