or and existence, they would put an end to the war.” It was not hard to see through the euphemisms. “Honor” meant retention of the throne, though whether that meant Hirohito himself was less clear. “Existence” meant that Japan would remain a political entity. Stimson, Marshall, and Grew all roughly grasped what Japan would accept, their interpretation buttressed not only by decoded messages but by a good deal of conventional political analysis. Still, the American intelligence apparatus had gaps; it uncovered much less about what Tokyo’s military figures were think- ing, except their continued preparation of suicidal methods for resisting an invasion.81  The messages Washington sent were at least as confusing as those it received. In the councils of government, Leahy was a blunt, if intermittent, advocate of modifying the surrender formula. But his V-E Day address thundered that “Japan must be beaten into defeat, into unconditional surrender” and invoked memories of Pearl Harbor. On July 31, General Arnold prepared a bellicose speech that struck Stimson as “virtually a new ultimatum to Japan,” one that Grew thought would “simply mess up matters and obscure the whole situation.” On this occasion at least, the misstep was averted —Grew and Stimson stopped the air force chief.82  As in the spring, the timing of messages to Japan proved as vexing as their conflicting substance. Having backed down on sending further signals until Okinawa was conquered, the War Department then discovered new reasons for delay. On June 29, it seemed best to wait until August, when a combination of Russian entry, new air forces on Okinawa, and the bomb would offer the proper psychological moment. That moment kept receding, and placing so much emphasis on finding it made agreement on issuing new signals prey to the conflicting views of several bureaucracies and to intangibles of domestic and enemy public opinion.83  In turn, there were problems of audience. Words designed for home front cons