ar. It was not necessarily Arnold’s intention to make that war more costly or brutal—efficiency, the clean kill, promised large rewards for the man and the air force. But inten- tion and result did not always correlate.  How they could diverge was already evident in the spring of 1943, when the British and Americans once again reviewed bombing policy. The occasion arose in May when Eaker’s command presented its operating plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive (Operation POINTBLANK as it was codenamed) to the Joint and Combined Chiefs. On some points, Eaker’s plan represented a dubious but politically necessary compromise. By placing priority on submarine yards and bases, the plan did not reason from operational necessity—from what the bomber could do—and instead, despite mounting appreciation of how invulnerable the submarine targets were, responded to assessments of what needed to be done in winning the Atlantic battle. With more success, the AAF also employed B-24s in direct aerial operations against the subs at sea. But to admit that the submarine war was better won that way would have undercut long-standing claims for the air forces as an independent strategic weapon. In that sense, organizational goals were perhaps foremost in the Eaker plan.  The determination of bombing strategy and methods could be surprisingly casual. The strategists reviewing Eaker’s plan did dovetail the bomber offensive with the planned invasion, partly  Tye mancns Bile mee Lind Lee the man wa And Cece elm feneen aden Tam Wiad all ce mere need tan men ntnad atemnn nae ween nnn wlth a Lael ne ane alere aa nten ol nn mannan tin 10 Asselan Alen om ema nerenn 2 Lane a enee meine cremains oe ah be  Page 149 of 368 34%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  AULU Co LO M@U PLULOCU Lu, ULU Wg 4 a LeUg Luly ULsLUso1ULL UL UW Lie AQUSSLeo UBIIL We Cel UCUaycU Uy Lt ALUICLICal) LaUULe LU LANE ULL UeLiauy piUper alULealt ula way cveLyuUe wilU Cau remember August of 1939 knows w