e, but neither abolishing it as he urged nor succumbing to all its dangers as he feared.  Still, Wells rose above his contemporaries by recognizing the complexities of the new weapon, by rejecting a simple choice between the trivial and the millennial predictions that others made, and by exploring that chasm between them. He tried to see the warplane as a horrid but limited weapon, neither unthinkable nor blessed. Coming from a writer of international fame and influence, his warning did not go unnoticed. It also changed the prevailing outlook very little.  Page 5 of 368 2%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  nrg er Brn nnn mre en rn rn rn me grr en en re es eee Fay mann mer nnn ree seen nen rn nen ner nn renee ne ca nnee  which to choose. They were told that terror from the sky would eliminate the burden of carnage on the ground and costly armadas at sea by shocking armies and nations into quick surrender and perhaps even into a permanent peace. Or they could take comfort in the assurance that the airplane would scarcely change warfare at all, serving only to improve observation and communication (as balloons were already doing) or to add a bit of firepower to the battlefield.  Only one man located the grimmer terrain between these polarized possibilities. To be sure, H. G. Wells could not always resist the pull of extravagant hopes for the airplane. In The World Set Free (1914) Wells showed mankind awakening to the necessity of a world government to rescue it from total war, although only after so many years of global destruction by air that the fantasy was at best bleakly utopian. And The World Set Free was Wells’s weaker prophecy, more striking for its forecast of atomic bombs and radioactive poisoning than for its insight into the evolution of air war.  The War in the Air (1908) was at once more apocalyptic and more realistic. A war begun by German air raids on American cities expands into a global struggle in which the Asiatic nations p