s, they then complained that they had no choice but to use them in unfortunate ways. In fact, however, well- placed leaders sometimes revealed how politics rather than technology guided them, as when Roosevelt wanted to placate vengeful Americans, encourage the Chinese, and limit the commitment of ground forces abroad. Moreover, operational necessity was an argument selectively employed—discarded when the Eighth Air Force targeted Nazi submarine pens against mounting evidence of how unsuitable the mission was; discarded when B-29 bombers were sent to China almost in defiance of operational constraints. Selective employment of operational arguments invites skepticism about their compelling force. Operational considerations did impose real limits on bomber forces; they were not always facile rationalizations invoked by men who viewed themselves as prisoners of their own machines; sometimes, they were even invoked to forestall foolish or needlessly destructive action. But operational requirements often translated into organizational convenience, that is, the need to keep a bomber force in action in order to justify its existence.  Finally, making decisions on the basis of operational necessity made sense only if it contributed to winning the war, and doing so at less cost. Often neither was the case. A classic example was the British bombing of Lubeck in 1942, a city almost devoid of military or economic importance but so densely built up that it made an ideal target. As Max Hastings has written, it “did not attract the attention of the bombers because it was important, but became important because it could be bombed.”>” Furthermore, such practices continued long past the point where operational necessity still governed. In the British case, Harris’s city-destroying campaign was sustained, albeit over considerable opposition, long after the RAF had developed methods of navigation and targeting permitting far more precise attacks on selected economic and military object