o ways. It required the Air Corps to perform the ritual of harmonizing its official doctrine with conservative War Department policy, downplaying aviation as an independent agent of victory and stressing its role in supporting conventional forces. But superiors rarely looked over the shoulders of the airmen once this ritual was complete. In their own institutions, most of all at the Air Corps Tactical School in Alabama, Air Corps officers were free to construct their own curriculum and dogma. The leisurely pace of life in the peacetime army gave them plenty of time to do so.  By the 1930s, both the airmen and their institutions were also mature enough to carry on their struggle in more sophisticated ways. A cohort of officers had a decade or two of experience in  Page 47 of 368 1%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  route in any sort of weather, what would we do in a war?”5 An air force that could not carry out that humble task seemed an unlikely instrument of impersonal destruction across the seas. Furthermore, the bad news from the air mail affair seemed to coincide with evidence of waning public interest in the grander theories of air power. The press featured several articles that were highly skeptical about those theories, and Mitchell, by 1934 once again a pariah at the White House, found himself shunned by publishers, who thought he now bored his readers. In short, 1934 perhaps marked the nadir of the public image of American military aviation.  Just at that low point, however, Air Corps officers were distilling a new doctrine, one of precision bombing, that soon would enhance their status and mobilize their ranks, and later calm moral istress as the nation contemplated the next world war and the bomber’s use in it. Peculiarly the brainchild of American theorists, though sometimes foreshadowed and later appropriated by airmen sewhere, the doctrine of precision bombing had origins as complex as its implications.  Among those origins, h