antageous to make the Japanese think the Americans might employ gas in urban bombing raids, providing a “tremendous psychological effect on an already jittery populace” that might make it “crack” before invasion had to occur. Nonetheless, the services were not yet at the brink of initiating chemical warfare: popular aversion remained, Truman and American allies had yet to be sounded out, preparation was incomplete, and the payoff had not been convincingly established. Gas might have been used had the war dragged on another year; in 1945, the United States was not ready.34  Beyond increasing the intimidation and destruction, strategists had as much difficulty as ever expressing how present and future operations would bring about surrender. The closest they came to a political strategy was the summer’s massive effort to blanket Japanese cities with leaflets warning of impending aerial attacks and urging surrender. The operation “irked us a bit,” LeMay recalled; “we'd rather drop bombs than leaflets.” Nonetheless, it made a formidable impression on the Japanese that Americans could bomb with such impunity that they could announce targets in advance, and perhaps the campaign helped prepare the Japanese to accept surrender when it came. Designed to hasten that surrender, leafleting also saved an immeasurable number of lives by advance notice to targeted cities, meeting the air force’s desire to “lessen the stigma attached to area bombing.”3>  In turn, that was part of the broader effort, more than ever guiding Arnold, to capitalize on the war experience to the AAF’s benefit. Public relations remained the art of balancing deception and truth, depending on which enhanced that benefit. “In the event of incendiary missions directed at sections of cities,” policy was to “continue to maintain that same is precision rather than area bombing.” The long-range goal was still to cultivate an image favorable to securing autonomy and maximum resources for the postwar air force. “This