ong air force officers, only Haywood Hansell perhaps would have understood fully Lincoln’s complaint. He made much the same point by prefacing his memoirs with a quotation from Douhet: “The choice of enemy tar- gets ...is the most delicate operation of air warfare. ... It is precisely in this field that the commanders of future Air Forces will be able to give proof of their ability.” In the end, proof was not given.*®  Bombing threatened to develop a momentum apart from the needs of winning the war. Of course the strategists wanted victory, but the carelessness with which they related destruction to victory provided small check on that destruction until victory was secured. Their plans revealed a kind of strategic distance on the consequences of their actions that paralleled and reinforced the  Page 236 of 368 54%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  dent until June of the next year, with a very different man in office.*4  Most of the time, the high command did not ask which strategy would be the most efficient way to secure victory, but rather how all strategies could be assembled and applied against the enemy. The tenacity of enemy resistance did not seem to permit, any more than the weight of Allied resources seemed to require, a selective use of force against Japan. There was no official sanction for seeing bombing as an alternative to invasion. The engines of war would have to roll on; the problem was how to fuel them, not which ones to run. Command relationships also discouraged refined speculation. With no centralized command in the Pacific war, the selection of strategic alternatives was up to the Joint and Combined Chiefs. The former generally made hard choices only under dur- ess or when the commander in chief directed them to do so; the latter was an ineffective mechanism because the British role in Far Eastern strategy was minimal.  As did other failures of command in the air war, the vagueness of strategy, the failure to establis