ombs but “hate and vengeance” to Tojo. But even ads like NashKelvinator’s visually depicted air war in highly stylized or romanticized ways that rarely suggested the scope and nature of the destruction bombers might deliver and pictured airplanes more often in tactical than in strategic missions. The Boeing Company took the high road in its ads, among the finest technically and the most restrained of the war. In doing so, however, it struck another common note in wartime  Page 123 of 368 28%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON year and welcomed a Chinese proposal to bomb power plants at Shanghai “ir tor no other than economic reasons,” although Arnold doubted the military value of such action. Mulitary gains doubtless  attracted Roosevelt to some of these schemes, and Churchill too, who couched his hope that bombing would force Tokyo to withdraw from the battlefronts in the nursery rhyme, “Lady bird, Lady bird, fly away home, your house is aburning, your children are gone.” But Roosevelt more often saw bombing as a sop to morale and to demands for assistance to the Chinese, whose leader so often threat- ened to drop out of the war.12  Of course Roosevelt was not the only public official to guide popular expectations of the bomber. Air force leaders sometimes offered louder and cruder visions of the bomber’s role in war. Arnold promised that the Doolittle raid was “just the dawn of a day of wrath,” portraying bombers as so fearsome that “in 60 seconds, the cumulative effort of a hundred years can be destroyed.” Air power, he pronounced on another occasion, “is a war-winning weapon in its own right,” the method of war “cheapest on all counts” and “by far the greatest economizer in human lives.” In short, Arnold, in line with a generation’s prophecy, celebrated both the destructiveness and the restraint of air power, its military utility and its capacity for vengeance. Similarly, Lovett asserted that by destroying factories, bombers can give ene