t were vexatious, above all because it was too easy to convert airliners to bombers—agreement to limit naval arms faced no similar barrier. Of course, banning civilian aviation was impossible, while proposals to internationalize or cartelize it foundered on commercial jealousies and on the league’s weakness.  Successes were few and limited in scope. The most drastic restriction was the ban on German military aviation written into the Versailles Treaty. The most famous disarmament gathering, the Washington Conference on the Limitation of Arms in 1921-22, established such high ceilings on aircraft carriers that it did more to promote than to retard their development. The Washington dele- gations threw up their hands at devising a formula for restricting the numbers, types, or bombing methods of aircraft, passing that thankless task on to jurists at the Hague court—they drafted some sensible rules, which had not gained the force of international law when war broke out in 1939. A lengthy effort at Geneva in 1932 to agree upon restrictions or rules ended in failure, notwithstanding President Herbert Hoover’s dramatic proposal to abolish all offensive weapons. As for chemical and bacteriological warfare, a danger so intertwined with the aerial menace, the major powers followed much the same course. Vague restrictions were formulated at Versailles and Washington and more severe ones were written into the Geneva protocols hammered out in 1925, but these were not to take effect until ratified by the home governments of the contracting powers, which often qualified their acceptance or (in the case of the United States and Japan until the 1970s) withheld it altogether. Large-scale research into chemical warfare continued; Geneva only encouraged governments to hide it further from public view.  More far-reaching efforts to control these weapons were victims of the usual tangle of economic, bureaucratic, and strategic considerations. In the end, another consideration also held b