the forces of internationalism that were supposedly dragging the United States into war. At the same time, Williams saw himself as a simple airman who hated politics and was comfortable only with his fellow flyboys. “Oh, if we could only sell this camaraderie of the air to all the rest of the world,” he rhapsodized about his visits with German aviators in 1938. Enjoying Eddie Rickenbacker’s blessing, Williams’s book showed, in a manner similar to Charles Lindbergh’s thinking, how a combination of reactionary politics and technocratic idealism provided another distraction from contemplation of future horrors.44  Americans could find in the writings of George Fielding Eliot an honest attempt to examine those horrors and steer a middle course between the skeptics’ dismissal of air war and the prophets’ embrace. A widely published commentator on issues of foreign and military policy, Eliot examined air power more thoughtfully than any other expert in America. One of a new breed of self- proclaimed realists who believed that force and calculation govern international relations, he reviewed a wide range of possibilities for the airplane in war and ruled out none. He came to believe that aviation “has restored strategical surprise” to warfare after it had become stalemated on land, making it possible, for the first time in history, to strike “at the seat and source” of enemy power “without first having to overthrow the armed forces with which he seeks to protect them.” Sharing such broad assumptions with the air prophets, he stopped short of embracing their scenarios of quick victory by either terror or economic dislocation. He regarded “terrorization” as impractical and unlikely, for it would be a “gambler’s throw . .. quite as likely to stiffen and harden the resistance of the stricken nation as it is to terrorize it.”45  Still, he did not insist it would not occur. A nation might resort to it in desperation or calculate that air raids on cities, even if not quickly deci