ary to prevent future war by American leadership in democratizing the world. Like many other commentators, the Times was unclear whether the world was to be saved from the atomic bomb or through it. But the Times saw no danger in American possession of the bomb, and it was sure that “no people will want war if they realize what its consequences with the atomic bomb will be.” In short, the old view that bombing was its own deterrent remained strong.144  Perhaps sharing the Times’s hopes and fears, some American leaders looked to the bomb as the instrument that might force the democratization of the Soviet state or at least arrest its further expansion. Others, like Stimson by September, saw only danger in using the bomb “as a direct lever” but still anticipated a better world emerging through agreement with the Soviets on controlling the new technology. That seemed to be the continued outlook as well of Oppenheimer, who regarded the bomb’s use as a “spectacular and terrifying technical development” forcing upon “all the war- weary people of the world a recognition, first, of how imperative it has become to avert future wars, and second, how the cooperation and understanding between nations... has become a desperate necessity.” Oppenheimer found “hope” as well as “peril” in atomic weapons, for their control “cannot be in itself the unique end” but rather “a world that is united, and a world in which war will not occur.” Truman himself, although cautious after the war in pursuing international control of atomic weapons, once struck a similar note in commenting to John Hersey on the president’s favorite poem, Tennyson’s “Locksley Hall”: “Notice also that part about universal law. We’re going to have that someday, just as sure as we have air war now. That’s what I’m working for.”145  In its short history, aerial technology had promised benefits in peace as well as war. These seemed attractive in their own right and as impediments to war: new wealth and economic interdepe