l exceptions. For all the report’s portrait of appalling death, disintegration, and defeatism—and comments perhaps designed to exculpate the German people—it also hinted at RAF failure.2°  But American leaders did not complain to the British. They could not easily have done so, given their long-standing acquiescence in British methods, plus the AAF’s own experiment that winter with a variation of those methods. As for the moral and political issues raised by indecisive destruction, they emerged most clearly through the threat of reprisals by Germans against captured Allied airmen. Such threats commonly force leaders to erect moral positions they may otherwise neglect, and so it was that winter. For the air force’s chief lawyer, the moral defense was that American bombs had been aimed only at “military objectives,” Americans had waged only “civilized war,” and any reprisals would be “barbaric acts.” To deter such acts, the United States should promise in return “the destruction of ... every village and hamlet.” (To avoid needlessly provoking the Nazis, the AAF should remove “all names with a terror connotation, such as ‘Murder, Inc.’ from planes, clothing and equipment.”)  The judge advocate’s willingness to promise destruction to all Germans as punishment for their leaders’ acts indicated the scanty restraints holding back Americans from a campaign of terror bombing. It also carried little deterrent value, inasmuch as the British had already embarked on such a campaign. Nonetheless, Marshall recommended to FDR a more guardedly worded version of the judge advocate’s warning. The president suggested that German POWs would be a more appropriate hostage than German civilians, and therefore Marshall drafted a statement warning “that for each Allied airman sentenced ... 10,000 German prisoners, or other German males... will be selected and detained subsequently to the imposition of peace terms.”21  If the moral and political basis for resisting British bombing was weak, s