hope and fear. Like the bomber had been earlier, the atomic weapon was recognized as a transcendent form of power, only to be conceived and used in the familiar ways.  THE CONUNDRUM OF SURRENDER  Grasping the realities of nuclear and conventional bombs was one challenge over the summer of 1945, but not the only impediment to a successful strategy. A knot of more mundane issues still awaited resolution. If many touched only tangentially on the exercise of air power, in the end they cluttered perception of its use.  The working environment itself was a source of confusion. The issues addressed by the great powers at Potsdam covered a staggering range. Truman also had trouble in guiding his subordin- ates with a steady hand. His cabinet and inner councils were still in flux, and he was uncertain whom to believe as well as how to act. In policy matters, he veered most wildly on what to expect from and demand of the Soviets. Like Roosevelt, he had a keen eye for public opinion but not the same certainty about how to guide it.  An unsteady guiding hand aggravated confusion about the signals received and sent out by the American government with regard to Japan. From Tokyo they came in clamorous volume, through allies and neutrals, through conventional intelligence methods, and through interception of coded Japanese messages. The latter revealed with particular clarity Japan’s desperation to have Moscow mediate an end to the war as well as the coldness of Moscow’s response, leaving American intelligence experts with “a mental picture of a spaniel in the presence of a mastiff who also knows where the bone is hidden.” Most of all, intercepts outlined the minimum Japan needed to accept surrender, made clear in a July 17 cable by Foreign Minister Togo: “If today America and England were to recognize Japan’s honor and existence, they would put an end to the war.” It was not hard to see through the euphemisms. “Honor” meant retention of the throne, though whether that meant Hiroh