than as a duty in which fighting itself was the essence. They differed sharply from other servicemen in their higher sense of satisfaction with the particular jobs and tasks they performed. To a considerable degree, their mentality was occupational rather than military. They saw themselves more as technicians and professionals than as warriors, and the technique learned in war promised social and economic mas- tery in peace-time.2°  It also provided a sense of mastery over self and nature, especially for pilots. Flying allowed fulfillment of a “child’s dreams of omnipotence in the face of his toddling weakness.” These dreams “are usually abandoned with fairy tales and toys,” commented air force psychiatrists; but “this supertoy, this powerful, snorting, impatient but submissive machine, enables the man to escape the usual limitations of time and space.” Flying created “a feeling of aggressive potency bordering on the unchallenged strength of a superman.” When the author of God Is My Co-Pilot flew over Mount Everest, “he felt that he had humbled this highest mountain and patronizingly saluted his fallen opponent.” The airplane offered “the perfect prescription for those that are weak, hesitant or frustrated on earth. Give them wings, 2000 horses compressed into a radial engine, and what can stop them?”2!  These satisfactions accorded with Fromm’s portrayal of fliers as men alienated from themselves and the natural world. Like some scientists, they used technique to master themselves and the mortality inherent in their place in the natural world. Like some scientists, the search for “aggressive potency” also suggested male needs to define the relationship between femininity and that world. The instruments of destruction often had aggressive generic names such as Superfortresses or Marauders. A crew’s own bomber, however, was regarded less as an instrument of destruction than as the symbolic repository of feminine forces of unpredictable nature which men could not cont