er by strategic devastation, invasion, or a combination of the two. Nor could they relate their preferred methods to a strategic timetable, for none existed.  Indecision stemmed in part from the one premise about global strategy that had governed since 1941: concentration on Europe first. Even in January 1944, invasion of Japan seemed too remote to compel close attention to what role it would have in victory over Japan. In addition, military leaders preferred, as they had often during the war, to address logistical and technological problems before deciding on strategy, and those problems loomed far larger for the Pacific than for Europe. Shipping over vast ocean distances and over the land hurdles of Asia imposed the most intractable obstacle. When Marshall had commented on the “massive effort here to get a pin point out there,” he described not only a strategic problem but the orientation of staff in Washington. Admirals and generals often worried about getting the forces out there before pondering what to do with them.  Mundane problems tugged hard at Arnold over the winter of 1943-44, especially regarding the B-29. Embodying several technological advances, it was nonetheless rushed into production without testing of prototypes, so that the new aircraft required extensive modification before they became suitable for combat. In the meantime, the bomber’s troubles spawned a highly critical inquiry from Senator Harry Truman’s committee watching over mobilization for the war. Because Boeing could not handle all the orders for the new bomber, they were parceled out to automotive and other aviation firms, adding to the complexities of production. More than once delays infuriated Arnold and found him roaming about the country inspecting facilities that left him “appalled.”42  Preparation of bases for the new Twentieth Air Force involved a trail of operations strung from the United States across the Pacific or the Atlantic-Middle Eastern route to India, where the primary