ic goals they possessed, the technique they commanded, and the pressures under which they operated led them to escalate their use of force in ways often useless, indiscriminate, and unmonitored. Especially since the 1940s, their elaborate links with other interest groups and the economic interests collectively served often have strengthened their voice. And yet military leaders rarely have been the most visionary exponents of air power. Even prophets of air power like Douhet and Mitchell who worked in the armed services usually found their largest audience outside them. Especially in setting forth the more ambitious (and fuzzy) virtues of air power, civilians generally have been more successful, and civilian leaders—Hitler, Churchill, and Roosevelt, albeit in different ways—have been far more subtle and skillful at translating the appeals of air power to a wider audience as well as in developing the practical apparatus for waging air war. In these regards, they have been ably assisted by scientists and other civilian experts.  Responsibility for danger is widespread. Similarly, solutions can arise from many sources beyond the experts. Many technical matters are within the layperson’s grasp, the problem is hardly only technical in nature, and the innocent may bring fresh insights to which professionals, long trapped in debates that run in very narrow channels, may be closed off. In different ways, that potential was shown at the dawn of the air age by H. G. Wells and in its twilight by Jonathan Schell. Even if experts devise good solutions, they make little headway in complex political structures accustomed to channeling or eviscerating the novel, unless supported by larger political forces. “I do not think,” Robert Oppenheimer said in November 1945, “that one may expect that people will contribute to the solution of the problem until they are aware of their ability to take part in the solution.”2 Much the same holds true today.  Finally, instruction can be gained fr