f a speedy end to the war through atomic bombing hung over all the deliberations, it went unmentioned until the War Department's John J. McCloy raised it as the meeting was breaking up. The ensuing talk, not officially recorded, drifted back to the issue of the surrender formula and pointed to no clear alternatives. McCloy’s suggestion that Japan be warned in advance of the bomb’s use had already been rejected by the Interim Committee on the atomic bomb. That the bomb might preempt invasion was hardly a new idea and hardly one that many were yet ready to count on.12  More surprising, no other military advisor suggested alternatives. Marshall came to the meeting presenting the hard-fought consensus of all the Joint Chiefs, none of whom would reopen old  wraunde hy hraalina ranke thauch T ashy did ack fara chanaain currandartarme Cnaalina far Arnold Palarwurac nartioularlty dafarantial ambhrarina tha inwacian af Wiichis and enacifically raniudiat—  Page 304 of 368 69%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  FIREBOMBING: THE FINAL ROUND  In their own way, airmen also missed the chance that Grew had seen. After the May raids on Tokyo, just as before, they divined no special opportunities to hasten Japan’s capitulation beyond piling up more rubble than the enemy could tolerate. Likewise, in June they missed two further chances to express their version of how to win the war.  The first opportunity arose when strategists gathered in Washington and met with Truman on June 18 to determine final strategy against Japan. Unfortunately, slipshod preparations and uninstructive discussions meant that the long-awaited review hardly matched the gravity of the task. In a small way, the responsibility for failure was Arnold’s, for he failed to appear. Touring Pacific outposts, Arnold ordered LeMay home to give the air force view on strategy. Furthermore, according to LeMay a mix-up about dates made him arrive too late to make his case. That job fell to General Ira