ommanders, warning that “we are not in a position to ignore costs and to win by brute force alone.” With the recent controversy over French and Belgian casualties in mind, he added that “careless inaccurate bombing” could poison “international amity for years after the war is over.” Each airman was reminded that “he is handling a weapon which can be either the scourge or the savior of humanity according to how well he uses it.”2  Arnold’s upbraiding of his commanders was not just empty posturing. He appreciated the tendency of a huge and widely scattered organization to slip out of its chief’s control and settle into comfortable routine. But these injunctions also revealed his confusion and anxiety at the midpoint of war. Only a few months earlier he had seemed indignant about the very qualms he now raised, maintaining that “this is brutal war and ...the way to stop the killing of civilians is to cause so much damage and destruction and death that civilians will demand that their government cease fighting. This doesn’t mean that we are making civilians or civilian institutions a war objective, but we cannot ‘pull our punches’ because some of them may get killed.”® Now in June he sought, by presenting the bomber as “either the scourge or the savior of humanity,” to draw on the faded dualism of prewar argument and posit illusory choices. Certainly he feared that the “fondest hopes” of air power ad- vocates, as he put it in June, were now in jeopardy. His personal health as precarious as that of the air force, he may as well have despaired of his own fortunes.  In a war of vast organizations and impersonal strategies, an individual leader’s impact was not always decisive. But Arnold showed how personal and organizational anxiety provided one spur to escalation of the air war. It was not necessarily Arnold’s intention to make that war more costly or brutal—efficiency, the clean kill, promised large rewards for the man and the air force. But inten- tion and result did no