mbing, they usually said, was dictated by the requirements of defeating tenacious foes, minimizing losses, and making the best use of resources. The necessitarian argument also informed much of the pioneering scholarship on the air war. Thus Noble Frankland, coauthor of a formidable history of the RAF’s strategic air compaigns, argued regarding escalation of British bombing from 1940 to 1942:  All the arguments based on strategic and economic reasons which have gone on since 1940 and, surprisingly, still go on, about the alternatives of this or that kind of attack are wholly groundless for oper- ational reasons alone. The alternative to area bombing was either no strategic bombing or daylight bombing. In the circumstances of the time, the idea of abandoning strategic bombing was scarcely a prac- ticable proposition though there were those who presently claimed that it might have been.  In The Road to Total War, F. M. Sallager reached similar conclusions: “Operational considerations, not moral sentiments or strategic objectives, governed what was actually done as the strategic bombing offensive developed. ... As the war unfolded, the decisionmakers became as much the prisoners as they were directors of the forces they had unleashed.” In short, the RAF had been compelled to attack cities if it was to make use of the bomber resources at hand. A similar argument from operational necessity often informed the American rationale for a different tactic, daylight precision bombing in Europe. Both crew training and the capacities of the B-17 and B-24 bombers made them seem suitable for little else.*©  The historians who locate escalation in the compelling force of operational necessity are not insensitive to the tragic impact of the bombing that resulted nor to motives for revenge and aggrandizement. But they place such motives on the fringes of policy. While there is no fast distinction between motive.and rationalization, the argument from operational necessity must be treat