rnation, appeared just as this book was going into production. At the last moment, I briefly and selectively drew on three of special importance: Ronald Schaffer’s Wings of Judgment; Paul Boyer’s By the Bomb’s Early Light; and John Dower’s War Without Mercy. Future scholars will wish to make further use of these and other recent sources and to pursue the dialogue on important issues that they, hopefully along with my own work, establish.  Many people contributed to this book. At Northwestern University, Karen Halttunen and Sarah Maza provided support and guidance; in differing ways, Robert Wiebe and David Joravsky helped me to broaden and sharpen the book’s perspective; Betty Jo Dobbs made suggestive comments about how to understand science and scientists; Robert Finlay worked with astonishing tenacity to help me edit the book into more manageable form. Richard Chapman gave assistance and countless corrections at all stages; Leo Ribuffo provoked me to sharpen my criticism; Abby Solomon listened to my complaints and gave valuable advice; George Roeder offered wide-ranging suggestions and boundless enthusiasm. My debt to archivists is as great as any author’s; all cannot be mentioned, but William Cunliffe of the National Archives was once again tireless in searching for records and wise in commenting upon how I used them. In tracking down records and gaining perspective on a key figure, Forrest C. Pogue, the biographer of George C. Marshall, provided critical assistance at the beginning and end of this project. My editor at Yale University Press, Charles Grench, mixed support and skepticism in just the right combination. Two typists, June Schuster and Joan Stahl, worked with a cumbersome technology and a capricious author to prepare the manuscript. Several organizations extended financial assistance: the National Endowment for the Humanities provided the bulk of support for research, supplemented by grants from Northwestern University and the Eleanor Roosevelt Foundat