ewar American air doctrine was either overthrown or drastically modified by the experience of war. Germany proved not at all vulnerable to strategic bombing.” The claim is overstated. Vulnerabilitv is a relative. not an absolute. state deriving not merelv from a nation’s militarv and economic condition. but from its willingness to endure  Page 162 of 368 37%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  ANAS EE IV EEERE , HAGE TDS, Spee, SER EAL ALN Heeb SLES EMO MSL SP PO bdates pateese Con ee Sheed eR ER ee ee lwo te Bea aes 2 SLOT AH) Webel) SE LUPE All prepare niCr nee tae athvectOh. 2 ie VCIOeL  commanders wanted to get on with the assault on Germany itself, both still convinced that invasion was not necessary, Spaatz now appreciating the vulnerability of Germany’s highly concentrated petroleum industry. If the invasion must go on, Spaatz argued, better to leave the rail system to interdiction by tactical air forces, a method more effective and less likely to inflict casualties on French and Belgian civilians. Besides, another “diversion”—against German V-weapon launching sites—was already diluting the strategic assault on Germany.  But with Harris still scoffing at “panacea” targets like oil, he and Spaatz hardly presented a united front, despite support from Churchill, who moaned that the transportation plan “will smear the good name of the Royal Air Forces across the world.” Spaatz himself was willing to place all air forces temporarily under the command of Eisenhower, who threatened to Churchill to “go home” if denied that command.3*  Pressed with special vigor by the young British scientist Solly Zuckerman, the transportation plan for attacking marshaling yards was implemented. Its success, though still disputed forty years later, was considerable, and the thousands of casualties among friendly civilians were still far fewer than anticipated in more dire forecasts. Meanwhile Spaatz, on the cheap and a bit on the sly, began the oil campaign a