rsely increased in proportion to a weapon’s promise. By the winter of 1943—44, all theoretical obstacles to construction of atomic bombs had been solved, and the project had become a massive engineering enterprise. Initiated with a German threat in mind, its potential use against Japan began sliding into plans with scarcely any formal review of the shift. The possibility of Germany’s surrender before the bomb was ready was one factor, but both Truk and Tokyo were mentioned as targets as early as May 1943, long before dates for the end of the European war or the bomb’s readiness could be predicted with precision. By 1944, the technicians’ preparations for using the bomb against Japan were going forward. Apparently policymakers were assuming such use, but they rarely discussed it: their energies were still geared to countless remaining technical problems, and the formal rationale for building the bomb remained the “race between Germany and ourselves on a winner-take-all basis.” When Roosevelt in September 1944 asked Vannevar Bush, his chief scientific advisor, about use against Japan, Bush replied that the issue could be “postponed for quite a time.” Only Roosevelt, by methods lost to the historian, had made up his mind explicitly, agreeing that month with Churchill (but neglecting to tell his advisors) that the bomb “might perhaps, after mature consideration, be used against the Japanese.”*4 To be sure, means did not have to crowd out ends—they did not for Roosevelt. Nonetheless, the pattern of concerns roughly mir- rored those evident in development of “conventional” weapons like the B-29.  Finally, articulation of long-range strategy fell victim to interservice wrangles whose dimensions dwarfed what went on in Europe. There the compactness of the theater compelled at least a measure of integration among the three services and the two nations. In the Pacific, Americans were relatively free of pressure from allies. This relative freedom, however, only weakened strate