nd obligatory nature of the comments made about the immediate task ahead after Trinity. Farrell set down the “feeling that no matter what else might happen, we now had the means to insure its [the war’s] speedy conclusion and save thousands of American lives.” Groves too was “fully conscious that our real goal is still before us. The battle test is what counts in the war with Japan.” Yet that test elicited little comment. For most men at Trinity, even for Groves, there was a sense that the “real goal” had already been met. The dominant reaction was enormous relief that the thing had worked, that the huge investment of resources and reputations had been validated, and that the promise of mastery had been fulfilled. If men felt like sons of bitches, it was for creating an instrument of “doomsday” and imperiling “the future of humanity.” There were awesome responsibilities to be acted upon in the years to come, but not in the days to come. Though no one would have quite put it this way, there seemed to be, in the face of responsibilities stretching almost to eternity, something almost trivial in the use of the first crude gadget against Japan—a kind of horrid little footnote to the much more grand and grim task of managing the fate of humanity. Earlier, some scientists had argued for the bomb’s use as necessary to foster the world’s appreciation of the new force. Unknowingly, they had described their own need as well. Between Trinity and Hiroshima, the bomb remained to them a kind of awesome abstraction, now tested to be sure, but not yet imaginable as a weapon of war.113  For the bomb’s managers, the three weeks after Trinity were tense but essentially routine. With Kyoto dropped, Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Kokura, and Niigata remained as designated targets. The only restatement of the rationale for targeting rehashed old reasoning about psychological effect: “All four cities are believed to contain large numbers of key Japanese industrialists and political figures who have