ese operations, aircraft left over from World War I did nicely, and if raids in far- off lands provoked occasional cries of moral anguish, they hardly seemed like a rehearsal for modern air war. Development of military aviation did not altogether cease. In particular, the French maintained a huge air force in the twenties, the Italians made strides, British air officers honed their theory of strategic bombing, and American airmen pioneered in patrolling the seas. More generally, the aircraft carrier came of age. And indirectly or surreptitiously, all the great powers prepared the way for advances in military air power by promoting civil aviation. Simply because the greatest strides and the most glamorous feats came in the civilian field, however, there was reason to believe that aviation was following a pacific course and to ignore its more disturbing potential.  Fear of and attraction to the bomber remained but drew mostly on what people remembered from World War I and imagined for a rather distant future, not on what they observed at firsthand. In the American case, attraction drew on especially subtle forces. Prophecy, political debate, and cultural imagination shaped a benign image of aviation, thereby making the bomber seem attractive as an instrument of American ideals but remote as a weapon of war. In this perspective, bombers could be divorced from bombing: their instrumental and symbolic virtues were separable from the destruction they threatened. Their danger was the dark side of a moon of shiny progress—something imaginable but out of view. As a consequence, the ideas and institutions that made it possible to bomb developed faster than inquiry into the wisdom of doing so.  PROPHECY AS REASSURANCE  The 1920s was the golden age of speculation about the airplane. Because prophecy necessarily leaped ahead of technology, it often read like fanciful or bloodless abstractions, as if designed, like science fiction, less to depict future dangers than to express cu