cision in order to provide a solution based upon expediency.”®¢ For this failure responsibility was widespread and rested to a degree with the enemy. It derived from the newness of total war and of air power’s role in such a war, about which calculations had long been facile because they had rarely been tested. It derived from the cultural distance between the two enemies as well as the racism flowing from it, although a similar failure in the air war against Germany is caution against attributing too much to racism. It derived from the indifference of strategic planners to the question of relating destruction to surrender and from the failure of political leaders to provide them leadership when they did be- come concerned.  Destruction would win the war. As in Harris’s approach to bombing Germany, it would win by brutalization; terror and economic decline were hard to calculate and gradually became desirable side effects to a strategy that promised victory by total destruction of the enemy state. Without a clear and accurate model of how the enemy thought and how destruction might compel his surren- der, little guided the course of bombing beyond its own internal dynamics and the fearsome prospect of invasion. Once again, intangible criteria invited unlimited destruction.  The formula for unconditional surrender has been faulted often enough for making the enemy fight on. At least as plausibly, it led the Allies to fight on. Particularly in the American war against Japan, it provided few criteria for measuring the relationship of destruction to the attainment of political ends. It seemed only to indicate that the path to unconditional surrender lay through uncon- ditional destruction.  Page 247 of 368 56%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON the effect is more violent and extreme than with Europeans.” The problem was one “of discovering a technic for the demoralization of a community.” One promising approach was to exploit class an- tagonisms