ake the lives of others more than its own, ones whose accompanying rhetoric of technique disguised the will to destroy. As lavish with machines as the enemy was with men, Americans appeared to themselves to practice restraint, to be immune from the passion to destroy that characterized their en-  Page 249 of 368 57%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  LOO PRUDLOM UL 1 OUOINULUUGILUAL FAINAL Uo  The leaders and technicians of the American air force were driven by technological fanaticism—a pursuit of destructive ends expressed, sanctioned, and disguised by the organization and application of technological means. Destruction was rarely the acknowledged final purpose for the men who made air war possible. Rather, they declared that it served the purpose of securing victory and that its forms were dictated by technological, organizational, and strategic imperatives. In practice, they often waged destruction as a functional end in itself, without a clear comprehension of its relation- ship to stated purposes.  To label these men fanatics or their mentality and behavior as fanatical may defy the usual understanding of the terms, which sees in fanaticism the workings of a single-minded, frenzied emotional devotion to a cause. Intensity of emotion hardly seemed to characterize men whose virtue was their capacity for rational examination of problems. “The fanatic cannot tolerate scientific thought,” it has been said. Moreover, “fanaticism is a megalomaniacal condition,” one notable for “a jealous, vindictive and monomaniacal faith,” usually in a party, an organization, or a leader in which is invested a “unique saving function.”8? The air force certainly inspired among its professional officers an intense loyalty but rarely a monomaniacal allegiance. While some wartime scientists maintained an unquestioning faith in their methodology and its beneficence, by no means did all. Nor was faith in the American or the Allied cause always intense or evenly s