n and women was militarily necessary for their conquest and overthrow, then it was morally necessary—in order not to kill those people—to settle for something less. .. . If people have a right not to be forced to fight, they also have a right not to be forced to continue fighting beyond the point when the war might justly be concluded. Beyond that point, there can be no  supreme emergencies, no arguments about military necessity, no cost-accounting in human lives. To press the war further than that is to re-commit the crime of aggression. In the summer of 1945, the vic-  torious Americans owed the Japanese people an experiment in negotiation. To use the atomic bomb, to kill and terrorize civilians, without even attempting such an experiment, was a double crime.22  Of course, the double crime extended beyond use of the atomic bomb. A larger failure in surrender policy had sanctioned the razing of Japan’s cities for months.  At bottom, the political question was what kind of Japan the United States wanted when the war was over. Experts debated whether to trust existing elites (minus the more blatant militarists) to make Japan over into a peaceful partner in the postwar order or into an attractive bulwark against the Soviets. They wondered whether to pacify and remold Japan through occupation and tutelage, a task which bombing might complicate, or simply to punish and ravage Japan so that it would never rise again—de Seversky’s vision. Even more broadly, the question was whether the American objective was victory or vengeance. To a degree these questions had become moot by the summer of 1945—so far had the destruction gone that vengeance and the obliteration of Japan’s war industry were already irreversible. More important, the bureaucracies engaged in answering these questions could not reach a consensus powerful enough to change Truman’s mind on the surrender formula or to call into question the further course of bombing.  Even military alternatives were not firmly d