, Americans who paid attention to it had moved from imagination to reality in a piecemeal, gradual fashion. The slow, erratic nature of that war’s escalation, plus its indecisiveness, fostered acceptance. If the war had begun with the catastrophic, knockout blow previously foreseen, the shock might have induced more intense concern about air war’s moral- ity, utility, and probability to reoccur. Piecemeal evolution of air war produced relief that reality was less terrifying than the nightmare and gave Americans time to absorb and accept this new descent into barbarism. What happened was more complex than the simple movement from horror of bombing to the “uncritical acceptance of all the claims made for the airplane by its most enthusiastic advocates.” Nor was it clear that “American disapproval of Fascist bombings manifested itself in a desire for revenge, rather than a desire to abolish bombing.”*! These factors were sometimes at work, but the blitz in particular led many Americans to question more extreme claims for air power, and if some Americans welcomed revenge, few wanted it at the price of going to war. Overriding these factors were reluctance to engage the issue and lack of apparent necessity to do so: the blitz seemed to indicate that air war on cities was a passing fad.  “COMMAND OF THE AIR BY THE DEMOCRACIES”  As popular fear and anticipation of air war receded, official preparation to wage it mounted. The public had a clue to these efforts in successive reorganizations of the War Department. In November 1940 Arnold became Deputy Chief of Staff to Marshall while retaining his post as Chief of the Air Corps, a move that elevated his status and gave the Air Corps a central place in the general staff's planning. The next spring, the long vacant position of assistant secretary of war for air was filled by Robert Lovett, brought in by War Secretary Henry L. Stimson to rationalize industry’s chaotic mo- bilization for aircraft production. In June 1941, creatio