n 1944, the high casualty rate suffered among air officers might deprive the United States of its elite youth in much the way that Ypres and Passchendaele and other world War I battles had done to England. Whatever the price, the elite composition of the air force helped it forge its alliance with civilian professions and authorities.2!  At bottom, that alliance also strengthened a broader linkage among American elites, one imperfectly established during World War I, partially dismantled after it, and indissolubly fixed during World War II. It was just this success in linking elites that accounted for much of Allied success in the air—British and Russian as well as American. Their enemies failed in that regard because their rulers relied on ideals of military service and party ideology rather than on “military materialism.”22 Trusting their zeal to win the war, they miscalculated the demands of war and thus postponed until too late the task of conscripting or cajoling the services of civilian science and industry. Even had they appreciated those demands more promptly, they would have been disinclined to share real power with civilian experts because their war, especially the Nazis’, was waged against the existing system at home as well as enemies abroad.  In both Germany and Japan, the disadvantages of relying on the fervor and judgment of military and party elites extended further, ironically undermining the air forces as fighting units as well. Both countries began the war with the best-trained pilots and ended with the worst. Trusting the fighting man’s virtue to win the war quickly, they failed to amass the reserves of quality pilots needed for further training, and pilot skill and training plummeted. Failing also to exploit their civilian labor pool, both countries placed further demands on their military personnel. In contrast, the American air force employed some 500,000 civilians, including large numbers of women, for maintenance and logistical tasks. Just w