relative merits of invasion and strategic devastation or the relationship between them. Doubt simply crept in during review of countless plans on the particulars of strategy. The slow progress of the Combined Bomber Offensive against Germany may have dampened optimism; more certainly, it taught Arnold and the air force to promise less, whatever their private hopes. Blockade and bombardment, even if successful—as the navy’s Admiral King thought they would be, at less cost in lives—might work too slowly in light of the “American public’s distaste for long wars of attrition,” a main concern for the army. Nor was there any consensus on which method promised fewer casualties. Too, reliance on naval and air power alone would idle the army’s vast forces, which might be employed to speed up victory when finished with Germany.*3  The shift in emphasis toward invasion also reflected the declining influence in Allied councils of the British, with their preference for patient and indirect methods of war. At the same time, the success of the D-Day invasion probably emboldened army planners by demonstrating the continued effectiveness of conventional strategies and carrying the promise of early victory in Europe, thereby freeing huge armies to turn against Japan. As Marshall told the Combined Chiefs of Staff on July 14, it was “now clear to the United States Chiefs of Staff that, in order to finish with the Japan- ese quickly, it will be necessary to invade the industrial heart of Japan”; earlier “the means for this action were not available,” but now they lay “within our power.”54  Marshall’s remarks also reflected mounting evidence of Japanese resistance—the period of timely Japanese retreats was over—and determination to fight to the end. The Japanese seemed more barbaric, fanatical, and formidable than ever. The stage was set for the final fury of air war, which appeared more justified and necessary than ever and yet less likely to succeed on its own. In 1943, when the bombin