or airmen, but the act will have been due to the impossibility of leaving his friends or letting them down..  Even when therp has been no choice, and survival is due to the sheerest whim of fate, . . . the ‘survivor’s guilt’ haunts the individual; he is ‘ghosted,’ as one man put it, by his dead friends, who will not leave him alone or give him peace of mind.  The burden of comrades’ fate was one reason why the morale of heavy bomber crews tended to drop more steeply once combat missions began than it did for fighter pilots. Fighter pilots also benefited from lower casualty rates and less time in the air, without the attendant fatigue and tension bomber crews experienced and had no way to release. And simply because the fighter pilot did not need to maintain formation and had sole control over his aircraft, his sense of controlling his fate was much stronger.®=  For British bomber crews, a sense of helplessness took on a peculiar dimension in 1944 because loss rates failed to decrease as men flew more missions, destroying the crewmen’s hope that they gained mastery of their fate as they accumulated skill and experience. As Freeman Dyson, who made the statistical findings at the time, observed, “Experienced and inexperienced crews were mown down as impartially as the boys who walked into the German machine gun nests in the battle of the Somme in 1916.” Dyson attributed this to failures in the gunnery system of the British bombers, failures he waged a futile battle to correct. A colleague also discovered that the escape rate of British bomber crews—their chances of bailing out from damaged or malfunctioning bombers and surviving—was less than half that for American bomber crews, again because of a technical failure difficult to correct due to “the entrenched inertia of the military establishment.” No wonder that RAF fliers found that “the line between the living and the dead was very thin,” as one wrote: “it is as if those who have gone have merely caught an earlier tr