costly defenses and armament, all at the mercy of few hundred bird men.” Airplanes, it was hoped, might end “war as we had known it.” The sight, the sound, even the prospect of aeronautical terrors might make nations end war speedily or capitulate before war began or even banish war altogether. Such predictions shaded off into another category of prophecy, one that saw a less direct but no less benign implication for war in the airplane’s advent. Stefan Zweig saw in Blériot’s flight the seeds of “a European community spirit, a European national consciousness” making national frontiers “useless” because “the spirit of these times . . . visibly seeks unity and world brotherhood!” In the United States, the romanticism of other possibilities was even more fervid. Poets extolled aviators as “winged Argonauts of trackless air” whose “Golden Fleece” would be “Man’s Brotherhood.” One American  Page 1 of 368 1%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Prophecy about new weapons did not come so freely to Americans at the turn of the century as it did to Europeans. Some Americans did see military purpose in the airplane, but more with an  eye to commercial possibilities than to war itself. Samuel P. Langley, the venerable scientist whose crowning effort at powered flight dropped “like a handful of mortar” into the Potomac River, coaxed a grant from the United States Army in 1898 with vague promises as to how his machines might change warfare. But Langley cared most about his experiments and their financing, little about war.4  Inthe American Army’s Signal Corps, overseer of a feeble effort at military aviation, some of the pioneer fliers naturally took war more seriously. They had read daring predictions for air power, like that made in Chicago in 1893 by a British officer who foresaw the day when “the arrival of the aerial fleet over the enemy capital will probably conclude the campaign.” They could speculate, as one American officer did in 1908, that power