ticism, the inner turmoil, the wild fears and hatreds of these people, will boil to the surface.” In a typical argument, Ziff urged Americans to avoid “a war of attrition” with the “rivers of blood” that would flow in a conventional war, without acknowledging the destructiveness of a war of aerial attrition in which even the Allies, he predicted, would lose twenty-five hundred planes per month.22  The prophets were in fact increasingly pressed to bridge the gulf between prewar myth and wartime reality. Old metaphors of easy victory persisted in promises that “a knockout blow against these [enemy] citadels must bring inevitable collapse, just as a house of cards collapses when the base cards are removed.” But the same writer warned that such a blow would be “an undertaking of the greatest magnitude.” requiring thousands of bombers over Germany for an unspecified number of months.23  Allan Michie, a reporter for Fortune and other magazines, struggled to bridge the gulf. He recognized early in 1942 how disappointing the performance of American daylight bombers had been. He lamented how “supercharged advertisements” and “statements from overzealous government and service officials” had satisfied “national pride” but misled Americans about the difficulties ahead. Yet Michie also thought it possible “within the next two months to triple or quadruple our bomber striking force,” bring Germany “to her knees before the end of the summer of 1943,” and leave Anglo- American armies free to “walk across Europe.” Success would come in part if the AAF made the painful decision to switch to night bombing and help the British multiply the number of “dead” German cities. Such savagery undercut the old moral rationale for strategic bombing. Michie gloried in the RAF’s destruction of cities, yet maintained that the objectives of bombing should be economic. In short, writers like Michie were tracing for their readers the shift in bombing methods from selective paralysis to sustained dest