eception, which now badly undermined their credibility. In that way, as in others, they never caught up with the Anglo-Americans, or even the Nazis, who came to realize the propaganda value of truth, however selective.84  Not only did anger fail to revivify the war effort, it often turned against the government or against its handy or culpable representatives, accused of failing to protect or trust the citizenry. “The value of information lies in its accuracy,” one complaint ran after the March 10 raid. “Why have the authorities forgotten this simple truth?” At least among those intact enough to be angry, indigna- tion was widespread against the armed services for failing to fend off the invaders or for prattling on about their ability to do so.85  Panic, police control, and passivity toward authority prevented such hostilities from becoming a serious problem. And again the destructiveness of the raid overwhelmed interest in finding humans to blame, for “the B-29 raids were beyond the point of criticism,” as a Japanese editorialist later commented. People felt that they “were too big for mere criticism of the government.”8&  The pervasive feeling, local at first but spreading through Japan as the raids and victims fanned out, was a sense of hopelessness regarding the war effort, and for some regarding survival itself. Realization of the futility of Japan’s position was cumulative and by no means caused only by the experience of bombing. But the fire raids catalyzed and gave brutal immediacy to the doubts long accumulating, abruptly accelerating the decline in all indices of public morale. Even among those Japanese with no direct experience of the bombing, word of its effect eroded confidence, and even among those who attributed their loss of hope to other tribulations, the fire raids had been a contributing cause. Moreover, disenchantment focused on the failure to protect the home front, indicating that falling morale was linked to bombing, not to a more general fai