onents of aerial bombing had other ways to address the moral issues it raised, shown by Hugh Trenchard’s tortured distinction between bombing “for the sole purpose of terrorising the civilian population” and bombing “to terrorise munition workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work.” By and large, however, the moral case of the prophets rested only on their assertion that bombing would bring wars to mercifully speedy, if costly, conclusions. Since bombing was sure to be so frightful, its destructiveness aroused little worry—a terrorized populace would surrender before destruction proceeded far at all.£  Certainty about the bomber’s efficacy rested on an appreciation of new technology, but also on unquestioned belief in the fragility of modern societies. All the achievements in which Europe  Page 22 of 368 6%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON end wars; the power of the defense made their efforts futile. Even a rare offensive success so exhausted the victor that “the side which won the most military victories was the side which was defeated.” Douhet noted with reference to Germany’s fate in the war. Generals who still sought defeat of their opponent’s armies would lead their nations to ruin, victims of the “shortsighted, if natural delu- sion... that the armed forces themselves were the real objective.” Attack on those forces was only one means to the end of subduing “the enemy’s will to resist.”  The only hope for restoring decisiveness to war was to cease battering at the enemy’s strongest point, the surface forces now developed to defensive perfection, and attack the enemy’s will behind the lines, just as Paris had found Achilles’ weak point (the pun Liddell Hart played on in his title). For the first time in history, man could do this swiftly. “Aircraft enables us to jump over the army which shields the enemy government, industry and people, and so strike direct and immediately at the seat of the opposing will and policy.”