eliance on widespread destruction by air as one method to win the war. Strategic as well as moral debate had not ceased, but it ran in narrow channels. This, more than specific claims and counterclaims, defined how Americans thought about what bombers might do.  Reaction to de Seversky’s book indicated this trend. While technicians took issue with the soundness of his predictions and some of the religious press criticized their moral implications, a more common note was generous approval. Here was a book of “tremendous charm” and “surgeon-like reasoning.” De Seversky was ranked with Mitchell, Admiral Mahan, and Clausewitz as strategist and contributor to the “philosophy of conflict” (a judgment that has not stood the test of time). He was, like Mitchell, cast as a lonely hero battling the “stubborn wall of opposition” erected by the bureaucracy of the War Department and the Air Corps. Such a view not only overlooked de Seversky’s own vested interest as aircraft manufacturer but made it appear that the AAF—whose leadership a Nation reviewer equated to “the management of a peanut wagon’—was far too reactionary to bomb with the zeal de Seversky proposed. As it had for two decades, the alleged conservatism of government officials obscured official embrace of strategic bombing. If their manner of running the war was “fully as serious as treason,” then destruction of the enemy by air seemed remote indeed. Working these old political accusations, many reviewers said little about the destruction de Seversky proposed.22  Approval and adroit promotion gave de Seversky’s ideas broad and sustained exposure. Condensed in Readers Digest, the book was purchased in 1942 for movie production by Walt Disney. An odd but fruitful partnership between prophet and animator ensued. It was a commercially risky film, so Disney worked closely with the Gallup organization, whose market research was designed not only to promote the film but, by divining public interests and tastes, to help shap