ed that even on the battlefield, “fascism is still an unreal thing to the American. ... He cannot really hate it.” He “must fight simply ... so that he can get back home—to a land that has now, in his memory, grown so lovely that there is no meanness in it.” Life magazine repeatedly regretted that Americans had only a “Hollywood” view of the war which the administration did little to deflate (and which Life’s abundant consumer advertising itself did much to abet). The persistence of these complaints measured one effort at greater realism but also the difficulty of achieving it. The remoteness of air war to Americans was in part rooted in the remoteness of war itself.4  In strategic terms, too, there was little urgency to grapple immediately with the role of air power. Contrary to the prevailing expectation that the bombers would bear the initial brunt of the American effort, there was little for them to do over the war’s first winter. Lack of bombers and bases left the army and navy largely to repel the enemy’s blows. Roosevelt hardly felt free to save the new bombers coming off production lines for strategic employment, not while commanders clamored for bombers to support ground and naval operations, not while he felt it urgent to get American ground forces into action in order to blunt accusations of incompetence and to enlist popular investment in the war.  The result of all this was that the gulf between ideas and action that so long characterized the emergence of strategic air power—one at first glance so certain to disappear with war’s outbreak —enjoyed remarkable persistence. Narrowing though it did after December 7, it still left plans and dreams, strategic calculations and moral concerns, free of the tests of reality for months and in some respects years to come.  Official planning for “strategic devastation”> remained surprisingly diffuse, in part for reasons that inhered in the very nature of air war. Ground and naval operations usually required forces hi