way that diminished concern over use of the atomic bomb—by downplaying the destructiveness of both kinds of bombing rather than comprehending it.  Although Stimson accepted the bomb’s use, he could not accept a claim that any use of weapons was legitimate during war. At least momentarily troubled by Dresden, he needed reinforcement against residual doubts about American bombing. Sometime, probably early in the spring of 1945, he had extracted a “promise from [Assistant Secretary for Air Robert] Lovett that there would be only precision bombing in Japan.” Despite the March 10 and subsequent fire raids, he remained convinced as late as May 16, as he told Truman, that he was holding the air force, “so far as possible, to the ‘precision’ bombing [of Japan] which it has done so well in Europe.” It seemed important to do so because “the reputation of the United States for fair play and humanitarianism is the world’s biggest asset for peace in the coming decades.” Similar rules for “sparing the civilian population,” he added, to Truman, “should be applied as far as possible to the use of any new weapon,” that is, the atomic bomb.122  Stimson convinced himself that “precision” bombing remained American practice in part through unwillingness to confront the contrary evidence in the press and to penetrate the transparent distinctions about targeting offered by the air force. After the war he wrote: “In March, 1945, our Air Force had launched the first great incendiary raid on the Tokyo area. In this raid more damage was done and more casualties were inflicted than was the case at Hiroshima.” But there is no evidence that Stimson at the time appreciated the magnitude of the March 10 raid, unless it provided him the spur to approach Lovett—if so, he did not note it at the time. To the contrary, only the renewed fire raids on Tokyo at the end of May caught his attention and led him to query Arnold about “my promise from Lovett that there would be only precision bombing in Japan.