htened the case for attacking whole cities and brushing aside problems of accuracy. “How could a country go on living and working under this constant threat, oppressed by the nightmare of imminent destruction and death? How indeed!” No further description was needed. The War of 19—(1930) bogged down in tedious orders of battle and lengthy accounts of the aerial combat which he saw as peripheral to the mission of his bombers. He could not describe what was really novel about the war he envisioned—the death and destruction on the ground—other than to note that cities would become “unapproachable flaming braziers.” Beyond that, it seemed “useless ... to elaborate.” War against cities was terrifying but barely imaginable. The certainty of quick victory made description seem unnecessary, and the horror of bombing was perhaps enhanced by letting the reader conjure up his own nightmare. Any suggestion that events on the ground might be more complicated, might go beyond panic and surrender, would have robbed predictions of their promise that air power could be decisive.*  Peace through chemistry was a variation on the promise of deliverance through technology. Armed with dubious statistics indicating that death rates from gas attacks in World War I were far lower than those from shot and shell, prophets like Liddell Hart argued that “gas may well prove the salvation of civilization from otherwise inevitable collapse in case of another world war.” Nonlethal gases in particular might secure “the fruits of victory, but without the lasting evils of mass killing or destruction of property.” Such optimism about the benefits of aerochemical warfare was a minority view. Yet even an apocalyptic view of airborne gas warfare also strengthened claims for its decisiveness. Besides, the proponents of aerial bombing had other ways to address the moral issues it raised, shown by Hugh Trenchard’s tortured distinction between bombing “for the sole purpose of terrorising the civilian populati