e and aggrandizement. But they place such motives on the fringes of policy. While there is no fast distinction between motive.and rationalization, the argument from operational necessity must be treated with the greatest caution, inasmuch as it often cloaked in a kind of technological determinism what leaders wanted to do for other reasons they did not often admit openly.  Operational necessities did not appear mysteriously. If leaders were prisoners of a technological determinism, it was one they themselves set into motion. They reasoned in a curiously self- fulfilling fashion when, having first created certain forces with certain capabilities, they then complained that they had no choice but to use them in unfortunate ways. In fact, however, well- placed leaders sometimes revealed how politics rather than technology guided them, as when Roosevelt wanted to placate vengeful Americans, encourage the Chinese, and limit the commitment of ground forces abroad. Moreover, operational necessity was an argument selectively employed—discarded when the Eighth Air Force targeted Nazi submarine pens against mounting evidence of how unsuitable the mission was; discarded when B-29 bombers were sent to China almost in defiance of operational constraints. Selective employment of operational arguments invites skepticism about their compelling force. Operational considerations did impose real limits on bomber forces; they were not always facile rationalizations invoked by men who viewed themselves as prisoners of their own machines; sometimes, they were even invoked to forestall foolish or needlessly destructive action. But operational requirements often translated into organizational convenience, that is, the need to keep a bomber force in action in order to justify its existence.  Finally, making decisions on the basis of operational necessity made sense only if it contributed to winning the war, and doing so at less cost. Often neither was the case. A classic example was the Brit