itself.” As historian he appreciated the psychological complexity of war, but as prophet he discarded it. He and his fellow prophets assumed that rational calculation would rule the next great war, in the decisions made in launching it and in the resignation to defeat that civilian populations would swiftly translate into a national decision for surrender. “The normal man, immediately he recognizes a Stronger, directly he realizes the hopelessness of overcoming his enemy, always yields,” said Liddell Hart. There was no allowance in these predictions for the way war makes people act abnormally, no room for stoic defiance of the odds, no place for passions that sustain war beyond rational limits. Not even four years of “blind folly” suggested the wisdom of Wells’s scenario.13  Seeking to bypass such folly, Douhet actually made it central to his definition of war: “The purpose of war is to harm the enemy as much as possible; and all means which contribute to this end will be employed, no matter what they are.” Douhet confused the character of war with its purpose. Ideally at least, harming the enemy was only a means to another end, and in losing sight of that end, Douhet betrayed how his weapon could serve as the vehicle of irrationality rather than as the instrument of its defeat. If the bomber did not prove immediately decisive, if nations misused it and populations defied it, if they employed it to seek vengeance rather than victory, the next war would recreate the old stalemate of attrition warfare in horrifyingly new form, throwing humankind back to earlier centuries when siege and pillage put entire populations at hazard. Momentarily able to predict such “an inhuman, atrocious performance,” Douhet refused to believe it would happen and shrank from describing the course it might follow.14  Liddell Hart reached the same point by a different route. He rejected destruction as an end in itself: “Of what use is decisive victory in battle if we bleed to death as a resul