s it, “Arnold wanted as big a finale as possible.” He got it on the fourteenth, when 1,014 aircraft, including 828 B-29s, sortied against Japan. Combat flights then ceased, although Spaatz ordered a “display of air power” to continue until the surrender was signed, ostensibly to remind the Japanese die-hards that they had lost the war.12!  Most of these operations after the tenth were public relations, not strategy. The public relations officers instantly recognized that the atomic bomb story was the biggest of the war, “giving Army Air Forces vast prestige,” but they also feared that in the public relations “rat race,” the navy was “having the edge.” They maneuvered and pleaded to make sure “our Air correspondents go in on the first phase of this occupation, comic opera that it is”; to “get our gang onto the Missouri to witness the signing of the surrender”; and to seize some “Japanese bigshots who might give us the right kind of quotations for publication about what bombing did to win the war.” The “whole damn thing from now on is politics and publicity,” and it was time the generals realized that “effective public relations is never an immaculate conception—it’s generally rape and always at least vigorous courtship.” Neither Arnold nor LeMay needed persuasion on that score, and it must have been gratifying  Page 342 of 368 78%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON reactions in the months and years to tollow. Knowledge of the long-term lethality ot radiation, of their special place 1n the inauguration ot nuciear technology, and of the special attention given them  fed a lasting sense of experiencing a life-ending trauma with global implications. Before 1945 it had been possible to see in air war the potential for global destruction, but survivors of Hamburg or Tokyo rarely connected the extinction of their cities with the fate of the species. For atomic bomb victims, that connection became indissoluble.142  That implication, however, like man