our purpose to destroy our targets.” As a statement of long-range strategy, this oversimplification was not far off the mark. Nor was it clarified in Arnold’s memoirs, where he characterized the “two main jobs ahead of us” at the close of 1944: “To complete the bombing of Germany, which was more or less routine, and to deploy our B-29 outfits after the completion of their training for the destruction of the Japanese mainland.” The strategic payoff of destruction—surrender—seemed simply to be taken for granted.52  Later, Hansell denied that air strategists at the time had a “limited vision and were too much influenced by the need to pave the way for invasion.” Invasion was simply the “backup” plan the Joint Chiefs had to have in case blockade and bombardment failed.53 Perhaps Hansell saw it that way at the time, but the staff back in Washington had worked out no plan for victory by air power; it was an idea they liked but were under no compulsion to defend. In fact, the Joint Chiefs had explicitly rejected the view held earlier in the war that invasion should be regarded only as a contingency.  The political possibility existed for a different course of strategy. The Army Air Forces and the navy might have entered an alliance, based on a strategy of victory without invasion that denied glory to the ground army. Their strategic roles were complementary, inasmuch as the navy was strangling the Japanese economy by sea just as the bombers were trying to devastate it on land. And navy and air forces could directly assist each other: by aerial mining, the B-29s could tighten the stranglehold on Japanese shipping; by carrier attacks, the navy could hit objectives on the land, not on the same scale as the B-29s, but with greater precision.  No alliance was ever joined. The very similarity of functions between the two services had long bred a bitter rivalry. Arnold owed to Marshall too much of his authority over the air force to desert his patron and forge a link with Admiral