y, frankly described their objective as “the wrecking of all housing.” But the British press reported the raids in ways typical of what a restrained English historian has called “a three- year period of deceit practised upon the British public and on world opinion.” Newspapers described the targets as “important factories” and “dock quarters” and savaged the few religious leaders who protested. Qualms were recorded by Liddell Hart, two decades earlier the author of a sensational prophecy of air war, and by J. F. C. Fuller, who fulminated against England’s “Goths, Vandals, Huns.” But they had trouble getting into print and failed to have much impact. Politicians on the left had sometimes criticized the strategic bombing effort, not on moral grounds, but because they believed bombing to be a poor substitute for invasion in assisting the Soviet Union. Among RAF airmen, those most familiar with Hamburg’s fate, doubts sometimes arose, but as one later asked, “To whom could you express such doubts? ... What would have been the result? Court martial!”  American leaders did learn something from the Hamburg assaults. The firestorm was carefully studied by American experts, particularly with an eye to the bombing of Japan. Roosevelt saw in Hamburg “an impressive demonstration” of what America might achieve against Japan, a hope Arnold reinforced for him several months later. Moreover, after Hamburg, and until pragmatic concerns imposed some caution, Anglo-American bombers struck Balkan capitals ferociously, attempting to “terrorize Balkan civilians without appearing to use terror tactics.” Planning officers had cause for continued concern, however, for the precise effect of the Hamburg raids on German production was difficult to measure, and intercepts of diplomatic messages from Japan’s Berlin embassy offered discouraging evidence. More certainly, American experts appreciated that the “numbness and apathy” caused among Germans by Allied bombing might allow only for the furth