the Chicago Tribune editorialized about American leaders, “Being merciless, they were merciful.”15°  In any event, there was perhaps another reason, besides relief at the war’s end, to embrace the bomb’s decisiveness. Only if Americans did so with little qualification could they approach the future with some comfort that the bomb would not be used again and that the world would realize the choice it had to make between doomsday and deliverance. To see the bomb as having a more subtle, qualified impact raised troublesome questions. Would future wars be deterred if nations were unconvinced of the bomb’s utter finality? If horror at the thought of nuclear war made deterrence necessary, did it not also require making the most of the bomb’s awesomeness in its one battle test? To think anything less of the bomb, in regard to past or prospective use, seemed to invite its employ- ment and to demean the responsibility shouldered by those who possessed it.  The fantasy that had ebbed and flowed for decades—that of a new weapon that transcended and thereby ended war—had been realized. Yet Hiroshima and Nagasaki mocked the fantasy that they seemed to fulfill. For the atomic bomb, like bombing in its other forms, had triumphed not as a weapon of shock that obviated a protracted struggle, but only as a climax to it. Only by forestalling invasion did the bomb lay a limited and highly debatable claim to meeting the test of fantasy. Worse, the very power of the bomb that secured momentary fulfillment of fantasy prevented its realization again. The moment of fulfillment was a fluke made possible only by the extraordinary circumstance under which only one nation possessed the new weapon, and its enemy already lay in ashes. The fantasy momentarily unleashed seemed immediately to rebound. Any attempt to realize it again imperiled those who held it as well as those others whom the bomb was to instruct. Some hoped that air power in its new form would realize its old promise by deterring w