ek CR ny Oo nea PU CR peaks ae tay FREE EU Se See fae tenes CU aac aaa  complained of the way operations were planned in a strategic vacuum. As late as June 1945, he still observed “the lack of an integrated strategic air plan for the defeat of Japan.” Among air force officers, only Haywood Hansell perhaps would have understood fully Lincoln’s complaint. He made much the same point by prefacing his memoirs with a quotation from Douhet: “The choice of enemy tar- gets... is the most delicate operation of air warfare. .. . It is precisely in this field that the commanders of future Air Forces will be able to give proof of their ability.” In the end, proof was not given.5* Bombing threatened to develop a momentum apart from the needs of winning the war. Of course the strategists wanted victory, but the carelessness with which they related destruction to victory provided small check on that destruction until victory was secured. Their plans revealed a kind of strategic distance on the consequences of their actions that paralleled and reinforced the distance created by their professional pursuit of technique, by the command and bureaucratic arrangements they made to organize that technique, and by the language and methodology they em- ployed to use it. The disjunction between means and ends—in effect an operational variation of the long-standing chasm between fantasy and reality in conceptions of air war—took many forms.  THE ELUSIVE ENEMY  Any strategy rested finally on a view of the enemy: a conception of the adversary’s resolve, of the conditions under which it would cease fighting, and of the institutions that made decisions. On both sides of the Pacific war and in the American air force no less than in other institutions, the attempt to formulate a useful conception was largely a failure in that no way was found to end the war short of cataclysmic and redundant destruction. Measured against the horror most visible to contemporaries—invasion of Japan’s home islands—be