he airmen striving to achieve a “global” air force, with men like John von Neumann embracing both aspirations. For sure, these aspirations did not often appear suicidal or self-destructive to the men who held them. Yet the technology they created or promoted —finally the atomic bomb but to some degree the apparatus of “conventional” air war as well—carried that self-destructive potential for the nation and the world, and not simply in retrospect inas- much as the world-ending potential of aerial warfare had been recognized before the war by writers like H. G. Wells and during the war by some atomic scientists and policymakers.  The shared mentality of the fanatics of air war was their dedication to assembling and perfecting their methods of destruction, and the way that doing so overshadowed the original purposes justifying destruction. Their coolness, their faith in rational problem-solving, did not easily appear fanatical because its language was the language of rationality and technique. It apparently expressed the triumph of a new set of values, ones often called modern or bureaucratic, which displaced more traditional ones by which people were defined according to racial, ethnic, religious, and national differences. Yet it is by no means clear that such values had entirely displaced more traditional ones. For one thing, whatever their individual value system, those who waged air war served as the instrument of national passions that were often decidedly racist in character. For another, their rhetoric, as in the use of the term “dehousing,” allowed them to express aggressive and destructive im- pulses in other terms, impulses that did not necessarily disappear from motivation, simply from view.  It was easier to regard the decisions that took lives as the products of technological, strategic, and bureaucratic imperatives. In the face of these imperatives, men felt a helplessness that allowed them to escape responsibility or fulfilled a wish to do so. Actions ce