ing it. It may be the best hope that the nuclear powers will be deterred from waging war. The very fact that they cannot know what would happen in war may be more daunting than scenarios filled with certitudes. Moreover, out of uncertainty can spring a continued desire to solve the nuclear problem and avoid a passive fatalism. In that regard, we can recall how, in the 1930s, the great powers found comfort in their terrifying vision that the next great war would begin and likely end with an aerial holocaust. They were right to imagine that such a holocaust was possible but wrong to regard it as almost inevitable, and in their error, and in their fumbling preparations to meet what they anticipated, they created a horror different from, but perhaps also worse than, what they had imagined.  A second suggestion is to be skeptical about technological solutions to the problem of aerial warfare. Of course, such solutions have been recurrently offered in the twentieth century: perhaps precision bombing would replace systematic destruction with selective paralysis, it was argued before World War II, just as others later hoped that precisely guided nuclear weapons might replace “countervalue” incineration of cities with “counterforce” targeting. Or, in another hope running through the history of aerial war (most recently in President Reagan’s proposals), perhaps a new tech- nology would so revive the defensive powers of a nation that an enemy attack might be doomed to failure.  Little in the record of air war supports these hopes for a technological solution. In World War II, antiaircraft defenses showed surprising capacities, inflicting a fearsome toll on both German and Allied bombers, but never enough to stop the aerial offensives before they had run at least some of their frightful course. Similarly, Allied bomber forces developed considerable sophistication in guiding their bombs with precision, but in both theaters they generally employed that sophistication to perfect t