ble of waging a sustained war. For reasons of deterrence, the RAF concentrated more on the bomber’s role as destroyer of cities than did the Americans, who emphasized precision bombing. And by the late 1930s, a host of factors forced the RAF to stress air defense: acute anxiety about the vulnerability of English cities; growing hope, spurred by developments in radar, that air defense might yet be feasible; and the dawning realization that Bomber Command was a pitiful vehicle for the theory it espoused. These twists and turns, es- pecially in British policy, masked Anglo-American interest in bombing cities.  Nonetheless, a fundamental orientation toward strategic bombing arose, however confused its translation into policy. In England, a profound anxiety over exposure to aerial attack fused with an equally powerful sense of England’s limited moral and material resources for conventional combat. In the United States, the material resources were ample, but political tolerance for using them was not. In both countries, abhorrence and attraction combined to make air power compelling. What resulted was the apparent paradox, noted by one authority, whereby nations “whose policy was normally defensive tended towards the counter-strike deterrent theory, while those with aggressive intentions developed tactical air forces.”©3 The image of air power as a fascist weapon obscured the paradox, concealing the Anglo-Americans’ developing interest in strategic air war and muting their concern about the morality of that interest.  The association of air power with fascism was one reason why the ethical issues posed by air war received little attention in the 1930s. Of course, fascist bombing elicited vigorous moral condemnation hit it was largelv reflexive Few defined what was immaral ahoit homhing cities hevand the fact that it invalved killins “the wrong neonle” and was done hv fascists who were inso  Page 70 of 368 16%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON far