for.”145  In its short history, aerial technology had promised benefits in peace as well as war. These seemed attractive in their own right and as impediments to war: new wealth and economic interdependence would discourage nations from taking up arms. The same potential seemed to inhere in the new atomic technology. Of course, its first use had to be military, but Stimson declared that “fission holds great promise for sweeping development by which our civilization may be enriched when peace comes,” a limitless source of energy for Americans and for the “well-being of the world.” The mushroom cloud loomed too large to allow the optimism earlier experienced about airplane technology. Nonetheless, variations on Stimson’s vision continued to offer hopeful counterpoint to the new dangers.146  Americans tried to draw satisfaction out of the bomb’s advent. Finishing a terrible war and facing a horrifying new technology, they naturally grasped for any sign of better things to come. As they did so, they displayed the power of historical tradition, resorting to familiar categories to try to explain and control the novel. It remained for MacDonald to explain that those categories would not work and simply to point out their reappearance. Regarding the great powers, he asked whether they  will foreswear war itself because an “atomic” war would probably mean the mutual ruin of all contestants? The same reasons were advanced before World War I to demonstrate its “impossibility”; also before World War II. The devastation of these wars was as terrible as had been predicted—yet they took place. Like all the great advances in technology of the past century, Atomic Fission is something in which Good and Evil are so closely intertwined that it is hard to see how the Good can be extracted and the Evil thrown away. ... This atom has never been split, and perhaps never will be.147  MacDonald’s point was hard to grasp in 1945, for the good of the atomic bomb seemed blindingly apparent and