t of New York City to a “smoldering heap of ashes.”2  What most Americans learned about these episodes, however, gave them little reason to see anything ominous. The extensive press coverage of air force maneuvers rarely suggested that the United States would ever bomb other countries. And some of the maneuvers were little more than stunts that backfired badly for the Air Corps. In August 1931, the National Broadcasting Company gave a blow-by-blow radio account of an attempt by army bombers to intercept and sink an old freighter, the Mount Shasta, in the Atlantic. But the air crews first failed to find the ship, then proved un- able to sink it, and finally left it to the Coast Guard to finish off. Such a miserable performance badly embarrassed the Air Corps in its attempt to supplant the navy as the first line of coast defense.  The stormiest incident involving aviation in the early thirties, the air mail fiasco of 1934, also left the impression that military aviation, at least in American hands, was a frail instrument of war. The episode began when President Franklin Roosevelt canceled contracts issued to private business to carry the mail and ordered the Army Air Corps to do the job. Benjamin Foulois, the Chief of the Air Corps, was all too eager to prove that his organization could do so. As the New York Times commented, “The proponents of a separate Air Force for defense purposes see for the first time an opportunity to obtain their objective.” But Foulois overplayed his hand. Equipped with obsolete planes and hampered by the inadequate facilities funded by a parsimonious Congress, the aviators found their worst enemy in some unusually severe winter weather. Disaster and embarrassment resulted, as planes crashed, pilots died, and congressmen and journalists mourned the poor boys sacrificed by a headline-hunting president. “That’s legalized murder!” fumed Eddie Rickenbacker, who now, along with Lindbergh, was a backer of the aviation industry. The denouement came