R had already reminded military leaders of his desire for “the bombing of Japan proper from east and west,” and the year would be filled with flurries of hope and futile diplomatic efforts to mount attacks from China or Russia. He also entertained another chimerical plan by Chennault—pressed by Wendell Willkie, Joseph Alsop, and Harry Hopkins—to bomb Japan into defeat within a year and welcomed a Chinese proposal to bomb power plants at Shanghai “if for no other than economic reasons,” although Arnold doubted the military value of such action. Military gains doubtless attracted Roosevelt to some of these schemes, and Churchill too, who couched his hope that bombing would force Tokyo to withdraw from the battlefronts in the nursery rhyme, “Lady bird, Lady bird, fly away home, your house is aburning, your children are gone.” But Roosevelt more often saw bombing as a sop to morale and to demands for assistance to the Chinese, whose leader so often threat- ened to drop out of the war.12  Of course Roosevelt was not the only public official to guide popular expectations of the bomber. Air force leaders sometimes offered louder and cruder visions of the bomber’s role in war. Arnold promised that the Doolittle raid was “just the dawn of a day of wrath,” portraying bombers as so fearsome that “in 60 seconds, the cumulative effort of a hundred years can be destroyed.” Air power, he pronounced on another occasion, “is a war-winning weapon in its own right,” the method of war “cheapest on all counts” and “by far the greatest economizer in human lives.” In short, Arnold, in line with a generation’s prophecy, celebrated both the destructiveness and the restraint of air power, its military utility and its capacity for vengeance. Similarly, Lovett asserted that by destroying factories, bombers can give enemy populations “their first searing lesson... that crime doesn’t pay.” Statements like these gave Americans a hint of the satisfactions beyond victory that the bomber might achie