0%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  The Sociology of Air War  Weeks after Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the radical critic Dwight MacDonald attempted to characterize the mentality of the nation and people who built and used the atomic bombs. “Atomic bombs are the natural product of the kind of society we have created. They are as easy, normal and unforced an expression of the American Standard of Living as electric iceboxes. ... Perhaps only among men like soldiers and scientists, trained to think ‘objectively’—i.e., in terms of means, not ends—could such irresponsibility and moral callousness be found.”! MacDonald’s characterization applied to the air force as well as to the Manhattan Project, for they overlapped in technology, personnel, organization, and purposes. The organizations fashioned to wage conventional air war and nuclear attack both raised questions about whether the pursuit of means obliterated an awareness of ends and the production of destruction became “normal and unforced.”  MacDonald’s characterization is a point of departure for exploring the men who waged air war, not a conclusion. But it suggests the need to look at the war’s bombing as something more than just the unfolding of a series of strategic campaigns. The distance from which Americans (and others) observed and waged air war derived partly from the historical, political, and strategic circumstances already described. But it also developed out of sources that might be called sociological: the backgrounds, mentalities, and interests of the people who made air war possible. Together these forces, plus additional ones noted in the subsequent chapter, produced something similar to, but more complex than, what MacDonald observed.  THE GENERALS  General Henry Harley Arnold remained the dominant figure in the air force over the summer of 1944. As the 20th Bomber Command began operating from bases in China and India, halfway around the world in Washington Arnold wielded pe