alt even with the scientific community at arm’s length. For the bomb’s use, wartime agreements required British concurrence, but on both sides it was treated as a formality. In general, concerns about secrecy and the hopes and fears aroused by the bomb itself shaped the committee’s isolation. But the bomb was first and foremost a weapon of air war, and in that context the committee’s focus reflected familiar continuities: the use of strategic air power during the war had rarely been graced by articulate rationales and extended deliberation.  When the committee met, however, questions about employing the atomic bomb inevitably crept into discussion. The residual doubts of some committee members were a consideration. They also faced questions and dissents from outside the committee. In practice it was impossible to attend to the committee’s formal agenda without at least obliquely considering rationales for the bomb’s use against Japan. How the bomb was first revealed to the world would affect its fate in international politics. There was even speculation that it might be best not to use the bomb against Japan, lest revelation of it speed its development by other nations and thereby erode the American advantage.4® That was a passing thought; there was still a war to be won, and the bomb’s use in that cause was generally taken for granted. Still, the committee considered how the manner of its use would affect the speed with which the war was concluded. In turn, deciding how to employ the bomb sometimes slipped over into pondering whether to use it at all. To that degree, and in that roundabout way, the atomic bomb’s novelty did compel the high-level attention and decisions absent in the recourse to firebombing.  Marshall raised the issue of the atomic bomb’s use on May 29 while consulting with Stimson and McCloy to prepare for the Interim Committee’s meetings. Marshall suggested the bomb’s first use come “against straight military objectives such as a large naval insta