unlikely, for it would be a “gambler’s throw . .. quite as likely to stiffen and harden the resistance of the stricken nation as it is to terrorize it.”45  Still, he did not insist it would not occur. A nation might resort to it in desperation or calculate that air raids on cities, even if not quickly decisive, might induce “the opponent into an uneconomical and in the end disastrous defensive attitude.” Unlike many writers, he acknowledged the possibility that the resulting air war might become deadlocked, though he thought this unlikely because two combatants rarely would be evenly matched. Avoiding the blanket generalizations of many other writers, Eliot was also careful to point out that geographical conditions greatly affected the vulnerability of nations to air attack or their capacity to employ it. In the end, he remained guardedly optimistic. Regarding the knockout aerial blow, “the weight of considered military opinion is against this possibility.” Air power was more likely to realize its potential in spearheading ground and naval forces, in attacking well-defined military and economic objectives, and (he emphasized after Munich) in serving as a weapon of intimidation in diplomatic crises.46  Here were sensible, cautious, in many ways prophetic judgments about the future role of air power. Yet Eliot’s commitment to realistic appraisal was limited when he considered how the United States might use air power. As he considered the possibility of war with Japan, he argued that the United States “could not bring direct pressure to bear upon Japan save by air raids on Japanese cities,” but this was “a form of warfare against which American public opinion has set its face, and which American airmen would never be willing to carry out unless driven to do so as a measure of reprisal for like enemy conduct.”42 Not only had “reprisal” escalated air war in World War I (as Eliot knew), but Eliot’s faith in the constraints of morality and public opinion overlooked the fi