nessing American power to the energies of other nations on the front lines without overtaxing American patience, pocketbooks, and personnel.  It is futile to wonder whether, in the three years after Munich, Roosevelt was seeking to prevent war or to prepare for American participation in it, for FDR, ever one to keep his options open, had both possibilities in mind. More than that, he sought to stake out a gray area in between these two choices, to define methods of undeclared war that might secure the fruits of intervention without inflicting its full costs. Likewise, it is futile to speculate whether Roosevelt’s simultaneous efforts to rearm Britain and France and expand the American air force were intentionally, even deviously, confused so that he could aid allies abroad without offending isolationists at home. American rearmament was hardly a subterfuge for aiding others. Indeed, Roosevelt openly surmounted the obstacles to French orders from American factories. In doing so, he ultimately served the unilateral objective of speeding buildup of the Army Air Corps. If anything, foreign orders bootlegged Ameri-  pan ranemamant  Page 77 of 368 18%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON an expanded American air force. By November 14, at a key meeting with eleven subordinates, he had settled on the round number of ten thousand planes for the American air force and a capacity to produce another ten thousand each year.2 This was “a bolt from the blue,” something far beyond the airmen’s own plans for expansion that autumn. Arnold recorded that Roosevelt sought “a striking force to back United States foreign policies,” arguing that a ground army “would not be considered in the light of a deterrent by any foreign power, whereas a heavy striking force of aircraft would.” Morgenthau set down FDR's ideas in all their boldness. Emphasizing that “sending a large army abroad was undesirable and politically out of the question,” even for hemisphere defense, Roo