s only under dur- ess or when the commander in chief directed them to do so; the latter was an ineffective mechanism because the British role in Far Eastern strategy was minimal.  As did other failures of command in the air war, the vagueness of strategy, the failure to establish clear connections between military means and the goal of victory, came in for occasional criticism. Arnold himself sometimes lamented the excessive preoccupation with current operations, though he did little to discourage it. From the ranks came a harsher judgment:  I believe it to be an unhealthy thing that within the Air Force itself there is presently so little difference of opinion. ... We are committed to the big bomber and the bomber offensive as surely for the future as we have been throughout this war, and with scarcely a dissenting voice. ... Our most persuasive and articulate people are almost without exception bomber-minded, steeped in the tradition of Douhet and Mitchel [sic].  This dissenting officer proposed an experiment with “a sustained fighter offensive against Japan” that might achieve the goals of the bombers more economically. The proposal was destined to go nowhere; as its author recognized, the momentum to bomb with B-29s was now irresistible. Moreover, his criticism was directed mainly at the needs of the postwar air force, not at the current war. Dissent, when it arose at all, usually did so through the back door of postwar concerns.*>  Page 234 of 368 54%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  net unless the air force challenged agreed-upon assumptions. With stra Ql Couey lds Witwer ee Woy UL ovis wap bud CEM y, alzmen. had little incentive te defend the strategic vision they had never abandoned.  Some leeway remained for strategic imagination. Air force planners needed to determine which industries, military installations, and geographical areas should be bombed to prepare for invasion, what conditions within Honshu the ground soldiers should