Isolated from the war, late to enter it, slow to bomb, and invulnerable themselves to attack, they took positions on the destruction of cities and industries without fear of consequence. Because attention focused on the production of bombers rather than on their purpose in war, hopes for bombing were left intact yet untested. Compared to European opinion on air war, American views were casual.  What informed those views was not so much the immediate fears and challenges of the war, but cultural traditions and anxieties which encouraged Americans to look “above the battle” and permitted them both to celebrate and to ignore new weapons like the bomber.*4 The Civil War had inspired an ennobling view of war that remained powerful even on the eve of World War I. War still seemed an opportunity more for individual heroism than for mass destruction. Anxieties about the debilitating effects of machine civilization—regimentation, materialism, class cleavages— strengthened the urge to embrace war with relief. “France,” David Kennedy has commented, “figures as kind of equivalent of Huck Finn's ‘Territory,’ a place to light out to in flight from the artificial constraints of civilized life.” Among Americans at war, even among the troops in the trenches, perception was “shot through with images of knighterrantry and of grails thrillingly pursued,” images reflected on a higher level by Wilsonian definitions of the war as the last of its kind. Neither American needs nor the brevity of American participation compelled the grim sense of impersonal and fu- tile destruction so deeply felt by Europeans.*®  In one sense, Americans realized this was a war of scientific destruction, and they organized to wage such a conflict, paying due attention to the contributions of scientists and other experts. Yet there were ways to reconcile the heroic impulse with impersonal realities. The very magnitude of the carnage was reassuring evidence “that miracles of heroism were possible in that decaden