w hours. More typical was a Readers Digest prediction that the prospect of incendiary bombing would make it “less urgent for nations to settle their difficulties by the insanity of armed conflict.”4¢  With Mitchell’s voice silenced, the most lurid predictions came from England, where the fear of air war on cities remained greatest. Borrowing generously from Douhet and from England’s experience in World War I (it “will be exactly reproduced on the next occasion, though on a more grandiose scale”), L. E. O. Charlton offered a mix of fact and fancy that further popularized notions of the knockout blow and pushbutton wars moving to swift and inexorable conclusions. His was an uncomplicated vision. Air power would operate with utter simplicity: “All it has to do is to proceed from A to B, linger a moment, and then come back.” Victory would come swiftly by breaking the will of an enemy population, for after World War I no nation would again endure a “war of exhaustion”; the “will to war” would collapse before material devastation became widespread. Terrorization, he acknowledged, had satisfied a German need for blood and vengeance in World War I, but he emphasized how bombing would be a rational instrument of quick victory. Charlton also held out the possibility that an international police force would provide an “Escape from Armageddon” by monopolizing the bomber and ushering in an age of universal peace.41  Another English writer, John Langdon-Davies, gave to Charlton’s predictions the added force of social psychology in his book Air Raid: The Technique of Silent Approach High Explosive Panic (1938). Civilian populations “can best be immobilized—that is irrationalized—by suspense. There is no need to smash them physically; instead they must be dislocated psychologically, and then they become more useful to the enemy alive than dead.” Langdon-Davies offered prophetic insight into the psychological consequences of air raids on cities. “It is not merely that the individual