emy civilian’s guilt, to claim instead a favor for him: “Actually I think it’s more immoral to use less force than necessary, than it is to use more. If you use less force, you kill off more of humanity in the long run because you are merely protracting the struggle.” As he later put it, referring with heavy irony both to firebombing and nuclear attacks: “To expunge a few people to stop a war right at the start is unacceptable. Or a few hundred people, or a few thousand. Or—go all out on it—a few hundred thousand. But over a long period of time, wearily killing them off, killing millions under the most horrible circumstances—That is acceptable.” A homely analogy made his point better: “I think now of that elderly wheeze about the stupid man who was not basically cruel—he was just well-meaning. The guy who cut off the dog’s tail an inch at a time so that it wouldn’t hurt so much.”102  Not a bad argument—but there is no evidence that LeMay made it in 1945. He never thought through whether the only alternative to firing Japan’s cities was to kill off its population an inch at a time, particularly when the enemy was already deeply wounded, not fresh and girded for protracted war. In truth, though he needed a moral argument to still his conscience, he probably rebelled against the demand to have to make it. For a soldier “to worry about the morality of what we were doing—Nuts. A soldier has to fight. We fought. If we accomplished the job in any given battle without exterminating too many of our own folks, we considered that we’d had a pretty good day.”11° One moral argument was compelling to LeMay: his overriding duty to limit the losses of the men in his unit. On that score, his firebombing tactics succeeded brilliantly, as American losses declined sharply after March 9. Having met that test, he cut off further argument.  At the same time, officers like LeMay did not want to admit how brutal their method of war had become. Of course there was no confusion among AAF offi