.”22  There was a darker view. William Bishop, a Canadian air marshall whose Winged Peace was published in the United States, wanted all aviation internationalized and used to “police the world” without wasting “one moment in talking before raising ordinary hell” with aggressors. Yet Bishop imagined a horrible war of intercontinental missiles and bombers, and his emphasis was more on saving the world from air power than through it. Another pessimist, Emile Gauvreau, warned of how powerful airplane manufacturers would exert irresistible pressures to secure contracts and promote a new international arms trade in deadly aircraft, throwing in his own prediction, made in 1944, of the dangers of atomic bombs. As visions of evils to come, however, both tracts were limited: danger came less from the potential of modern technology than from the stupidity or evil machinations of great nations or powerful individuals. The dominant impulse remained evident in proposals like Allan Michie’s: Keep the Peace Through Air Power.23  Taw Amal ond tha ate fnenn than pennnaqle pres of ttle concen event ac hanefel clone pf a seaming aumrenace nf aintinels dominannn im vrs VA valatinna and natinnal naling Tha ate faenn  Page 181 of 368 42%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON his plan would also earn the appreciation of the ground army. As Arnold reminded General Hansell, head of the new 21st Bomber Command 1n the Marianas, “we must 1n tact destroy our targets and  then we must show the results so the public can judge for itself as to the effectiveness of our operations.” LeMay had gotten the same message.14  To meet Arnold’s objective, the AAF arranged coverage of the Pacific war with special care. It wanted coverage to “emphasize accuracy rather than press-agentry,” to “prevent the B-29 from being overevaluated in the public mind,” and “to let the results speak for themselves.” Caution served several purposes. It limited jealousy and attacks from the other services