ER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Garg a -UEEE 6 ees Set Gee boom sakes i Eee = eS eS eee ee eee eee Ra Rn ny ne nn sn mr nn an  the skies.”37 In fact it mattered a great deal, for it greatly altered the costs and nature of victory as well as the doctrine on which the air force rested its claim to supremacy and virtue. If precision attacks did not paralyze the enemy’s war economy, then victory could not come until his forces were defeated in battle and his territory occupied, precisely the traditional method of war the air prophets had hoped to avoid. And if victory came in the traditional way, the air force served fundamentally to complement traditional strategies, succeeding by a grinding attrition whose toll for both friends and enemies mocked earlier claims about the merciful speed of strategic air power. This was not the virtual end of battle once promised but only battle in new form.  That outcome was not easily foreseen because of two erroneous judgments about Nazi Germany which lay behind British and American bombing. One was the conviction that the German population would never stand up to bombing in the way the English had. That conviction, more commonly held among British leaders (though Churchill and others sometimes demurred), was self- congratulatory and unfounded. The other belief, shared in London and Washington, was that by 1942 the German economy was so fully harnessed to the war effort that any bombing would subtract from Hitler’s capacity to wage war. As it turned out, there was enough slack in the German economy, and the resiliency to exploit it, that Allied bombing was slow indeed to take effect. Beyond the mis- judgments about Germany, there was an unfortunate if understandable reading of the last war’s lessons. Determined to avoid what one British airman had once called “a succession of Passchendaeles,” strategists of air war sought victory in World War II without a land invasion, indeed without battle in the sky in that they hoped to destroy t