presented themselves, as Ball did in commenting on  wee ee noe ne tN 28 dt ete 2 2 a a a i ee et ite 2 a ee te 2 et ee  Page 194 of 368 45%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  LUL LUMIOCLL ULE BUUU YUCOUUL AVUUL LUE LULULE. WLLL WE UE AUIS LU LeOLL@LL UUL AVGLILE aU BLadpig LOLUCLILICS, UL WAL WE piedd ULL all Ue UULgCU SULIE Way UCLAUse UL UU aLLULUULI LU Cigeuci alin other great conflict?” Neither duty nor temperament inclined him to seek an answer to that question.*4  The war offered Bowles a comfortable mix of opportunities for status, creativity, and participation in a cause. A lawyer, Robert L. Stearns, an air force operations analyst on leave from his post as president of the University of Colorado, identified similar satisfactions. “The lawyer makes the Air Force his client, contributes broad judgment and investigative skill,” Stearns told his alumni. In return, Stearns received “a series of the richest experiences of my life.” He echoed wartime mythology about the homogenizing virtues of military life, only he celebrated camaraderie among diverse professional elites rather than the class and ethnic unity of the all-American platoon. Engineers, corporation scientists, government statisticians, and Harvard professors came together in his team of analysts. They were “men who had never met each other before and who had come from widely different homes and backgrounds... and who became, as time went on, one of the most closely knit and harmonious faculties I have ever served with.” Like Bowles, Stearns also admired many officers with whom he worked and took pleasure in the little sacrifices of military life, as he “learned to sleep on the mail sacks and cartridge causes on a C-47 cargo plane just as well as on the luxurious canvas cot in our own tent quarters.” Though less stridently than earlier generations, elite Americans still found war attractive as a force to discipline and unify a diverse nation. “We have gained stature and streng