he paper cities of Japan on fire,” Marshall explained in language unusually graphic for him. “There won't be any hesitation about bombing civilians—it will be all-out.”88  These were such extraordinary comments that their intent, even their authenticity, has been much debated. Marshall’s scrupulous biographer, Forrest Pogue, acknowledged that the Chief of Staff overrated air power at the time but concluded that Marshall was “no Billy Mitchell” and discounted Marshall’s bolder statements on bombing Japan as, if accurately recorded, betraying at most a passing excess or an attempt to hush up the press.82 But Marshall’s remarks should not be dismissed. Not one but two accounts of the conference survived, and Marshall himself graciously accepted their authenticity and correctness in 1949.2° More important, the War Department and Marshall himself frequently considered offensive missions. As Marshall knew, the AAF was rushing to the Phil- ippines incendiary bombs, whose utility against military targets was low and whose use the army had ignored before 1941.2! At the same time, studies of targets in Japan, begun the previous spring, now yielded a mounting flow to the Philippines of maps, intelligence information, and target folders needed to carry out raids on Japan. The quality of this data was probably low, but the urgency of sending it was unquestioned, Marshall himself asking his key AAF aide about what information the Philippines were receiving on “what General Mac-Arthur would attack in Japan... if war were declared December 1, 1941” and directing studies of “an air offensive against the Japanese empire.”22 As far back as September 12, Marshall had informed Stark that the new B-24s “can reach Osaka with a full load and Tokyo with a partial load.” Stimson too knew of the developing hopes for a capacity to bomb Japan itself.23 Staff planning documents at a variety of levels made frequent references to how Japan would “be open to aerial attack by U. S.” and its cities w