ecessary, however, that the cities of Japan are, one by one, burned to black ashes, that we can, and will, do.  And with each city thus attacked, we remember the treachery of Pearl Harbor and find calm satisfaction in the knowledge that the Japanese of one more city have learned there is a bill, which must be paid, for treachery, that retribution for such a deed is implacable.  Page 287 of 368 65%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON right off the Map.” At the same time, McKelway did not find it contradictory to say that the “Incendlarles were dropped with precision.” IMicKelway also tried to distinguisn LeMay’s methods trom those  of the RAF against Germany: “It was pin-point, incendiary bombing from a low level, designed not simply to start fires or destroy a single factory but to start one great conflagration whose fury would double and redouble the destructive force of the bombs.” It was hardly what most Americans understood by “pin-point, incendiary bombing,” but it was useful to keep repeating the phrase.115  In one sense, the media’s reporting of the March 10 raid seemingly stripped away the veneer of official obfuscation. Certainly the raid received due play, given “eight column banners” in great metropolitan newspapers, as the AAF public relations officers proudly noted.116 Often, coverage was also graphic. New York Times headlines proclaimed that “300 B-29’s FIRE 15 SQUARE MILES OF TOKYO,” hitting “Thickly Populated Center of Big City.” A day later, the Times’s headline drove home the same message: “CENTER OF TOKYO DEVASTATED BY FIRE BOMBS,” with “CITY’s HEART GONE.” The Times described precisely the density and size of the area hit and invited readers to imagine the destruction of a comparable area in New York City. Readers were told of the “jellied gasoline” used and were given a vivid report by a correspondent who accompanied the mission: “I not only saw Tokyo burning furiously in many sections, but I smelled it.” And though given