merican bombers were not really up to the task envisioned for them. With a radius of action of about nine hundred miles when fully loaded, the B-17s near Manila could hardly reach the southernmost Ryukyus, much less the main Japanese cities, which lay some eighteen hundred miles from the bombers’ bases. One solution to this large dilemma was to send the longer-legged B-24s, with slightly greater range and higher ceiling, and to stage bomber attacks out of advance bases in northern Luzon or further north on smaller Philippine islands, though bases there would be highly vulnerable to Japanese attack.2&  a ee ee oe ce a i ee ac. carer are nee ee te a et tet tts  Page 105 of 368 24%  HE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR Pt  Maye ae ae ey Caae a.  Wet CU Oe pry e  was rushing naval reinforcements to the Far East, sharing with the Americans deterrence as their purpose and March 1942 as their deadline for building up their force. The parallel went further: in both cases the forces were too small and too hastily thrown together to be much more than a bluff, and in neither case was the weakness of the bluff fully appreciated. Meanwhile, the promise of American air power was used to satisfy not only the British but the Dutch and the Chinese. All were brought in on the new secret.85  By early November, Washington’s plans for its Far Eastern bombers were well advanced. In the rush to get them there, in the unspoken temptation to regard their existence alone as decisive, in the careless mixture of awe and deprecation of Japanese abilities, the question of what to do with them when they reached the Philippines received hasty, sometimes conflicting answers from the military staff. The intent was grand: deter Japanese expansion, interdict it if it flowed southward, even, as both Stimson and Marshall conjectured, wean Japan from the Axis powers. As translated into operational plans, the most obvious mission for the bombers was to defend the Philippines against invasion by attacking any landing f