and attitudes learned on boyhood baseball teams and hunting trips and in encounters with the family car.42  Steinbeck’s outpouring of images and analogies betrayed tensions in his effort to reconcile past and present. Crewmen supposedly sprang from the frontier tradition of the “Kentucky hunter and the Western Indian-fighter.” Exchanging rifle for turret, “the American boy simply changes the nature of his game. Instead of raiding Sioux or Apache, instead of buffalo or antelope, he lays his sights on Zero or Heinkel, on Stuka or Messerschmitt.” But frontier individualists often abandoned the team and fled organized society. The sports analogy was also a troublesome way to reconcile past and present, for modern sports raised up a physical elite within which individuals sought glory, sometimes at the expense of the team. According to Steinbeck, “the cadets are drawn from a cross- section background of America but they are the top part of the cross section.” Seeing a democratic elite, Steinbeck saw no tension between democracy and elitism. Stressing that the bomber crew had to cooperate democratically to fly successfully, he neglected their lack of choice about where to fly and what to bomb.44  Steinbeck’s portrayal was uneasy because he sought to compress two differing views of America into his perspective on the airman. Like Lindbergh fifteen years earlier, the airman was presented as both individualist and joiner, relic of the past and harbinger of the new era, free spirit and disciplined technician, democrat and superman, “Dan’l Boone and Henry Ford.”45 Steinbeck was not necessarily wrong, for disparate qualities coexist in the American character. But Steinbeck did not acknowledge how uneasily the characteristics with which he endowed airmen mingled. To liken crewmen to quail hunter and pony express rider was surely comforting, capturing what Americans wanted to see in themselves, and in soldiers and sailors as well as airmen. But it was also mislead- ing because it