ild of American theorists, though sometimes foreshadowed and later appropriated by airmen sewhere, the doctrine of precision bombing had origins as complex as its implications.  Among those origins, however, ideology played a negligible role, at least in the formal deliberations of American airmen. Strong-minded, occasionally bitter about their clashes with senior army and navy officers, these men were nonetheless reticent or indifferent about the larger controversies over fascism abroad and unrest at home that aroused many Americans during the depression years. Most had entered military aviation for the excitement and glamor it offered or for the chance it seemed to offer as a new field for rapid promotion. Understandably, given how new that field was, their perspective on doctrine was parochial.  It was sharpened by professional frustrations. Rapidly promoted during World War I, Air Corps officers had endured wholesale reduction in rank after the war’s end and a glacial pace of promotion thereafter. So had most other army officers, but airmen were different because of the mystique of aviation and the pack mentality induced by their training and their battles with superiors. Infantry or artillery officers also worried about dead-end careers, but at least their branches of service were not suspect in the eyes of the high command. For airmen alone, personal ambition meshed precisely with professional progress.  Walter Millis once assessed the priorities of Air Corps officers between the wars as follows: “Independent power and authority came first; to attain the goal it was next necessary to develop a ‘doctrine’ which would make it militarily valid; finally, with the doctrine established, it was necessary to invent a weapon which would justify the strategy.” Such criticism has been commonplace, and as Millis acknowledged, hardly leveled only at air officers. Nor was it entirely fair, inasmuch as relationships among status, doctrine, and technology were more complex th