e.  Official planning for “strategic devastation”> remained surprisingly diffuse, in part for reasons that inhered in the very nature of air war. Ground and naval operations usually required forces highly concentrated in time and space, plunged suddenly into action on a single day or hour, with the risks and rewards telescoped into a moment’s danger. Allied strategists could not easily imagine taking one-third or one-half of the forces away from invasions of Guadalcanal or North Africa without foreseeing grave consequences for their outcome. Such operations required a discrete decision for which responsibility was evident and lay clearly with a few men. Strategic air war was far more dispersed over time and space, with success riding on a prolonged campaign instead of a climactic battle, the risks and rewards more difficult to measure and slower to reveal themselves. The weight and timing of operations could be altered without fatal (or so it often seemed) jeopardy to their util- ity. Therefore, air war was often shaped by incremental decisions.  Furthermore, ground and naval operations often required closer coordination among branches of the armed services and the national forces of allies. Therefore, they more visibly touched on conflicting perceptions and interests, setting off livelier debate that revealed the assumptions of the parties involved. Lengthy wrangling over opening a second front in Europe or over minor operations such as those in Burma stood in marked contrast to the paucity of attention given strategic air war by the key decision makers, the American Joint Chiefs and the Anglo-American Combined Chiefs. The status of the American AAF further diminished deliberations, for Arnold was still subordinate and usually deferential to Marshall, the army chief of staff. For all these reasons, debate on aerial operations among top strategists often lacked focus and clarity.  The point should not be pressed too far. Arnold could defer to Marshall in part becaus