erican planes in China for attacks on Hainan, Formosa, Japanese shipping, and even the Japanese home islands. The mastermind behind the scheme was General Claire Chennault, the retired Air Corps officer now serving as advisor to the air force of Chiang and his wife. As later described by Chennault, never one to mince words, the plan would have had American bombers eventually “burn out the industrial heart of the Empire with fire-bomb attacks on the teeming bamboo ant heaps of Honshu and Kyushu.”®¢ Its path smoothed by White House aide Lauchlin Currie and the journalist Joseph Alsop, Chennault’s daring proposition ignited a burst of enthusiasm and activity from top civilian officials in Washington. Hard-pressed for a quick way to check Japanese advances, loathe to challenge domestic opposition to direct American entry in the war, nervous as always that the generalissimo might give up the fight, they grabbed at this new straw. Here was a way to awe the Japanese, while arrangements to funnel American planes and crews through a dummy private corporation would preserve secrecy.  Morgenthau enthusiastically told the British ambassador about the Chinese plan to “bomb Tokyo and other big cities.” Such an attack, he confided to his diary, “would change the whole picture in the Far East.” He found Secretary of State Cordell Hull eager to unleash the bombers, perhaps even to have them drop some tonnage on Tokyo on their way to China. Even Morgenthau confessed, “Well, Cordell, you leave me speechless.” When Morgenthau presented the plan to FDR, the president was “simply delighted.” Pressed by Chiang to take action, Roosevelt ordered Hull, Morgenthau, Stimson, and Navy Secretary Frank Knox to get to work on it.6”  But the War Department had grave doubts. Morgenthau’s involvement alone aroused suspicion in light of his past efforts at circumventing the military in order to aid allies. In any event, Chennault’s plan seemed both extravagant and futile. The Chinese lacked the “balan