te heavy bombers entirely from Air Corps procurement. Two hundred fifty Flying Fortresses were included in the January 1939 program for a fifty-five-hundred-plane air force. But actual orders were limited (seventy B-17s and sixteen B-24s ordered in fiscal 1940) and deliveries were slow. Even those ordered were justifiable under the coast and hemispheric doctrines of the military.2>  Likewise, FDR’s hand was not evident in the Air Corps’ quest for still larger bombers. In 1938, the Joint Army—Navy Board had prohibited further development of bombers larger than the B-17, and the initiative only resumed in 1939, culminating in the B-29, first flown in 1942 and destined to fire Japanese cities. Potential use of the B-29 against Japan or Germany was recognized by 1939.36 But when the War Department approved the B-29, neither it nor the Joint Board approved such ambitious strategic missions.  The Air Corps was left to build a new air force with hemisphere defense and aid to Britain and France as its only clearly sanctioned strategic missions. To be sure, even those missions, liberally construed, added urgency to its activities, and new strategic plans prepared by the Joint Board covered a range of contingencies, including an offensive to defeat Germany and Italy while holding a de- fensive line in the Pacific. But in 1939, Joint Board planning had proceeded in a vacuum, without explicit authorization from the president, who left the strategists to divine his intentions.  Not surprisingly, therefore, airmen largely kept their own counsel in 1939 when they speculated on their strategic mission, working outside the formal structure of strategic planning. Tactical school instructors, still the fountainhead of more radical air doctrine, acknowledged the immediate priority of hemispheric defense but continued to emphasize that selective attacks on an enemy’s economic structure remained the ideal employment of air power. As had been the case throughout the 1930s, the Far East in