radio audience that the Japanese “have starved and beaten and executed American prisoners of war” and “abandoned all pretense of obeying international laws of warfare.”133  Finally, there was one more statement of the tortured distinctions about target selection that had filled the war years. “We are now prepared to obliterate more rapidly and completely every productive enterprise the Japanese have above ground in any city,” as if that could be done without destroying the city itself. “We shall destroy their docks, their factories and their communications.” The Japanese government promptly picked up on these words and tossed them back to point out the obvious: “It is technically impossible to limit the effect of its use to special objectives such as designated by President Truman, and the American authorities are perfectly aware of this.” To that and succeeding Japanese charges of war atrocities, the American government did not reply, though they were implicitly validated in Truman’s own talk of a “rain of ruin” and later his warning that “unfortunately, thousands of civilian lives will be lost.” Though little even in American newspapers sustained Truman’s claims about targeting, they remained a fixture in his own defense of his actions. “The world will note,” he stressed on August 9, “that the first atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, a military base,” as if city and base were one and the same. True, in addressing his subordinates amid the Berlin crisis in 1948, Truman seemed to imply something else, emphasizing that the atomic bomb “is so terribly destructive. ... It is used to wipe out women and children and unarmed people, and not for military uses.” But Truman made no explicit reference to Hiroshima on that occasion, and out of office he reasserted that he “had ordered the A Bomb dropped on Japan at two places devoted almost exclusively to war production.” Almost nine years later, the phrasing he and Stimson had worked out at Potsdam remained intact.134  Lik