ar image of the air force, but also explicitly on the failure to choose a strategy which “would have been far less costly in civilian lives.”8° Even those who asserted that moral concerns did not guide them at the time have since felt compelled to offer a defense of the policies they sanctioned.  A third qualification is broader. When Spaatz later acknowledged that “it wasn’t for religious or moral reasons that I didn’t go along with urban area bombing,” he also recalled how he had believed that precision bombing “could win the war more quickly.”®! That argument was as much a moral as a utilitarian claim, one applied by some to incendiary as well as to precision bombing. Of course, few military men were pressed in wartime to justify strategies in moral terms, except that the protection of American lives and interests was itself a moral concern. But in 1945, as earlier in the war when bombing strategy was formulated, speedy victory at minimum cost remained the implicit moral justification for what the airmen wanted to do.  In moral as in strategic matters, however, the methods used to examine problems shaped the content of thinking about them. Preferring expert analysis, the air force sometimes turned over the problem of “evaluating the ‘breaking point’ of Japanese populations under air bombardment” to its operations analysts. The analysts’ tentative conclusions often followed the prevailing wisdom: for all the harm that bombing of cities might do, it would “not necessarily induce sudden neuropsychological collapse of any widespread character.” What was more striking was the language of social and psychological analysis employed. While the “psychologically ‘tighter’ Japanese,” notable for their “sadism-masochism duality,” might survive bombing as well as Europeans, “when a ‘break’ comes the effect is more violent and extreme than with Europeans.” The problem was one “of discovering a technic for the demoralization of a community.” One promising approach was to exploi