here by the war’s last months. As Ronald Schaffer has argued, most objections to area bombing of cities that arose among AAF leaders were tactical or political rather than moral ones. The relative ease and swift payoff of bombing Japan simply seemed to argue for a more systematic attack on its cities.78  Three considerations serve to soften the hard lines of this picture of air force leaders. First, airmen did not decide to bomb in a moral vacuum. As Eaker later commented, “Arnold feared the reaction of the U.S. public to urban area bombing of women and children. He pointed to the large percentage of German people in this country and those who felt we should not have become involved in a war with Germany at all.” In contrast, “Ninety percent of Americans would have killed every Japanese.” As Spaatz quite correctly recalled, “We didn’t hear any complaints from the American people about mass bombing of Japan; as a matter of fact, I think they felt the more we did the better.” When rudderless in their own right, the moral sensibilities of airmen were steered by perceptions of popular moral preferences.”? To that guidance they did not object. No complaints came from them that public opinion kept their bombers in Europe on something of a leash. It was not their job to designate the nation’s enemy or the treatment given to it, except by pronouncing upon what was militarily practical. Certainly, in the eyes of professional officers, it was not their task to rise to a higher level of moral concern than that evinced by the nation and its political leaders.  Second, not all air force officers were so quick to dismiss moral issues. Hansell’s memoirs offered a critique of the choices made about bombing policy based on their wastefulness and their damaging consequences for the postwar image of the air force, but also explicitly on the failure to choose a strategy which “would have been far less costly in civilian lives.”8° Even those who asserted that moral concerns did not guid