er his share of the moral responsibility for it.” But the New Yorker added ominously:  One implication, however, is still, as far as we know, fluttering around untrapped. Nobody has pointed out that the destruction of Berlin established the fact that it is now possible to destroy a city and that every city, but for the hairline distinction between the potential and the actual, is afire, its landmarks gone and its population homeless. From where we sit, the flames are clearly visible.**  Shaped by culture, politics, geography, and the nature of air war, the distance from which Americans viewed the bombing not only enhanced its attractiveness in the immediate struggle, but blinded awareness of future perils.  Page 145 of 368 33%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  MAU ULULE UG UL ALLY GL QUOLLALL CLGLIUGLU UL LR GLLLP LaLa LLLo Us LULLK, UUL @ LLOLULICGL AUCULU LULL Un CAULUUOLY LLvOULLO. AL Wao, QLULL Gul, @ CLapAL UL CUMUULLLaLy Lut duaLy aluuis during World War I outran defensible military and political purposes: unrestricted submarine warfare had not always served German purposes, nor had the dispatch of hordes of infantry against impenetrable defenses served a useful end. That war might develop an uncontrollable momentum was known to articulate Americans during World War II; indeed, their own Civil War offered much the same lesson. Given how much Americans had World War I in mind as they waged the second war, their insensitivity to that lesson is striking.  The dominant image of air power, as a revolutionary weapon that broke from the past, discouraged careful attention to these depressing precedents from past wars. The parallels between the two world wars did not seem close enough: futile infantry charges consumed a nation’s own population as well as its enemy’s, while massive bombing raids, unless they provoked a response in kind, killed the enemy far more than one’s own. So the defenders of air power argued, although the reality was mo