un in very narrow channels, may be closed off. In different ways, that potential was shown at the dawn of the air age by H. G. Wells and in its twilight by Jonathan Schell. Even if experts devise good solutions, they make little headway in complex political structures accustomed to channeling or eviscerating the novel, unless supported by larger political forces. “I do not think,” Robert Oppenheimer said in November 1945, “that one may expect that people will contribute to the solution of the problem until they are aware of their ability to take part in the solution.”? Much the same holds true today.  Finally, instruction can be gained from the moral agony some Americans have felt about their nation’s use of the atomic bomb in 1945. That agony often represented a wish to minimize accountability. Since August 1945, concerned Americans have focused on the “decision” to use the atomic bomb as the moment of supreme moral choice. By doing so, they telescoped years of moral action into one instant of responsibility. There has been comfort in establishing neat boundaries to the choice supposedly made. If sin lay in the discrete choice of a few men at a definable moment, then the nation as a whole was not responsible. Circumscribed, the act of moral failure became retrospectively almost reversible: if only Truman had known such and such, if only Stimson had realized this or that. Reversible, the act need not be repeated in the nuclear age Americans entered: the next time, the moment of decision might go the other way.  It is almost as if we could reverse our mental film of the summer of 1945 and give Hiroshima the happy outcome that Kurt Vonnegut so compellingly proposed for Dresden. Billy Pilgrim saw that city’s fate backward:  American planes, full of holes and wounded men and corpses took off backwards from an airfield in England. Over France, a few German fighter planes flew at them backwards, sucked bullets and shell frag- ments from some of the planes and crewmen. The