s of production as much as, even more than, its immediate ends. And by 1944, as the end of the war became foresee- able—and the bombing intensified—the lure of postwar markets shifted advertising further from the realities of the war.  Particularly among the airline and airplane companies eager to promote civilian air travel after the war, wartime advertising also served as a powerful vechicle for continued promotion of the Winged Gospel. Far from abating, the promise of the 1930s that the “air car” would soon be a commonplace alongside the automobile took on added attraction during the war, alongside scarcely less extravagant predictions of how giant airliners would make global travel an everyday affair. The same spirit permeated what contemporaries called “air-conditioned” educational curricula, evident in instruction about aviation and in changing styles of mapmaking and teaching geography. The fads of the forties often had distinctly militaristic and nationalistic intentions or overtones. Many were designed to prepare young Americans for air war, and the replacement of “rowboat geography” with “airplane geography,” closely linked to a scholarly fixation with the new pseudoscience of geopolitics, was used to acquaint Americans with the global responsibilities they would assume in the postwar era. But the fads carried many implications. They were another promise of those rewards for winning the war that popular culture conveyed to Americans, material ease and technological marvels when the peace came. They carried forward long-held expectations of air commerce and travel as creators of the One World Wendell Willkie wrote about following his global air journey. The war necessarily added ambiguity to the airplane’s image, yet it remained surprisingly pacific. Even the bomber’s image kept shifting—the B-29 Superfortresses were renamed Peacemakers in Boeing’s final wartime ads, a nice precedent for labeling the MX missile of the 1980s the Peacekeeper.!2  Neither adver