l-out air war against Japanese cities. In February 1944, just as these matters reached a climax, Arnold gave Roosevelt his plan for strategic air assault on Japan. He stressed the potential and the relative ease of a systematic campaign of destroying Japanese cities by fire, creating “uncontrollable conflagrations in each of them.” Arnold added, almost as afterthought, that the “urban areas are profitable targets, not only because they are greatly congested, but because they contain numerous war industries.” That is, he seemed to regard military objectives as only secondary. But Arnold, now more cautious in his rhetoric, made no promises of victory through air power alone. Bombing would mark “the second strategic phase, (the softening up of Japan),” apparently a preliminary to some sort of invasion.‘2  On June 15, the Twentieth Air Force started the second phase. Despite the feverish pace pressed by Arnold down the chain of command, the available force was still small. But after renewed demands by Arnold for quick action and a shakedown mission against Bangkok—“the New Haven tryout before the Broadway opening,” as the official history put it—some fifty B-29s struck by night against steel plants at Yawata, on the Japanese island of Kyushu. For the Army Air Forces this was a moment to savor, all the more welcome given the enormous attention the army and navy had received over the D-Day invasion. For the American audience, its message was at once celebratory and misleading: “Note that the 20th air force did not aim at a propaganda center such as Tokio, but at a vital industrial target.” In fact, the B-29s could not reach Tokyo from the China bases, and “propaganda centers” were indeed in the target plans.  Arnold’s staff was jubilant over the “tremendous enthusiasm” Americans seemed to display upon hearing of the raid. It was equally mindful of the “great opportunity for building confidence in the Air Forces ... and for carrying out the long-range AAF indoctrination of