through a series of challenges and responses, raids and reprisals, all initiated as much to satisfy popular demands for revenge and punishment against supposed war crimes as to achieve any tangible gain. Lloyd George’s reply to a restive crowd in London—“We shall bomb Germany with compound interest!”—nicely caught that spirit. A Leipzig newspaper, gloating about how an attack on London struck “the heart which pumps the life-blood into the arteries of the brutal huckster nation,” exploited the same mood in Germany: “At last, the long yearned for punishment has fallen on England, this people of liars and hypocrites.”31  So-called reprisal raids went so far beyond the misdeed that provoked them that no calculated desire to even the score or deter further wrongs could have alone inspired them. The target of attack was not so much the enemy as the flagging spirits of one’s compatriots. Air war, like no other weapon in the modern arsenal, satisfied yearnings for blood and punishment among peoples deeply wounded by war and deprived of decisive victories. Only sea blockade was comparable, and it worked too slowly to satisfy passions in the same way. In terms of practical effect, air war could not, this soon, meet prewar fantasies. In the passions that motivated air war, however, it offered a Wellsian reality.  It also raised a moral issue, although in a war that blunted sensibilities not even the bombing of cities could stir an extended moral debate. Outrage at what the enemy did predictably overwhelmed self-doubt. To some observers, the very nature of modern war made moral questions irrelevant. “The Germans had a perfect right to bomb London,” one peer instructed the House of Lords, reminding them that as countries became arsenals of war, notions of undefended places and distinctions between civilian and military activities broke down. English clergymen protested that reprisal bombing “would permanently lower the standard of honourable conduct between nation and nation” an