aid, “simply do not connect with human experience”® in portraying either the effects of nuclear weapons if used or their impact on consciousness as people wait in fear.  A further suggestion is to invite humility. It is easy to believe that the nuclear age is different, that perhaps in the 1920s and 1930s people and nations raced toward air war because they were still naive about the dangers they faced or just insufficiently scared, but that nuclear energy compels a restraint and an anxiety impossible at an earlier time. The distinction has some validity, especially with regard to the United States, where the bomber’s benign properties were most widely assumed. But much evidence suggests that the fear of air war was nearly as powerful to an earlier generation as it is for today’s. Indeed, the generation between the world wars had, in the example of World War I, a more potent reminder of war’s irrationality than the nuclear generation possesses today. Their reminder had taken the real-life form of blood and death, but today, with World War II more than four decades in the past, people can be scared only by what they think may happen, not by what they vividly remember to have taken place. To regard the missile generation as the first to confront civilization’s destruction is immodest, self-indulgent, and self-defeating as well, for it leads to denial of an often instructive example and of the recognition of that heavy inheritance received from an earlier age.  If humility is appropriate, so too is caution in placing blame for the nuclear predicament. There is reason to hesitate before placing it too heavily on the men and women who operate and manage the weapons. They have comprised, episodically at least, a powerful interest group. Particularly during war, the bureaucratic goals they possessed, the technique they commanded, and the pressures under which they operated led them to escalate their use of force in ways often useless, indiscriminate, and unmonitored. Espec