te experience: the fireball “lighted every peak, crevasse and ridge of the nearby mountain range with a clarity and beauty that cannot be described but must be seen to be imagined. It was that beauty the great poets dream about but describe most poorly and inadequately.”110  A sense of “profound responsibility” arose in the men who witnessed “the birth of a new age.” Brigadier General Thomas Farrell recorded the “feeling . .. that those concerned with its [the bomb’s] nativity should dedicate their lives to the mission that it would always be used for good and never for evil.” Ernest Lawrence noticed a similar mood, “a kind of solemnity in everyone’s behavior” and “a hushed murmuring bordering on reverence.” No less moved, other scientists found the event “a foul and awesome display,” prompting Kenneth Bainbridge’s comment to Oppenheimer, “Now we are all sons of bitches.”111  Each man felt sin, shame, ecstasy, and triumph in his own peculiar combination. Few related those feelings to the bomb’s imminent use against Japan or recorded much imagination about how the bomb would function as a weapon of war. To be sure, the explosive power of the bomb was carefully checked, and the experts warned that in use against Japan, detonation near ground level would smother the blast with its own radioactivity and suck up material returning to earth as fallout, complicating the safety of occupying personnel and leaving the United States open to charges of prac- ticing chemical warfare.112  Groves and his staff also extrapolated from the test new calculations on what would happen to a city (without mentioning the word) when struck by a blast whose “light will be as bright as a thousand suns.” But these calculations were a technical exercise, their tone consistent with the perfunctory and obligatory nature of the comments made about the immediate task ahead after Trinity. Farrell set down the “feeling that no matter what else might happen, we now had the means to insure its [the war