about details and assuming direct responsibility.28 Hints, nods, casual remarks, and failure to inquire all characterized LeMay’s relationship with Norstad and Arnold. Often, Washington’s wishes were so obvious they were left implicit, with little need for anyone to articulate them further. Hansell’s fate, the files about his operations that LeMay read over, the pressures upon and within the air force to secure an incontrovertible success, and to do so before invasion closed the opportunity—these things told him what he needed to do, if not precisely how to do it. When LeMay later boasted about the command freedom he possessed in March, he also acknowledged that “I didn’t need any direct orders from Arnold, he expected action out of me.” As LeMay later paraphrased his injunction from Norstad: “You go ahead and get results with the B-29. If you don’t get results, you’ll be fired,” and “there’ll never be any Strategic Air Forces of the Pacific.” But because the details were left to him, LeMay could also sincerely believe that he had made the critical command decision.22  There were advantages in leaving those details to LeMay. They went beyond simply his superiors’ bureaucratic interest in avoiding responsibility, to other benefits less calculated—the evasion of moral and strategic accountability. The slaughter of the enemy, particularly civilians, could be achieved without its being explicitly ordered and consciously confronted and could be seen as the product not of aggressive designs, but of responses to the tactical and technical obstacles confronting LeMay. Operational considerations seemed paramount. Wind and weather, distance and inexperi- ence, altitude and crew morale were the explicit determinants of a new course.  The pattern of oblique signals was not confined to the air force. Even more so than in Le May’s contacts with his superiors, Arnold and the air force had gotten the casual nod from their  Page 279 of 368 64%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CR