20s established air power as an alternative to a military system that had brought the world to war in 1914. In Arnold’s inflated recollection, “to the American people ..., Billy and his antiquated bombers were not so much a new weapon as the death knell of weapons. To hell with all armament; to hell with everything to do with war!”4° Focusing attention on bureaucratic conflict, confined largely to the issue of continental defense, the debate about military aviation diminished awareness of the bomber’s possible use against cities in the next great war—as, of course, did the prevailing assumption that for America there should be no such war. The organizational battle over air power overwhelmed the strategic issues, and with the bomber’s proponents almost powerless, the bomber itself seemed almost benign. Americans were accepting the bomber, less because of Mitchell’s persuasiveness, than because of the images of aviation that his well-publi- cized battles helped to establish.  THE CULTURAL CONTEXT OF PROPHECY  Bureaucratic battles over military aviation were insufficient in themselves to make the airplane a benign instrument. Complementary images flowing from other currents in the political culture added resonance to the images arising from Mitchell’s struggles and also shifted attention further away from the airplane as an instrument of modern warfare.  One source was the continued evocation of combat pilots as knights of the air, the last warriors endowed with individuality in a war of anonymous millions. Holding bittersweet recollections of their experiences, some pilots themselves were reluctant to court heroic status. When Eddie Rickenbacker, the most famous American ace, rushed to print with Fighting the Flying Circus (1919), he also reminded Americans that “fighting in the air is not a sport. It is scientific murder.”*! Still, unlike the ground soldier, the individual flier stood out in postwar recollections of combat. Lengthy narratives of derring-do focused o