fore destruction proceeded far at all.©  Certainty about the bomber’s efficacy rested on an appreciation of new technology, but also on unquestioned belief in the fragility of modern societies. All the achievements in which Europe once gloried—material wealth, economic interdependence, sophisticated communications—now seemed cause for the gravest worry that the home front had become hopelessly vulnerable: “A nation’s nerve-system, no longer covered by the flesh of its troops, is now laid bare to attack, and, like the human nerves, the progress of civilization has rendered it far more sensitive than in earlier and more primitive times.” Repeated images of “nerve centers,” “vital centers,” and “nerve ganglia” reflected a pervasive sense of a fragile social organism. It derived from memories of panic in the streets and mutiny in the trenches during the war and from the myth (soon skillfully exploited by the Nazis) that Germany had collapsed from within without being defeated in the field. It also stemmed from the wartime discovery of man’s susceptibility to propaganda and manipulation, to the dark passions that Freud had uncovered. The new technology of mass communications, far from inducing confidence about a government's ability to control its population, spawned visions of internal collapse, with both propaganda and bombardment eroding the will to resist. Modern economic systems appeared equally brittle. Akin to the “engine and transmission of an automobile” in their “intricacy and delicacy,” a nation’s “industrial resources and communications form its Achilles’ heel.””  The Achilles’ heel, however, was not so much the home front in general as the war-weary and exploited urban masses. If soldiers fled combat more often than “imaginative soldiers” usually acknowledged, then surely “the workers in shop, factory, or harbor will melt away after the first losses.” In focusing on working-class reaction to bombing, air power arguments fused apprehensions about a delicate s