ittain’s declaration, a statement on the bombing of Monte Cassino by General Dwight Eisenhower was released warning that the same problem could arise on the battlefield, for “the phrase ‘military necessity’ is sometimes used where it would be more truthful to speak of military convenience or even of personal convenience.”)  Other responses to Brittain published by the Times refused to justify bombing in terms of retribution or revenge. For these writers, as for Brittain, moral justification inhered in military utility and in the saving of Allied casualties bound to result from the imminent invasion of France. They disagreed with Brittain about the utility of bombing but acknowledged that it was not yet proven. More than that, so Anne O’Hare McCormick worried, the Allies preferred a solely military path to German surrender, failing to exploit Germany’s internal weakness through rhetoric as well as through bombs. “Words are still cheaper than lives or planes. But so far neither Mr. Churchill nor Mr. Roosevelt has said anything to counter the German propaganda that the peace will be worse than the war.” If not entirely fair to Roosevelt and Churchill, McCormick had at least addressed the problem of politics and morality raised by the bombing campaign, by asking if nations at war were bound to end the bloodletting through the least destructive means as long as fundamental objectives were secured.  Between the celebration of revenge by Kantor and the suspicions of overkill by McCormick stood a more commonplace reaction to the bombing, the kind of bland denial demonstrated by the New Republic. The liberal weekly deplored “bombing defenseless people merely to instil terror in them” but implied there were no defenseless people in modern war, and besides, “so far as we are aware,” terror bombing “is not the practice of the RAF and the AAF.” The truth was that most of the liberal press was too concerned for the political outcome of the war to have much interest in its militar