ions. This pattern persisted up to Pearl Harbor in public discourse. Air power was at once alluring, relatively noncontroversial, easily lost in the vortex of issues swirl- ing across the United States, such as well-worn controversies over creating an independent air force and the navy’s role in the air age.42  Some popular writers tried to be more informed. In writings like United We Stand! Defense of the Western Hemisphere, Hanson Baldwin gave increasing attention to air power but more to its mobilization than to its use. In passing he acknowledged that “anything seems possible, even the most Wellsian fantasia of the shape of things to come.” He asked Americans to be capable of attacking an enemy’s “industrial cities.” He warned that “the plane has turned back the clock of history; cities are again under siege . . . the enemy now assaults with blazing oil and fire bombs the castle of our security—our homes.” He accepted the role that night bombing of Germany would play and hence implicitly the destruction of large urban areas. But Baldwin placed top priority on “precision bombing of specific targets,” and that as prelude to invasion of the Continent. Only when Baldwin looked beyond the war did his imagination run free. He wanted America’s voice to be “heard in the far corners of the earth,” and he believed that American air power might become “the future patrol force of the world,” one that would “help to make the peace and keep it.” The urge to find redemption in the rise of air power, now joined to visions of a pax americana, led an able man past contemplation of what might be done with weapons at hand.44  Americans could look for an authoritative view of official thinking about air strategy in Winged Warfare (1941), by Air Corps generals H. H. Arnold and Ira C. Eaker. But like Baldwin, they said less about the potential use of air power than about the urgency of amassing it. They offered the standard defense of precision bombing as “the most economical way of r