ion. In that bleak vision, the agencies of destruction were new and impersonal, but at least traditional values remained useful.  It was also possible to disassociate war technology from war itself, seeing it as a sign of cultural progress and racial superiority. Scientists and engineers sometimes approached the invention of the airplane in the same spirit they employed in developing light bulbs or phonographs. Whatever their ultimate uses, these devices brought the joy of problem solving and served as signs of man’s triumph over nature. The press, too, celebrated new instruments of destruction as examples of beauty and scientific creativity or as evidence of a new industrial bounty which would make nations less greedy and warlike toward each other. For a generation fearful of race decline, the new technology also seemed to buttress the dominant position of the white race. Occasional fantasies granted licence for using the new weapons against supposed racial inferiors in a way intolerable in thinking about war among one’s brethren. Bombers might unleash on China and Japan “a rain of death to every breathing thing, a rain that exterminates the hopeless race.”13  The visions of air war that emerged before World War I were shaped by these broad currents of racism and faith in progress as well as by certain habits of style and form already established in the sensational predictive literature about war. That literature exploited the passions and patriotism of a new mass readership by dealing with international rivalries and technological change in absolutist categories of victory and defeat, disaster and deliverance. It rarely allowed for subtler possibilities or, in an age of more pressing concerns about dreadnoughts and mass armies, for extended attention to the airplane itself. Predictions about air war were too few, too inchoate, and too remote from immediate dangers to allow an argument about its future to be fully joined.  The extremes of hope for the warplane’s ca