e it.”2  We might remember this if now we entertain the fantasy that there will be a moment of supreme decision at the brink of some future world war when a leader, his or her fingers dangling above the nuclear button, ponders what to do. In our uncertainty, we cannot be sure that such a moment will not occur. But as Wells knew, we set a course by the ways in which we think about war or decline to do so in the weeks and months and years prior to the supreme moment of crisis and by the little decisions we make in preparation for it. Just as one generation learned to accept bombing as the ter- ror that could not happen, so too has this generation accepted the bomb itself. The parallel, hardly comforting, may be instructive.  Abbreviations and Guide to Archival Sources  The following list includes only those collections cited in the notes. Despite vast amounts of material, archival and manuscript sources form an uneven and incomplete record often difficult to use. United States Army aviation was a new organization constantly changing in its internal bureaucratic structure and its relationship to its superior authorities, the army and the War Department. Therefore the Army Air Forces and its predecessors were less consistent and thorough in retaining and filing records than the older military services. Many air force records were widely scattered through the records systems; many found their way into the private manuscript collections of leading air force officers; some cannot be located at all. Some specific problems in documentation are discussed in notes and in the comments on sources which precede the notes for chapters. For the purposes of this book the most useful collections pertaining directly to the air force were the AAF Records, the HQ USAF Records, the HQ 20th AF Records, the personal collections of Arnold and LeMay, and the varied materials of AFSHRC. Among other collections, the most useful were the WD Staff Records, the Stimson Diary and SecWar Records, t