ort largely intact at the time of surrender. There would be no bold departure from proven success, only a gradual assimilation of the survey’s recommendations into air force strategy.?5  After the war, Hansell constructed a powerful case that the survey’s recommendations, along with the review at the White House, comprised a final lost opportunity to devise a more efficient and humane strategy for victory over Japan. Hansell pointed to LeMay’s surprising success in mining sea-lanes and in carrying out limited attacks against precision targets. Had similar methods been employed on a larger scale against all of Japan’s internal transportation system plus its electric power grid, the United States would have achieved the same paralysis of Japan as it did with the wasteful method of firebombing. Even allowing for foul weather, limitations in radar, and other tactical obstacles, the more efficient method, aided by carrier planes, was within LeMay’s grasp. The United States would have needed a few fire raids only as a coup de grace to a precision campaign, climactic demonstrations of power to drive home Japan’s helplessness. The benign alternative was neglected, he argued, not because the AAF was unwilling or unable to act on it. Rather, the obsession of American grand strategy with quick victory and invasion denied the airmen the opportunity to change their targeting toward a true air strategy for victory. Compelled to soften up Japan for invasion, they had to wage systematic destruction.2¢  Hansell effectively critiqued the course of blockade and bombing that made the rubble bounce in so many redundant ways. But he was wrong in exonerating the air force from responsibility for the holocaust over Japan. Invasion sanctioned but did not compel all-out destruction, which might have been pursued as readily even if invasion had been foresworn. American war-making by the summer of 1945 was characterized by a broad-front strategy permitting each service to pursue its favored co