tive than the average fire raid,” and that “it is hard to see how a long- continued aerial bombardment of Japan would have cost fewer lives than the two atomic bombs.”®2  Something else, more emphatically recognized by its managers, made the atomic bomb different from the apparatus of incendiary warfare. Firebombing was a well-established and nearly perfected technique of war. The weight and efficiency of its use might be marginally raised in days and years to come, but its evolution was substantially complete. The hundreds of thousands of lives bombing took in the war were still commensurate with losses inflicted by more conventional forms of warfare, in the siege of Leningrad, for example, or in the battle for Manila in 1945, where perhaps one hundred thousand civilians died mostly from ground fighting and artillery. In August 1945, the further use of firebombing opened no new vistas, taught the world’s powers nothing they did not already know, and led to no new arms race. Atomic warfare was secret and its introduction was likely to speed up a competition for arms carrying grave consequences. And its spread would threaten lives and habitats on a scale dwarfing anything achievable through known means of warfare (except possibly chemical and biological weapons). In political terms, nearly all parties to the bomb’s development recognized this; hence the concern with secrecy and the desperate attempts to peer into the future. In moral terms, however, in assessing the presumed equation between the evil of con- tinued firebombing and that of using the new weapon, these considerations either disappeared or were seen as further justification for rushing the weapon into battle.  Page 319 of 368 73%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON MMOLULILS OL a YeaL S. LUe CALCULUS UL diel alive Calllage Was Napilazal U. 1b LeSLEU OL) UNPLOVADIE ASSULLIPLIOLIS LAL WLLIOUL WSe OL Lile DOMID Lie Wal WOULU Lave CUMUTUeU LOL SUlie Lehpily period alu on  confidence—w