ad only pitted the corps against a navy too powerful for the airmen to defeat. As late as 1938, the navy secured army agreement to its demand that the Air Corps patrol no further than one hundred miles from the coast. This was a dead-end struggle for the Air Corps. It never ceased to invoke coast defense to support its claims; even when, in the midthirties, it drafted plans for bombers with a range of up to ten thousand miles, it rested its case on their utility in guarding the sea approaches to the nation. A transparent justification that fanned the general staff’s suspicions, it gave strategic debate over aviation a distinct air of unreality. In the long run, however, the struggle over patrolling the oceans was a secondary issue, because the Air Corps wanted to show how it could win a major war, not merely ward off attack. Only an offensively oriented air force could command first place in the military establishment.  _ , eof a a. 1 wed 1 va a a . a 7 ce 4 Pre ee. er ir  Page 50 of 368 12%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON contribute to victory or secure It by attacks on the enemy state, especially Its economic institutions. Ihese attacks need not be indiscriminate, Indeed should be targeted at only a lew Key components  whose destruction would disrupt the functioning of the entire state. The enemy’s will or capacity to fight would then collapse.  Americans took the lead in developing daylight precision bombing for reasons historians have been hard pressed to identify. Perhaps, it has been argued, they drew on an American tradition of technical elegance—a dubious explanation, inasmuch as American technology had usually been geared more to volume than precision, and other nations with a tradition of technical elegance, such as the Germans, did not develop the same doctrine of bombing. Perhaps strategic geography played a role, inasmuch as years of defending military aviation as a weapon for intercepting ships on trackless oceans placed a h