stence of old habits. This book examines that persistence, showing how ideas about air war, and indeed the habit of regarding bombing as an abstract idea, developed in the prenuclear era and persisted beyond it. In that regard, an inability to im- agine in the 1980s what it was like in Berlin, Tokyo, or Hiroshima in 1945 reflects a recurrent and disturbing quality in all modern thinking about aerial warfare.  The title of this book refers to three related developments in aerial warfare: the creation of an apocalyptic mentality, consisting of expectations of ultimate danger and destruction that were both frightening and reassuring; the creation of the apparatus for realizing that danger; and the creation of the modern nuclear dilemma. For the most part, the last is suggested obliquely in this account; aware of the wealth of material on nuclear warfare, and suspicious that most of it provided little historical perspective, I decided to examine the rise of strategic bombing from the turn of the century through the end of World War II. In the perspective I establish, the danger of nuclear armageddon, as well as perceptions of that danger, was created less by the invention of nuclear weapons than by the attitudes and practices established before 1945.  Ialso concentrate on the rise of American air power, seeking to explain the origins, preeminence, and uses of that power. Of course, a book limited to that story and to the prenuclear era cannot fully explain the dilemma of our times. The warplane was the product of international technology, ideas, and relations, and while I have not systematically attempted a global history of air power, I have selectively drawn on ideas and developments abroad, especially in Great Britain, whose prophets, inventors, and warriors usually found a receptive audience in the United States. But the rise of American air power is the key to the modern dilemma.  Ialso concentrate on what Americans have expected of and learned from strategic bombi