rplane inspired hopes and fears to which the casual efforts of the time bore little relation.  THE TEST OF WAR  In war the improvisational pattern continued. Airplanes, undifferentiated as to design or purpose at the start of the war, soon proliferated into different types, with conflicting organizations and doctrines to employ them. The issue became less whether to use aircraft in war than how. Even late in the war, battlefield (tactical) uses had priority: for reconnaissance, observation, and artillery spotting; for command of the air space while performing those functions; and for strafing troops and enemy positions. Most field commanders wanted nothing more from their aircraft. The stalemate of slaughter on the ground, far from encouraging them to seek out new ways of gaining a decision, only made them hungrier for aerial resources that might somehow tip the balance in battle, thereby justifying the monstrous expenditure of men and machines and rescuing their reputations.  Aside from technological advances, what encouraged some military men to assign a more ambitious role to airplanes remains unclear. The few strategists who articulated such a role rarely indicated the source of their ideas. Probably the prewar fantasies of air war had at most an indirect influence. Instead, strategic air war* grew haphazardly. A complex mix of popular passions, political ambitions, strategic desperation, military rivalry, and wartime momentum brought the bombers to London and Cologne.  As in most wars, responsibility for introducing new terrors was unclear in this one. Precedent of course existed in artillery shelling of cities. As for aerial bombs, German planes dropped a few  mse Fikes oon A Naat es Aeeetn 2 HL 8 cee Bonk een lee PL Nett whee le Dae ne Fee AL dn te ne tt mL Pe Gon An A bane Aan = Dane ples te Mapa bene Beet cece les beatae the  Page 10 of 368 3%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON a major air power, although their effort was impressive