d deprived of a full test of the bomber’s potential, they could not expound a coherent theory of strategic bombardment or develop an unqualified commitment to it. Mitchell's finest hour came when he directed a superior force of some fifteen hundred planes against German forces in the Saint-Mihiel salient. They made a significant contribution to the Allied advance. But according to Mitchell’s most astute student, he later “grossly exaggerated” what happened there, not so much the achievement itself as its implications for strategic air power.*? The attack was, after all, only an unusually ambitious use of tactical aviation.  Mitchell already envisaged leaping beyond the battlefield to attack the enemy’s “vital centers.” Yet his freedom to articulate and act on a theory of strategic air war was highly circumscribed. Indeed, one scholar has suggested, when Mitchell had to move from imagining an air force to commanding one, his “dominant conception of air power had shifted from the realm of the strategic to that of the tactical.” Not even aviators, always fond of seeing themselves as free from the shackles of tradition, could entirely cease extrapolating visions of future wars from earlier experience. In the 1920s, past experience primarily meant tactical aviation. Mitchell, not to mention his less reckless or arrogant colleagues, left the war uncertain of the direction they wanted aviation to take. Doctrine would emerge gradually, the product of wartime improvisation, not a source of it. At war’s end, the warning of Secretary Baker against “promiscuous bombing upon industry, commerce or population” suggested the outlines of an American debate never fully joined among military men or in the public at large.43  In thinking about air war, Americans were in a unique position. Isolated from the war, late to enter it, slow to bomb, and invulnerable themselves to attack, they took positions on the destruction of cities and industries without fear of consequence. Because atten