mb as the instrument that might force the democratization of the Soviet state or at least arrest its further expansion. Others, like Stimson by September, saw only danger in using the bomb “as a direct lever” but still anticipated a better world emerging through agreement with the Soviets on controlling the new technology. That seemed to be the continued outlook as well of Oppenheimer, who regarded the bomb’s use as a “spectacular and terrifying technical development” forcing upon “all the war- weary people of the world a recognition, first, of how imperative it has become to avert future wars, and second, how the cooperation and understanding between nations ... has become a desperate necessity.” Oppenheimer found “hope” as well as “peril” in atomic weapons, for their control “cannot be in itself the unique end” but rather “a world that is united, and a world in which war will not occur.” Truman himself, although cautious after the war in pursuing international control of atomic weapons, once struck a similar note in commenting to John Hersey on the president’s favorite poem, Tennyson’s “Locksley Hall”: “Notice also that part about universal law. We’re going to have that someday, just as sure as we have air war now. That’s what I’m working for.”245  In its short history, aerial technology had promised benefits in peace as well as war. These seemed attractive in their own right and as impediments to war: new wealth and economic interdependence would discourage nations from taking up arms. The same potential seemed to inhere in the new atomic technology. Of course, its first use had to be military, but Stimson declared that “fission holds great promise for sweeping development by which our civilization may be enriched when peace comes,” a limitless source of energy for Americans and for the “well-being of the world.” The mushroom cloud loomed too large to allow the optimism earlier experienced about airplane technology. Nonetheless, variations on Stimson’s vision con