les, governmental indecision, shifting strategies, and unarticulated purposes. In the United States, the defensive rationale for heavy bombers and the continuing struggle over air force autonomy obscured long-run trends. In England, air policy was buffeted by conflicting impulses for disarmament and air superiority and by deep divisions over whether to settle for a “shop-window” (in contemporary jargon) air force designed to impress potential enemies or to develop a bomber force capable of waging a sustained war. For reasons of deterrence, the RAF concentrated more on the bomber’s role as destroyer of cities than did the Americans, who emphasized precision bombing. And by the late 1930s, a host of factors forced the RAF to stress air defense: acute anxiety about the vulnerability of English cities; growing hope, spurred by developments in radar, that air defense might yet be feasible; and the dawning realization that Bomber Command was a pitiful vehicle for the theory it espoused. These twists and tiirns, es- pecially in British policy, masked Anglo-American interest in bombing cities.  Nonetheless, a fundamental orientation toward strategic bombing arose, however confused its translation into policy. In England, a profound anxiety over exposure to aerial attack fused with an equally powerful sense of England’s limited moral and material resources for conventional combat. In the United States, the material resources were ample, but political tolerance for using them was not. In both countries, abhorrence and attraction combined to make air power compelling. What resulted was the apparent paradox, noted by one authority, whereby nations “whose policy was normally defensive tended towards the counter-strike deterrent theory, while those with aggressive intentions developed tactical air forces.”63 The image of air power as a fascist weapon obscured the paradox, concealing the Anglo-Americans’ developing interest in strategic air war and muting their concern about the m