gn was sustained, albeit over considerable opposition, long after the RAF had developed methods of navigation and targeting permitting far more precise attacks on selected economic and military objectives. In the American case, the campaign from China bases continued until January 1945 despite overwhelming evidence of its futil- ity and the availability of Marianas bases far superior in operational terms.  It is no surprise that the escalation of air war derived from so many considerations. But their multiplicity was rarely recognized. The prophets and proponents of air power had asked it to be judged by rational standards of humane efficiency. Yet more than other methods of warfare, it lacked measurable criteria by which to enforce those standards. Its effects were difficult to assess, even to witness; the indices of success most easily assembled—tonnage delivered, sorties flown, acreage wasted—far from inviting restraint, encouraged escalation; decisions about it were by nature more incremental and less discrete than those about other forms of war. To some degree, any modern warfare conducted at great distance and dependent on prodigies of production inhibits oversight and fosters escalation. In the case of air war, the multiplicity of motives involved, the lack of measurable criteria, and the particular remoteness of its consequences combined to give it a peculiarly un- checked momentum.  Page 174 of 368 40%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  unsuitable the mission was; discarded when B-29 bombers were sent to China almost in defiance of operational constraints. Selective employment of operational arguments invites skepticism about their compelling force. Operational considerations did impose real limits on bomber forces; they were not always facile rationalizations invoked by men who viewed themselves as prisoners of their own machines; sometimes, they were even invoked to forestall foolish or needlessly destructive action. But operatio