this late date. The situation in the Far East still seemed extraordinarily fluid. It was on the twenty-sixth that Marshall repeated his doubts that Japan would attack the Philippines. “Thus far we have talked in terms of the defense of the Philippines, but now the question is what we do beyond that,” he said hopefully. That was also the occasion for his remarks about undeclared war. The administration still saw merit in debating the wisdom of a warning to the Japanese emperor. Only on the twenty-eighth did Stimson resign himself to the doubtfulness of securing Siberian bases. Marshall still felt it possible on the seventeenth to plead to Roosevelt “to gain time.” Like other advisors, he listed possible Japanese objectives as a series of “ors”—Malaya or the Netherlands East Indies or the Burma Road or the Philippines, etc. Marshall’s expectations of a limited Japanese offen- sive fit neatly with FDR's prevailing belief, in Hopkins’s later words, that Japan “would merely use the ‘one by one’ technique of Germany” and avoid direct confrontation with the United States.12  In short, the administration expected quick Japanese action but not all-out war. In the quasi war it easily envisioned, the bombers could play a critical role by threat or by actual use—officials never made clear which because the choice depended on such unpredictable circumstances. Roosevelt may have had such a war in mind when he remarked on the twenty-seventh that the Japanese had just learned about the B-17s’ deployment to the Philippines. That same day he also received Marshall’s curiously elliptical recommendation that “prior to the completion of the Philippine reinforce- ment, military counteraction be considered only if Japan attacks or directly threatens United States, British, or Dutch territory.” Presumably, military action prior to such Japanese attacks would be acceptable once sufficient bombers were in place and would be taken immediately even without direct assault on American installati