same time, to others and often to themselves, aviators were knights of the air locked in individual combat, proof that the mechanical age possessed gallantry, the only men “freed from much of the ruck and reek of war by their easy poise above it.” These “gentlemen-warriors” were celebrated as exemplars of the heroic tradition, not as pioneers of a new kind of warfare. At times, war itself commanded aesthetic awe rather than dismay. An American correspondent reported from London how “wonderstruck eyes watched the drama of the skies.” “In the gracious loveliness of a perfect summer’s day when the sky was blue and gold and clear,” the Gotha bombers seemed less like instruments of “death and destruction and unendurable suffering” than like “little silver birds.” People “stood watching vastly interested, a little excited, but not in the least frightened.”48 Finding such reassurance and satisfaction, Americans looked away from the role of the warplane as an agent of destruction.  By November 1918, the bomber had found acceptance in both Britain and America. In Britain it inspired a lasting terror which left that nation determined to build a powerful strategic force and, even twenty years later, gave pause to Chamberlain at Munich. In America, it inspired casual fascination and easy hopes. For neither country was the test of war sufficient to challenge these reactions. As exploration of that middle ground between apocalyptic fantasy and careless dismissal, the war experience was too incomplete to confirm the Wellsian prophecy. Too much had happened in World War I for that generation to ignore the bomber, but too little had happened to appreciate fully its potential and limitations. Both extravagant hopes and unreasoning fears were still possible.  Indeed, the war seemed to make them more necessary than ever. Far from appearing an extension of the slaughter of modern war, air power seemed to many people one way to escape from it. To sustain the battered faith that technolog