think about war or decline to do so in the weeks and months and years prior to the supreme moment of crisis and by the little decisions we make in preparation for it. Just as one generation learned to accept bombing as the ter- ror that could not happen, so too has this generation accepted the bomb itself. The parallel, hardly comforting, may be instructive.  Page 361 of 368 82%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON aculon ILO ONe INstaNt OL reSpONnsiDuUILy. 1 Here Nas OeeN COMIOLt IN estaDLsNiny Neat DOUNUArIes LO LNe CNOlCe SuppoOseuly Inaae. 1 SIN lay 1M LNe U1screte Cnolce OL 4 lew Men at a aelinabie Moment, tnen  the nation as a whole was not responsible. Circumscribed, the act of moral failure became retrospectively almost reversible: if only Truman had known such and such, if only Stimson had realized this or that. Reversible, the act need not be repeated in the nuclear age Americans entered: the next time, the moment of decision might go the other way.  It is almost as if we could reverse our mental film of the summer of 1945 and give Hiroshima the happy outcome that Kurt Vonnegut so compellingly proposed for Dresden. Billy Pilgrim saw that city’s fate backward:  American planes, full of holes and wounded men and corpses took off backwards from an airfield in England. Over France, a few German fighter planes flew at them backwards, sucked bullets and shell frag- ments from some of the planes and crewmen. They did the same for wrecked American bombers on the ground, and those planes flew up backwards to join the formation.  The process continued, as American bombers “flew backwards” over Dresden, “exerted a miraculous magnetism which shrunk the fires, gathered them into cylindrical steel containers,” and returned the instruments of destruction back to the United States, “where factories were operating night and day” to dismantle them, “so they would never hurt anybody ever again.”®  Vonnegut offers an appealing vision but also an evocati