ed the outbreak of war, for Japan’s timetable was not flexible. But the puzzle, in light of the military’s tremendous hope for delay, is that it was not at- tempted, perhaps because grand design did not alone shape policy. The patience required to string out negotiations collided with exasperation over new signs of Japanese military action; even Stimson, the frequent proponent of delay, was, by November 27, “glad to have time” but not “at any cost of humility on the part of the United States.” Stimson’s bristling mood reflected intense pressures on the administration, from its own ranks as well as from allies and the press, to avoid any appearance of appeasement. Decoded Japanese messages indicated that some kind of Japanese action was now irre- versible, so that statements of diplomatic position could no longer serve to delay, only to mobilize opinion and fix Japanese culpability.1%  But confidence about the bomber may also have led the American government to overplay its hand, even at this late date. The situation in the Far East still seemed extraordinarily fluid. It was on the twenty-sixth that Marshall repeated his doubts that Japan would attack the Philippines. “Thus far we have talked in terms of the defense of the Philippines, but now the question is what we  Page 110 of 368 26%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  how heavy bombers based there could launch a “pincer attack” and “drop bombs on Japan, land in Siberia, refuel, and rebomb and repeat the enterprise on a return trip to Manila.” What is more, Krock speculated that Japanese envoys in Washington either had learned of this plan from Roosevelt and Hull or would do so by “reading this dispatch.” Either way, this new dimension to strategy would “probably have an important effect on the progress of the American-Japanese peace discussion.” Here, Krock concluded, was “reassuring” news for the United States.  Krock had not attended the November 15 meeting with Marshall, but his well-