n bombing. In dramatic, one-thousand-bomber raids, the RAF Bomber Command turned against German cities in the spring of 1942. Its head, Arthur Harris, sought to destroy German industrial and urban life as well as to silence his critics at home. American airmen suspected the British approach was wasteful and ineffective, but they were not inclined to press criticism of men with far more experience—to Eaker, Harris was “the senior member in our firm’”?—as long as Americans were allowed to test their own methods. Difference was in any event transformed into virtue: the two efforts would supposedly complement rather than compete with each other.  With the major strategic differences postponed or papered over, the shape of the American bombing effort often emerged indirectly in decisions about production, logistics, and deployment instead of strategy. Roosevelt moved boldly, once again proposing figures for the output of bombers and other aircraft exceeding the AAF’s request. Even bomber advocates like Lovett feared that Roosevelt would get trapped in “the old numbers racket”; manufacturers would try (as they had in World War I) to meet quotas by producing light or obsolescent aircraft; what Lovett called FDR’s “fantasy” would disrupt the fragile machinery of industrial mobilization. But Arnold sided with Roosevelt, as did the War Production Board’s Donald Nelson. At bottom the issue centered on whether production capabilities should shape strategy or vice versa. In the end, the president’s production targets for airplanes—60,000 in 1942, 125,000 for 1943—were not met because of the high priority given to heavy bombers, but the weight of production approached the president’s orders. While he attended more to mobilization than to strategy per se, Roosevelt had reaffirmed his preference for an aerial strategy wherever possible.®  THE LIMITS OF OFFICIAL GUIDANCE  Roosevelt shaped public expectations about the bomber as indirectly as he molded the course of official strategy