lso denied the impact of technology on the moral standards of war’s conduct. “Wholesale destruction of the civil population has been a matter of humanity or inhumanity, civilization or barbarism, rather than of weapons.” The same writer even denied the impact of technology on tactics: “Cavalry will still be needed and used,” wars will be won “by a man with a knife in his hand.”38  The skeptics’ argument, then, fell short in several ways. By exaggerating the utility of knives and horses, some risked sounding like military Luddites. By asserting that aviation would find its most valuable role in supporting traditional forms of force, others suggested its use in situations requiring great precision, even while they had denied aviation’s technological capacity against strategic targets. Most of all, by defining the objective of war as the defeat of the enemy’s forces and the seizure of territory and by assuming that nations would rationally pursue that objective, they overlooked the appeal and utility of supposedly irrational uses of military force.  Writing for an American audience, Winston Churchill unwittingly demonstrated this last flaw in the skeptical argument. Churchill contended that “air bombing of the noncombatant populations for the purpose of slaughter” would be counterproductive on both moral and practical grounds: it would cost the attacking force dearly, it would “infuriate the nation” attacked (and its friends, like the United States, in case England was attacked), and it would be dissipated by measures of civil defense. Even if a population wanted to surrender, he asked in raising a much overlooked question, “how would they make their will felt?” The Germans briefly, and Churchill himself more systematically, were soon to ignore these sensible arguments. How much Churchill ever believed them may be arguable, for it was Churchill who five years earlier had described London as “the greatest target in the world, a kind of tremendous, fat, valuable cow tied