officers adovted a vosition on rearmament closer to Marshall’s than to Roosevelt’s. Arnold. too. argued the need for a balanced force. although he meant balance  Page 84 of 368 20%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON airplanes.” He would not accept a figure of $2 billion for rearmament. But he revised the breakdown of the $500 million figure so that it included $200 million for “non-air armaments” and targeted $120 million for the logistical and training needs of the Air Corps. That left only $180 million for airplanes—a staggering sum by contemporary standards but enough for just 3,032 new planes (only half of them combat types), which would bring up the Air Corps to 5,500 by the end of 1940. Like other political leaders at this time—including Hitler, who now vainly sought to create the air force his enemies thought he had—Roosevelt could not force a decisive break with the military’s traditional views on strategy.2®  Marshall himself at times sounded almost old-fashioned on the issue of air power. He reminded one audience that it was almost always “the man with the sword, or the crossbow, or the rifle, who settled the final issue on the field. ... 1am not implying that we expect to shoot down many planes with rifle bullets,” he added, but he seemed to imply that just the same. Yet Marshall received sympathetically the indoctrination in air power given him by Arnold and Frank Andrews, the commander of GHQ Air Force, and he accepted the airmen’s grievances about neglect at the hands of ground army officers. His doubts were primarily political, not strategic. He distrusted the capacity of the public and its political representatives to grasp the complex but drab components of true military effectiveness: the training of soldiers and sound industrial preparedness, without which “we will be impotent, even if we have a collection of Galahads in the ranks.” Air power as a strategy did not frighten him, but as a popular fixation it did. The problem