ke any action at this time to change public opinion on the matter.” And though the possibility of a speedy end to the war through atomic bombing hung over all the deliberations, it went unmentioned until the War Department’s John J. McCloy raised it as the meeting was breaking up. The ensuing talk, not officially recorded, drifted back to the issue of the surrender formula and pointed to no clear alternatives. McCloy’s suggestion that Japan be warned in advance of the bomb’s use had already been rejected by the Interim Committee on the atomic bomb. That the bomb might preempt invasion was hardly a new idea and hardly one that many were yet ready to count on.12  More surprising, no other military advisor suggested alternatives. Marshall came to the meeting presenting the hard-fought consensus of all the Joint Chiefs, none of whom would reopen old wounds by breaking ranks, though Leahy did ask for a change in surrender terms. Speaking for Arnold, Eaker was particularly deferential, embracing the invasion of Kyushu and specifically repudiat- ing “those who advocated use against Japan of air power alone.”22  What happened to victory through air power? The problem was not LeMay’s absence. He would have spoken on Arnold’s instructions, just as Eaker explicitly did, and those instructions were to back Marshall to the hilt. The real problem was Arnold’s priorities and temperament. He may have deferred to Marshall out of loyalty: the chief of staff had given much support to air power and might do so again in the AAF’s final quest for independence. More than that, Arnold, who had repeatedly passed such presentations on to his subordinates, did so again in June partly because he had no clear scheme for winning the war with his bombers. His uncertainty was evident by the way he pegged support for Marshall’s Kyushu plan to the acquisition of vast new bases there from which to hit Japan. Clearly those bases would be ready only sometime in 1946, but lacking a plan to end the war e