RMAGEDDON When Franco’s rebels bombed Madrid, “Vid the Maadrilenos sue for peace No, they shook futile Mists at the murderers 1n the sky and muttered, Swine.” His conclusion: “lerrorism trom the air has been  tried and found wanting. Bombing, far from softening the civil will, hardens it.” Aviation, the army man argued unsurprisingly, had scored its greatest success in close support of infantry operations.52  Similar conclusions were usually drawn from China. An indignant editorial in the New York Times judged Japanese bombing of Chinese cities “as stupid as it is brutal,” doubting that “hundreds of headless coolies cluttering the debris-littered streets of Canton” did anything to “impair the strength of China’s arms.” One popular writer argued that air power had been effective against Chinese cities only insofar as the corrupt Nationalist government had failed to protect its people. “Wholesale bombing for sheer terrorism would be a costly, worthless gesture,” he generalized; “it is a political catchword to scare you, but you won’t find it in the militarist’s practical handbook.” From the Council on Foreign Relations came speculation in 1938 that Japan’s military leaders “may have discovered that indiscriminate bombings were defeating their purpose by arousing the Chinese to more determined efforts.”58  Few observers, whether skeptical or alarmist about the possibility of air war on cities, minimized the horror of the attacks they described or entirely ruled out their occurrence in future wars. But most played down their decisiveness and therefore, by implication or assertion, the likelihood that they would be employed in the future. Spain, Fortune noted, was perhaps “too Spanish” to prove a great deal, but it still indicated the failure of Douhet’s theory. Only the fascist bombing of Guernica and Barcelona disturbed this prevailing line of argument. A typical conclusion was to admit that there might be another “Guernica in another major.war” but to emphasize “the s