s efforts in that regard. A MacArthur or an Eisenhower rarely had to enlist civilian help to decide which island to take or what part of France to invade—for those decisions ample precedent and talent existed within military circles. As in the army and navy, civilians sometimes aroused the resentment of the air officer: even Arnold's references to the “long-haired boys” assisting the air force mixed affection with the layman’s bewilderment about the scientists’ curious ways.28 Yet cultural distance and rivalry for influence never seriously impeded the deepening of the military-civilian alliance.  The air officers’ relative lack of isolation from civilian society also arose from their professional and class background. At the top ranks, airmen had followed largely the same professional paths as had ground army officers, but they were somewhat younger and less often the product of the service academies, a substantial number having been educated at prestigious technical institutions.22 Some divergence between air officers and others was also sustained down through the ranks. Air forces demanded a higher proportion of technically trained personnel and had much higher ratios of officers to men. The American air force thus recruited from a higher level of class and educational background, maintained during the war first through requirements for two years of college educa- tion for many personnel and later through other screening devices.  Methods of recruitment also strengthened the airmen’s bonds with civilian society. The air force aggressively recruited on college campuses and among clubs for flying and model-building. Furthermore, during the war civilian institutions rapidly expanded their indoctrination of American youth in the virtues and techniques of aviation. In training what contemporaries called the Winged Superchildren of Tomorrow, civilian educators and businessmen forged links between the civil and military spheres that were unique among the armed services t