ing the job badly.”13  The Twentieth Air Force was a less visibly demonic system, softened by Arnold’s genial public image and by the informality of the American bureaucratic style. Nonetheless, Washington waged the air war by remote control, thereby reducing a sense of responsibility for the destruction that war entailed. Nor did distance from the enemy and bureaucratic methods of waging war against him create a less vindictive approach to war than that favored by men in the field with more direct contact with the enemy. There was no demonstrable correlation between vindictiveness toward the enemy and proximity to him: Washington, far from acting to curb the excesses of a Hansell or LeMay, often prodded them into more destructive action. Besides, vindictiveness was not a prerequisite to pursuing the most destructive course with the enemy: insofar as airmen viewed their war as the task of applying the proper technique, the motives and rewards for intensifying its fury had little to do with satisfying their visceral hostilities toward the enemy. Washington's distance from the consequences of what it planned and ordered allowed the destruction to go forward smoothly, without engaging emotions and moral questions about its consequences. Nor was physical and bureaucratic remoteness from war the only kind of distance the men in Washington maintained.  THE RHETORIC OF TECHNIQUE  Air force planners employed methods of analysis and styles of language that also distanced them from war's realities. In one way, this was hardly their intention. “It is not sufficient merely to bomb Japan.” Norstad reminded an audience. “The targets selected, the timing, the. weight must be chosen with surgical skill.”!4 It was the planners’job to help connect means and ends, to show how the force available could be used to secure victory. Often enough, the connection was hard to maintain, either affectively or conceptually, as designs for incendiary war showed.  Though central to Marshall’s sche