unities for reality-testing were few, and when they arose, air officers thought the uses of air power in Ethiopia, Spain, and China were too primitive in technology and tactics to tell them much. The Air Corps’ dismissive attitude toward past experience was neatly captured in the tactical school’s motto, Proficimus More Irrentiti (We make our progress unhindered by custom).12  Another reason for overlooking the obstacles to precision bombing concerned a role for the bomber soon to be important in American policy. Air prophets had for a long time postulated the bomber’s potential for deterrence and diplomatic coercion: it would ward off attack, secure victory without unleashing its fury, and even help “establish world dominion,” in Mitchell's words. If air power’s importance were above all political and psychological, then the practicality of its actual operations was a secondary concern. Air Corps officers, however, hestiated to explore this higher level of strategy. Insofar as they gave international politics much thought, they held to a rather commonplace notion of “ceaseless warfare among the major powers” fueled by struggle for world markets. Their task was to prepare to wage and win wars, not to formulate schemes to prevent them. Deterrence and coercion were the responsibility of the highest reaches of the War Department and the White House, charmed circles closed to airmen. Airmen did not overlook the obstacles to precision bombing because they imagined a subtle deterrent role for their bombers.1%  The limitations of American thinking about precision bombing indicate what a short distance its proponents had traveled from Douhet, Liddell Hart, and Mitchell writing in the 1920s. In particular, the path Wells had taken twenty years earlier in exploring the psychology of air war remained largely unexplored. From one perspective, the new doctrine appeared more refined and humane in its focus on select economic targets rather than on the lives and homes of civilians