o the burned ruins of Japan, while the soundtrack poured out “America the Beautiful” and the final words, VICTORY THROUGH AIR POWER, appeared. As with the book, the formal argument was for a sure and relatively easy method of victory, but vengeance was the very patriotic theme. Reduced to animation, air war was at once glorified, trivialized, and dehumanized, becoming “a carnival of destruction, relieved of all such impon- derables as human beings, ideals and causes and effects.”32  The film’s impact need not be overestimated. Although Disney pressured Simon and Schuster to bring out a cheap paperback edition of the book in order to promote the film, box office gross was not impressive. The Disnev version drew praise from the New York Times but also criticism as “a conglomeration of animated cartoon stvles. mostlv bad.” Some animated scenes were visuallv effective.  Page 126 of 368 29%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  ake Ce ee ke ree CU ey PR PC ey Se Cen eee ee ee CUE Cee eee Sa tee Ceateenye  With de Seversky, the old defense for American bombing methods, whose virtue had been elegance and restraint, crumbled. De Seversky salvaged the case for bombing by arguing that at least armies and navies need no longer waste treasure and lives: no small virtue for a nation plunging into world war. But more than that, he offered a political argument that turned the defects of bombing —its inaccuracy and its destructiveness—into virtues. “The conduct of war will be determined by whether the purpose is to destroy the enemy or to capture him, whether the prey must be killed or trapped alive.” In America’s case, it seemed clear that “because we have no imperial purposes, but in every case want only to remove a threat to the normal life of the world, American strategy must be geared for the war of elimination,” a task for which the bomber was ideal. In short, with an irony de Seversky did not appreciate, a brutal strategy arose from America’s benign pu