round and naval operations, not while he felt it urgent to get American ground forces into action in order to blunt accusations of incompetence and to enlist popular investment in the war.  The result of all this was that the gulf between ideas and action that so long characterized the emergence of strategic air power—one at first glance so certain to disappear with war’s outbreak —enjoyed remarkable persistence. Narrowing though it did after December 7, it still left plans and dreams, strategic calculations and moral concerns, free of the tests of reality for months and in some respects years to come.  Official planning for “strategic devastation”5 remained surprisingly diffuse, in part for reasons that inhered in the very nature of air war. Ground and naval operations usually required forces highly concentrated in time and space, plunged suddenly into action on a single day or hour, with the risks and rewards telescoped into a moment’s danger. Allied strategists could not easily imagine taking one-third or one-half of the forces away from invasions of Guadalcanal or North Africa without foreseeing grave consequences for their outcome. Such operations required a discrete decision for which responsibility was evident and lay clearly with a few men. Strategic air war was far more dispersed over time and space, with success riding on a prolonged campaign instead of a climactic battle, the risks and rewards more difficult to measure and slower to reveal themselves. The weight and timing of operations could be altered without fatal (or so it often seemed) jeopardy to their util- ity. Therefore, air war was often shaped by incremental decisions.  Furthermore, ground and naval operations often required closer coordination among branches of the armed services and the national forces of allies. Therefore, they more visibly touched on conflicting perceptions and interests, setting off livelier debate that revealed the assumptions of the parties involved. Lengthy wrangling ov