ns, could be achieved without its being explicitly ordered and consciously confronted and could be seen as the product not of aggressive designs, but of responses to the tactical and technical obstacles confronting LeMay. Operational considerations seemed paramount. Wind and weather, distance and inexperi- ence, altitude and crew morale were the explicit determinants of a new course.  The pattern of oblique signals was not confined to the air force. Even more so than in Le May’s contacts with his superiors, Arnold and the air force had gotten the casual nod from their superiors, the Joint Chiefs and the president. Roosevelt had conveyed his interest in bombing Japan (and Tokyo in particular), though couching it largely in political terms, and he had been informed of the test fire raids, and then of the March 10 raid, but made no recorded inquiries.1© The Joint Chiefs had sanctioned preliminary plans that included the firebombing of cities but did not direct their preparation or monitor their progress. The destruction proceeded with accountability, beyond LeMay’s, poorly fixed.  And yet the destruction was hardly unintended or the outcome primarily of the operational considerations usually cited, for plans to firebomb had emerged well before some of the operational obstacles facing the Marianas bombers were even known. Just as telling an indication of the minimal role those obstacles played was the bomber’s record elsewhere in Asia.  Incendiary tactics similar to LeMay’s were employed against other Asian cities where the obstacles LeMay faced either did not arise or took very different form. The weather was less ferocious over Formosa and China than over Japan, and so too were the strain of long flights and the enemy’s fighter opposition. Furthermore, the bulk of American aircraft in use against Chinese and Formosan targets were medium and heavy bombers regularly flying at lower levels and achieving greater precision than B-29s. And of course the enemy’s morale and g