military utility of missions.  Contemporary leaders were themselves alert to this possibility. They were fearful that popular perceptions of inhumanity in the bombing effort might affect its course, the political image of the United States, and the fate of the air force and its ambitions. Privately, they worried—in General Ira Eaker’s warning late in the war—that “we should never allow the history of this war to convict us of throwing the strategic bomber at the man in the street.”®3 Publicly, their concern found expression in repeated assertions of the virtue of American precision bombing and in denials, sometimes valid and often not, that such bombing had been abandoned in favor of less discriminate targeting. In an international context, they made numerous efforts to explain why Allied bombers killed civilians in occupied countries whose loyalty the United States courted. Most important, in the few cases where the constraints of popular opinion seemed substantial—in the matter of bombing Rome, for ex- ample—American leaders made considerable efforts to operate within them.  To be sure, it is unfair to impose on historical subjects a latter-day notion of restraint, as if they should have freed themselves from passions which were inherent in the war. Yet contemporaries had before them not merely an abstract standard of the acceptable limits of force, but a historical record full of cautionary lessons. It was, after all, a staple of commentary that military actions during World War I outran defensible military and political purposes: unrestricted submarine warfare had not always served German purposes, nor had the dispatch of hordes of infantry against impenetrable defenses served a useful end. That war might develop an uncontrollable momentum was known to articulate Americans during World War II; indeed, their own Civil War offered much the same lesson. Given how much Americans had World War I in mind as they waged the second war, their insensitivity to that lesson