ans seemed to display upon hearing of the raid. It was equally mindful of the “great opportunity for building confidence in the Air Forces ... and for carrying out the long-range AAF indoctrination of the public for a strong post-war air arm.” Even Japanese responses to the first B-29 raids revealed a sense of desperation there. The only discordant note in the aftermath of the Yawata mission came from the primary base for the bombers at Kharagpur, India, where airmen were “greatly disturbed” by publicity disclosing their targets, their names, and their noncombat losses of airplanes. “It serves to corroborate or bear out exaggerated claims made by the enemy and has [a] disquieting effect on families of command combat personnel.” They did not wish to be publicly identified nor subjected to the pressures of “crystal gazing” about the future missions of their force. Washington, already growing cautious about claiming too much, had to control further its desire to exploit the Twentieth Air Force’s work in the press.  Well it did, too, for that force’s 20th Bomber Command was not destined to achieve much of strategic import. Operating under every imaginable condition of adversity, the gas-guzzling B-29s had to haul most of their fuel, bombs, and other supplies from rear bases in India, on flights so long they burned up most of the fuel to be off-loaded and allowed for only a painfully slow accumulation of stocks at forward bases. The Twentieth Air Force, though commanded from Washington in strategic matters, also had to operate through a labyrinth of rivalrous and overlapping commands in the Far East. The 20th’s record became a classic example of how, as Marshall knew, a mammoth effort could yield only a “pin point” effect. Tied to a long and fragile tether, the B-29s could reach only the southernmost targets in Japan, and those only with a reduced bomb load and on infrequent missions.  They should not have been sent to China. The military dividends of their operations ma