d state or world doom.” Or as the Times editorial staff observed, “We face the prospect either of destruction on a scale which dwarfs anything thus far reported... or of a golden era of social change which would satisfy the most romantic utopian.” From the University of Chicago, Robert Hutchins hoped that “the atomic bomb is the good news of damnation, that it may frighten us into that Christian character and those righteous actions and those positive political steps necessary to the creation of a world society, not a thousand or five hundred years hence, but now.”!43  Hope was given several expressions. The Times’s editorialists thought that the bomb made it both opportune and necessary to prevent future war by American leadership in democratizing the world. Like many other commentators, the Times was unclear whether the world was to be saved from the atomic bomb or through it. But the Times saw no danger in American possession of the bomb, and it was sure that “no people will want war if they realize what its consequences with the atomic bomb will be.” In short, the old view that bombing was its own deterrent remained strong.144  Nae wen AL wet A ee I Ln A Lane 2a None etn 1 Ane ed Re 8 8 tn ee ne a nk a Co A Ae nett ALL 8 One ne 2 nk Lek en te te  Page 350 of 368 80%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON ‘humanize’ ‘lhe Bomb by showing how it fits into our normal, everyday lite also cuts the other way: 1t reveals how inhuman our normal lite has become.” ‘l'ruman himself had supplied the appropriate  characterization of the men and women who built the bomb: “Few know what they have been producing. They see great quantities of material going in and they see nothing coming out of these plants.” These were among the people MacDonald criticized as “trained to think ‘objectively’—i.e., in terms of means, notends, “and he saw the bomb’s use as the product of a process deeply imbedded in Ameri- can culture, not of a simple decision by a few leaders.