h by inch, island by island,” a method that “would take about fifty years before we got to Japan.”2¢  After all, Chennault had been promising nothing less than “the collapse of Japan” by methods such that “the lives of hundreds of thousands of American soldiers and sailors will be saved.” In turn Roosevelt continued to apply the screws to the War Department, giving the matter far more attention than the much weightier air effort being mounted against Germany. Finally, in April 1943, the Flying Tiger himself, along with General Joseph Stilwell, the American commander in China, returned to the states for discussions that sometimes turned ugly. To Stilwell, Chennault’s plans were a pipe dream because the Chinese would never defend the air bases. They “stopped fighting about three years ago,” he advised. As for military operations, “The Generalissimo has no plan. If he had one it wouldn’t be the one he would have tomorrow morning anyway.” He was simply “a very slick political manipulator.” In contrast, Chennault promised a big boost to Chinese morale, attacks on Japanese cities, and a fatal assault on Japanese shipping. Marshall and Arnold were eager enough to bomb Japan, but the logistical and military obstacles against doing so from China were staggering. “It requires a massive effort here to get a pin point out there,” Marshall lamented. Earlier, he had called Chennault’s designs “just nonsense; not strategy, just nonsense.” Backed by Roosevelt, Chennault got com- mitments to increases in aircraft and the supplies coming over the Hump route, but not enough for a blow against Japan or even for success against Japanese forces in China.22  Until well into 1943, the political importance Roosevelt attached to bombing from Chinese bases had paralleled the strategic priorities of the military command. The paucity of American resources for the Pacific war, the immensity of Chinese armies, the pull of China’s plight all coincided to accord China a pivotal place in American pl