a body of people with nothing to lose... who will therefore fight on with utter fanaticism.” But the Nazi elite remembered too well the home front’s supposed collapse in 1918 to regard the destruction of cities callously. For their part, some British commanders hoped, as one put it, that the Hamburg raids would break “the whole of the Gestapo grip on the population.”!2  Yet the very apathy induced by such a tremendous shock strengthened the grip of the Nazi state, which moved swiftly to succor the city and its survivors. Resentment at the Allies—more noticeable outside the stunned city—may have stiffened the resistance of other Germans. And Harris’s bombers, by moving on to other cities, over-looked the virtue of more persistence and allowed the city’s industries to recover lost ground. British bombing in the months ahead took on almost an aimless quality, piling up vast rubble, yet too dispersed in time and space to apply a decisive shock to either morale or production. By 1943, the RAF had developed the capacity to do area bombing but not to make it effective. Its bombing was stark testimony to the ease with which men equated the destructiveness of air power with its decisiveness. In this way, too, intentions did not produce results.  The assault on Hamburg also demonstrated the fiction of complementarity. While Harris struck residential areas by night, Eaker hit Hamburg’s docks and factories by day. Yet the AAF strikes were too light and scattered—it was not easy to find targets in a smouldering city—to complement the British effort. British and American bomber staffs met frequently, and requests for supporting efforts were usually received cordially, but the process was ad hoc, geared to missions of the moment, not toward sustaining mutually reinforcing efforts over the life of the aerial campaign.  In Britain, few doubts surfaced about the wisdom of the Hamburg raids and their place in overall strategy. American reporters, free to find satisfaction in the Briti