pheric defense but continued to emphasize that selective attacks on an enemy’s economic structure remained the ideal employment of air power. As had been the case throughout the 1930s, the Far East invited vivid speculation on air power’s role, even though European events generated the most concern. On September 1, 1939, Lieutenant Colonel Carl Spaatz, Chief of the Air Corps’ Plans Division, produced for Arnold a sweeping analysis of air strategy in case of conflict with Japan. Ruling out invasion of Japan as both unnecessary and unfeasible, eliminating a naval blockade (a recurrent idea of Roosevelt’s) as difficult and too slow, Spaatz reached the unsurprising conclu- sion that strategic bombers, perhaps based on Luzon, were best fitted for the task. Spaatz offered no details regarding the methods or targets of bombing. But given Japan’s industrialized economy and dense population, he thought it “probable that sustained air attack alone would be sufficient to force Japanese acquiescence in our national policies.” And he added, in an echo of reactions to Munich and a prophecy of plans to come, that “the mere existence” of an American bomber force on Luzon might “restrain Japan from open and active opposition to our national policies.”37  Spaatz’s ideas added another reason to develop the B-29, which he simultaneously recommended, but apparently received no immediate follow-up. More than ever after September 1, air officers devoted attention to industrial mobilization, development of new aircraft, the continuing demands of foreign orders, and the requirements of hemispheric defense. Neither the outbreak of war in Europe nor Marshall’s ascent to the post of Chief of Staff had an immediate effect on long-range strategic planning or on Roosevelt’s views. Perhaps, as a contemporary account implied, Germany’s limited use of the bomber against Poland that fall may have come as a relief to Roosevelt and his advisors. Air war “had assumed, in their eyes, as in everyone else’