of air war.  The War in the Air (1908) was at once more apocalyptic and more realistic. A war begun by German air raids on American cities expands into a global struggle in which the Asiatic nations prove as adept as Europeans in the arts of destruction from the skies. The Asiatics are no more successful in gaining a decision, however, and the world plunges into “a universal guerrilla war” from which there is no escape.  While other commentators based predictions about the airplane on their comfortable assumptions about Western civilization, Wells drew on his fundamental pessimism about it. For him, the airplane was the logical product of the thoughtless militarism of the time, the lazy faith in the certainty of progress, and the “destructive scramble” of the great powers to extend their “economic ex- ploitation.” Likewise, the bomber could topple that civilization not just because it could kill and destroy, but because it would rip apart its economic and political fabric. Political convulsion, economic chaos, famine, and pestilence would be the real sources of civilization’s collapse. Death and destruction by bombing would only be their catalysts. Wells’s nightmare vision succeeded in part because he alone saw air war in its broadest context, as both the product and the downfall of Western civilization.14  Wells also had a subtler appreciation of nationalism and crowd psychology. He took the emerging notion of a knockout aerial blow to the national will and gave it a new and dismaying twist. In The War in the Air the brief, relatively light attack on New York City forces quick capitulation by panicky municipal officials. But far from producing national surrender, it only fires the indignation and patriotism of the masses, who demand that the fight continue, thereby plunging the nation into an all-out war. The knockout blow fells only the orderly process of government, not the blind urge to fight on; it yields no mercifully brief decision, only long descent into glo