osevelt that “these dinky little European states can not live in an airplane civilization.” It was on the twentieth of September that Bullitt made his comment that with “enough airplanes you don’t have to go to Berchtesgaden.””  Roosevelt was drawing the same conclusion. He did so largely intuitively, for Roosevelt’s view of air power swept beyond what even his military advisors (whose views he scarcely solicited anyway) counseled. As late as January 1938 his call for strengthened defenses had emphasized his traditional concern, the navy. Desperation to find some way to reverse the Nazi tide, reinforced by imitation of Hitler’s methods, led Roosevelt to create an American air force that airmen had failed to achieve for years.  Roosevelt was formulating two broad ways that air power could play a decisive role in the emerging European struggle. On September 18, when immediate war still seemed likely, Roosevelt speculated that strategic bombing could help force a quick German surrender. To minimize German resistance, England, France, and the Soviet Union should resort to a sea blockade and to “pounding away at Germany from the air,” confident “that the morale of the German people would crack under aerial attacks much sooner than that of the French or the English.” As Harold Ickes recorded the president’s predictions, Roosevelt argued that “this kind of war would cost less money, would mean comparatively few casualties, and would be more likely to succeed than a traditional war by land and sea.”8 In light of how slowly economic strangulation was known to work, his sunny view of the speed and cheapness of such a war indicated how FDR shared the prevailing belief that the terror of bombing, not its actual destruction, would work a quick victory.  As the threat of immediate war passed, Roosevelt’s attention to air power as a war-fighting instrument dwindled for a while. His interest shifted to a second role for air power, that of a tool for deterrence and diplomacy. Munich