ut by destroying the people manning the forge; and at that not through some sudden shock to their morale, which Harris now thought unlikely, but through sustained attrition of their habitats and lives. Americans knew this, Eaker’s spring plan making clear that the RAF was to engage in the “mass destruction” of German cities. The directive for the “battle” of Hamburg had made the RAF’s objective the “total destruction” of the city as a method to “achieve im- measurable results in reducing the industrial capacity of the enemy’s war machine.”!5  “Immeasurable,” perhaps just a slip of the pen, also suggested how soft were the calculations justifying this bombing. British strategists scarcely did more than prewar theorists in detailing the connection between planned destruction and the enemy’s defeat. But as Max Hastings has written, “If a precise definition of success was not arrived at, nor was a yardstick of failure.” Admirals whose ships sank or generals who lost ground could be sacked. Air marshals could not so clearly be judged. Intangible criteria invited unlimited escalation. As Churchill put it after the war, “the debt” the Germans incurred by their blitz of England “was repaid tenfold, twentyfold, in the frightful routine bombardment of German cities. ... Certainly the enemy got it all back in good measure, pressed down and running over.” “Immeasurable results,” then, were commensurate with almost infinite vengeance.1®  Harris’s reasoning might have taken on a brutal legitimacy if consistently implemented. Success at Hamburg demonstrated the virtue of returning relentlessly to a target, and it dismayed the Nazi leadership. True, Hitler had his Gétterd4mmerung fantasies—he once stated that the aerial “devastation actually works in our favour, because it is creating a body of people with nothing to lose... who will therefore fight on with utter fanaticism.” But the Nazi elite remembered too well the home front’s supposed collapse in 1918 to regard the destruction