allied with pacifists and proponents of disarmament by proposing the abolition of military aviation to the World Disarmament Conference, doing so in hopes of freeing up funds for the ground army. At other times he curried support from aviators by backing creation of the General Headquarters Air Force and proclaiming the utility of air power in attacking the “vital arteries of a nation.”4 A confrontation with President Franklin Roosevelt on the budget issue reportedly left him so upset that he threatened (not for the last time) to resign and so ill that he vomited on the White House lawn. Roosevelt handled the aviation issue in a scarcely more consistent manner, flattering Mitchell while running for the presidency in 1932 but disappointing the aviators once he got into office. From this tangled web of political and budgetary considerations the Air Corps emerged with its share of total army budgets increased, but the contraction of those budgets made this at best a rearguard victory.  Beyond budgetary and organizational issues, the air mail affair reinforced the benign image of military aviation. Once again, army aviators often appeared to be the victims of established interests. More than that, the episode suggested how remote the possibility was of American engagement in actual air war. Mitchell asked the appropriate question: “If an army aviator can’t fly a mail route in any sort of weather, what would we do in a war?”5 An air force that could not carry out that humble task seemed an unlikely instrument of impersonal destruction across the seas. Furthermore, the bad news from the air mail affair seemed to coincide with evidence of waning public interest in the grander theories of air power. The press featured several articles that were highly skeptical about those theories, and Mitchell, by 1934 once again a pariah at the White House, found himself shunned by publishers, who thought he now bored his readers. In short, 1934 perhaps marked the nadir of the public ima