unconditional surrender formula were probably unclear to most Americans, but they overwhelmingly approved it despite war’s mounting costs, just as they insisted on “fighting until the Japanese armed forces are completely defeated” even if Japan “offered to make peace now.” As Garry Wills has written, “To conduct war successfully, a commander must often fight his own side’s fighting spirit, wrestle it back into constructive channels.” At the close of 1944, no one knew just how to do that.s&  The problem was not simply the proper manipulation of public opinion, for the war could arouse some professionals’ passions as well. General George Kenney, commanding MacArthur’s air force, worried, like many a general, that “the Jap is still being underrated.” But to Kenney he was still “a low order of humanity,” prey to “his Mongol liking for looting, arson, massacre and rape,” and bound to a “national psychology” of “win or perish.” In the summer of 1944, the Twentieth Air Force’s task was characterized as bringing maximum pressure on the “little yellow bellies.” Nor can one discount the existence of prejudice at the highest levels of government, either the “malignant racism” of a Churchill or the more casual and genteel forms of it shared by men like Roosevelt and Stimson.®2  The atrocity stories of 1944 only added more weight to racial images and stereotype long accumulating. Japan seemed to many Americans a kind of racial mutant of the monolithic Nazi state, its aggression and regimentation comparable to Germany’s, only springing from different, less eradicable sources. More than most wartime stereotypes, this one did violence to reality, for regimenta- tion in wartime Japan was a far more subtle, porous phenomenon than in Hitler’s Germany. To be sure, official policies designed to mold seamless unity among Japanese also strengthened the West’s image of the Japanese as an anonymous mass in which no sense of individual values existed. The Japanese state relied on an ethic of