ajor preoccupation of the American chemists was the development of reliable incendiaries to be dropped by aircraft against enemy cities. Much effort was necessary to produce bombs which did not disintegrate under field conditions and which penetrated rooftops and zeroed in on targets without being blown off course. The Chemical Warfare Service was up to the task. Model enemy towns were constructed at proving grounds in the United States, the effort at authenticity measured by the employment of German Jewish architects to design the German towns and by the attention to detail down to “the curtains, children’s toys, and clothing hanging in the closets.” In testing incendiary attacks on mock Japanese workers’ districts, teams of firefighters were brought in to quell the blaze with methods the Japanese would use. The tests against “Little Tokios” inspired confidence that “fires would sweep an entire community” and cause “tremendous casualties.”1¢  The technicians’ work was one source of a policy for incendiary war. The Chemical Warfare Service had always been an aggressive bureaucracy, and its personnel took their devices to England, made common cause with the RAF, and pressed them on the Eighth Air Force. American use of firebombs—spurred by LeMay’s interest, supported by Arnold from Washington, and reinforced by the powerful British demonstration at Hamburg—accelerated rapidly during 1944. Still, until the last months of the European war, they were only a small part of the American aerial arsenal and were em- ployed largely against German industrial targets.17  Interest in firebombing Japanese cities crystalized earlier and more intensely. Initial studies by the air force staff had emphasized the classic precepts of high-explosive bombing of precision targets, but by 1943 incendiary war attracted sustained approval. It was supported by British planners and by the prime minister himself, who in May spoke to the American Congress of “the process, so necessary and desira