hose perspective on the bomb appeared to be narrowly military were as likely as any to explore restraints on its use, for their military experience led them to recognize the bomb’s physical destructiveness. But recognition and cautious exploration were as far as Marshall and Leahy went: their doubts had been too fragile, too wedded to a bygone ethic of warfare, too isolated by their narrow view of the officer’s role, and too attenuated by years of urgency to win the war and (in Marshall's case) by personal investment in the bomb project.  Page 324 of 368 74%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  KNUDS1ALL ALLLULLLUL19 LL UIE Lad LADLE LMULE Ulalt LS UULLLU o Ude. INCLUUTL LUC LAV 9 AUIS L1UL LUE all LULL BCLITLals pal ULUally LUUU BLL LS UULLU Was LicLCooal yeu alu LLUe LucLUUs 9UULL WU win anyway—but by the same token they were not especially opposed to the bomb’s employment, as long as invasion was avoided. And the navy, as a latecomer to the bomb project (Bard himself learned of it only in May), lacked the bureaucratic vantage point and intimate familiarity with the bomb to mount an effort against its use. Bard got a hearing from Truman, but it was apparently per- functory, and shortly thereafter he resigned his post. Like others who questioned the bomb’s use, he had been “hammering on locked doors.”?2  Thus the case against the bomb’s use mostly fell to men removed from ongoing operations against Japan and was advanced with little reference to the war itself. For most dissenters, the issue was the fate of mankind and their troubled consciences. At times, they seemed more concerned with absolving themselves of responsibility for the bloodbath, although of course absolution might compel efforts to avert the bombing.” Their overriding concern was that use, especially without warning, would forever jeopardize global agreement on the control or abolition of the new weapon. In this regard, they did their best to show that national interests were