achieved mastery of the natural world by risking return to it—they conquered death by courting it. “The qualities that make the finest combat pilot are qualities that seem to presage his own destruction. Icarus is his prototype and patron.” If scientists conquered nature by risking global suicide, pilots did so by risking personal destruction.  These appeals, confined to a limited number of airmen, could not always be sustained in the face of “reluctant intimacy with the mingled smell of burning paint, fabric, rubber, petrol and human flesh from a crashed aircraft,” as the English flier’s encounter with reality has been described. Even then, however, some “still very much enjoyed the business of flying an aircraft,” reveling in “an overwhelming sense of the vastness of the universe.” Many men in war experience a sense of grandeur and beauty in the Olympian scale and visual dazzle of war, but the airman’s pleasure differed in that it derived as much from flying itself as from war’s drama.%4  The habit of viewing flying as an act of technique apart from war was critically reinforced by the air force’s policies of fixing limits to combat duty for airmen. Washington headquarters never  Page 212 of 368 49%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Of all, airmen counted on their tecnnical SK1Us To Open up good Civillan jobs for them, an expectation wartime commentators encouraged. w nen V1ixon wecter reviewed tne Tate Of wartime veterans 1n  1944, he saw the airman’s salvation in a “huge peacetime aviation program to cover the earth. ... Ona planet where communication and transportation hold the front rank as never before, American technology is on the march.” Fortune promised a quick payoff for the airman because American business looked to him more than to other servicemen as the best source of postwar talent. Air force personnel constituted “an ivory hunter’s game preserve” for the businessman, and the AAF veteran would go into the airline industry a