ecretary of War Newton Baker, and they ran through a wide range of popular writing. Even after Poland’s fall, Harper’s ran an article entitled “Bombing Cities Won't Win the War” that maintained that “no war will be won by attacking civil populations in cities. No war will be won by the airplane alone. For it can’t be and it won't be. War is won by infantry and money to buy wheat.” According to Commonweal, it was “axiomatic that our cities are not destined for destruction from the air during the next emergency.” Antiaircraft defense “has gone a long way since H. G. Wells wrote ‘The War in the Air,” too far for generals to waste planes in attacks on cities.3®  The heart of the skeptics’ argument was their belief that because air war against cities was impractical and counterproductive, it simply would not occur. Reassurance, that is, rested on the assumption that generals and politicians would rationally calculate the futility of bombing cities. The “fabric” of civilization is not going to be disrupted by such bombing, one skeptic announced: “The reader can be sure that similar calculations have been made by the staffs of all nations whom air warfare on a large scale might possibly concern, and that the ultimate futility of a policy of air terrorism has been perceived.” An additional restraint would come from popular pressures to avoid air attack on enemy cities lest it trigger reprisals, civilians being likely to engage in “lynching any of their own airmen they can lay hands on” if they attempted such an attack.37  Repeatedly the skeptics ignored the contention of air prophets that the objective of armed force in war had changed: “no army would waste its very limited resources on the civil population. The objective of an army is the subjugation of the enemy army.” Some also denied the impact of technology on the moral standards of war’s conduct. “Wholesale destruction of the civil population has been a matter of humanity or inhumanity, civilization or barbarism, rath