favourable impression on foreign neutrals, particularly in America.” He of course lost the argument.23  The case for bombing cities developed piecemeal. German commanders promised tangible rewards: raids on British cities would supposedly force the Allies to divert precious resources from France in order to defend England, giving the Germans an edge in the great battles on the western front. This promise was indeed partly realized. When cries of anguish and indignation in England forced the hand of authorities, they gradually assembled an impressive apparatus of air defense: hundreds of fighter aircraft, antiaircraft guns, barrage balloons, searchlights, sound detectors, and communications systems. An invaluable rehearsal for 1940, this effort offered few immediate benefits for the British. Weather, navigational difficulties, and mechanical break-downs did as much to slow the German attacks, and British antiaircraft shells proved a sometimes deadly menace to the population they tried to protect, as did the many false alarms of a hair-trigger warning system. Ger- man attacks did drain English resources; but that consideration made some authorities hesitate to invest too heavily in air defense, lest doing so invite the very German bombing they hoped to deter.  The Germans exaggerated the rewards, however. They assumed that the resources diverted would have played a critical role on the front, when aviation was in fact not that decisive as yet. Had the English government kept those resources in France, they would only have “encouraged their generals to squander even more of their manpower on futile attempts to storm impregnable positions.”24 In addition, Germany’s bombing enthusiasts ignored the drain of air war on their own resources. Though numbering only in the dozens, the Zeppelins and later the lumbering Giant bomb- ers, with a wingspread scarcely shorter than that of the B-29s of World War II, imposed a considerable cost on the Germans as well. Not for the last t