tive use, seemed to invite its employ- ment and to demean the responsibility shouldered by those who possessed it.  The fantasy that had ebbed and flowed for decades—that of a new weapon that transcended and thereby ended war—had been realized. Yet Hiroshima and Nagasaki mocked the fantasy that they seemed to fulfill. For the atomic bomb, like bombing in its other forms, had triumphed not as a weapon of shock that obviated a protracted struggle, but only as a climax to it. Only by forestalling invasion did the bomb lay a limited and highly debatable claim to meeting the test of fantasy. Worse, the very power of the bomb that secured momentary fulfillment of fantasy prevented its realization again. The moment of fulfillment was a fluke made possible only by the extraordinary circumstance under which only one nation possessed the new weapon, and its enemy already lay in ashes. The fantasy momentarily unleashed seemed immediately to rebound. Any attempt to realize it again imperiled those who held it as well as those others whom the bomb was to instruct. Some hoped that air power in its new form would realize its old promise by deterring war altogether. There was no easy or safe way to validate that notion. In an earlier age, it had been possible to test fantasy, even if little enlightenment had been drawn from London in 1917, Barcelona in 1938, and Berlin in 1943. In the new age, it seemed likely there would be no rehearsal for Armageddon.  Epilogue  Today, few Americans know much about what happened at Hamburg, Dresden, Tokyo, and scores of other cities during World War II. The atomic bomb’s use against Japan—or rather, how people have chosen to remember and regard it—has largely obliterated awareness of the bomber’s earlier toll. In a longer view, however, continuity in the history of aerial warfare seems as striking as change. For all that 1945 demarcates the start of a second age in that history, indeed in human history, the burden of the atomic age has been simil