past experience primarily meant tactical aviation. Mitchell, not to mention his less reckless or arrogant colleagues, left the war uncertain of the direction they wanted aviation to take. Doctrine  Page 15 of 368 4%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON became disconnected. Responsible officials, desperate to meet production quotas regardless ot strategic specitics, stamped out the planes that were easiest to make—trainers and observation craft and  obsolete types that would never darken the skies over Essen or Berlin. Despite mammoth appropriations, not one night bomber made it from factory to front. Even production of lesser aircraft was dis- appointing.. That sorry performance appeared even worse, as Secretary of War Newton Baker recognized, because of naive claims made for the airplane and for American uniqueness:  We were dealing with a miracle. The airplane itself was too wonderful and new, too positive a denial of previous experience, to brook the application of any prudential restraints which wise people would have known how to apply to ordinary industrial and military developments. As a consequence, the magicians of American industry were expected to do the impossible for this new and magical agency, and this expectation was increased by the feverish earnestness with which all Americans desired that our country should appear speedily, worthily, and decisively in the war.4!  The production failure left the American Air Service with no real strategic force of its own, only borrowed planes and deferred hopes for an aerial offensive in 1919 that would never happen. The war likewise left aviators an uncertain legacy. Held in check by ground commanders, struggling to learn the art of command, prone to bitter feuds with comrades and superiors, and deprived of a full test of the bomber’s potential, they could not expound a coherent theory of strategic bombardment or develop an unqualified commitment to it. Mitchell's finest hour came when he d