at “with the targets gone we couldn’t see much of any war going on.” Proudly recounted by LeMay as an indication of his command’s efficiency and dedication, the incident was a revelation of the air force approach to war, rich with the emptiness of strategic reasoning about how to win the war and of the desire even to formulate it. Destruction would win the war, and the war would have to end when the destruction was complete. LeMay’s statement to Arnold was of a piece with the summary statement of his strategy LeMay offered in his memoirs: first establish bases, then “bomb and burn them until they quit. That was our theory, and history has proved that we were right.” It was of a piece with how the United States—not always, but at its worst—waged the war.143  10  The Persistence of Apocalyptic Fantasy  THE INVERSION OF DREAM AND REALITY  Page 297 of 368 68%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON LeMay WaS SETI OF LO GESLTOy MOre Citles WILILOUL a Clear TallONale LOT GOIN gy so. 1 Ne all Slall Was Neaginy its Des: Ite... IMcendlary attacks GO NOL Weaker! tile Morale OL tne japanese people  so that they “terminate the war,” they would in any event prepare the way for “invasion and the ultimate defeat of Japan.” In short, if bombing did not win the war one way, it would another, and there seemed neither sanction nor compulsion from higher authority to choose. Some air staff officers chafed at this vagueness, but to little avail.141  So LeMay pressed on. In April he launched only a few major fire raids, though these, against Tokyo, approached his March 10 success in terms of acreage incinerated. In May, restocked with incendiaries and taxing his crews, he dispatched over five hundred bombers on missions, and he completed the firing of Japan’s largest cities. Over one hundred square miles of urban landscape were destroyed, and by early June, Tokyo, Nagoya, Kobe, Osaka, Yokohama, and Kawasaki had been stricken from the target lists for fire attacks. Som