ions of how giant airliners would make global travel an everyday affair. The same spirit permeated what contemporaries called “air-conditioned” educational curricula, evident in instruction about aviation and in changing styles of mapmaking and teaching geography. The fads of the forties often had distinctly militaristic and nationalistic intentions or overtones. Many were designed to prepare young Americans for air war, and the replacement of “rowboat geography” with “airplane geography,” closely linked to a scholarly fixation with the new pseudoscience of geopolitics, was used to acquaint Americans with the global responsibilities they would assume in the postwar era. But the fads carried many implications. They were another promise of those rewards for winning the war that popular culture conveyed to Americans, material ease and technological marvels when the peace came. They carried forward long-held expectations of air commerce and travel as creators of the One World Wendell Willkie wrote about following his global air journey. The war necessarily added ambiguity to the airplane’s image, yet it remained surprisingly pacific. Even the bomber’s image kept shifting—the B-29 Superfortresses were renamed Peacemakers in Boeing’s final wartime ads, a nice precedent for labeling the MX missile of the 1980s the Peacekeeper.!2  Neither advertising nor official statements generated the controversy stirred by a small band of civilian publicists. Japan’s success with air raids at Pearl Harbor and elsewhere gave new prominence to the role of air power in war and to a new burst of popular writing about it. Yet, often these polemics still drew attention to the politics rather than to the strategy and morality of air war. Mitchell and Douhet became subjects of hagiography, particularly by the pen of Emile Gauvreau, an astute but eccentric scandalmonger: Mitchell had been “the most unerring prophet in 500 years of military history” and the victim of a “billion dollar airplane co