, and it’s all a failure, and I don’t produce any results, then he can fire me.” Time had played a few tricks on his memory. On the eighth LeMay had notified Arnold of his pending mission. But LeMay had the essence of it right. He was in much the same position that Hansell had been in during November before the first B-29 raid on Tokyo: the ideas and the pressures, in broad outline, came from Washington, but the commander in the field was to take a hint, not to follow orders, for Washington did not want that responsibility.©1  Similarly, there was no imperative for LeMay to set down a strategic rationale for running a great fire raid. If the new tactics worked, and LeMay was hardly certain they would, then their implications could be assessed, and a strategic rationale for their continuance worked up. Some things could not wait, the press for one. LeMay, according to his public relations officer, was a master of public relations precisely because he “despised” it. He quickly appreciated that the press—some fifty reporters were now on Guam—was more easily handled if it knew what to expect. The newsmen were briefed about the major mission to come, and their stories were written up partly in advance, ready to be released as soon as “the first bombs-away messages” were received. The method not only protected secrets, it insured the best coverage in the states for the mission: Americans could learn of it before Japanese broadcasts deflated and distorted the news. In short, reporters substantially covered the event before it occurred.®2  “FLAMING DEW”  On March 9, just before midnight, residents of Tokyo began noticing a strange display in the skies over their city. They had been through air raids before, and some, like their counterparts in Europe's threatened cities, had developed superstitions—food rituals, the wearing of Western clothes—to ward off danger.®3 That night’s activities seemed different.  In daylight raids, the B-29s had appeared “translucid, unreal, light