bombs, their distribution over targets, the choice of bombing techniques in different circumstances, and so forth. It was indirectly, through their work in refining those means, that they affected strategy, rather than through explicit efforts to fashion it. For there was no clear distinction between means and ends, only a continuum along which men easily moved. Inevitably, the civilians’ efforts to perfect technique, the means of waging air war, also defined ends. Ambitious civilians did not define their role modestly, and Arnold did not ask them to. Most of all, the broader role inhered in what they  Page 231 of 368 53%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON make the enemy population the objective of the bombers. Helmut E. Landsberg, a German meteorologist advising the ‘l’wentieth Air Force staff, produced a report entitled “Disease Kates after ‘okyo  Earthquake of 1923” and concluded that “if an influenza epidemic is started as a result of a saturation attack upon the big cities, absenteeism in industrial plants can be expected to soar.” Better yet, he suggested, “the casualty rate will be increased if the attacks are made during the cold season,” when survivors crowded into public buildings and hospitals would spread “serious epidemics.”3¢  Throughout the war’s last year, the attempt to quantify the air war went forward. On May 1, 1945, W. B. Shockley, one of the leading operations analysts, concluded that the B-29 programs was profitable because “the cost of dropping a ton of bombs on Japan is 40 man months of United States war effort and the damage done by one ton costs the Japanese about 600 man months of manufacturing labor.” By this measurement, too, the campaign against Japan was some six times more profitable than the attacks against Germany waged from March 1943 to March 1944. Shockley was shrewd enough to acknowledge that it was “a long step to see just how industrial man months are related to this objective’—that is, how the bombin