ad never been part of the “skullduggery that went on in Washington” regarding conflict among the armed forces, but he was fully aware of how the services warred for glory and resources.5!  No one questioned the cooperativeness of Nimitz, whose navy provided so much of LeMay’s logistical support. But under Nimitz were the admirals and captains who aroused LeMay’s amusement and disgust. While the air force pleaded for supplies and facilities, they built splendid homes complete with “the usual retinue of Filipino boys” and “cocktails and highballs and hors- d’oeuvres such as you might find at an embassy in Washington.” Mindful of the courtly customs officers followed, LeMay suffered a round of dinner invitations, finally from the submarine commander, whose “house turned out to be the Vanderbilt yacht, now bravely commissioned in the United States Navy.” LeMay “had been a poor relation plenty of times before.” Official courtesy demanded that he entertain in return, but he used the occasion to tweak the noses of his blue-water rivals and also to make his needs known, taking “especial pains to serve the best flight-rations available,” the “canned stuff’ the air force was feeding itself. Eventually he got more of what he wanted out of the navy.*2  Whatever his troubles with the navy, LeMay’s relations with his superiors seemed remarkably free from the intrusions he experienced or heard of in Europe. For one thing, because the Twentieth Air Force was under Arnold’s direct control, theater commanders had far less call on LeMay to support the army and navy, and when diversions did occur, Arnold and Norstad assumed responsibility for them. For another, Arnold was convalescing in Florida through much of the winter. “He did not tell me how to do my job! No!” LeMay protested years later when queried about his relationship with Arnold. “I never got a direct order from Arnold that I remember,” a recollection generally supported by the documentary record. He doubtless felt less harr