e latter was an ineffective mechanism because the British role in Far Eastern strategy was minimal.  As did other failures of command in the air war, the vagueness of strategy, the failure to establish clear connections between military means and the goal of victory, came in for occasional criticism. Arnold himself sometimes lamented the excessive preoccupation with current operations, though he did little to discourage it. From the ranks came a harsher judgment:  I believe it to be an unhealthy thing that within the Air Force itself there is presently so little difference of opinion. ... We are committed to the big bomber and the bomber offensive as surely for the future as we have been throughout this war, and with scarcely a dissenting voice. ... Our most persuasive and articulate people are almost without exception bomber-minded, steeped in the tradition of Douhet and Mitchel [sic].  This dissenting officer proposed an experiment with “a sustained fighter offensive against Japan” that might achieve the goals of the bombers more economically. The proposal was destined to go nowhere; as its author recognized, the momentum to bomb with B-29s was now irresistible. Moreover, his criticism was directed mainly at the needs of the postwar air force, not at the current war. Dissent, when it arose at all, usually did so through the back door of postwar concerns.*>  One critique that did focus on the ongoing war arose, but from outside the air force, in the army’s high-powered Operations Division, where Brigadier General George A. Lincoln consistently complained of the way operations were planned in a strategic vacuum. As late as June 1945, he still observed “the lack of an integrated strategic air plan for the defeat of Japan.” Among air force officers, only Haywood Hansell perhaps would have understood fully Lincoln’s complaint. He made much the same point by prefacing his memoirs with a quotation from Douhet: “The choice of enemy tar- gets... is the most delicate operat