th. At times, when attempts were made to bomb upwind, it seemed that “the damn target backed right off the radar; we were going backward over ground.”> Foul weather also limited opportunities for visual sighting of targets to a precious few days a month—at that, days not anticipated with the accuracy possible in Europe, where prevailing weather patterns first passed over Al- lied meteorological stations. All these conditions also compounded navigation over oceans offering few visual opportunities for confirming location.  Weather played havoc with Hansell’s subsequent missions against the Japanese aircraft industry. In December, crews repeatedly failed to reach their target or to see it when they did or to hit it even if sighted, much less with the radar equipment often used. The record, hardly impressive, looked even worse because of problems in photographic surveillance and intelligence—Japanese aircraft production began a steep decline at the end of 1944, though it was not solely attributable to the B-29 attacks.  Meanwhile, Washington increased the pressure to test incendiary tactics against large urban areas. The line between those tactics and the ones Hansell preferred was blurred even in precision raids because Hansell often used radar or incendiaries or the cover of night—or all three at once. But Arnold and his deputy, Norstad, wanted to do more than just tinker with the tactics of precision bombing. Backed by the findings of the Committee of Operations Analysts and the Joint Target Group, they wanted a full-scale test of the potential for firing Japanese cities. When Hansell failed to take the hint, Norstad got explicit, relaying on December 18 “an urgent requirement” for a fire raid on Nagoya with at least one hundred B-29s. Hansell, although acknowledging “very deep seated” problems in his precision bombing, had a scholarly and somewhat stubborn temperament. Through years as a top strategist he had advocated precision bombing, and he was not about “to wa