the speculation from Marshall and Krock in that regard, nor did they communicate any alarm on the basis of Krock’s article.193  Washington’s effort at deterrence failed, not only in execution, but in design. Military strategy rested on the diplomats’ success in delaying the outbreak of war at least until mid-December, preferably until February or March. Yet the final diplomatic position, determined by Hull and Roosevelt without consulting the strategists and offered to the Japanese on November 26, left no room to bargain. Subtler diplomacy might not have delayed the outbreak of war, for Japan’s timetable was not flexible. But the puzzle, in light of the military’s tremendous hope for delay, is that it was not at- tempted, perhaps because grand design did not alone shape policy. The patience required to string out negotiations collided with exasperation over new signs of Japanese military action; even Stimson,  tha Franiuiant neannnant of dala urae her Marrambhar 97 “elad ta harra tima” hit nat “at anti anot af humility an tha nart af tha Tinitad Ctatac ” Ctimonnie hriotlina mand vaflantad intanen neacouras an tha  Page 110 of 368 26%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON sent to the Far East tollowed a route through Siberia, then “along the edge of Japan,” and on to Manila, laying bare the vulnerability of “vital Japanese industrial establishments.” Tenuous, even devious  negotiations with the Soviets ensued. Washington, already interested in an Alaska-Siberia route for ferrying Lend-Lease aircraft to the Russians, tried to exploit conversations over that possibility to gain information needed for basing bombers in Siberia. But Stalin told Harriman in September that American crews could not ferry aircraft through Siberia lest they jeopardize Soviet neutrality with Japan.22  The pattern of American failure was set but not easily admitted. Bombing Japan from Vladivostok “would be a comparatively simple matter,” Marshall was told in August. “The p