by the summer of 1945—so far had the destruction gone that vengeance and the obliteration of Japan’s war industry were already irreversible. More important, the bureaucracies engaged in answering these questions could not reach a consensus powerful enough to change Truman’s mind on the surrender formula or to call into question the further course of bombing.  Even military alternatives were not firmly delineated, a failure most evident in discussions about invasion. The army at least moved to check the more dire predictions floating about. When former President Hoover, among others interested in a compromise on surrender terms, circulated predictions that invasion would take “500,000 to 1,000,000 lives,” Marshall's staff dismissed the figure as “entirely too high,” one that “appears to deserve little consideration.” But the armed services never arrived at a firm figure of their own—nor does it appear they were asked to—and the challenge to Hoover’s figure apparently never got passed along to Truman, who had requested a review of Hoover's peace proposal. Though their source remains obscure, casualty estimates similar to Hoover's continued to enjoy credibility. Truman later claimed that Marshall gave him the half-million figure, although records provide no support for the claim, and the dismissal of such a figure by Marshall's staff makes it doubtful. Stimson did not disclose who “informed” him that American casualties alone might exceed one million. Churchill’s figures were even more extravagant: a million American dead and half that number of British fatalities. With the documentary record so sparse, it is difficult to determine whether the figures offered by memoirists were inflated after the war to buttress the case for atomic bombing or simply an accurate reflection of the loose calculations prevalent in 1945. Most likely, even a lower or more firmly calculated figure, 100,000 or 300,000 Allied lives lost, still would have seemed to justify the bomb’s use. But th