t grandly revealed and brutally resolved the tensions in thinking about air power building for a generation. In the tradition of futurist writing like that of his mentor Mitchell, de Seversky couched aggressive designs in the guise of what others might do, beginning with a sketch of the United States under awesome aerial attack by an unnamed enemy waging “systematic, scientific” destruction, “the planned wrecking of a great nation.” Proposing a fleet of aerial leviathans capable of circumnavigating the globe, he was also following Mitchell’s vision of aggressive isolationism, portraying an American air force patrolling the world without having to depend on allies and bases over- seas. Not all disciples of Mitchell took that direction. De Seversky, however, sounded nationalist themes.25  De Seversky also worked both sides of the aisle in the debate between selective disruption and systematic devastation. On the one hand, since civilians had proven they could endure tremendous bombing, their morale was a dubious target, economic objectives were preferable in wars against advanced nations, and precision bombing could disable them: “by piercing vital organs and nerve centers the entire mechanism can be paralyzed.” Here was the old, familiar, and enticing organic metaphor. But the language of precision faded as de Seversky pronounced that “there is just one target: the whole country” and proposed a strategy of “extermination” and “total destruction” of the enemy.2&  With de Seversky, the old defense for American bombing methods, whose virtue had been elegance and restraint, crumbled. De Seversky salvaged the case for bombing by arguing that at least armies and navies need no longer waste treasure and lives: no small virtue for a nation plunging into world war. But more than that, he offered a political argument that turned the defects of bombing —its inaccuracy and its destructiveness—into virtues. “The conduct of war will be determined by whether the purpose is to destr