. After 1900, the first demonstrations of heavier-than-air craft usually had unmistakable military implications, or took place in public view of governments’ interest in those implications. They were obvious to Europeans after the first flights across the English Channel. In the United States, the initial wave of publicity regarding the airplane as a practical machine came in 1908, when the Wright brothers demonstrated their invention over the capital for the U.S. Army Signal Corps. For days, thousands watched in awe at the miracle of flight, and the event stirred lavish predictions about how the airplane would change the affairs of the nation and human- kind. That event, like others, precipitated little foreboding. Even when prophets detected dangers, they usually converted them into virtues.  Fantasy followed optimistic paths in part because of certain unique properties of the airplane. It may be true that “guns, like everything else, have their social history,” one rooted in identifiable social, economic, and national interests. But inasmuch as the airplane was never merely a weapon of war, its development confronts the social historian with a greater challenge than other devices of modern warfare. As Winston Churchill once said, “The submarine, to do it justice, has never made any claim to be a blessing, or even a convenience.” The submarine, the machine gun, and the tank sometimes fired the imagination (of Jules Verne, for example) but did not touch the range of interests, aspirations, and activities that the airplane would.2  Never viewed solely as a weapon, the airplane was the instrument of flight, of a whole new dimension in human activity. Therefore it was uniquely capable of stimulating fantasies of peacetime  Location 194 of 12433 1%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON battlefield has done its work, Hank Morgan, the Yankee genius, surveys the results. “Of course we could not count the dead, because they did not exist as individual