d that destruction would lead to victory by undermining the war-making capacity of an enemy; deprived of the sinews of war or the means to transport them, its militarv forces would graduallv become unable to fight on. But that line of argument presumed that the enemv’s forces were the obiective and promised no quick  Page 52 of 368 12%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON tional independence 1n a more effective fashion. Mitchell's coast-detense rationale had only pitted the corps against a navy too powertul for the airmen to deteat. As late as 1938, the navy secured army  agreement to its demand that the Air Corps patrol no further than one hundred miles from the coast. This was a dead-end struggle for the Air Corps. It never ceased to invoke coast defense to support its claims; even when, in the midthirties, it drafted plans for bombers with a range of up to ten thousand miles, it rested its case on their utility in guarding the sea approaches to the nation. A transparent justification that fanned the general staff’s suspicions, it gave strategic debate over aviation a distinct air of unreality. In the long run, however, the struggle over patrolling the oceans was a secondary issue, because the Air Corps wanted to show how it could win a major war, not merely ward off attack. Only an offensively oriented air force could command first place in the military establishment.  The airmen’s argument for independent air power was made more compelling by a second consideration, the nation’s strategic position. Strategists of air power knew that the United States enjoyed the unique advantage of relative immunity to air attack. True, they often invoked the danger of such an attack to buttress the case for air power, and in the late 1930s, the prospect of German seizure of air bases in the Western Hemisphere gave the danger some plausibility. But for the foreseeable future, the United States, with probable allies abroad (especially in Europe) or bases cl