e final victory. He was setting expectations for the nature of that offensive: destruction of Japanese cities, with due revenge meted out.  That action also posed the risk of upsetting Roosevelt’s own preferred strategy. That an American bomber first struck at Japan rather than at Germany aggravated popular expectations to take on Tokyo before Berlin. The Doolittle raid had been designed to curb such expectations by offering Americans a token of revenge, but there is little evidence that it succeeded in that purpose. The scare over Japanese revenge bombing suggested the contrary. So too did the expression of “exterminationist sentiment” (as one historian has called it) found in a patriotic parade in New York in June 1942, when a popular float displayed “a big American eagle leading a flight of bombers down on a herd of yellow rats which were trying to escape in all directions.” And even a year after the raid, when Americans learned of the execution of some of the Doolittle fliers, indignation prompted bitter calls for revenge by bombing and other means and shook once again the American commitment to the Europe-first strategy. If Roosevelt had raised the expectations on which he would have to deliver, they were not ones with which he was uncomfortable. But he established a disturbing precedent for employing military force to meet psychological expectations. And because those expectations are usually mercurial and immeasurable, in contrast to the finite (if huge) demands of military victory, they could not be clearly satisfied and lacked criteria by which to judge when the killing should stop. In short, Roosevelt added fuel to the engine of unrestrained air war.1©  More than most forms of military force, air power had long stimulated fears and hopes ranging far beyond its military utility. So it continued to do at the White House after the Doolittle raid. Perhaps not seriously, Roosevelt passed along to Arnold a proposal to bomb Japanese volcanoes and trigger explosio