ied intervention “with arms” and singled out neutrality laws as an obstacle to effective policy, but his “methods short of war” clearly countenanced more than just revision in legal and economic policy. Repudiation of armed intervention did not exclude intervention by the display of arms. Methods short of war could still embrace the capacity for deterrence that rearmament implied. And in Roosevelt's developing concept of undeclared war, methods short of war shaded off imperceptibly into methods of war, although he was not ready to abandon efforts at diplomacy and disarmament hitherto tried and found wanting.1*  For Roosevelt’s purposes, air power seemed an ideal instrument, decisive yet humane, for deterring, limiting, or at the worst, waging war. Meanwhile, it also served American and hemispheric defense, objectives so uncontroversial that the expansion of American air power could proceed with minimal opposition. In short, Roosevelt had gathered together and turned to his purposes the benign images of bombardment aviation and the malignant images of warfare on the ground. And inasmuch as war-fighting uses of aviation seemed remote, rearmament in the air entailed no urgent consideration of the bomber’s morality and utility. Therefore Roosevelt’s new aerial policy squared with the dominant prejudices and priorities of Americans: alarm over fascist aggression, aversion to military expeditions abroad, desire to preserve American isolation, and faith in aviation as a benign technology.  Insofar as public opinion polls measured those priorities and prejudices, they were still too imperfectly formed to guide Roosevelt easily. Within a broad consensus for rearmament indicated by a November 1938 survey, 90 percent of Americans supported an increased air force, 86 percent a larger navy, 82 percent a bigger army. Only later did opinion polls suggest firmer preferences for air power: in June 1941, 73 percent of respondents preferred to strengthen the air force, only 16 percent