rnold was how little fascination they had with combat. There were exceptions—General Claire Chennault, for example, whose relish for battle never seemed to abate—but the Chennaults rarely rose far. Few airmen entered World War II with combat experience—age, accident, attrition, and heresy had denuded the ranks of the first war’s combat aviators. Arnold himself had been kept in Wash- ington during World War I.  When he wrote his memoirs, LeMay thought that what he would rather be doing more “than anything else” was to be “commanding actively—in the field, as one might say—even with no declared war in progress.” That qualification may seem dishonest to those familiar with LeMay’s reputation for bellicosity in the 1960s. Yet it rang true with the record of his own thoughts and accomplishments. He took greatest delight in his success at forging combat-worthy organizations—commanding the first American bombers in Europe in 1942, when he “felt the intimacy of proven human devotion,” deploying the fledgling force of B-29s in the fall of 1944, building the new Strategic Air Command out of the chaos of postwar demobilization.3  Of course, LeMay knew that these triumphs bore their fruit in combat. But what he prized most was his leadership in getting men ready for war. He excelled at fashioning reliable crews out of green trainees, ill-prepared for the smoke and confusion of battle. Always willing to experiment, he toyed with different bomber formations and bombing patterns and jerry-rigged new methods of maintenance and repair in order to increase the force available. When crew morale sagged in the face of hopeless odds against survival, LeMay turned despair into expedient fatalism. “Everybody  reed , aon  re re tea ot ownan ated we net toa 4 trond 14 aad oa 1  Page 175 of 368 40%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  The Sociology of Air War  Weeks after Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the radical critic Dwight MacDonald attempted to characterize the mentalit