only passingly. They knew that the airplane’s initial use would be military. But they were naive about their power to control that use, slow to see any role for the plane beyond observation and quick to calm their unease about bombing and strafing with platitudes. At the end of World War I, Orville Wright could still reassure himself that “the aeroplane has made war so terrible that I do not believe any country will again care to start a war.”1¢  Few inventors and developers—Count von Zeppelin with his dirigibles was one exception—had more imagination than the Wrights. Bacon and Da Vinci had secreted their designs for a host of dreadful weapons “on account of the evil nature of man,” as Da Vinci put it. In their time, scientists “tended to be more obedient, or at least more vocal about obedience, to moral and Christian principles.” The airplane's inventors did not so much reject those principles as ignore them. Alexander Graham Bell, for decades deeply involved in aeronautical research, explained during the Spanish- American War, “I am not ambitious to be known as the inventor of a weapon of destruction” but added that “I must say the problem—simply as a problem—fascinates me.” The plane’s wartime use was often just a secondary concern to its creators. Thus the pace of technological progress governed the warplane’s development, not because men were somehow driven by its sheer force, but in part be- cause they abdicated responsibility to it.17  The reticence of the airplane’s inventors about its moral and strategic implications did not stem from lack of sophistication. Far from being the “folklore technologists” that myth sometimes made them out to be, they succeeded because they appreciated the scientific method, participated in an embryonic community of aeronautical experts, knew the virtues of institutionalized research, and recognized that only government could offer them capital and a market.18 But as theorists and moralists of war, they had little to suggest. T