d their priorities in August and September: “Because they had lived for more than four years with the quest for the bomb and knew of its effects at Alamogordo, they were not, like most people, stunned by the news from Japan.” For Bush and Conant, “the psychological impact lay rather in the shattering of the little world of secrecy in which they had so long been confined.” They were swept up in dealing with the political remifications of public knowledge of atomic energy. Like them, many scientists also experienced a “feeling of emancipation” at the end of years of secrecy imposed on them, their families, their entire lives. One physicist, although “shocked by the effect our weapon had produced,” later still had to “confess that our relief was really greater than our horror. For at last our families and friends in other cities and countries knew why we had disappeared for years on end. ... We ourselves also learned that our work had not been in vain.” Another man, responsible for fashioning the plutonium bomb, recalled being “desperately anxious to find out ... whether its intricate mechanism would work. These were dreadful thoughts, I know, and still I could not help having them.” In the face of these emotions, there was little time or inclination to ponder what in human terms had happened in Japan.125  Partha crianticte nart af tha nrnhlam in canfrantina tha hamh law in thair iannranca of tha offacte nf radiatinn Tt tank tima tn ahenrh tha naw b/nawladaa cainad fram Uirnchima and Maaacabi  Page 342 of 368 78%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON down.”2123  A “wave of sympathy” for the Japanese also troubled General Groves. Twice on August 25 he talked with Lieutenant Colonel Rea at the Oak Ridge Hospital regarding Radio Tokyo's broadcast about Hiroshima’s victims. “Now it is peopled by [a] ghost parade,” Groves quoted from the broadcast, “ ‘the living doomed to die of radioactivity burns.” Since these reports were being picked up by the Amer