d patron.” If scientists conquered nature by risking global suicide, pilots did so by risking personal destruction.  These appeals, confined to a limited number of airmen, could not always be sustained in the face of “reluctant intimacy with the mingled smell of burning paint, fabric, rubber, petrol and human flesh from a crashed aircraft,” as the English flier’s encounter with reality has been described. Even then, however, some “still very much enjoyed the business of flying an aircraft,” reveling in “an overwhelming sense of the vastness of the universe.” Many men in war experience a sense of grandeur and beauty in the Olympian scale and visual dazzle of war, but the airman’s pleasure differed in that it derived as much from flying itself as from war’s drama.24  The habit of viewing flying as an act of technique apart from war was critically reinforced by the air force’s policies of fixing limits to combat duty for airmen. Washington headquarters never officially prescribed a limit to the number of combat missions crews might fly, but by practice commanders usually set a ceiling like the twenty-five or thirty missions that governed the Eighth Air Force; fixed tours of slightly different length also eventually prevailed in the RAF’s Bomber Command. While analogous limits were the rule in the navy and the marines, other army servicemen en- joyed no such luxury, serving for the unspecified duration of combat either in a theater or in the war itself.2°  Fixing limits on combat service played a major role in the morale of aircrews. The completion of a set tour of missions became their consuming goal. It was one reason they often resisted reporting physical and emotional difficulties, for dropping out of rotation risked diminished status, severance of comradely bonds, and increased danger posed when crewmen unknown to each other worked together. Most important, knowledge that their combat duty was finite gave “the hope of surviving . . . some basis in reality” and help