use it might mean closer air bases, from which we could literally rip Japan to pieces.” Arnold’s mind was, as ever, fixed on expanding his operational opportunities. He knew the bomb had been suc- eassfilly tected hit he did nat foresee it as ending the war hefnre the Russians cwent in 96  Page 334 of 368 76%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON lives lost, still would have seemed to justity the bomb’s use. But the tact that policymakers never attempted to calculate firmer figures suggests how loosely they tramed their alternatives and how eas-  ily they convinced themselves of the bomb’s legitimacy as a benign alternative to ground warfare.23  Perhaps it is wrong to chastise the Anglo-American leaders for failing to define their alternatives and priorities better. Even before the bomb had been tested, a military aide characterized Truman as feeling that “the U.S. is by far the strongest country in the world and he proposes to take the lead at the coming meeting.”*4 Added to the preeminence in so many other ways that the United States held in the summer of 1945, perhaps the atomic bomb made Truman and his advisors believe that no firm choices had to be made about priorities. The bomb would end the war quickly, before the Soviets stole prestige and territory, with minimum loss of American lives and with the assurance of complete power to reshape Japan without compromising on the emperor.  Did such an Olympian temptation guide the Truman administration at the Potsdam Conference? An answer hinges in part on whether Americans thought Russian entry was still “necessary” to win the war, a possibility for which the evidence is complex, ambiguous, and easily misunderstood. For one thing, it was not the successful Trinity test of the bomb that alone changed expectations. The importance attached to Soviet entry had been declining since Yalta: some Japanese armies had already been sent home from the Manchurian frontier, the remainder could no longer be t