oser, its danger seemed to recede. That at least was the impression conveyed by popular images of American aviation and by informed examinations of air power and the nation’s strategic needs.  The American air force in particular appeared as a weapon of growing but still limited utility after the air mail affair of 1934. With Mitchell's eclipse and then his death in 1936, no well-known exponent of American air power spoke to the nation. Perhaps the most visible authorities were Henry Harley Arnold and Ira Eaker, two Air Corps officers who collaborated on three books in the late thirties and early forties, but these gave only a brief glimpse of the more terrifying possibilities of air power and emphasized the defensive aspect of American air power. Other Air Corps officials maintained a similar emphasis in public. Major General Oscar Westover, the Chief of the Air Corps, alluded to new missions for aircraft like the B-17, emphasizing their capacity to “keep us out of war” and mentioning Japan’s fear of “ruthless bombardment of her tinder-box cities” by Russian bombers based at Vladivostok. In public, few aviators fleshed out these suggestions of offensive and deter- rent functions for air forces.3°  Most Americans continued to hear about the familiar scenario of aerial interception of sea or air armadas. In 1937, for example, the press reported a test ordered by Roosevelt in which an air squadron located a battleship in fog hundreds of miles off the West Coast—“the greatest happenstance in the world,” Curtis LeMay admitted—and sunk it in a mock attack. Americans saw the familiar battleship—bomber controversy waged anew. A highly publicized flight of B-17s to South America that same year—LeMay was again the navigator—reworked the same theme in a hemispheric context, in line with the expanded concept of defense that the Roosevelt administration was developing. The climax of these headline-grabbing episodes came in a stunt—the Air Corps pulled out all the stops in secur