s facile rationalizations invoked by men who viewed themselves as prisoners of their own machines; sometimes, they were even invoked to forestall foolish or needlessly destructive action. But operational requirements often translated into organizational convenience, that is, the need to keep a bomber force in action in order to justify its existence.  Finally, making decisions on the basis of operational necessity made sense only if it contributed to winning the war, and doing so at less cost. Often neither was the case. A classic example was the British bombing of Lubeck in 1942, a city almost devoid of military or economic importance but so densely built up that it made an ideal target. As Max Hastings has written, it “did not attract the attention of the bombers because it was important, but became important because it could be bombed.”5? Furthermore, such practices continued long past the point where operational necessity still governed. In the British case, Harris’s city-destroying campaign was sustained, albeit over considerable opposition, long after the RAF had developed methods of navigation and targeting permitting far more precise attacks on selected economic and military objectives. In the American case, the campaign from China bases continued until January 1945 despite overwhelming evidence of its futil- ity and the availability of Marianas bases far superior in operational terms.  It is no surprise that the escalation of air war derived from so many considerations. But their multiplicity was rarely recognized. The prophets and proponents of air power had asked it to be judged by rational standards of humane efficiency. Yet more than other methods of warfare, it lacked measurable criteria by which to enforce those standards. Its effects were difficult to assess, even to witness; the indices of success most easily assembled—tonnage delivered, sorties flown, acreage wasted—far from inviting restraint, encouraged escalation; decisions about it were by natu