rew haphazardly. A complex mix of popular passions, political ambitions, strategic desperation, military rivalry, and wartime momentum brought the bombers to London and Cologne.  As in most wars, responsibility for introducing new terrors was unclear in this one. Precedent of course existed in artillery shelling of cities. As for aerial bombs, German planes dropped a few on Liége and Paris during the war’s first weeks. The British struck German Zeppelin sheds in September 1914. The French first dropped bombs on a German city in December, just weeks before the Germans struck at Dover. Zeppelin attacks on England followed in 1915, and soon the bombing spread to all theaters of war. Austrians and Italians traded notably punishing blows against cities. The French, wary of setting the wrong precedent for German bombers, generally confined their large effort to attacks on military and industrial targets. But by war’s end, bombs had hit every capital of the warring European powers except Rome, and rumors of impending attack even darkened cities in eastern Canada and the United States.  The Zeppelin raids of 1915 marked the decisive turn. Motivated partly by rivalries and ambitions within the military, they were pressed by officers on a civilian leadership with sentimental, moral, and political qualms about bombing. The kaiser, worried about the fate of his royal cousins in London and squeamish about the nastiness of modern war, reluctantly approved the bombing program only after getting assurances that “historic buildings and private property will be spared as much as possible,” stipulations that neither the state of the art nor the desires of officers could long respect. Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg feared that unrestricted war, in the air as on the seas, might make “a very unfavourable impression on foreign neutrals, particularly in America.” He of course lost the argument.23  The case for bombing cities developed piecemeal. German commanders promised tangible rewards: ra