ULLELeLice,  The conferees deliberated little about how strategic bombing would bring about the enemy’s defeat. It was a lapse understandable in light of the imponderables involved, the political questions that would have to be solved, and perhaps also the undertone of confidence entering Allied discussions: expanding resources and opportunities made hard questions about alternative routes to victory less pressing. The crisis over the Eighth Air Force was seen as a tactical, not a strategic, problem. The issue was how best to bomb, not how to win the war through bombing, and the tidy round-the-clock formula averted hard choices even on that matter.  Eaker and Arnold won their case with Churchill and the Combined Chiefs. The upshot of the conference for the Anglo-American air forces was essentially a codification of previous agreements and inclinations. The Combined Chiefs’ formula directed Allied bombers both to destroy the “German military, industrial and economic system” and to undermine “the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.” The ambiguous wording—“fatally weakened” was a wonderful example—left unanswered the question of what kind of invasion would be required and how its timing would fit with the schedule of bombing. Furthermore, the specific objectives listed—submarine construction yards, the aircraft industry, transportation, oil production, and other enemy industries—left broad latitude to air force commanders and bore little relation to the campaign of area destruction that the RAF mounted with increasing fury. The Allies also accorded the RAF broad authority over Eighth Air Force operations, reserving to American commanders “the technique and method to be employed.” Commanding unquestionably the junior force, American leaders were for the moment content with that provision.*  Now Arnold and Eaker had more time but only, as it turned out, to meet unexpected challenges. With continued diversi