against premature “flamboyant announcements” about the bomber deploy- ments. Stimson asked Hull to speak softly and give him “a very short time to get that big stick into readiness.” He conveyed much the same message to the American diplomat W. Averell Harriman. Postponement of war in the Pacific was already the guiding principle, if not always the day-to-day practice, of American policy. The air strategy gave new urgency to what Marshall called “some very clever diplomacy,” even “certain minor concessions” for Japanese face-saving, in order “to save the situation.”84  By holding the Japanese in check, America’s bombers might also resolve the vexatious demands of the Allies for more explicit American commitments to come to their aid in the event of war. American air power could be deployed independently and used unilaterally. It allowed the Americans and the British to move along parallel but independent tracks, as London was rushing naval reinforcements to the Far East, sharing with the Americans deterrence as their purpose and March 1942 as their deadline for building up their force. The parallel went further: in both cases the forces were too small and too hastily thrown together to be much more than a bluff, and in neither case was the weakness of the bluff fully appreciated. Meanwhile, the promise of American air power was used to satisfy not only the British but the Dutch and the Chinese. All were brought in on the new secret.85  By early November, Washington’s plans for its Far Eastern bombers were well advanced. In the rush to get them there, in the unspoken temptation to regard their existence alone as decisive, in the careless mixture of awe and deprecation of Japanese abilities, the question of what to do with them when they reached the Philippines received hasty, sometimes conflicting answers from the military staff. The intent was grand: deter Japanese expansion, interdict it if it flowed southward, even, as both Stimson and Marshall conjectured, wean J