vidence of waning public interest in the grander theories of air power. The press featured several articles that were highly skeptical about those theories, and Mitchell, by 1934 once again a pariah at the White House, found himself shunned by publishers, who thought he now bored his readers. In short, 1934 perhaps marked the nadir of the public image of American military aviation.  Just at that low point, however, Air Corps officers were distilling a new doctrine, one of precision bombing, that soon would enhance their status and mobilize their ranks, and later calm moral distress as the nation contemplated the next world war and the bomber’s use in it. Peculiarly the brainchild of American theorists, though sometimes foreshadowed and later appropriated by airmen elsewhere, the doctrine of precision bombing had origins as complex as its implications.  Among those origins, however, ideology played a negligible role, at least in the formal deliberations of American airmen. Strong-minded, occasionally bitter about their clashes with senior army and navy officers, these men were nonetheless reticent or indifferent about the larger controversies over fascism abroad and unrest at home that aroused many Americans during the depression years. Most had entered military aviation for the excitement and glamor it offered or for the chance it seemed to offer as a new field for rapid promotion. Understandably, given how new that field was, their perspective on doctrine was parochial.  It was sharpened by professional frustrations. Rapidly promoted during World War I, Air Corps officers had endured wholesale reduction in rank after the war’s end and a glacial pace of promotion thereafter. So had most other army officers, but airmen were different because of the mystique of aviation and the pack mentality induced by their training and their battles with superiors. Infantry or artillery officers also worried about dead-end careers, but at least their branches of service were not su