e, now carrying it out, the bomber still elicited those reactions it had before the war and would after it: the twin temptations to employ it and look away from it.  When the war was just over, Liddell Hart postulated that in warfare  aggressors—unless they are merely barbaric hordes—tend to rely on improved use of conventional weapons, and to avoid widespread destruction, whereas the incensed victims of aggression tend to be far more reckless. That is a natural tendency—because aggressors are calculating. They plan to achieve their gains with the least possible damage, both to themselves and to their acquisitions, whereas the vic- tims of aggression are driven by an uncontrollable impulse to hit back regardless of the consequences.*>  Liddell Hart wrote before the shattering of myths about the coolly calculating Nazi regime—which in fact operated like “barbaric hordes”—and before scholars established how calculating Allied leaders often were. Nonetheless he captured one reason that bombing was attractive to Americans during the war: for a nation that coveted not territory but influence and revenge, air power was an ideal weapon. It promised punishment, meted out too impersonally to compel close attention to the motive of revenge, and with no danger the enemy would retaliate in kind. In that sense, the remote- ness of air power was not simply a permissive factor—not something that merely allowed air war to go on for other reasons—but was itself one of its appealing characteristics.  That appeal did not alone compel the use of the bomber as an instrument of strategic devastation. Certainly it does not capture the language and reasoning employed by most proponents and agents of the bombing effort. Most often, they cited variations of a necessitarian argument. Strategic bombing, they usually said, was dictated by the requirements of defeating tenacious foes, minimizing losses, and making the best use of resources. The necessitarian argument also informed much of the pi