of seeming only to be provocations or empty bluffs, as military leaders often feared. “The delicate line between what would deter and what would provoke.” Roberta Wohlstetter has written, “was evidently the subject of much discussion, little thought, and still less agreement among policymaking officials.” It was never, of course, identified. Roosevelt, charting a shifting middle course between deterrence and conciliation, never achieved the consistency that successful deterrence presupposed: “The American policymakers kept themselves as well as the Japanese guessing,” notes Wohlstetter. For its more forceful advocates, a deterrent policy rested also on the conviction that Japan’s power was more show than substance, its leaders ready to back down in the face of the white man’s superior determination. That was the frequently stated view of Stimson, who noted that in past conflicts the Japanese had “crawled down” and retreated “like whipped puppies” when the United States stood firm. At the same time, in contrast to the view of the Japanese as emotional children (or cringing animals), the rationale for deterrence also presupposed the Japanese were shrewd calculators who would measure gains against losses and decide the latter were too weighty.®5  After November 1940, air power increasingly emerged as the attractive, cheap deterrent, the means of escape from the strategic dilemma into which Washington had settled. Diplomacy might yet define areas of compromise or at least postpone hostilities, but alone its prospects seemed bleak. Naval power was the traditional means, but the Battle of the Atlantic sapped the strength of both British and American navies, and efforts to coordinate the British and American naval forces still available foundered on the rocks of insufficient force, Anglo-American jealousies, and the legal and political barriers against a formal American commitment to the British. Simultaneously, the American army was tied down by new hemispheric responsibi