since Japan could no longer import oil anyway. Far more valuable was “the heaviest aerial mining campaign ever waged,” one that now exceeded even the damage done by American submarines. Yet the precision attacks were often labeled as “experimental” in the air force’s official history, a neat reversal from when that term was applied to fire raids. Most of LeMay’s tonnage still hit urban areas, for with a huge force at his command, he could dabble in other operations without seriously diluting the incendiary campaign. Doing so placated critics, satisfied the AAF’s residual interest in the doctrine once its mainstay, and prepared for the day when urban areas had become so obliterated that other targets would have to be hit.3¢  Of course, the B-29s’ operations were by summer complemented by other air forces which to some extent carried on the precision side of the aerial campaign. Carrier-based planes as well as fighters and smaller bombers with the army’s Fifth Air Force roamed over Japan with impunity, attacking airfields, factories, railroad yards, bridges, trains, and what the official history called “other such targets of opportunity.” In practice, the tactical fighters and bombers were often doing something more akin to the Jeb Stuart campaign that Lovett had once proposed for Germany in its waning days. The impulse to engage in “general Hell raising” was no longer confined to the big bombers, and in bombing civilians no clear distinction remained between precision bombing and area attacks. Noting the Japanese government’s announcement that all men from fifteen to sixty and all women from seventeen to forty would be called up for defense, the Fifth Air Force’s intelligence officer declared on July 21 that “the entire population of Japan is a proper Military Target ..., THERE ARE NO CIVILIANS IN JAPAN.” The goal was to do anything “which saves American lives, shortens the agony which War is and seeks to bring about an enduring Peace.”3!  The strafing of passenger t