the RAF usually performed that task for the Allies in Europe. Even when American bombers joined the RAF, however, the enemy’s fanaticism was rarely cited as justification. The ultimate fury of American aerial devastation came against Japan not because it was more fanatical, but because it was relatively weaker. Germany’s strength and tenacity gave the Allies little choice but to resort to invasion because Germany would not surrender without it. It was the relative ease of attacking Japan by air that tempted Americans into the fullest use of air power. As an image, Japan’s fanaticism was real enough in the minds of many Americans. But it served mainly to justify a course of bombing rooted in strategic circumstances and the emotional need for vengeance.  The emotions aroused by the war trapped strategists and policymakers in another way as well. There had always been a flaw inherent in applying a formula of unconditional surrender to Japan. Inasmuch as Japan and the United States had been drawn into war finally through the connection of Far Eastern events to the European crisis, Japan’s importance as a threat would vastly decline once that connection became severed by Germany’s defeat. Unconditional surrender might still be demanded because Japanese actions now seemed in their own right so abhorrent; because the American people wanted it; because Japan, it seemed, would surrender under no other terms. None of these reasons was a major part of the original rationale for demanding such surrender. But they had gained such force that they constrained policymakers in any efforts to revise the formula in light of the imminent demise of the Axis alliance.  To complicate matters further, the question of surrender terms and their relationship to strategy fell into the bureaucratic no-man’s-land that lay between the services, the State Department, and other interested agencies and individuals. For their part, military officials, though vexed about how to secure surrender, hesit