ent funding deemed necessary for capital-intensive research, while the nation would preserve its technological superiority during the coming age of instant warfare, about which scientists sounded the alarms as loudly as military officers. Quarrels over the terms of partnership persisted. But especially in the air force, military men were generally forthcoming.  Civilian militarism brought status, profit, institutional growth, and creative opportunities to many scientists, academicians, lawyers, and businessmen. A minority passionately saw ideological issues at stake in the war. For most, winning the war was surely a goal but one whose worth seemed too obvious to require much elaboration. The war was more fascinating and attractive as a process to which they could apply their talents than as a crusade. Pursuing civilian militarism, they identified it with broader virtues in the Allied cause: the triumph of cooperative organization over the authoritarian and parochial mentality of the militarist elites ruling Germany and Japan. But the struggle for civilian militarism also turned them inward, concentrating their energies on the perfection of technique rather than on the enemy. The lawyer or for that matter the scientist who regarded the air force as his “client” had something to prove but above all was contributing his craft, his ability to “think objectively,” as Dwight MacDonald had called it.  Was there a darker attraction? The core of scientific work, especially for the atomic scientists, was the technology of death itself. Attractive because of the intriguing problems it posed and the promise of victory it carried, that technology also conferred power over life and death itself—with the atomic bomb, absolute power. Some felt angst over creating such power; others perhaps welcomed the opportunity to seize the very powers of the gods themselves. In science, freedom and knowledge had always been inseparable from control—to unlock the secrets of nature is also to sub