lane in the sky, an island in the water; there is no thread of realization, of understanding, of human feeling that connects the two. In modern war one kills at a distance, and in doing so does not realize that he is killing. (September 10, 1944)75  To be, sure, the implications of the distance Lindbergh described were ambiguous. Detachment from killing can make it easy but can also provide perspective on it; it can both lessen and increase hatred toward an enemy. Wartime historians noted that men opposing the Germans seemed to be “more vindictive toward the Japanese” than the ground soldiers actually committed to Pacific fighting, an observation confirmed in postwar studies. Men in training displayed more vindictiveness toward both enemies than did men in combat. American soldiers held more vengeful attitudes toward the Japanese than toward the Germans, with whom “identification was relatively easy”: many American troops in the Pacific and a majority in Europe and the states wanted to “wipe out the whole Japanese nation.” But attitudes toward the Japanese were also more superficial and volatile, and combat often triggered a “discovery that much dirty fighting which to the civilian and the inexperienced soldier seemed a special property of the enemy’s viciousness was actually a general characteristic of war.” Moreover, in both theaters, hatred of the enemy was apparently a minor mo- tivation for men in combat and regarded by air force psychiatrists as counterproductive, a crippling emotion that was a luxury of the home front.7®  Wartime data permit few firm conclusions about how the airman’s peculiar distance from his enemy affected his attitudes. Most likely, distance did not increase or decrease hatred so much as it altered its forms and manner of expression. It made it easier for more men to hate an emeny but also made that hatred more abstract, less personally and intensely felt. Whatever vindictiveness airmen felt, they had fewer opportunities to express it dir