y from Pearl Harbor to the enemy’s surrender on the decks of the Missouri, Americans might be likened to a man forced to set out on a cross-country car trip. As he drives along, the trip gathers its own interest, momentum, and challenge. He finds himself diverting to places he had not imagined; he tinkers with his car and enjoys feeling it run faster and smoother and discovers a power and mastery in manipulating it. Perhaps he did not choose this mode of travel conscious of the pleasures it would bring; he thought it necessary because of the baggage he wanted to bring along and because it was cheaper to travel this way, and after all, he already knew how to drive. Nor does he forget what his destination is, but as he travels he does not dwell on its importance; it will take care of itself if he makes the trip properly. Once the trip is done, it rapidly fades from memory, its pleasures and challenges now comfortably tucked away in his mind as necessities imposed on him in order to enable him to reach his destination, not as choices he had the freedom to make.  By December 1944, Americans were close to their destination, closer than most of them realized. Proximity was not evident, not with one more range of mountains to cross, not with the trip itself generating such excitement and anxiety, not with the machine built to make the trip yet to be fully tested. There was perhaps even a hope that the mountains would stand tall, to provide ful measure for the test. “To test the [atomic] bomb’s real destructiveness,” Arnold later wrote about his concerns near the end of the war, “three or four cities must be saved intact from the B-29’s regular operations as unspoiled targets for the new weapon. Which cities should be spared was a problem,” he added.®1 To Arnold, it seems, the test was as important as the destination. It lay ahead, with not only the atomic bomb but the “regular” forms of fire his bombers could hurl at Japanese cities. Technological fanaticism, long developi