o follow it triggered the plunge into a mood of desperation even more than did the apocalyptic events of August. “Propaganda of the deed,” the term used later by American experts for the bombing, was taking its toll.8”  The dominant reactions were apathy, fearfulness, weariness, work absenteeism, and shame and depression over personal conditions of food and cleanliness—reactions also widespread among survivors of the atomic attacks. Absenteeism, for example, often occurred when family members left behind in the city attempted to visit loved ones or when no productive work could any longer be done. Because many factories remained intact but shut down for lack of raw materials, long lines formed at Tokyo’s remaining movie houses “when every able Japanese was supposed to be in the armed forces or toiling long hours in war production.”8&  Some Japanese able to experience rage expressed it in class antagonism. Primarily “tough people from one of the worst slum areas,” many of Tokyo's survivors fled into better neighborhoods, whose hosts took pity and offered succor. “Instead of being grateful,” however, “the slum people resented the fact that in war... people should be having such luxuries, ones they couldn’t dream of having even in peace. So they looted houses wholesale.” Although not always taking a violent form, bitterness about the advantages of the privileged amid the suffering became widespread, in Tokyo and eventually elsewhere.82  That bitterness, linked as it was to criticism of official ineptitude and to a more generalized sense of a disintegrating social fabric, fed official anxieties about public reactions to the raid, enough so that “the customary cobwebs of Japanese bureaucracy were torn away” to provide emergency relief to the city. The emperor himself made a personal inspection of the devastated area on March 18, an experience that “no doubt contributed to his growing realization that the war had to be stopped as quickly as possible.” The conflagration ce