massive effort to weaken German defenses in France against invading forces. More broadly, countervailing considerations reined in a rush to air power: it was still too untested a weapon to place all bets on it, and even where an aerial strategy was more concertedly pressed, as was the case in the war against Japan, formidable undertakings on the ground and at sea were required to secure bases placing Japan within reach of American bombers.  What facilitated official reliance on air power was less irresistible public pressures than the previous acceptance and general attractiveness of strategic bombing. The congruence of official and public expectations was indicated simply by the lack of friction between them. Another consideration inviting use of air power, then, lay in the lack of political conflict that its use entailed.  Amore alert and concerned citizenry might have made a difference, not by fostering an empty public ritual of handwringing about the morality of bombing, but in more substantive ways. First, a distinction between the use of bombing for military purposes and its employment to satisfy political and emotional ends might have forced the bombing effort into narrower channels. If leaders rarely stoked the fires of vengeance and hegemony openly they did little by word to bank them and a good deal by action to fan them. Had they not and had others examined the bombing effort more critically, a greater obligation might have been placed on commanders to justify the military utility of missions.  Contemporary leaders were themselves alert to this possibility. They were fearful that popular perceptions of inhumanity in the bombing effort might affect its course, the political image of the United States, and the fate of the air force and its ambitions. Privately, they worried—in General Ira Eaker’s warning late in the war—that “we should never allow the history of this war to convict us of throwing the strategic bomber at the man in the street.”®3 Publicly, t