on of its perfectly-known military, geographical, and strategical factors, cannot, demonstrably, turn out to the permanent advantage of either side, a war between nations so situated that neither has anything very serious to fear from the other within its own selected sphere of influence and activity, is a war that is not going to take place. It is an impossible war.” Eliot’s assumption of rational calculations minimized his acknowledgment of the danger of all-out air war. Germany might be tempted to strike at London, but “the masters of modern Germany are not fools.”>1 His reasoning resembled that of other experts who condemned as “arrant nonsense” the notion that “whole cities will be wiped out by flights of bombers from overseas,” for “it is obvious that a foreign squadron .. . would not waste its load on residential districts, but would concentrate upon railroad yards, piers, and factories.”>? In describing their argument as “obvious,” realists revealed that something more than “realism” underlay their thinking—at a minimum, an unacknowledged measure of optimism about human ration- ality. They offered reassurance, but it was flawed in two ways: strategic conditions might change so that bombing cities would appear profitable or rational calculations might not prevail at all.  Perhaps the most subtle and certainly the most curious speculation about air war came in a book by an Irish psychologist, Watson O’dell Pierce, who was writing and teaching in America at the time his Air War: Its Psychological, Technical and Social Implications was published in 1939. Pierce obliquely approached the strategic and moral issues that concerned others. His aim was to explore the social and psychological characteristics that made possible the development and use of military aviation, to examine air war as “the end product of our scientific civilization.” In that Wellsian spirit, he emphasized the psychic necessity of combat aviators to achieve distance “from the messy and brutal p