ry function, put still less emphasis on strategic bombardment.  Mitchell’s limited definition of American needs in the air may also have stemmed from his modest definition of American interests. Global economic interests existed for the United States, he acknowledged; but having proclaimed the end of American “isolation,” he also asserted that “America could entirely dispense of her sea-going trade if she had to, and continue to exist and defend her- self,” a view that not all airmen shared.22  Only in the Far East did war seem likely to Mitchell, and in that regard he mirrored the nation’s inconsistencies regarding isolationism. Many Americans nursed a belligerent attitude toward Japan that they avoided with regard to European powers. Following suit, Mitchell imagined an offensive use of the bomber in the Far East though otherwise he stressed the defensive. Making little attempt to define American interests, Mitchell was moved perhaps by visions of race war, which triggered reckless talk on both sides of the Pacific in the 1920s. To be sure, he justified his proposed bomber force as a deterrent against Japanese attack on America’s colony, the Philippine Islands. But there was almost a note of relish in his description of the course to be followed if deterrence failed. An American aerial offensive routed through Alaska and the North Pacific would be “decisive” because Japan’s cities were “congested” and built from “paper and wood or other inflammable structures.” The attractions of this “ideal target,” already worrisome to the Japanese, would be fully realized in twenty years. In the 1920s, however, the possibilities for air war against Japan rarely generated sus- tained public debate, even in the military, where Mitchell’s ideas circulated and apprehension of a Far Eastern war was widespread.23  Confusion in what military aviators claimed to expect of the bomber was in part attributable to their ambitions and intellects and to their fear of stating in public what t