n fulfilled. If men felt like sons of bitches, it was for creating an instrument of “doomsday” and imperiling “the future of humanity.” There were awesome responsibilities to be acted upon in the years to come, but not in the days to come. Though no one would have quite put it this way, there seemed to be, in the face of responsibilities stretching almost to eternity, something almost trivial in the use of the first crude gadget against Japan—a kind of horrid little footnote to the much more grand and grim task of managing the fate of humanity. Earlier, some scientists had argued for the bomb’s use as necessary to foster the world’s appreciation of the new force. Unknowingly, they had described their own need as well. Between Trinity and Hiroshima, the bomb remained to them a kind of awesome abstraction, now tested to be sure, but not yet imaginable as a weapon of war.113  For the bomb’s managers, the three weeks after Trinity were tense but essentially routine. With Kyoto dropped, Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Kokura, and Niigata remained as designated targets. The only restatement of the rationale for targeting rehashed old reasoning about psychological effect: “All four cities are believed to contain large numbers of key Japanese industrialists and political figures who have sought refuge from major destroyed cities.”114 Given Japan’s response to the Potsdam ultimatum, policy was no longer at issue. Spaatz, Groves, and Stimson did worry about new evidence of POW camps near Nagasaki but did not scratch the city from the target list. Fortunately, the most likely first target, Hiroshima, seemed to have no POW camps, though as it turned out some Allied POWs died in both cities.115 Otherwise, when not attending to last-minute technical details, the bomb’s managers worked on public relations. They honed the statements to be released when the bomb had been used and cleared away last-minute objections to disclosure of certain scientific information on the bomb. The various propos