ries, and Mitchell, by 1934 once again a pariah at the White House, found himself shunned by publishers, who thought he now bored his readers. In short, 1934 perhaps marked the nadir of the public image of American military aviation.  Just at that low point, however, Air Corps officers were distilling a new doctrine, one of precision bombing, that soon would enhance their status and mobilize their ranks, and later calm moral distress as the nation contemplated the next world war and the bomber’s use in it. Peculiarly the brainchild of American theorists, though sometimes foreshadowed and later appropriated by airmen elsewhere, the doctrine of precision bombing had origins as complex as its implications.  Among those origins, however, ideology played a negligible role, at least in the formal deliberations of American airmen. Strong-minded, occasionally bitter about their clashes with senior  Page 47 of 368 1%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Corps in 1926, secured establishment in 1935 of a General Headquarters Air Force, which theoretically gathered all operational units under one command responsible only to the army chief of staff. In all, army aviation had accumulated some capital out of its own embarrassment.  These marginal gains existed largely on paper, however. The relentless squeeze on military budgets brought on by the depression overshadowed all military politics. Army leaders felt caught in a bind. They regarded aviation as the most expensive item in their budget, one whose growth would dissipate the strength of the ground army and the integrity of the officer corps. On the other hand, they feared that economizing on aviation would offend a public enamored with air power and hand over to the navy the initiative in developing aviation. The army general staff never escaped this bind. Douglas MacArthur, the chief of staff early in the 1930s, followed a shifting course. One moment he allied with pacifists and proponents of disarmame