od of victory, but vengeance was the very patriotic theme. Reduced to animation, air war was at once glorified, trivialized, and dehumanized, becoming “a carnival of destruction, relieved of all such impon- derables as human beings, ideals and causes and effects.”32  The film’s impact need not be overestimated. Although Disney pressured Simon and Schuster to bring out a cheap paperback edition of the book in order to promote the film, box office gross was not impressive. The Disney version drew praise from the New York Times but also criticism as “a conglomeration of animated cartoon styles, mostly bad.” Some animated scenes were visually effective, but also crudely and obviously propagandistic. Most of all, James Agee rightly noted, “there were no suffering and dying enemy civilians... no civilians at all, in fact,” indeed hardly any people in the film. And yet the best scrutiny of the film came from movie critics whose challenge was not authoritative in strategic terms or widely disseminated. More powerful judges apparently reacted enthusi- astically, if the rumor is accurate that Churchill prevailed on Roosevelt to view the film at the Quebec conference in August 1943, and in turn Roosevelt pressed it upon the Joint Chiefs.33  Perhaps what both book and film reflected most accurately was the ease with which Americans were making distinctions between their enemies, saving their greatest fury for the Japanese. True, the film was rarely overtly racist; instead, a technological determinism governed. Yet where Germany was symbolized by an iron ring, Japan was given the form of a loathsome octopus, and the final vicious scene, what Agee called Disney’s “gay dreams of holocaust,” unmistakably promised special treatment for Japan.  Hollywood rarely broached directly the subject of Japan’s final fate from the air. Indeed, except in animation, strategic bombing defied dramatic visual depiction. In most films, Hollywood, collaborating closely with the AAF, glorified the air