the bomber had not so much disappeared as taken on more subtle expression. Air war still had a singular capacity simultaneously to attract hope and repel examination. As a weapon of apocalypse, now carrying it out, the bomber still elicited those reactions it had before the war and would after it: the twin temptations to employ it and look away from it.  When the war was just over, Liddell Hart postulated that in warfare  aggressors—unless they are merely barbaric hordes—tend to rely on improved use of conventional weapons, and to avoid widespread destruction, whereas the incensed victims of aggression tend to be far more reckless. That is a natural tendency—because aggressors are calculating. They plan to achieve their gains with the least possible damage, both to themselves and to their acquisitions, whereas the vic- tims of aggression are driven by an uncontrollable impulse to hit back regardless of the consequences.**  Liddell Hart wrote before the shattering of myths about the coolly calculating Nazi regime—which in fact operated like “barbaric hordes”—and before scholars established how calculating Allied leaders often were. Nonetheless he captured one reason that bombing was attractive to Americans during the war: for a nation that coveted not territory but influence and revenge, air power was an ideal weapon. It promised punishment, meted out too impersonally to compel close attention to the motive of revenge, and with no danger the enemy would retaliate in kind. In that sense, the remote- ness of air power was not simply a permissive factor—not something that merely allowed air war to go on for other reasons—but was itself one of its appealing characteristics.  Page 172 of 368 40%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Expectations for how the bomber’s record would be revealed also proved to be erroneous. Earlier prophecies and plans, from the 1930s and the first years of the war, had foreseen the period of bomber operations as a chron