ly worked from the same assumptions even as they reached different conclusions about the bomb’s use. For both, winning the war was an explicit objective eclipsed by other concerns. Dissenters did raise some questions about the bomb’s relationship to the war. The Franck Committee report and the Szilard petition, the most famous pronouncements of dissent, noted briefly how the original justification for the bomb project, fear of Germany’s acquisition of the weapon, had been invalidated. O. C. Brewster, an engineer on the gas diffusion project, made the point more emphatic in a letter of May 24 to the president that was brought to Stimson’s attention: “So long as the threat of Germany existed we had to proceed with all speed. ... With the threat of Germany removed we must stop this project.” In addition, the efficacy of the bomb against Japan was sometimes questioned, the Franck Committee doubting that “the first available bombs, of comparatively low efficiency and small size, will be sufficient to break the will or ability of Japan to resist, especially given the fact that the major cities like Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka and Kobe already will largely have been reduced to ashes by the slower process of ordinary aerial bombing.” Ina sense, this claim involved turning one argument for the bomb’s use—the marginal difference between it and conventional weapons—against employment of the atomic device. But most dissenters were too sensitive to their ignorance about the military situation in the Far East and to their lack of responsibility for American lives to press any case that the bomb was unnecessary. Although no dissenter, Oppenheimer aptly characterized the scientists’ ignorance: “We didn’t know beans about the military situation in Japan” except for being told that “the invasion was inevitable,” he recalled in 1954.71  Ralph Bard, however, was in the inner councils of nuclear decision making, and as navy under secretary was well acquainted with the war’s course. He had asse