his mind explicitly, agreeing that month with Churchill (but neglecting to tell his advisors) that the bomb “might perhaps, after mature consideration, be used against the Japanese.” To be sure, means did not have to crowd out ends—they did not for Roosevelt. Nonetheless, the pattern of concerns roughly mir- rored those evident in development of “conventional” weapons like the B-29.  Finally, articulation of long-range strategy fell victim to interservice wrangles whose dimensions dwarfed what went on in Europe. There the compactness of the theater compelled at least a measure of integration among the three services and the two nations. In the Pacific, Americans were relatively free of pressure from allies. This relative freedom, however, only weakened strategy- making further. Britain in particular generated endless debate over matters peripheral to the main American effort, without forcing articulation of the fundamentals of strategy. Among the American services, the inner war over favored methods, routes, and commanders never ceased. Bound by informal rules of unanimity and watched over by a commander-in-chief tolerant of disagreement among subordinates, the Joint Chiefs did the only thing a committee could do: it compromised. If no choice could be made among approaches to Japan through the central Pacific or north from Australia or in the air with strategic bombers, all three would be taken. If one service’s representative could not be granted a supreme command, then give MacArthur one force, the navy’s Nimitz an- other, and Arnold himself command of the new Twentieth Air Force.  This approach to war was not as fractious as it sometimes seemed. The distances involved in the Pacific worked against a centralized command of the sort Eisenhower had in Europe. The services often needed each other, with the air force especially dependent on the navy’s plan to seize and supply the Marianas. Less parochial commanders welcomed contributions from rival services; Admiral C