the significant targets of Formosa were situated in the island’s cities and towns that area bombing was frequently employed. The resulting destruction, it was assumed, not only would reach supplies of military importance and many small industrial units, but would impose upon the enemy, through destruction of housing and municipal services, a serious loss of labor.” But in this case the “municipal services” also supported friendly civilians, and the “serious loss of labor” was inflicted on the same population. The rationale for area bombing, it seemed, hardly need be confined to the enemy.102  Except for his mission against Hankow, this torch of destruction was not even wielded by LeMay. Falling to other air force commands, its systematic employment suggests again how much the decision LeMay made for the March 10 fire raid was not uniquely personal; he grasped a weapon others were free and encouraged to use as well. More than that, it suggests that racist assumptions guided bombing in Asia as much as operational considerations. To be sure, the cities of occupied Europe had often been bombed: thousands were killed in French and Belgian cities by Anglo-American bombers prior to and after OVERLORD. In part simply because the air war in Europe went on far longer, the death toll from bombing in Europe’s occupied lands quite possibly exceeded the count in Asia.  But at the least, the bombing in occupied Europe took place only after some of the war’s most agonized handwringing by Allied leaders and after considerable effort to minimize destruction of friendly lives and landmarks.1°2 Never, for example, was it thought appropriate to cripple the Renault plants making vehicles for the German army by causing “a serious loss of labor” among the Parisian masses. Objectives were targeted, though of course often missed, only if their relationship to the enemy war effort was demonstrably intimate. In Asia the criteria were far looser and their formulation did not even warrant review