mmercially risky film, so Disney worked closely with the Gallup organization, whose market research was designed not only to promote the film but, by divining public interests and tastes, to help shape its content.3!  De Seversky was Disney’s chief collaborator and, with his heavy Russian accent, the rather curious star of the film. Two-thirds of the film was animation, but the live footage featured de Seversky, presented as a dishonored prophet like Mitchell. The film thereby reduced the complex forces behind the growth of military aviation to a stirring story of individual struggle. In line with market research showing a public interest in bombing Tokyo, that city’s destruction “was saved for the final triumphant scene of the film—the reward which America would reap should it have the courage and wisdom to follow Seversky’s advice.” To underscore de Seversky’s thesis that air power obviated the grim task of conquering Japan’s far-flung outposts, the animation showed giant American bombers flying from Alaska and striking at Japanese factories and ports. Then the bombers dissolved into an American eagle whose talons, in a prolonged sequence of orgiastic destruction, rend and tear at the Japanese octopus whose tentacles surrender their grip on Japan’s conquests. Finally, the camera offered a global view of the octopus dissolving into the burned ruins of Japan, while the soundtrack poured out “America the Beautiful” and the final words, VICTORY THROUGH AIR POWER, appeared. As with the book, the formal argument was for a sure and relatively easy method of victory, but vengeance was the very patriotic theme. Reduced to animation, air war was at once glorified, trivialized, and dehumanized, becoming “a carnival of destruction, relieved of all such impon- derables as human beings, ideals and causes and effects.”22  The film’s impact need not be overestimated. Although Disney pressured Simon and Schuster to bring out a cheap paperback edition of the book in order to promot