ere naive and confused about what science had to offer to war-makers. Much of Zuckerman’s memoirs presumes that there were “right” conclusions to be drawn by objective analysis from intelligence data, if only air officers had not operated on vested interests. His conviction that postwar systems analysis used in selecting strategic objectives had banished “the kind of naive economic analysis” evident in World War II is almost macabre in its faith in the objectivity of scientific systems. Dyson’s confusion ran deeper. On the one hand, his memoirs construct a dismaying account of how British airmen needlessly perished because commanders ignored the advice of scientists. On the other, he concluded that “the more technological the war becomes, the more disastrously a bad choice of means will change a good cause into evil”; no one was more eloquent than Dyson in explaining how “science and technology... made evil anonymous.” Dyson believed that scientists on a day-to-day level could have made the bombing effort less wasteful and inhumane, even as the ultimate tendency of science was to aggravate those evils. He wanted it both ways—to criticize the contributions of science to war and to condemn those who ignored its contributions. Out of that confusion came Dyson’s curious reaction at the end of the war to the American bombing of Japan. “Once we had got ourselves into the business of bombing cities, we might as well do the job competently and get it over with,” he had believed. Some- how, a “bad choice of means”—how Dyson earlier described the bombing of cities—became good simply because it was successful.52  More often than not, these civilian critics did not want to understand the military men they berated but to score points off of them. The officers’ narrow minds were their foils for demonstrating the civilians’ breadth and intelligence. More than vanity was at stake, of course. At issue was the fate of civilian militarism—whether the broadening influence and heightene