,” and his statements to the press on the bomb, in contrast to the prideful style of the president, stressed that “any satisfaction we may feel must be overshadowed by deeper emotions. The result of the bomb is so terrific that the responsibility of its possession and its use must weigh heavily on our minds and on our hearts.”122  Looking forward instead of backward, Stimson betrayed his change of mood only indirectly, first as he tried to clear away the remaining obstacles to the war’s quick termination. On the eighth he told Truman, “ ‘When you punish your dog you don’t keep souring on him all day after the punishment is over; if you want to keep his affection, punishment takes care of itself.” The Japanese “are a smiling people and we have to get on those terms with them.” The comment was flavored with Stimson’s genteel, unselfconscious racism, and ostensibly it related to Japan’s treatment after surrender. But it was also a far cry from the boxing metaphor he used to describe his justification in July for the bomb’s use, implying a recognition of the helplessness of a nation whose punishment Stimson had so recently accepted. Now he wanted further bombing halted.122  Page 345 of 368 79%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  “If you had been one of the dead,” he asked, “would it have made any difference to you whether you were incinerated in Hamburg or in Hiroshima?” He seemed to think not. It was the means of destruction, of death, on which all discussion focused in those days. Some of the scientists concerned in the development of “the bomb” may have known about the biological effects of radioactivity, but if they did, these were secondary considerations at the time. What mattered was the enormous explosive and thermal power of “the bomb.”  Some scientists did respond with special alarm to the peculiar effects von Karman wanted to overlook. Furthermore, even among some of those accepting of the bomb’s use, news of its employment against Na