ll intents and purposes, the civilization founded by William the Conqueror, which gave Bacon, Newton and Watt to the world, comes, in something like half an hour, to a close. Finished and done. London, Liverpool, Manchester, Lancashire, Bristol, Birmingham, Leeds—each has had its appointed place on the code of instructions, and each now duly makes its exit from the list of  Page 40 of 368 10%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON peril if 1t occurred, but one now far less likely to occur.  Despite all that World War I suggested about the problem of science and war, when concerned Americans examined the machine, they confined that problem to a small corner of their thoughts or ignored it altogether. When the Academy of Political and Social Science devoted an entire issue of its Annals to aviation in May 1927, only one brief article by Billy Mitchell examined its military uses. A few years later, President Hoover’s prestigious Committee on Recent Social Trends examined the impact of science but omitted its implications for war entirely. In general, too, few engineers, indus- trialists, or scientists wrote expansively about war and military aviation. Even the brash army aviators became more cautious after Mitchell’s court-martial.  Those who pondered the fate of the airplane certainly differed widely in politics and temperament, journeying to a point of congruence from widely separate directions. Europeans seemed to grasp almost desperately at the airplane, knowing its terrible role in war but hoping it might prevent war. Americans either seized on it eagerly or ignored it complacently, inspired by a confidence about man’s ability to control his creations. Both groped toward versions of deterrence, based upon the perilous trust that scientific war had a horror that would be its own deterrent or upon a more buoyant faith that science would simply make war impractical and unattractive.  Lindbergh asserted that his flight signified how aviation would