rgy was comparable for a later age. The warplane had its social history, but a complicated one that went beyond national interests or parochial influence, peculiar conceptions of war, and war itself. Air war had its origins in the complicated relationships among fantasy, patterns of technological im- provisation, and the immediate context of war and peace.  Of these, fantasy was sometimes the most important, certainly the most revealing. Of course, people imagined the impact of flight on warfare in imperfect ways. But the themes that arose proved remarkably persistent. The reasons people feared or welcomed the warplane were often the same in 1900 as they would be in 1940, or even in 1980. The tension between large hopes and dark fears about the warplane, between apocalyptic apprehensions and dreams of deliverance, was also lasting. The nature of the airplane alone did not make for such constancy. Vivid, often mistaken predictions about air war said less about technology or the imperfections of imagination than about the cultures which would build and use bombers. If they do not always explain why nations would bomb one another, they at least suggest how they would justify bombing or why they sometimes needed little justification at all.  Fantasy about how flight might affect warfare fed on the technological progress and accelerating militarism of the European world at the century’s turn. By 1900, the major European powers had some four million men in uniform and a capacity to mobilize perhaps ten times that number. More than that, they were increasingly conscious of their technological rivalry, especially in naval armaments, the race for which even distant upstarts like the United States and Japan now joined. Free from the burden of a major war for thirty years, Europeans were nonetheless troubled as well by how they might reconcile a developing faith in peace with evidence of escalating armaments and international tensions. It was not a simple fear of war, but rath