oliticians onenlv discissed the same nrasnects Yet most nrofessinnal airmen saw their  Page 27 of 368 7%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON ULELL LUE Lalipe Lie UCLEALEU SLU Call BEL dWay WALL ILd LLIEL dd LILEYy ALE Lt ULL LLULL LE UPPULIELILs. Me DUBBESLEU LitAl SULALEBIL VULILILIY WUULU SULLENOW DULIL UELNOLIALIZE LULULE Walla’ alu  diminish its casualties because it would confine fighting to smaller numbers of skilled specialists—he compared them with the knights of the Middle Ages—rather than mass armies. In promising the “distinct benefit to civilization” that air war would bring he offered a curious distinction: “air forces will attack centers of production . .. not so much the people themselves.” Somehow, victory would ensue, his followers argued in 1926, “by terrorizing the whole population of a belligerent country while conserving life and property to the greatest extent.” Air prophets were not invariably system- atic thinkers.2+  Yet inconsistencies in their argument for strategic bombardment mattered little simply because Mitchell and his contemporaries presented it as an attractive theory disconnected from American realities. The challenge for Americans was less to learn to wage strategic bombing than to guard against it. In theory, the most effective defense was to reply in kind. But inasmuch as planes of foreign powers lacked the range to attack the United States except from bases or aircraft carriers in the western Atlantic, interception, not retaliation, was sufficient. Mitchell therefore advocated a mixed air force of fighter, pursuit, and bombing aircraft, not the all-bomber force suitable only for offensive war that Douhet embraced. More cautious airmen, convinced that aerial support for the army and navy would remain a primary function, put still less emphasis on strategic bombardment.  Mitchell’s limited definition of American needs in the air may also have stemmed from his modest definition of American interests. Globa