quip an expeditionary force, insisting that “we won’t send troops abroad. We need only think of defending this hemisphere.” Such a statement hardly ruled out eventually “assisting the democracies with our Navy and Air Force,” as reporters paraphrased the president’s thinking, but it hardly emboldened planners either. Predictably, Air Corps officials continued to work the rich vein of hemisphere defense in defending appropriations for long-range bombers.32  “FIFTY THOUSAND PLANES A YEAR”  Germany’s dramatic breakthrough in France in May 1940 spurred Roosevelt to a breakthrough of his own in air policy. For the first time in over a year, he gave air power top priority, now expressing it in terms so grandiose that they dwarfed his earlier statements. Addressing a joint session of Congress on May 16, Roosevelt called for a production capacity of “at least 50,000 planes a year,” a standing force of naval and military aircraft of the same size, and renewed congressional commitment to the sale of aircraft to Britain and France. Calculated to shock Americans into rethinking their fundamental assumptions about national security, Roosevelt’s address was sprinkled with references to the “swift and deadly” attacks across vast expanses that airplanes could launch. As dramatiza- tion of the primacy of air power, the message was Roosevelt’s boldest.  Yet with reference to strategy the May 16 message if anything marked a retreat. Gone were the veiled references of the past to a role for American air power in altering the outcome of the struggles in Europe and Asia. The rationale was solely defensive, though defense was broadly conceived. Ticking off the flight times required for foreign aircraft to attack North America, Roosevelt portrayed the United States as vulnerable to sudden destruction. His objective was “national protection” against “the possibility of attack on vital American zones.” Roosevelt had given bolder expres- sion to the needs of American defense. But a revolution