y the AAF’s responsibility, although they were exacerbated by its misleading claims on the Eighth’s initial accomplishments. Weather, always the greatest impediment to success, played havoc with every aspect of operations, TORCH gutted the Eighth’s ranks and often diverted what bombers remained to support of North African operations. With rarely even one hundred bombers operational, Eaker could counter his detractors by pointing out that they were proving themselves right by denying him sufficient force. However, before the Casablanca conference not even Arnold and Eaker knew the depth of Churchill’s desire to convert the AAF into a night-bombing force like Bomber Command or of his sneering attitude toward the Americans’ “most obstinate perseverance in this [daylight bombing] method.”  By the time Roosevelt and Churchill met at Casablanca on January 14, 1943, Arnold had heard of Churchill’s intentions. Never squeamish about putting a subordinate on the line, Arnold rushed Eaker from England to defend daylight strategic operations. Eaker personally took his case to Churchill, assembling the arguments for the daylight bomber, principally the economy of force achievable through greater precision. Eaker’s position was tricky, for he had little new to say to the British, and he had to defend the Eighth Air Force without appearing to derogate the RAF’s contribution. As before, the best tack was to deny conflict: British and American operations would be complementary, not competitive, the British destroying urban areas, the Americans hitting bottleneck targets or marking them by fire for British attack at night. Together they would engage the German air force and cause German war-weariness by round-the-clock bombing. Twenty-four-hour operations would also head off the hopeless congestion in Britain’s airfields and air space sure to result if both British and American bombers were squeezed into the same schedule. Arguing from operational necessity just as the British had in