her than compete with each other.  With the major strategic differences postponed or papered over, the shape of the American bombing effort often emerged indirectly in decisions about production, logistics, and deployment instead of strategy. Roosevelt moved boldly, once again proposing figures for the output of bombers and other aircraft exceeding the AAF’s request. Even bomber advocates like Lovett feared that Roosevelt would get trapped in “the old numbers racket”; manufacturers would try (as they had in World War I) to meet quotas by producing light or obsolescent aircraft; what Lovett called FDR’s “fantasy” would disrupt the fragile machinery of industrial mobilization. But Arnold sided with Roosevelt, as did the War Production Board’s Donald Nelson. At bottom the issue centered on whether production capabilities should shape strategy or vice versa. In the end, the president’s production targets for airplanes—60,000 in 1942, 125,000 for 1943—were not met because of the high priority given to heavy bombers, but the weight of production approached the president’s orders. While he attended more to mobilization than to strategy per se, Roosevelt had reaffirmed his preference for an  Page 118 of 368 27%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Cnee 4u0 pO COLE SATS IO AT QOTIVELS POTSLTALS SD EAE GLE Speke atk cias Sibi Sesabe dag ebitidy oe eoslee sae ue stad piesa, ATLA habe eth Peet y tt he ee  Throughout the war, Anglo-American strategists faced two basic issues which they resolved by transforming conflict into complementarity. The weightier issue was whether strategic bombing would independently win the war in Europe or at least make any invasion essentially a coup de grace. That had been the hope of both Churchill and Roosevelt in 1941. That expectation, however, had arisen in good part from the necessity of imagining a war of limited liability, with Britain lacking the force and the United States the sanction to send ground armies into Fra