arned that “the plane has turned back the clock of history; cities are again under siege . . . the enemy now assaults with blazing oil and fire bombs the castle of our security—our homes.” He accepted the role that night bombing of Germany would play and hence implicitly the destruction of large urban areas. But Baldwin placed top priority on “precision bombing of specific targets,” and that as prelude to invasion of the Continent. Only when Baldwin looked beyond the war did his imagination run free. He wanted America’s voice to be “heard in the far corners of the earth,” and he believed that American air power might become “the future patrol force of the world,” one that would “help to make the peace and keep it.” The urge to find redemption in the rise of air power, now joined to visions of a pax americana, led an able man past contemplation of what might be done with weapons at hand.44  Americans could look for an authoritative view of official thinking about air strategy in Winged Warfare (1941), by Air Corps generals H. H. Arnold and Ira C. Eaker. But like Baldwin, they said less about the potential use of air power than about the urgency of amassing it. They offered the standard defense of precision bombing as “the most economical way of reducing a large city to the point of surrender.” Yet they admitted that in Europe, “bombings are now largely reserved for the hours of darkness and for bad weather,” when precision was unlikely, and that “the will of a whole nation” was an objective in war, which opened the way to wholesale destruction of cities. Nonetheless, Arnold and Eaker clung to reassurance. Reports of “attacks on civil populations” by German and British bombers resulted from “propaganda” or “mistaken identity” or “tactical errors.” Their will to believe in the invulnerability and precision of bombers remained intact: “They can no more be completely stopped once they have taken the air than the big shell can be stopped once it has left the muzzle.” Pred