se naving to do with combat. Likewise 1n the KAr: ~ /ne men who rarea best  were those who did not allow themselves to think at all. Many crews argued that emotional entanglements were madness.” The nature of combat often aggravated this coolness, this “psychic closing- off” as Robert Jay Lifton calls it in a very different context, making it difficult to sustain a sense of engagement in a human, deadly struggle.”2  Several factors diminished further the sense of struggle. Most obviously, the enemy was rarely met face to face. His death and destruction were either unnoticed or observed at an impersonal distance, and even his efforts to return fire were wholly impersonal. For American fliers, the enemy’s retaliation against the homeland or the home base, with its potential to awaken a sense of hatred, was almost nonexistent. Too, in the heat of combat, the energies of crewmen ran as much toward the technical challenge of manipulating the plane and its equipment as toward bombing, which was often done blindly (by radar or by following the lead of pathfinders), with results often unobserved. In the RAF, the men who unleashed destruction “were the last people to know” its results and  totally dependent on their commanders for information about the success or failure of what they were doing. An infantry platoon commander... could achieve some notion of the army’s gains or losses by noticing whether he himself was moving forwards or backwards. A convoy escort officer could judge a great deal from the rate of sinkings around him. But a bomber pilot, with rare exceptions such as the great firestorms of Hamburg and Dresden had to wait for the next bulletin from High Wycombe to learn whether his colleagues were dying to good purpose or in vain.  Even then, headquarters’ information might be wrong.  Distance from a human enemy was not unique to air war. Even within its boundaries a sense of distance varied widely. Destructiveness and exposure to danger simply did not correlate