the vaunted neighborhood associations, the modern business corporation, the state bureaucracy—fell into various degrees of chaos, the family became the central social unit.32  But few could escape the effects of bombing. If some got used to air raids, far more experienced bombing for the first time. What was most striking in the many indices of morale was how consistent the precipitous decline was among all strata of the Japanese population. Partly this was because so many forces lowered morale besides bombing—news of defeat abroad, food shortages, and the like—but even more because so much of the population had experienced the bombing in one way or another: in raids on smaller cities, by word from the cities’ refugees, even in the occasional raids and more frequent alerts that occurred in rural communities. Indeed, the bombing survey found that “57 percent of even the native rural population had experienced air raids and alerts, and about one-sixth said they had actually been bombed.” Just as terrifying to rural dwellers was the ominous pattern of American bombing; since it was clearly descending from the big cities to smaller communities, their day might come.4®  There were backstops in regard to morale too. The police were still powerful. Mere preoccupation with the struggle to live—food became the national obsession—left little energy for politics. For those still peering into the future, deep fears, abetted by state propaganda, curbed any desire to see the war’s end; if postwar opinion surveys were correct, 68 percent of Japanese expected that de- feat would bring “brutalities, starvation, enslavement, annihilation.” A frenzy of actions and exhortations to prepare for invasion also characterized the summer months.4!  As a consequence, all the bewilderment, anxiety, depression, and anger still did not add up to an immediate threat to the government or constitute the lever Americans could work to effect surrender. The key to capitulation still lay in the machinat