and humane in its targeting. Newsreels did acknowledge that “allied strategy called for the levelling of towns if it meant saving the lives of our boys” and pointed the viewer’s attention to a city “literally dying before your eyes.” But in February and March, the headlines were usually seized by the advances of ground forces in Germany, the Philippines, and Iwo Jima and by the Yalta Conference. Coverage of the air war had a routine, more-of-the-same tone to it.27  That tone even crept into the few blunt criticisms offered in the religious press. Commonweal expressed bitter but helpless resignation. It effectively captured how governments had used euphemisms to obscure their barbarism: “ ‘Evacuation of the homeless’ creates ‘a traffic problem.” But “all the best violent words were used up long ago,” and none seemed “left to argue the question of ‘deliberate terror bombing’ ” or to wonder “about how to win the war without making Europe a desert.” The socialist Norman Thomas condemned Allied bombing practices against Japan as well as Germany and correctly linked them to a failure to determine America’s objective in the war—to the “incredibly stupid slogan of unconditional surrender.” Even Thomas, however, had his eye more on the shape of politics to come than on the present: because American airmen “are burning the cities of Japan and the people in them,” Russia will be “the one victor in Asia.” Only in England, which bore  Page 261 of 368 60%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON frontation with moral scruples was forestalled for American commanders, just as it had been earlier for the British until civilians were finally acknowledged as the target. “Radar bombing was better than no bombing,” air force historians aptly paraphrased the bomber commanders’ thinking. On paper there was a policy against “indiscriminate bombing,” Schaffer has pointed out: “Sometimes it was adhered to; often it was not, or it was so broadly reinterpreted as to become m