ter rivalry. Arnold owed to Marshall too much of his authority over the air force to desert his patron and forge a link with Admiral King. More than these political considerations, little in the mood at the time encouraged making choices between strategies for victory. Marshall, it is true, had raised pointed questions on September 1 about the timing and relationship between invasion and aerial assault of the home islands. On September 5, Admiral Leahy, in a rare thrust into grand strategy,  Page 234 of 368 54%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Ja Cp CR tk CRE ER ee Ry RR CR ORE Bk UN RE Ue EEO RARE Be CARR RE OU a Pee Cp pee eee Cae CEE) ee Cae  airmen could hardly work out a scenario for victory by the means they preferred without appearing to contest official joint and combined policy. Speculation by airmen certainly occurred, but that did not constitute a strategy. And of course few airmen attached priority to the refinement of strategy.  If invasion was assumed to be the method of securing final surrender, there was in fact little room for imaginative calculations on how force was to be useful. Surrender was simply to be imposed as the inevitable result of the invasion, occupation, and dismemberment of the enemy state. Strategic plans were worked out in detail, but the planners usually worked backward, from the point of invasion to the preliminary operations necessary to make it possible. Accordingly, there was little point in debating how bombing might change the enemy’s government or its terms for peace, not unless the air force challenged agreed-upon assumptions. With strategic bombing now viewed as a way of softening up the enemy, airmen had little incentive to defend the strategic vision they had never abandoned.  Some leeway remained for strategic imagination. Air force planners needed to determine which industries, military installations, and geographical areas should be bombed to prepare for invasion, what conditions within Ho