tive gases or particles. Furthermore, while Americans ran no risk of retaliation at home, European and Asian cities would face reprisal strikes by German or Japanese airplanes carrying gas weapons. At the same time the Japanese government made “one of the unique decisions of the war” by announcing a ban on further use of gas by its forces and by embarking on unilateral disarmament of its chemical weapons. Restraint in chemical warfare, then, arose out of a balance of forces, an informal system of mutual deterrence. Lingering moral inhibitions, along with persistent doubts about the utility of gas and germs, also held the Allies in check. At that the lure to Allied leaders of taking the offensive kept surfacing—as when Churchill groped during the summer of 1944 for any scheme, even anthrax bombs, to counter the new German V-weapons. In the end, neither the British nor the Americans resorted to the more fiendish prod- ucts of their laboratories. In the Asian conflict, frail doubts and inhibitions would have been even a weaker curb on American use had not global interests come into play.*®  The temptation to use gas and to bomb in reprisal for Japanese atrocities measured the loosening of remaining restraints on all-out air war against Japanese cities. In February 1944, just as these  Page 167 of 368 38%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  than left to dissipate itself in a lurid press and unpredictable reactions.” The problem, that is, was to bend popular reactions toward more effective mobilization of the war effort. More pointedly, as the joint staff planners saw the issue, release of the stories should be saved until later in order to “steel public opinion to the damage which, at that time, we are about to inflict upon the Japanese homeland.”  At the Office of War Information, Elmer Davis shared similar concerns. Against the incomprehensible Japanese enemy, he worried, “it is more difficult to demand of the nation the exacting sacrifices” n