the status of a great power, the appearance of overwhelming might in great crises, the signals of support to allies that their deployment seems to send, victory in the neurotic game of “missile envy,” as Helen Caldicott has called it.s Renouncing those gains means a return to seeing nuclear weapons for what they really are, instruments of war.  Renunciation may seem naive; after all, the use of military weapons to do much more than just fight wars is timeless. But surely it is just as naive to think that much is gained by playing this game. The intangible rewards, though by nature difficult to measure, rarely have matched expectations anyway. In war, enemy populations did not panic and collapse under the weight of bombs; in peace, the rewards of nuclear status have proven elusive, and the deployment of nuclear weapons has been as divisive as cohesive to alliances; in crises (as in the one over Cuban missiles in 1962), rivals backed off less at the appearance of their enemy’s superiority than at the prospect of nuclear war itself.  Or—to anticipate another objection—it may seem dangerous to think of nuclear explosives merely as weapons of war. To do so seems almost to belittle them or even to accept their employment in war. But it has been one theme of this book that the failure to view aerial weapons as instruments of war that kill and destroy—the habit of looking away from those obvious consequences—has contributed to their growth and encouraged their use. An appreciation of their destructiveness, although seemingly the easiest task in confronting their peril, has in fact proved perhaps the hardest. Even fiction, whose imaginative potential seems the greatest, generally has failed to illuminate in that regard. The many recent novels on the nuclear danger, it has been said, “simply do not connect with human experience”® in portraying either the effects of nuclear weapons if used or their impact on consciousness as people wait in fear.  A further suggestion is to inv