e intensity” because of his distance from the war is difficult to prove. But the difference made by his remote position is suggested by comparing his recollections of the war with those of LeMay, so direct a participant in combat and destruction before he reached India, who portrayed much more frankly and fully the destructive fury of American bombers. Even Marshall, another and more preeminent organizer of victory, seemed more sensitive to the nature and magnitude of death in war, in part because it became more personal with the death in battle of his stepson. For the air force commanding general who never served in combat or overseas, war’s remoteness took several forms.  More than most military operations, the Twentieth Air Force waged war by assembly-line procedures that divided tasks and fractionated responsibilities. The end product of its efforts—the target folder, and then the destruction—emerged from a long planning process in which the designers rarely saw their creation, and the operators had little to do with the design. Acting on the broad directives coming from the JCS and Arnold, civilian and military experts examined data on the enemy’s military and economic systems and drew conclusions about which target systems would be the most vulnerable to destruction. Much of that work took place outside regular military channels altogether, in the work of the Committee of Operations Analysts, men who had almost no firsthand contact with war. The task of translating those conclusions into specific targets and priorities fell to other men, in the plans and operations staffs of the air force and the Joint Target Group. Staff for the Headquarters Twentieth Air Force also helped to choose the timing and order of attacks on targets. At the bomber commands, LeMay and Hansell then conducted photographic surveillance and analysis, compiled the glossy target folders used by airmen, factored in operational considerations—weather patterns, available strengths, estimates o