ers’ thinking. On paper there was a policy against “indiscriminate bombing,” Schaffer has pointed out: “Sometimes it was adhered to; often it was not, or it was so broadly reinterpreted as to become meaningless.” In those circumstances, it was hard to recognize, or at least easy to deny, when the line to a different kind of bombing had been crossed.22  Strangely, a drift in the reverse direction had received equally little recognition from the British. “By a curious development of the war’s circumstances,” it was explained to Arnold, “the AAF now bombs blind by day, while the RAF bombs visually (through the use of visual markers) by night. RAF bombing is now in fact frequently more accurate than our own.”21 However, although unavoidable inaccuracy had originally justified the RAF’s switch to area bombing, Harris refused to redirect his bombers. In general, greater accuracy was employed simply to perfect the wholesale de- struction of cities.  In assessing responsibility for this destruction, Marshall’s biographer has not exempted the chief of staff. Like other responsible commanders, he “did not so much direct the specific bombing as leave the choice of targets in the hands of subordinates who found it difficult to stop the momentum of attacks on a hated enemy.” In fact, Marshall, Arnold, and Eisenhower did more than “leave the choice” to subordinates, for they had often talked of terror bombing and tacitly approved it by offering objections rooted only in timing and tactics. In connection with Operation CLARION, a plan to hit smaller German towns, Marshall had already spoken of bombing Munich “because it would show the people that are being evacuated to Munich that there is no hope.” Even after Dresden, CLARION was formally ordered by Eisenhower’s headquarters.22  Earlier, Eaker had objected that CLARION would show the Germans “that we are the barbarians they say we are, for it would be perfectly obvious to them that this is primarily a large scale attack on civili