commendations—one of many signs that no one yet counted on the atomic bomb to end the war early—but he did nothing to follow them up. Nor did Marshall.24  Page 304 of 368 69%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  What happened to victory through air power? The problem was not LeMay’s absence. He would have spoken on Arnold’s instructions, just as Eaker explicitly did, and those instructions were to back Marshall to the hilt. The real problem was Arnold's priorities and temperament. He may have deferred to Marshall out of loyalty: the chief of staff had given much support to air power and might do so again in the AAF’s final quest for independence. More than that, Arnold, who had repeatedly passed such presentations on to his subordinates, did so again in June partly because he had no clear scheme for winning the war with his bombers. His uncertainty was evident by the way he pegged support for Marshall’s Kyushu plan to the acquisition of vast new bases there from which to hit Japan. Clearly those bases would be ready only sometime in 1946, but lacking a plan to end the war earlier, he needed the Kyushu bases.  After the war, Arnold proclaimed his wartime confidence that air power could win the war. At the time, he had no clear idea how or when that would happen. Though given a September 1 victory date by LeMay, he made no concerted case for it. Later, at Potsdam, Arnold hinted at it, maintaining that by then Japan “will have tremendous difficulty in holding her people together for continued resistance to our terms of unconditional surrender.” But of course that was arguably the case even in July, and Arnold backed away from a more emphatic prediction. Even in early August, when LeMay’s campaign had proceeded further, Arnold suggested to the other Joint Chiefs that bombing might soon win the war, but it “in any event, will assure the success of the land campaign in Japan, and reduce the loss of American lives to a minimum.”2!  Arnold had intere