e Japanese in a way that would frighten them into submission without forcing them into retaliation. True, perhaps Marshall’s intentions were not what he said on the fifteenth; perhaps he knew the threat to attack Japan was empty but hoped it would gain credibility through carefully staged leaks. Yet if he had wanted to plant a leak, one or two reporters would have sufficed; calling in bureau chiefs was standard practice for seeking an inclusive ban on publications of secret information.%2 Most likely, Marshall wanted to preserve secrecy until the proper moment. Both he and Stimson derived from American code-breaking an overconfidence that Japanese knowledge of the bomber buildup could be detected. Stimson was “very anxious to avoid any boasting” about the deployment, preferring to let “these facts sink into the Japanese of their own impact,” and he had prepared for Marshall the draft of an announcement about it “when the news breaks of the arrival of the flying fortresses at Manila.” As Marshall told an aide on November 1, after December 10 “it would be advantageous for the Japanese to learn of our really effective reinforcements.” Yet after his November 15 meeting with the press, any continuing efforts on Marshall’s part left behind a documentary trail of only teasing bits of information. He probably met with Roosevelt immediately after his morning conference with the press, but there the trail largely ends.10°  One possibility is that the scheme aborted because of an unplanned leak. The flight of dozens of B-17s across the Pacific was a big secret to manage. The crisis in the Far East had already invited press speculation. Back in March, Joseph Alsop had discussed the “body blow” to Japan that would come from using B-17s based in China. On August 8 and again on October 31, U.S. News had speculated brazenly about possible American incendiary attacks delivered from American bases or from Vladivostok on Tokyo, that “city of rice-paper and wood houses.” If nothing els