rface forces now developed to defensive perfection, and attack the enemy’s will behind the lines, just as Paris had found Achilles’ weak point (the pun Liddell Hart played on in his title). For the first time in history, man could do this swiftly. “Aircraft enables us to jump over the army which shields the enemy government, industry and people, and so strike direct and immediately at the seat of the opposing will and policy.” Or, as Douhet put it, “Now it is actually populations and nations,” rather than their agents, “which come to blows and seize each other’s throats.”2  Prophets of aerial apocalypse in the 1920s displayed remarkable unanimity in imagining how the bombers would do their job. Flying in numbers and with bomb loads unimaginable in World War I, fleets of aerial dreadnoughts would strike in the first hours of war, perhaps even before any declaration of war, and rain tons of explosive, incendiary, and gas or bacteriological bombs on an en-  weenie ne ee Me OF te te a nn  Page 22 of 368 6%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON dictatea attention to alr power. Lhe rrencn so vigorously promoted thelr air rorce that they even toucnea OMT Englisn Tears Of aerial attack across the Channel. All the 1mperial powers experiencea  growing difficulties in controlling their restive empires as well as dread of the Bolshevik threat to international and internal stability. They searched for ways besides military preparedness to achieve security—the League of Nations and arms control, for example—because ravaged economies and war-weary constituents gave governments no other choice. At the same time, national fatigue also strengthened the appeal of air power as a supposedly cheap and humane weapon.  In that context, two very different men, Giulio Douhet and Basil H. Liddell Hart, articulated the emerging doctrine of strategic air power. Prophets and polemicists as much as theorists, they fleshed out ideas first sketched before and during the war an