onically undermining the air forces as fighting units as well. Both countries began the war with the best-trained pilots and ended with the worst. Trusting the fighting man’s virtue to win the war quickly, they failed to amass the reserves of quality pilots needed for further training, and pilot skill and training plummeted. Failing also to exploit their civilian labor pool, both countries placed further demands on their military personnel. In contrast, the American air force employed some 500,000 civilians, including large numbers of women, for maintenance and logistical tasks. Just when production in Germany and Japan peaked in 1944, they lacked the well-trained crews to make use of it.  A narrow definition of military strength also sabotaged Axis industrial production. Just as German leaders wanted the best pilots, they wanted the best weapons, ones that satisfied the leadership’s thirst for the miraculous instrument of victory and the developers’ competitive quest for technological advance and hegemony. But no consultative authority existed to sort out the wheat from the chaff among these novelties, to balance the benefits of their introduction against the costs of disrupting industrial routine. The triumph of a narrow form of technological creativity seriously impeded Axis efforts to develop assembly-line production, and this curtailed output of some types more seriously than did Allied bombing.  In contrast, the Soviet Union, Britain, and the United States developed effective methods of coordinating the efforts of officers, scientists, developers, and manufacturers. Conflicting claims on resources were monitored. Production models were frozen for extended periods. Modifications were selectively introduced. New projects were put on hold unless they promised a payoff in the current war, sacrificing a measure of technological creativity to reliable abundance. Exceptions occurred but primarily when excess of industrial and technical capacity accrued late in the wa