e manner in which dominant institutions interpreted these phenomena.  Popular expectations for the strategic course of the war remained similarly diffuse. Many Americans, moved by anglophobia or by panic over events in the Far East, challenged the administra- tion’s Europe-first priority and later its quest for unconditional surrender. Others suspected that the American stake in the Far East was imperial rather than moral or strategic. To some observers, the popular mood seemed variously listless and quixotic, given over first to “a kind of puzzled boredom about the war in general.” then to spurts of excessive optimism at the first signs of success. “Daily one hears talk of the war being over in six months,” commented a British observer after November's landings in North Africa. Months later, he complained about American politicians who “have poured oil on these flames... of national anger and humiliation,” making “the Pacific front permanently a more burning issue than [the] European front is ever likely to be.”2 December 1941, then, brought prac- tical unanimity on the necessity of victory but not on the purposes for and means of achieving it, not on the degree of it to be sought, not on the magnitude of destruction necessary to achieve it.  Beneath the widespread acceptance of the necessity of war and victory was a poor grasp of the war’s costs and purposes. John Blum has reminded us that “only the United States among the great powers was ‘fighting this war on imagination alone.”” Complaint about the war’s unreality to Americans was a wartime commonplace, particularly when soldiers and journalists compared the stench of battle in which Americans fell with the cheerful, easy affluence so many Americans at home now enjoyed. The liberal journalist Ralph Ingersoll lamented that even on the battlefield, “fascism is still an unreal thing to the American. ... He cannot really hate it.” He “must fight simply ... so that he can get back home—to a land that has now, in his