lating war with Japan, the attraction was too casual to arouse much conern. For both defenders and detractors, the possibility of attack against the United States, although frequently invoked to defend American aerial armament, was farfetched. In brief, Americans could develop air power—or for that matter oppose it—without much regard for the likelihood or consequences, moral or selfish, of using it. They entered World War II with an impoverished legacy of concern about air war, with few standards by which to judge its wisdom, indeed with little feeling that standards were needed. Millis’s characterization of Americans’ attitudes toward their future security by 1938 applies nicely to their consid- eration of the bomber as well: “Thus the shadow of the future was already plain; but there was nothing with which to give it substance.”58  Arguably, different American responses to the bomber would have made little difference. In facing Germany, the English never had the Americans’ luxury of freedom from retaliation. Too, the RAF, an independent service since 1918, had less need for the self-justifying theorizing about strategic air war that characterized American airmen. It operated in an atomosphere of more urgent and sophisticated concern about the prospect of air war and the possibility that air war might be less conclusive than either the prophets or skeptics had allowed. Yet before the war the English placed great emphasis on the strategic bomber, and during the war the RAF would use the bomber with a vindictiveness unexcelled by Americans. In short, a richer legacy of debate in England did nothing to di- minish the practice of strategic air war.  But the casualness of debate among Americans did this: it allowed attraction to strategic bombing to develop even when no provocation of the kind experienced by the British occurred, and it shaped how Americans defined and justified what they did when war did come. Furthermore, overlaying the differences between the United