can weapons. And measured in terms of the short period in which substantial bomb casualties occurred, it was a uniquely devastating loss.42  After the war, the survey commented: “It was not necessary for us to burn every city, to destroy every factory, to shoot down every airplane or sink every ship, and starve the people. It was enough to demonstrate that we were capable of doing all this.”44 Airmen understood the physical destructiveness of the bombing they carried out, but they did little to define a strategy on the basis of it. Vaguely they knew that the Japanese government, not the Japanese people, would make the final decision, but they still could imagine no way of getting at the former except through the latter. They did not try hard to find a way because they still measured organizational success in terms of destruction delivered rather than political results achieved and because other leaders did not work with them to find a way.  Outside the air force, Allied policymakers were, it would seem, ignorant of or indifferent toward the crude facts of destruction. Neither in their official deliberations nor in their diaries and memoirs did they often note even the physical dimensions of the air assault on Japan, much less its consequences for victory over Japan and the world’s course after the war. This indifference charac- terized men holding widely varied political and geographical responsibilities. Adolf A. Berle provides a curious but revealing case study in that regard. Though his tasks were regional (he was the State Department’s top Latin Americanist), his copious diaries revealed global preoccupations, and he had occasion to muse on the course of bombing. General Arnold, touring Latin America, inspired Berle’s extravagant praise, Berle thinking that “he had probably done as much as any one military man to win this war.” But regarding what Arnold’s bombers actually did, Berle found nothing to ponder. Neither did most civilian officials in Washington. Acro