keptical that England was truly committed to the war effort, they believed that bombing might knock her altogether out of the war.28  It did not, of course, and in the end Germany abandoned strategic bombardment, never to resume it consistently even in World War II. At the same time, England took it up, more impressed by the raids than were the Germans themselves. By 1918 attacks by British and other Allied forces on German cities, not to mention the large but forgotten Italian effort, had come to dwarf Germany’s record in tonnage dropped and in sophistication of tactics and strategy. The reluctant commander was General Hugh Trenchard, aptly characterized as the “father who tried to strangle the infant  [etratacic hamhinal at hirth thauch ha later ont eradit far tha craum man ” TIndar Tranchard tha Alliac and Amaricane wrara accamhling a naw farca af thancande nf hamhare ta lainch macciva attacke  Page 12 of 368 4%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON spotting; for command of the air space while performing those functions; and for strafing troops and enemy positions. Most field commanders wanted nothing more from their aircraft. The stalemate  of slaughter on the ground, far from encouraging them to seek out new ways of gaining a decision, only made them hungrier for aerial resources that might somehow tip the balance in battle, thereby justifying the monstrous expenditure of men and machines and rescuing their reputations.  Aside from technological advances, what encouraged some military men to assign a more ambitious role to airplanes remains unclear. The few strategists who articulated such a role rarely indicated the source of their ideas. Probably the prewar fantasies of air war had at most an indirect influence. Instead, strategic air war* grew haphazardly. A complex mix of popular passions, political ambitions, strategic desperation, military rivalry, and wartime momentum brought the bombers to London and Cologne.  As in most wars, resp