he Japanese civilian population.” Paul V. McNutt, chairman of the War Manpower Commission, went on record in April 1945 as favoring “the extermination of the Japanese in toto.” A month earlier, the U.S. Marine monthly Leatherneck, visually depicting the Japanese as vermin under the caption “Louseous Japanicas,” described the American need to combat the Japanese “pestilence” by carrying out “the gigantic task of extermination,” one to be finished only when “the breed- ing grounds around the Tokyo area” were “completely annihilated.” An elusive, loathsome, and fanatical foe seemed to deserve nothing less.74  Over the war’s final year, Japan’s fanaticism, real and alleged, was increasingly cited as justification for the destruction of her cities, an act necessary to punish and subdue a suicidal nation. To be sure, American bombers leveled Japan’s cities far more systematically than Germany’s in part for circumstantial reasons—the RAF usually performed that task for the Allies in Europe. Even when  Page 242 of 368 55%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON in resisting through the actual invasion and dismemberment of their homeland and in treating captive populations with a disciplined ferocity the Japanese could not match. Yet despite those large differences between their two enemies, Americans consistently indicated that they both hated and feared the Japanese more, regarding them as both more brutal and more determined to fight to the death. True, in the end American leaders showed greater flexibility in handling Japan’s surrender than Germany’s, backing away from the formula for unconditional surrender imposed upon the Nazis. But that flexibility reflected differing circumstances rather than tolerance: the greater freedom American leaders had to set Japan’s surrender terms without worrying about alliance politics, the anxiety they felt about sustaining support for the war against Japan once Germany capitulated, and the simple reality of Nazi ref