orce, Anglo-American jealousies, and the legal and political barriers against a formal American commitment to the British. Simultaneously, the American army was tied down by new hemispheric responsibilities and its expansion for a possible return to Europe. American air power, though not yet abundant, could be deployed unilaterally and economically, with no commitments to the British and few claims on American resources. Its appeal, in short, sprung from a combination of desperation about America’s strategic position and enthusiasm about the chances for victory without war, as illustrated by Munich. At last, a chance to turn the fascists’ methods against them seemed possible.  Initially, China seemed the place where the bomber might work its magic. The initiative came from China itself. In November 1940, T. V. Soong, Chiang Kai-shek’s ambassador in Washington, approached Morgenthau about basing five hundred American planes in China for attacks on Hainan, Formosa, Japanese shipping, and even the Japanese home islands. The mastermind behind the scheme was General Claire Chennault, the retired Air Corps officer now serving as advisor to the air force of Chiang and his wife. As later described by Chennault, never one to mince words, the plan would have had American bombers eventually “burn out the industrial heart of the Empire with fire-bomb attacks on the teeming bamboo ant heaps of Honshu and Kyushu.”®6 Its path smoothed by White House aide Lauchlin Currie and the journalist Joseph Alsop, Chennault’s daring proposition ignited a burst of enthusiasm and activity from top civilian officials in Washington. Hard-pressed for a quick way to check Japanese advances, loathe to challenge domestic opposition to direct American entry in the war, nervous as always that thegeneralissimo:might give up the fight, they grabbed at this new straw. Here was a way to awe the Japanese, while arrangements to funnel American planes and crews through a dummy private corporation would preser