litician’s game, i.e., conjuring up a terrible bogey, and then representing themselves as the only sorcerers capable of exorcising it.” On the diplomatic level, Commonweal, with Hitler’s threats in mind, saw in the fantasy of aerial holocaust “a new method of saber-rattling” by which “almost any pint-pot dictator could make a grand- stand play and set up a new empire overnight.”34  Appeals to history and contemporary experience afforded skeptics a second line of attack. Hauling out statistics as avidly as the air prophets, they pointed out the little actual damage that bombing of cities had caused in World War I and its tendency to arouse rather than subdue a fighting spirit. “War will not be waged against women and children,” one popular piece asserted. “Terrorism was given its trial during the World War and only wasted military resources and brought on counter-terrorism.” A corollary line of argument was to deflate the threat of gas war by noting its limited utility in the last war and the impossibly large tonnages of gas that would be necessary to achieve decisive success. Puncturing the myth of bomber invincibility was another favorite theme, at times worked out by substituting for it a new myth of uncannily accurate antiaircraft systems employing new devices like the “Sperry-Wilson data computer,” said to compile target data and aim guns instantly. “Perhaps sooner or later the bombing of cities will come to be officially recognized as a form of euthanasia for desperate patriots. That it will ever become a really popular pastime may be seriously doubted.”35  Skeptics reasserted a traditional definition of war objectives and strategy. The trouble with air power, a naval officer wrote, is that it “can take nothing. It can hold nothing. It cannot stand its ground and fight.” A more sophisticated analysis of modern combat in Fortune dismissed prophecies like Douhet’s as “pure romance,” suggesting that no changes in technology had been decisive enough to overshadow t