e variations on that approval: many Americans wished the bomb had not been used first on a city or used the second time so quickly; on the other hand, in a Fortune poll taken in December 1945, almost 23 percent wished that the United States had “quickly used many more of them before Japan had a chance to surrender,” still another measure of the persistent appeal of bombing as act of vengeance. Poll data do not allow precision in measuring how Americans judged the relative role of Russia and the atomic bomb in securing Japan’s surrender. But probably most were convinced of the bomb’s decisiveness. Because of that dubious assumption, atomic bombing seemed to have met the minimum criteria for legitimacy as an act of war—it was useful—and therefore moral inquiry tended to be limited. Among those who pressed that inquiry a bit further, acommon view was that the atomic attacks had saved thousands of Japanese (and of course American) lives; or as the Chicago Tribune editorialized about American leaders, “Being merciless, they were merciful.”15°  In any event, there was perhaps another reason, besides relief at the war’s end, to embrace the bomb’s decisiveness. Only if Americans did so with little qualification could they approach the future with some comfort that the bomb would not be used again and that the world would realize the choice it had to make between doomsday and deliverance. To see the bomb as having a more subtle, qualified impact raised troublesome questions. Would future wars be deterred if nations were unconvinced of the bomb’s utter finality? If horror at the thought of nuclear war made deterrence necessary, did it not also require making the most of the bomb’s awesomeness in its one battle test? To think anything less of the bomb, in regard to past or prospective use, seemed to invite its employ- ment and to demean the responsibility shouldered by those who possessed it.  The fantasy that had ebbed and flowed for decades—that of a new weapon that transcen