n principle but sharply contested the way Roosevelt handled them, especially the end run Roosevelt made around the army by delegating Morgenthau to supervise foreign orders. When Arnold felt he had to take the heat publicly for the controversy raised by the crash of the Douglas bomber, his bitterness toward Morgenthau deepened. Arnold grudgingly acknowledged the benefits to the Air Corps of foreign purchases but remained suspicious that the French were stealing technological secrets. The conflict dragged on until March 1940, when Roosevelt, “looking directly at me . . . said there were places to which officers who did  Page 82 of 368 19%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  posed to entanglement with the British and French, but selling battleships would have stirred their ire just as much.  If foreign orders were a diversion, FDR’s program for American air power tended to disarm his opponents, most of whom regarded battleships as instruments of a reckless foreign policy and still viewed airplanes as defenders of American isolation. To Charles Beard, the notable historian and opponent of FDR’s foreign policy, the battleship was both obsolescent and inherently an instrument of “aggressive warfare.” Likewise, Bruce Bliven had called for a buildup in air and coastal defenses in opposition to FDR’s 1938 naval program because bombers, “far from fulfilling the prediction of the alarmists,” had proven to be poor offensive weapons against cities and best suited only for tactical purposes. They were preferable as well to Lindbergh, moving toward his public role as Roosevelt’s enemy, but also working with the Air Corps on the design of a new, long-range bomber, the B-29. Some critics did attack FDR’s program for the Air Corps, suspecting that he wanted ten thousand Ameri- can planes because “Hitler or someone for him is alleged to have claimed an air force of that size—a claim of doubtful veracity.” Administration defenders gave credence to such attacks