m the other services. Whereas Marshall devoted little time to the conduct of public relations, they were a major preoccupation for Arnold by 1944, made more critical by the air force’s declining chance to win the war on its own and to secure favorable coverage in the face of accelerating ground and naval operations. “The hot pilot is being supplanted in national esteem by G.I. Joe,” warned a staff study in August.13  By autumn, the air force’s anxiety about its political prospects threatened to spill into the conduct of immediate operations. While not specifically invoking those prospects, Lovett explained to the air staff on November 27 that “the Air Forces are being given a ‘second chance’ in Europe” and he “urged that something drastic be done in order to take advantage of this second chance.” Lovett’s favored proposal was for a “Jeb Stuart Air Force” of fighter-bombers “scampering all over Germany ... shooting up targets of opportunity, strafing rail and communication centers and generally causing a breakdown in morale among the German people.” Arnold and his staff were skeptical of the specifics of Lovett’s scheme, but it conformed in broad purpose with other proposals they supported to hasten the war’s end by a climactic campaign of terror bombing. More than ever, achieving victory and enhancing the air force’s reputation were inseparable objectives for the AAF, Lovett adding that  Page 179 of 368 41%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON a certain degree of initiative and imagination and that all of us are, perhaps, war-weary.”!1  Arnold’s injunctions to his staff to ease up and look ahead were oddly similar to the advice given him regarding his own health. During the war, he experienced four heart attacks, and on orders from his doctors and from Marshall, after each he rested briefly. But he could not really acknowlege the precariousness of his own health any more than he could the dangers of an overtaxed organ- ization. He soon slipped