chniques in different circumstances, and so forth. It was indirectly, through their work in refining those means, that they affected strategy, rather than through explicit efforts to fashion it. For there was no clear distinction between means and ends, only a continuum along which men easily moved. Inevitably, the civilians’ efforts to perfect technique, the means of waging air war, also defined ends. Ambitious civilians did not define their role modestly, and Arnold did not ask them to. Most of all, the broader role inhered in what they were doing. “By means of technique,” William Blanchard has written, “man changes not only the method by which he thinks but the content of what he thinks about.”44 By the language they used, the methods they employed, and the concerns they focused upon, the experts helped change the content of what decision makers in the air force thought about, permitting them to see air war less as a strategic process aiming at victory and more as a technical process in which the assembly and refinement of means became paramount.  They did so in part because the refinement of means and the achievement of destruction were what operations research could most effectively achieve. Assessment of how means related to ends required subjective judgment resistant to quantifiable measurements. Operations analysts focused on the measurable, and in 1944 the most measurable kind of air war was incendiary bombing, whose gross effects were far more quantifiable than campaigns against enemy shipping or steel production. Furthermore, a concentration on things measurable produced a personal and bureaucratic investment in them. The original purpose of examining incendiary war might only have been to clarify it as a choice, to decide if it was effective. But the method most reducible to quantification also received the closest scrutiny, thereby attracting the greatest investment and the most refined justification.  By one standard, this characterization suggests the