as too horrible. He didn’t like the idea of killing, as he said, ‘all those kids.’” Whatever doubt he felt on the tenth, he kept it mostly at bay thereafter. “Nobody is more disturbed over the use of Atomic bombs than I am,” he wrote in a letter on the eleventh, but then argued the case for retribution: “When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him as a beast.” “It was a terrible decision,” he acknowledged later, but then he insisted he had experienced not the slightest hesitation in making it or the slightest doubt about the legitimacy of the targets.132  To complicate matters further, his initial public statements were scarcely more his than the decision to use the bomb. They had been substantially worked up in advance by others. But taken together, they neatly parroted the war’s diverse and conflicting rationales for air power, with added references to how “Providence” had denied the Germans the bomb. There was unvarnished pride in Anglo-American expertise, which had produced “the greatest achievement of organized science in history.” At the same time, there was almost a profession of helpless inevitability to the bomb’s use, as if no intent had been felt to create something so destructive. “Having found the bomb we have used it,” though of course the bomb was hardly just “found.” There was the overt rationale of using the bomb to end the war, Truman promising a further “rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been on this earth” if Japan did not surrender. At the same time, there was a scarcely veiled agenda of retribution, as if Hiroshima were the moral equivalent of Japanese misdeeds: “The Japanese began the war from the air at Pearl Harbor. They have been repaid many-fold.” As if to drive that point home, on the ninth Truman reminded a radio audience that the Japanese “have starved and beaten and executed American prisoners of war” and “abandoned all pretense of obeying international laws of warfare.”133  Finally, there was one more