pectation, however, had arisen in good part from the necessity of imagining a war of limited liability, with Britain lacking the force and the United States the sanction to send ground armies into France. Pearl Harbor and the German declaration of war opened up, particularly for American officers, a return to a more traditional definition of strategy. That definition varied with its proponents, but to Marshall, the dominant American figure, it meant assigning heavy bombers a major role, first in softening up Germany by direct attacks on it, then in assisting an invasion. Bombing would be complementary to other oper- ations. It was a formula sufficiently broad to paper over much disagreement and avert most open conflict.  But it still simmered. The formula threatened the AAF’s hope to deliver the long-promised decisive blow. In 1942, Arnold still clung to that hope, trying through Harry Hopkins to reach Roosevelt, complaining of “the failure of the democracies to recognize any of those simple facts” about the dangers of dispersing bombers to ground commanders, promising “a real break in [German] morale” with heavier bombing, and finally pleading directly to the president that “air action ... properly supported and extended by the action of surface forces will win the war.” Arnold’s civilian superiors, Stimson and Lovett, were offering much the same message in 1942. For his part, Hopkins was a sympathetic recipient of that message, deriving “thrill and encouragement” from the RAF’s first great raids on German cities, whose “inevitable destruction” he eagerly awaited. Nor did Roosevelt disagree in principle with Arnold, but he also wanted operations on the ground started.®  The other conflict involved the relative merits of British night area and American daylight precision bombing. In dramatic, one-thousand-bomber raids, the RAF Bomber Command turned against German cities in the spring of 1942. Its head, Arthur Harris, sought to destroy German industrial and urban lif