fty-five thousand airmen met their death in the war—a negligible figure by the standards of ground combat, but an appalling loss rate given the size of the air forces involved. Leadership was partly the problem, for some air commanders were old infantry or cavalry officers baffled by these new machines. Others were young, too inexperienced to handle the large forces suddenly in their charge. They were forced to improvise tactics, ill-equipped to analyze results, and prone to make excessive claims for their weapon. Like other new weapons of the day, the airplane did little “except to increase the efficiency of the slaughter.”35 The battlefield may have been the most practical arena in which to employ the airplane. At the same time, it was also the least decisive because the stalemate on land was so massive, deeply determined, and resistant to change that whatever advantage superior aviation offered was insufficient to break it.  That alone perhaps argued for its strategic employment. Yet in that capacity too, air power could not sustain hopes that it would transcend the conditions and attitudes that prevailed in ground warfare. Commanders spent their aircraft in the same futile charges against the enemy. Even air defense against strategic bombing took an offensive form, guided by the assumption that real defense was impossible except by destroying the enemy’s bases and factories. Destructive without being decisive, strategic bombing threatened only to nationalize the battle of attrition on the ground, testing how long entire peoples rather than armies could exhaust each other, provoking civilian populations into a grim offensive against each other that mimicked what the soldiers did on the battlefield. Far from transcending the horrors of modern war, military aviation—like submarines and poison gas, two other weapons deemed capable of the decisive breakthrough—had the moral utility only of democratizing those horrors still further.  Observers until 1917, Americans br