han campaigns against enemy shipping or steel production. Furthermore, a concentration on things measurable produced a personal and bureaucratic investment in them. The original purpose of examining incendiary war might only have been to clarify it as a choice, to decide if it was effective. But the method most reducible to quantification also received the closest scrutiny, thereby attracting the greatest investment and the most refined justification.  By one standard, this characterization suggests the indifference of scientists and statisticians to strategic purposes and their immersion into the technique of war. Their mentality was not the one so often ascribed to American war-makers, an exclusive focus on victory, but the pursuit of destruction without a clear notion of its relationship to victory. In another sense, however, ends were not so much abandoned as redefined. For these men, perfecting the technique of war became an end in itself, one that encompassed important goals: professional satisfaction and achievement and air force ambitions for a technology and a war-making record that would enhance its place in the postwar military establishment.  The rhetoric and methodology of civilian expertise also defined goals by the distance they interposed between the designers and victims of destruction. The more sophisticated the methods of destruction became, the less language and methods of measurement allowed men to acknowledge the nature of that destruction. A dehumanized rhetoric of technique reduced the enemy to quan- tifiable abstractions. Statistics of man-hours lost and workers dehoused objectified many of the enemy’s experiences and banished almost altogether one category, his death. Certainly Arnold, LeMay, and Harris were brutally frank in their vocabulary on occasion; dehumanized language alone did not compel men to kill and destroy on the scale they did. But, reinforced by other forms of distance characteristic of the air war, it did allow them to do s