ry establishment: the presentation of a favorable image of the air force to politicians and public and the harnessing of civilian expertise to the development of future military technologies. Others joined him in these efforts, although Arnold often set their tone.  The air force's efforts at self-promotion, long intense but rarely subtle, gained a sophistication in 1943 and 1944 for which its civilian leadership was partly responsible. Secretary of War Stimson and Robert Lovett, the assistant secretary for air, warned against a hard-sell campaign that might backfire against the air force by revealing its ambitions too baldly and by promising more than the air force could deliver. Lovett wanted “a conservative and constructive educational campaign.” He shifted emphasis in public relations from extravagant pronouncements by airmen to the careful shaping of media reporting.  The shift in tactics did not preclude muscular methods, but they were now employed behind the scenes. Angered by Newsweek’s treatment of the Eighth Air Force in 1943, Lovett turned to Averell Harriman, whose brother was Lovett’s partner at Brown Brothers and a director of Newsweek. Harriman’s response was encouraging. “I have not supported Newsweek for 10 years through its grave difficulties to allow our hired men to use the magazine to express their narrow, uninformed or insidious ideas.” If persuasion would not change the magazine's tune, Harriman gave his brother  Page 179 of 368 41%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON massive heart attack on the carpet 1n tront of Arnold's desk,” but countless others felt his wrath. In a typical encounter with subordinates, this one in May 1944 on delays 1n preparing b-29s tor combat,  Arnold ended his badgering with another explosion of temper: “I have been fighting can’t can’t can’t can’t for eight years, and I don’t feel like fighting it much longer,” and he got up and stormed out of the meeting. Of course he continued to fight, desp