they ran a much greater chance of being missing in action and later declared dead. Furthermore, officers perished in unusual numbers in the AAF because a far higher proportion of the air force were officers (about half of combat flying personnel): twice as many air officers died in battle than in all the rest of the army, despite its larger size. Moreover, 35,946 airmen died in noncombat situations, about 43 percent of all such deaths in the wartime army. In 1943 alone, 850 airmen died in 298 B-24 accidents in the states, leaving the survivors “scared to death of their airplanes.” Away from combat, the airmen’s scourge was not the soldier’s traditional one of disease, but the severe danger of training, ferrying, and other kinds of aerial accidents. In sum, the risks for airmen, though sometimes peculiar, were large.§2  During the war, medical statisticians examined the fate of a pool of 2,051 personnel who began a series of twenty-five missions for the Eighth Air Force, the principal American air force bombing Germany. Only 559, or 26.8 percent of these men, completed all their missions. Eleven hundred ninety-five were either killed or missing in action but often later certified as fatalities. Another 15.8 percent were lost to the force because of severe wounds or by death or disease incurred outside combat or by removal from flying for administrative reasons. On average, almost 4 percent of the force were killed or missing in action on each mission, and the mean number of missions completed for the entire group was 14.72, barely past the halfway point.®3 Of course the airmen themselves could calculate these loss rates in their rough and sometimes misleading fashion, as generals like LeMay knew well. But no calculation of odds could anticipate their uneven distribution—how one squadron might be decimated in a few weeks and another emerge almost unscathed after many missions.  The airman’s anxiety in combat took peculiar forms. Confinement in a highly cramped machine