personal inspection of the devastated area on March 18, an experience that “no doubt contributed to his growing realization that the war had to be stopped as quickly as possible.” The conflagration certainly added to the devastating reversals that soon top- pled the ruling cabinet.2°  And yet the men around the emperor as well as cabinet officials made little mention of the Tokyo raid in their formal deliberations. Prisoners of a traditional definition of military power, unable to imagine defeat without invasion, they instead chattered on about the state (stark enough in its own right) of ground and naval campaigns.®1 Even fighter defense against the Americans continued to have a weak claim on Japan’s dwindling resources, though the suicide tactic of ramming American bombers was sometimes tried. In short, the leaders’ preoccupation with reverses abroad neatly inverted the masses’ desperate focus on events at home. Perhaps the masses’ terror was as yet an unmentionable shame or a fate callously tolerated while conducting a stately and circuitous march to surrender. For the privileged who as yet had suffered little, the quivering of public morale was simply a worrisome but distant consideration in calculations about how to proceed.  Rarely rebellious, many of Tokyo’s millions nonetheless implicitly made a political statement by voting with their feet. Fearing more raids or terrified that Tokyo would become the battleground when Americans landed or simply bereft of anything left to stay for, over a million people left the city in the raid’s aftermath, desperately trying to sell off whatever possessions they could not drag along. They accelerated what became “one of history’s greatest migrations.” By summer, one-seventh of the nation’s population (and a much larger proportion of urban dwellers) had relocated from the cities to small towns and rural areas. By war’s end, Tokyo had lost over four million of its residents. It was as if the vital energy of this and other cit