ot on other elements of American aerial strength. But Japanese leaders seemed to sense no immediate danger from the Philippines, and Japanese envoys apparently received no threat of bombing from Hull, Roosevelt, or others, despite the speculation from Marshall and Krock in that regard, nor did they communicate any alarm on the basis of Krock’s article.103  Washington’s effort at deterrence failed, not only in execution, but in design. Military strategy rested on the diplomats’ success in delaying the outbreak of war at least until mid-December, preferably until February or March. Yet the final diplomatic position, determined by Hull and Roosevelt without consulting the strategists and offered to the Japanese on November 26, left no room to bargain. Subtler diplomacy might not have delayed the outbreak of war, for Japan’s timetable was not flexible. But the puzzle, in light of the military’s tremendous hope for delay, is that it was not at- tempted, perhaps because grand design did not alone shape policy. The patience required to string out negotiations collided with exasperation over new signs of Japanese military action; even Stimson, the frequent proponent of delay, was, by November 27, “glad to have time” but not “at any cost of humility on the part of the United States.” Stimson’s bristling mood reflected intense pressures on the administration, from its own ranks as well as from allies and the press, to avoid any appearance of appeasement. Decoded Japanese messages indicated that some kind of Japanese action was now irre- versible, so that statements of diplomatic position could no longer serve to delay, only to mobilize opinion and fix Japanese culpability.1°*  But confidence about the bomber may also have led the American government to overplay its hand, even at this late date. The situation in the Far East still seemed extraordinarily fluid. It was on the twenty-sixth that Marshall repeated his doubts that Japan would attack the Philippines. “Thus far we hav