d energies where the military bureaucracy was most comfortable expending them: on the technical and economic problems of how to mobilize air power, not on the moral, political, and strategic issues of how to employ it. A focus on mobilization muted the vexing debate on whether or how to enter the war, responded to the anxieties of military officers who shared memories of failed mobilization during the last war, and deflected attention away from the thorny issue of the air force’s role and mis- sion. Emphasizing mobilization, Roosevelt found the lowest common denominator of thinking about air power.  At the same time, he signaled his strategic priority for long-range bombers, but, as usual, in a piecemeal and private way that minimized controversy. In June 1940 he told military planners how he imagined “the United States in the war, but with naval and air forces only,” plus aid to allies. That fall he finally let Arnold out of the “dog house” and back into the White House. In February, the State Department pressed on the White House a document derived from German sources characterizing the Nazis’ economic situation as “desperate” and highly vulnerable to strategic bombing. And  Page 92 of 368 21%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  “COMMAND OF THE AIR BY THE DEMOCRACIES”  As popular fear and anticipation of air war receded, official preparation to wage it mounted. The public had a clue to these efforts in successive reorganizations of the War Department. In November 1940 Arnold became Deputy Chief of Staff to Marshall while retaining his post as Chief of the Air Corps, a move that elevated his status and gave the Air Corps a central place in the general staff's planning. The next spring, the long vacant position of assistant secretary of war for air was filled by Robert Lovett, brought in by War Secretary Henry L. Stimson to rationalize industry’s chaotic mo- bilization for aircraft production. In June 1941, creation of the Army Air Forces (A