ional integrity, expanded facilities, and guarded what intellectual freedom could be maintained during war. The scientists’ entry into the policymaking apparatus, achieved variously by guile, persuasion, and demand, insured for them a role in public policy undreamed of before the war. Scientists and university officials set out to put wartime prosperity on a permanent footing, guided by two assumptions: science would prosper from the government funding deemed necessary for capital-intensive research, while the nation would preserve its technological superiority during the coming age of instant warfare, about which scientists sounded the alarms as loudly as military officers. Quarrels over the terms of partnership persisted. But especially in the air force, military men were generally forthcoming.  Civilian militarism brought status, profit, institutional growth, and creative opportunities to many scientists, academicians, lawyers, and businessmen. A minority passionately saw ideological issues at stake in the war. For most, winning the war was surely a goal but one whose worth seemed too obvious to require much elaboration. The war was more fascinating and attractive as a process to which they could apply their talents than as a crusade. Pursuing civilian militarism, they identified it with broader virtues in the Allied cause: the triumph of cooperative organization over the authoritarian and narochial mentality of the militarist elites ruling Germanv and Ianan. But the struggle for civilian militarism also turned them inward. concentrating their energies on the nerfection  Page 197 of 368 45%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON the bitter debate over bombing railway targets in France indicated that he had not given the issue of civilian casualties “much, 1f any, thought when the plan was first conceived. By that stage of the  war, I had become inured to the idea of casualties, whether our own or the enemy’s.” His consuming concern had been e