ese transportation: the oceangoing fleet had disappeared, but railways and coastal shipping seemed prime targets whose destruction would paralyze the Japanese economy even if remaining factories and cities were left intact. Oil, chemical, and electric power plants were also singled out, the kind of targets with which airmen themselves had once been enamored.?3  The survey team made slow headway. George Ball’s recollections of their reception were acid. “After one long session dominated by General Curtis LeMay, who did most of the talking, I came away dismayed at the shallowness of the views expressed.” General Norstad offered his sympathies: “George, never forget that individually many of those men are highly intelligent, but when they meet collectively—did you ever hear such goddam nonsense?” Yet the problem was not simply the obtuseness of generals. Stimson attached great importance to the survey reeommendations—one of many signs that no one yet counted on the atomic bomb to end the war early—but he did nothing to follow them up. Nor did Marshall.24  Airmen and Joint Staff planners had other reasons for responding tepidly to the survey’s ideas. For one thing, they came in from outside normal bureaucratic channels and had tomove through a bureaucratic maze of ever-growing intricacy. In the end, the survey’s recommendation to attack transportation was acceptable to the airmen but only formalized at the end of July, when Spaatz took command of the Pacific air forces. In the meantime, the survey’s ideas were subjected to the pull and haul of timing and tactics, those factors a military bureaucracy is most attuned to calculating. LeMay’s staff argued that “bombing must proceed according to its own time table, recognizing weather as the controlling factor, rather than the time table for surface operations.” These tactical con- siderations, which the Twentieth elevated into a “fundamental principle.” led it to insist on “rapid destruction of a large number of Japanese ci