.  At issue in the American capital was the relative importance of arresting Soviet influence, securing Moscow’s trust, finding solutions to the problem of nuclear weapons, and achieving victory over Japan. Victory itself had different meanings, its virtue measured variously by its speed, its cheapness, or its completeness. To be sure, the various objectives were not necessarily mutually exclusive: quick victory over Japan might deny war’s spoils to the Soviets, for example. But the interconnections between objectives were hard to calculate, and pursuing them could complicate as well as clarify matters.  Confusion over what kind and how urgent a victory to achieve over Japan remained the most persistent. The Allies did not pose a major problem in that regard; even Moscow proved pleasantly flexible on the central issue of the emperor’s fate.8? But American public opinion offered vexing guidance. In opinion polls, Americans overwhelmingly preferred the method of victory saving the most American lives even if it resulted in a longer war. But policymakers had to look not only at polls, but at abundant other evidence of intense restlessness to have peace and enjoy its material fruits. Moreover, if Americans wanted quick victory, many appeared reluctant to compromise on objectives whose pursuit might delay it. A third of those polled by Gallup in June wanted Hirohito executed, others hoped to see him imprisoned or exiled. In their very confusion, polls left leeway to policymakers on how to prosecute the war and the peace. But another way to interpret the confusion is that Americans wanted a quick and cheap victory but also a complete one.8&  Those American leaders who recognized that choices had to be made had done little to prepare Americans to make them. The divergence between the public and private utterances of Leahy was not unique. Grew, the most forceful advocate of an open mind on the emperor's fate, earlier had conjured up visions of a Japan whose fanaticism was a