rational command he had never before enjoyed. And only centralization permitted maximum use of the techniques of operations research and bureaucratic management enjoying favor in Washington—the full employment of the forces of civilian militarism.12  Page 219 of 368 50%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON mand that was soon to disintegrate.®  More important was the organizational novelty involved. It was one thing for a capital to keep close tabs on what its commanders were doing, another to plan in great detail what they would do, as Washington headquarters did in 1944. To be sure, the long line of communications to Saipan, Guam, and Kharagpur sometimes stretched thin, no flood of directives from on high could entirely substitute for judgment on the spot, the field commander with suitable drive could adapt orders to his purposes, and Arnold’s volatile temperament undercut any tendencies to settle into bureaucratic routine.  Nonetheless, the supervision from Washington was at times remarkable. “General Arnold’s control of the U.S. Air Force is as complete, virtually, as is Hitler’s control of Germany,” observed an English officer with pardonable exaggeration. “He is a complete dictator. ... Be discovered doing something Arnold does not like and Arnold sacks you—like that.” No more than Marshall and King could Arnold always play such an imperial role: in an air force huge by 1944, he was more than ever dependent on a growing headquarters staff and on a heart whose failings repeatedly removed him from day-to-day control of the air force. Yet if not always wielded personally by Arnold, power usually remained in his headquarters. “It is a current saying that you cannot run a war from Washington,” Norstad commented in September. “The fact is, however, that all of this war has been run to a larger degree than most people realized from Washington.” If anything, Washington’s grip tightened late in the war, for the completion of the tedious business o