always been great. The capacity of the bomber to secure easy vengeance in the guise of military necessity had long been one of its attractions. Its promise to reduce or end bloodletting on the ground had been an even stronger attraction after World War I. The moral and imaginative effort required to bridge the gap between promise and reality had always been immense. If people in the relative luxury of peace could not reconcile their benign and horrific images of air war, they were hardly more likely to do so in the maw of war.  THE IMPORTANCE OF AWARENESS  Casual attitudes certainly helped Americans to accept bombing, but the case can be made that they did little to shape the actual course of bombing. The example of the British, so terribly knowledgeable about air war but so bent on unleashing the bomber'’s fury against German cities, apparently strengthens that case. If Americans had known more and confronted better what they did know, they  Page 138 of 368 32%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON In the United States, too, exposed as it had been for a generation to horrific as well as benign literature about the bomber, moral argument was not entirely discarded. To be sure, it was often crude. Yet  even retribution was, to its proponents, a moral as well as political imperative. A corollary to retribution was the claim that “war is a conflict of peoples, not of armies.” In the words of a contributor to the New Republic, “The natural enemy of every American man, woman and child is the Japanese man, woman and child.” The nation might spare the civilian if the enemy could be defeated without harming him, but if not, “he reverts to his fundamental position as ... prime target.” Thus, “unnecessary destruction is not unnecessary when it becomes necessary”—necessary to win, that is. Protec- tion of civilians was a luxury, not a fundamental right to be abridged only in extremis.**  Of course that argument was no novelty by World War II. Invoked to j