ness to think about the issues involved.  Still, evidence was available, in the lesson provided by World War I, of the need to examine critically the impact of new weapons on warfare. The world had already once suffered grievously from the failure to anticipate the impact of the machine gun, the submarine, and the entire apparatus of industrial warfare. Moreover, the war had shown the danger of assuming that governments would make calculations about these weapons in a thoughtful or rational way. They had displayed the capacity to waste vast numbers of men in operations of marginal or negative utility, and soldiers and citizens had shown a remarkable capacity to endure this waste. Perhaps only a desperate wish that such a nightmare never recur can account for the failure to look more closely at the Great War’s meaning.  In a variety of ways, the remoteness of air power formed the secret of its appeal. Air war lay on the periphery of American concerns about their security, and as some Americans imagined using it, it posed few moral or strategic dilemmas. To its detractors, its limited utility insured limited use; to its defenders, its power promised to keep war itself distant, its precision to bring quick and sanitary victory if war occurred. Where something more could be conceived, in contemplating war with Japan, the attraction was too casual to arouse much conern. For both defenders and detractors, the nassihility of attack acainct the TInited States althaich franuently invaked ta defend American aerial armament was farfatched In hrief Americans cauld develan air nawer—aor for that matter  Page 70 of 368 17%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  standards can be judged. At the time, reflexive condemnation offered no distinctions from other kinds of murder that even democracies practice—by siege, shelling, or economic blockade, for example —and few guidelines for the future handling of the bomber. It was unclear whether the nature of the victi