rmed about the atomic bomb project because training for an atomic mission had to take place in the Marianas, using the planes in which LeMay was expert and coordinated with the operations he conducted. But he was told the bare minimum, and as he later put it, the news “didn’t make much of an impression upon me,” for a long time had passed “since my college physics days.” It would make “a big bang,” but how big he could not imagine.48  What he did think about and tackle with his uncluttered intelligence and force of character were the manifold problems still outstanding in the B-29 operations. He reaped the benefits of Hansell’s earlier efforts in that regard. He exploited Washington’s operations researchers, challenging one to “pick out a couple of the stupidest radar operators they have, and Lord knows that’s pretty stupid,” and perfect crew training in the use of radar for identifying and hitting targets.42 The numbers of crews and planes he had grew steadily, though stepped-up training kept combat sorties from rising as fast. In February, he gained another important advantage with the capture of Iwo Jima, robbing the enemy of a forward warning station, placing American escort fighters within reach of Japan, and providing new weather stations and an emergency landing field that reduced B-29 losses dramatically.  The “tender and the trivial” matters that saved crewmen and put bombs on target consumed LeMay. He led men with skill, even though privately he condemned “a blundering staff” that was “practically worthless.” He had inherited shoddy outfits before; he knew what to do. Only a few key men were replaced, a few others reshuffled. Otherwise he led by example, by a kind of unadorned optimism, by simple command rather than exhortation or intimidation, and by the good humor men under stress must have. Those who knew him better soon learned that his “grimace is a smile,” his Bell’s palsy simply inverting what pleasure did to other men’s faces. He got the best out o