1916 even the army’s general staff, never given to a generous view of the airplane’s potential, recommended aviation’s eventual separation from the Signal Corps, while Congress was already considering a proposal for a cabinet-level department of aviation. During the war, aviation was finally removed from the Signal Corps’ authority and might have become an inde- pendent service had the war gone on longer.  But young airmen like William Mitchell and Henry Harley Arnold, who would later lead the fight for aviation’s autonomy, were content before 1917 to remain wards of the Signal Corps, unsure as yet that they had either the doctrine or the political resources to fly on their own. In the navy, more accustomed to technological change and to projecting American power abroad, a few officers were more venturesome. They foresaw a place for naval aviation in defending the Philippines, the first of generations of officers who looked to air power as an economical way to defend American interests in the Far East. They also weighed development of aircraft carriers and bombing missions for their planes. Neither before nor during World War I did the navy do much with these possibilities, limit- ing its aviation largely to reconnaissance and coastal defense.21  Before World War I, then, military aviation was hardly more than a casual improvisation, even in Europe, where popular fears of doomsday occasionally prompted hurried efforts to build warplanes. On the eve of World War I, the major powers could each claim only about fifty to one hundred planes, none ready to fight. “In fact,” as Robin Higham succintly put it, “exactly what they were there for was not very clear.”22 Success in military aviation had less to do with national talents or needs than with the accidents of war. The Germans were developing dirigibles whose potential for bombing intrigued them and alarmed the British. But the Italians led in aviation because their war with the Turks in 1911-12 accelerated their aviat