ance to him [Arnold]” and instead have passed them on to Arnold “in more detail.”8  Sometime in December, Arnold decided to sack Hansell. Committed to a doctrine in which for him inhered strategic, political, and moral wisdom, Hansell had aroused his boss’s notorious impatience. Determined to try whatever worked and to try aman who shared that determination, Arnold turned to Curtis LeMay. As Hansell commented at the time, “The boss considers LeMay as the big time operator and me as the planner.” The boss, he later wrote, was also inclined “to measure strategic air attack in terms of tonnage and sorties.” The good soldier, Hansell did not fault Arnold for this inclination, knowing the political pressures on Arnold for results. But he disliked the change in policy his dismissal implied and declined to stay on to assist LeMay, in a relationship he knew would be embarrassing to both men.  If Arnold felt under pressure, it came from an army and navy still eager to make a claim on his big bombers, for neither Roosevelt nor Congress and the press were looking critically at air force operations. Most newsmen fell quietly into line with the Twentieth’s centralized press control, writing up their stories on the first B-29 raid on Tokyo even before the mission was run, and conveying uncritically the air force's claim of practicing only precision bombing. The B-29s might eventually be able “to wipe out Tokyo altogether,” commented the Los Angeles Times. “But it may be taken for  Page 254 of 368 58%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  PRE EE EE Reha et RR RTARTA the Se pe ee Ne BE RE NN A RA TE eet AEN ny oR Ee a aE ERE REARS PRR RERS ERE SATU Santen RE Re Rey ype BE ee Sate Fate Ste Ate Ae ae  dramatic first mission (Tokyo had not been visited since the Doolittle raid) and the destruction of the Japanese air force before beginning a full-scale strategic campaign. Trouble arose long before the B-29s got off the ground. Hansell repeatedly had to delay the