nded exploitation denied the state the expertise needed to coordinate highly dispersed and complex institutions, despite belated efforts by Germany and Japan to rationalize production and make use of civilian experts. The latter remained servants, not partners, in the war effort. The final irony was that fascist totalitarianism produced far less centralization than the Allies achieved. Generals or party bureaucrats might rule particular fiefdoms with an iron hand, but no informed authority ruled over them. The Allies excelled in rationalizing production and linking laboratory to industry, the high command and the field. Cooperation proved more efficient than coercion.  Page 189 of 368 43%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Methods of recruitment also strengthened the airmen’s bonds with civilian society. The air force aggressively recruited on college campuses and among clubs for flying and model-building. Furthermore, during the war civilian institutions rapidly expanded their indoctrination of American youth in the virtues and techniques of aviation. In training what contemporaries called the Winged Superchildren of Tomorrow, civilian educators and businessmen forged links between the civil and military spheres that were unique among the armed services to the air force.22 Moreover, once recruited, men were assigned combat flying roles only if they volunteered for them, a practice which sustained the elite status of airmen, as did the long, sophisticated training they received. Des- pite their higher educational background, airmen were also younger than army soldiers and officers.  In sum, airmen—by class and education, by their relative youth, by their sheer numbers, and by the era’s infatuation with aviation—were attuned to the demands of modern technology, organization, and civilian expertise. Cause and effect may be difficult to sort out—the air force’s emerging supremacy both reflected its class composition and gave rise to it. But wh