m has been commonplace, and as Millis acknowledged, hardly leveled only at air officers. Nor was it entirely fair, inasmuch as relationships among status, doctrine, and technology were more complex than Millis allowed. If airmen had been hesitant to develop doctrine, laymen would have voiced it in some fashion anyway, as indeed they often did. Yet Millis had the pattern substantially correct. Logic alone never dictated employment of air power against enemy cities and factories. Many other uses, for which a few airmen made pleas, existed for the airplanes. Air forces exposed to combat in the 1930s learned, as World War II showed more fully, that tactical aviation in support of surface forces “could often destroy the forces in the field before strategic bombers could have a paralyzing effect.” But no doctrine except strategic air power satisfied the drive to achieve an independent air force that would bring personal status, power, and probably most important, professional respectability.®  Other differences and irritations, often petty in themselves, widened the gap between the fliers and their superiors trained in ground warfare, intensifying the drive for a doctrine that would justify independence. Aviators were set apart because they were relatively young, few in number (everyone knew everyone), low in rank, less often products of the West Point fraternity, and engaged in the most dangerous assignment (in one typical year, 2.5 percent of all army aviators died in crashes). Their one toehold in the bureaucracy, the position of assistant secretary of war for air (a civilian post), was eliminated in the budget crunch of 1933. Their weak position in the army bureaucracy encouraged them to circumvent it by courting support in Congress, the press, and the public. It also contributed to “something of a persecution complex,” as one sympathetic historian has put it, acontemptuous attitude that often saw stupidity or malice in the bureaucracy’s understandable stress on gradu