entimental plot of an aviator who, his best friend lost behind German lines, flies to rescue him, only to die in his comrade’s arms. Similar themes were evident in Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. ’s, depiction of the American ace Frank Luke: “Like some old-time frontiersman, he wanted every notch on his gun authenticated.” In the 1930s, an American poet could still celebrate the chivalry in the skies of the “Knights of the world’s last knighthood” and invoke mythical Greek warriors to describe airmen. Heroes of the air seemed lifted out of war altogether, serving as much-wanted reminders of the individual's continued significance in the machine age. Simultaneously, they appeared as throwbacks to an age of more gallant warfare, their courage magnified by the frailty of their machines and the odds against their survival. Given these images, it was easy to ignore the potential of airpower for “scientific murder.”42  Evoking similar images, heroes of peacetime flying received more attention than combat aviators in the 1920s. Their exploits established the principal context in which Americans learned about aviation. Victims or practitioners of media exploitation, they enjoyed a hero-worship in which war existed only as an afterthought, and at that more often as metaphor for their deeds than as arena for the technology they promoted.  The primary example, of course, was the response to Charles Lindbergh’s solo flight across the Atlantic in 1927. Despite Lindbergh’s laconic protest that his feat was the product of cooperation and calculation, statesmen and journalists often saw in it a foolhardy daring akin to that of the great warrior—a Joan of Arc, the biblical David, the pilots of the Lafayette Escadrille or the Unknown Soldier of World War I. President Coolidge sent a navy cruiser to bring the Lone Eagle home; the army commissioned him a colonel; generals from the Great War toasted his bravery. Surrounding Lindbergh with the trappings of military heroism did not represent a co