s to see in the rapid growth of commercial aviation a rare glimmer of vitality. Not only did airlines expand rapidly, but the airplane itself appeared on the verge of democratization, near to becoming an article of mass production and consumption akin to the automobile. It seemed reasonable for a federal official to predict in 1930 that the day was near when “everybody would fly, everybody would have a plane, and aerial traffic cops would soon be busy handing out tickets.” With the appropriate fanfare and modest government subsidies, proto- types of a “poor man’s airplane” began rolling into public view, greeted as evidence that an automobile for the skies was around the corner.  At the same time, in well-publicized events and spectacles, Americans glimpsed the growing range and power of military aviation. Army and navy aviators broke more records for speed, endurance, and range. Sleeker bombers, embodying the first real improvements in design since World War I, entered military service. The United States Army Air Corps, seeking publicity as well as strategic insight, staged bold flights, maneuvers, and war games, such as one that theoretically reduced a part of New York City to a “smoldering heap of ashes.”2  What most Americans learned about these episodes, however, gave them little reason to see anything ominous. The extensive press coverage of air force maneuvers rarely suggested that the United States would ever bomb other countries. And some of the maneuvers were little more than stunts that backfired badly for the Air Corps. In August 1931, the National Broadcasting Company gave a blow-by-blow radio account of an attempt by army bombers to intercept and sink an old freighter, the Mount Shasta, in the Atlantic. But the air crews first failed to find the ship, then proved un- able to sink it, and finally left it to the Coast Guard to finish off. Such a miserable performance badly embarrassed the Air Corps in its attempt to supplant the navy as the first line of