ated to the attainment of skills and status useful in a larger world. And because the distinction from the civilian world was eroding, civilians performed many tasks once assumed only by military men, and the language and methods of the civilian, particularly of the corporate world, entered military institutions. As volunteers for combat duty (even when initially conscripted), airmen were in a strong position to contract for terms of service. The air force’s rotation policy, by limiting risks and establishing rewards validated in the civilian marketplace, looked forward to a practice commonplace in the American armed forces by the 1960s.28  To be sure, this evolution was only beginning in World War II. If risks were peculiarly finite for the airman they were nonetheless great; if most airmen calculated tangible rewards flowing from their war contract, others still saw themselves as warriors. Furthermore, wartime promises of GI benefits to veterans in some ways extended the entrepreneurial model to other servicemen. If the evolution toward an entrepreneurial model of service is difficult to date, so too have its causes been difficult for critics to locate. But the emergence of an entrepreneurial model in the air force was cer- tainly hastened by the close connections between military and civilian aviation and the reliance on men well acquainted with the norms of civilian business and technology.  The goals defined for airmen accorded well with those held by civilians and generals serving the wartime air force. For all, there was a definition of goals and rewards distinct from a traditional military ethic of winning wars. Victory could not be forgotten; it had attractions of its own, and it was a vehicle for meeting other goals. But mastery of technique—bureaucratic, intellectual, scientific, mechanical—promised rewards apart from and beyond the objective of winning the war. The inventors, organizers, and handlers of the technique of air war found a satisfaction in wa