Forces in the Pacific embracing both the Twentieth and Eighth air forces. But in strategic matters, all had not gone well for the air force, either at the meeting with Truman on the eighteenth or the next day, when LeMay made his pitch to the Joint Chiefs and Marshall slept through it (so LeMay recalled).22  Another opportunity to reformulate strategy arose when Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS) experts returned from Europe and made their recommendations for a final course of bombing against Japan. USSBS staff held several conferences with strategists in mid-June, including a meeting on the nineteenth with Stimson, Grew, Lovett, and Marshall. Hedged only by acknowledgment that the German and Japanese cases were not the same, the survey’s recommendations constituted a firm plea, based on lessons from Europe, to change LeMay’s targeting. The bombers should concentrate on Japanese transportation: the oceangoing fleet had disappeared, but railways and coastal shipping seemed prime targets whose destruction would paralyze the Japanese economy even if remaining factories and cities were left intact. Oil, chemical, and electric power plants were also singled out, the kind of targets with which airmen themselves had once been enamored.23  The survey team made slow headway. George Ball’s recollections of their reception were acid. “After one long session dominated by General Curtis LeMay, who did most of the talking, I came away dismayed at the shallowness of the views expressed.” General Norstad offered his sympathies: “George, never forget that individually many of those men are highly intelligent, but when they meet collectively—did you ever hear such goddam nonsense?” Yet the problem was not simply the obtuseness of generals. Stimson attached great importance to the survey recommendations—one of many signs that no one yet counted on the atomic bomb to end the war early—but he did nothing to follow them up. Nor did Marshall.24  Page 304 of 368 69%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR