e and the initial spring fire raids. Of course the Japanese economy was sheared in so many ways that measuring the effect of one kind of destruction is difficult. But in economic terms the summer’s fire attacks largely inflicted redundant destruction and missed those components of the economy that were still functioning .28  Not so with the impact of the fire raids on the morale and vigor of the Japanese people, whose decline rapidly accelerated. Scarcely less than the deindustrialization and deurbanization of modern Japan was now taking place. In the process, the social structure of Japan was also momentarily upended. Farmers and small-town inhabitants, previously in the social backwater of modern Japan, now had the resources that urbanites coveted. They sometimes lorded it over their hapless city cousins, seeing the bombing as due punishment for the evil ways of the modern city and resenting the demands made by refugees. The very suddenness of Japan’s modernization provided a backstop against social disintegration, however. Many urbanites were still familiar with and adaptable to rural ways; most still had relatives in the country; family members went to extraordinary lengths to stay together. As other social institutions—the vaunted neighborhood associations, the modern business corporation, the state bureaucracy—fell into various degrees of chaos, the family became the central social unit.22  But few could escape the effects of bombing. If some got used to air raids, far more experienced bombing for the first time. What was most striking in the many indices of morale was how consistent the precipitous decline was among all strata of the Japanese population. Partly this was because so many forces lowered morale besides bombing—news of defeat abroad, food shortages, and the like—but even more because so much of the population had experienced the bombing in one way or another: in raids on smaller cities, by word from the cities’ refugees, even in the occasional rai