apan’s importance as a threat would vastly decline once that connection became severed by Germany’s defeat. Unconditional surrender might still be demanded because Japanese actions now seemed in their own right so abhorrent; because the American people wanted it; because Japan, it seemed, would surrender under no other terms. None of these reasons was a major part of the original rationale for demanding such surrender. But they had gained such force that they constrained policymakers in any efforts to revise the formula in light of the imminent demise of the Axis alliance.  To complicate matters further, the question of surrender terms and their relationship to strategy fell into the bureaucratic no-man’s-land that lay between the services, the State Department, and other interested agencies and individuals. For their part, military officials, though vexed about how to secure surrender, hesitated to intrude upon prerogatives deemed the possession of civilian policymakers. Of course, the issue was finally the president’s to decide. But Roosevelt rarely indicated his views—it is doubtful that his subordinates even clearly framed the issues for him—and he hardly prepared the ground of public opinion by claiming that “we can force the Japanese to unconditional surrender or to national suicide much more rapidly than has been thought possible.””2  The air force entered this uncharted jungle of bureaucratic and policy conflicts the least equipped of the three services even to see it, much less to mark a course. In its doctrine, the connection between bombing and surrender had rarely moved beyond the level of assumption. By background, air officers were especially insular—the least traveled, the most poorly versed in language skills and direct knowledge of enemy cultures. Organizationally the AAF had never gone through the experience of securing a surrender; nor did it have the intelligence apparatus of the army and navy for studying the enemy. Responsibility for reading th