ar II,” particularly the failure to harness civilian science to military needs. And technological development would respond to “a fundamental principle of democracy that personnel casualties are distasteful. We will continue to fight mechanical rather than manpower wars.”25  Arnold had a certain brutal foresight into the shape of wars to come, a vision of intercontinental aerial struggle extrapolated from the lessons of Pearl Harbor and wartime technology. But the politics and strategy of future conflicts interested him less than their technological basis. “I see a manless Air Force,” he told von Karman: “I see no excuse for men in fighter planes to shoot down bomb-  Page 184 of 368 42%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON danger came less trom the potential of modern technology than trom the stupidity or evil machinations ot great nations or powerful individuals. ‘I'he dominant impulse remained evident in proposals  like Allan Michie’s: Keep the Peace Through Air Power.23  For Arnold and the air force, these proposals were of little concern except as hopeful signs of a coming awareness of aviation’s dominance in world relations and national policy. The air force was both an instigator and a beneficiary of the perception of a new air age; in a seamless world, both threats and opportunities for the United States would arise most anywhere in the world, threats arriving with the cataclysmic suddenness of Hitler’s V-2 rockets. It was a perception shared by liberal one-worlders, self-conscious practitioners of realpolitik, scientists creating the new technology, and conservators of strategic tradition like Marshall. Of course a common perception did not always lead to the same prescriptions about the future role of American air power. It did encompass anx- ieties and aspirations on which Arnold’s air force capitalized with considerable success.  It also buttressed Arnold's effort to fulfill his second objective in postwar policy: developing the tec