d to mold seamless unity among Japanese also strengthened the West’s image of the Japanese as an anonymous mass in which no sense of individual values existed. The Japanese state relied on an ethic of blind self-sacrifice among its soldiers and sailors and treated ethnic minorities abroad and at home brutally and often murderously. But terror never took the form of systematic and self-conscious genocide that it did in Germany. Criticism of the government by innu- endo or indirection remained possible; political parties, though dissolved, functioned anyway in attenuated form; even elections for the Diet were held, albeit highly circumscribed by the government. The numbers jailed for political reasons ran only to the thousands, those executed only to the dozens—a record simply not comparable to that of wartime Germany or to other forms of totalitarian rule. Leaders still had to balance the conflicting claims of competing armed services, suspicious senior statesmen, wary industrialists, and most of all a powerful civilian bureaucracy. Of course, conflicts of interest also plagued the Nazi state, but with the critical difference that one supreme leader had emerged, with a centralized apparatus of repression. Collective leadership still prevailed in Japan.  More brutal repression did not seem necessary. Although never as harmonious and homogeneous as Westerners imagined, the Japanese were well endowed with traditions of obedience to the collective will. More important, unlike the Nazis, the Japanese leadership never sought to reorder an entire society. Conscious of Japan’s place in Nazi racial theory, it had little desire to emulate Nazism,  Page 239 of 368 55%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  after Tojo’s fall, it would have found the Americans “more than ready with a peace plan.”64  Convergence, however at work implicitly, was not to come for a fatefully long time, for its workings were hardly the only “actuality” of the times. On neither si