omic effects (however diffuse) remained an objective, and because precision methods remained so central to the defense of American strategic air power, even airmen did not always real- ize they were crossing a threshold.112  But the denial of intent to destroy entire cities and create terror became increasingly hard to maintain. The weeks following the March 10 assault saw self-deception gradually transformed into the conscious deception of others. The air force was alert to any signs that the criticism it feared after the Dresden raids might reappear regarding Tokyo. Already on March 11, as the chief public relations officer in Washington noted, “Some speculation [has] begun here on shift from selected military targets to area bombing.” The next day, McKelway on Guam was informed that “commentators [were] having [a] field day searching implications ... which imply this is area bombing and speculating whether this means departure from policy of precision bombing.” McKelway was quickly in- structed to counteract “editorial comment ... about blanket incendiary attacks upon cities. ... Guard against anyone stating this is area bombing.”13  On March 23, Norstad stepped in to silence any incipient criticism. Holding a Washington press conference on Arnold’s behalf, he faced a familiar dilemma: wanting on the one hand to exploit LeMay’s blitz for all the prestige and publicity it was worth, on the other to head off the growth of a barbaric image for the air force. One solution was the resort to a rhetoric of cost-benefit analysis, contrasting the B-29s’ strikingly low loss rates with stunning statistics: “1,200,000 factory workers ... made homeless” and “at least 100,000 man-months” of labor lost to Japan and “369,000,000 sq. ft. of highly industrialized land .. . leveled to ashes” in the Tokyo raid alone. Of course the human carnage was implicit in such statistics, but they kept the emphasis on the economic objectives of precision bombing. Of course there was no denial t