and magical agency, and this expectation was increased by the feverish earnestness with which all Americans desired that our country should appear speedily, worthily, and decisively in the war.41  The production failure left the American Air Service with no real strategic force of its own, only borrowed planes and deferred hopes for an aerial offensive in 1919 that would never happen. The war likewise left aviators an uncertain legacy. Held in check by ground commanders, struggling to learn the art of command, prone to bitter feuds with comrades and superiors, and deprived of a full test of the bomber’s potential, they could not expound a coherent theory of strategic bombardment or develop an unqualified commitment to it. Mitchell’s finest hour came when he directed a superior force of some fifteen hundred planes against German forces in the Saint-Mihiel salient. They made a significant contribution to the Allied advance. But according to Mitchell’s most astute student, he later “grossly exaggerated” what happened there, not so much the achievement itself as its implications for strategic air power.42 The attack was, after all, only an unusually ambitious use of tactical aviation.  Mitchell already envisaged leaping beyond the battlefield to attack the enemy’s “vital centers.” Yet his freedom to articulate and act on a theory of strategic air war was highly circumscribed. Indeed, one scholar has suggested, when Mitchell had to move from imagining an air force to commanding one, his “dominant conception of air power had shifted from the realm of the strategic to that of the tactical.” Not even aviators, always fond of seeing themselves as free from the shackles of tradition, could entirely cease extrapolating visions of future wars from earlier experience. In the 1920s, past experience primarily meant tactical aviation. Mitchell, not to mention his less reckless or arrogant colleagues, left the war uncertain of the direction they wanted aviation to take. Doctrine  Pa