defense of the policies they sanctioned.  A third qualification is broader. When Spaatz later acknowledged that “it wasn’t for religious or moral reasons that I didn’t go along with urban area bombing,” he also recalled how he had believed that precision bombing “could win the war more quickly.”®! That argument was as much a moral as a utilitarian claim, one applied by some to incendiary as well as to precision bombing. Of  Page 246 of 368 56%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Arnold’s comments reflected the dominant tone in air force speculation about Japan’s fate. As technicians, the airmen placed operational considerations first and said little about the enemy,  rarely employing the rhetoric of vengeance found elsewhere. Intent on speeding up operations, seldom called upon to explain how doing so would affect the final political outcome, they used a language and methodology in which the enemy, far from being the central preoccupation, was the void at the center of other concerns. Thus the air force could serve as a vehicle of vengeance while confining itself to the problems of technique.  As such, its leaders may seem to have been amoral technicians, instruments of a nation’s anger in which they had no particular investment. It is a characterization reinforced by the willingness of AAF leaders to target German morale and cities in the last stages of the war and by their apparent lack of remorse after the war as well. Regarding the bombing of Japan, General Ira Eaker later said, “Tt made a lot of sense to kill skilled workers by burning whole areas.” He “never felt there was any moral sentiment among leaders of the AAF” nor any lack of willingness to use the atomic bomb on Germany had it been ready, except for the lack of “fruitful” targets there by the war’s last months. As Ronald Schaffer has argued, most objections to area bombing of cities that arose among AAF leaders were tactical or political rather than moral ones. The relative eas