F’s success in public relations.8&  Of course status could inspire resentment. Other servicemen sometimes thought themselves slighted. Editorials like the New York Daily News's “Rickenbacker Didn’t Go to College” argued that taxi drivers “could be turned into swell combat pilots” and was unworried “that we may pick up some pilots who don’t know .. . the proper way for a gentleman and an officer to navigate a teacup.”82 The AAF itself dropped its college requirements, but the change did little to alter the status, real and perceived, of the airmen.  Elite status was not confined to the American air forces and was not caused solely by the glamor and role of aviation, for the marines also enjoyed prestige as a select group. But the important difference between the two was their divergent criteria for selection; the marines were an elite but not a technical elite, admirable men but hardly pioneers of modern warfare.  The airmen’s higher status and more sophisticated training also reflected and strengthened their stronger drive for upward social mobility. They expected promotion to come faster than other army men did—expectations borne out by practice—and they anticipated greater social and economic rewards to come their way after the war. They might find rewards by staying in the air force, which nearly everyone assumed would be far larger after this war than before it. Believers in the “winged gospel,” a vast majority of AAF pilots also expected to own their own planes after the war. Most  cu vos aa. Se er re P Voeert n wer wetoe. c  Page 211 of 368 49%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON herculean feats to get a plane back to base, in the face of unpredictable changes in weather—an unexpected headwind, a target shrouded by bad weather, a home base sunny when they took off and  socked in when they returned. Particularly in the Pacific, where the dominant weather patterns came through Japanese or Soviet territory from which American meteorologist