victory like Marshall and Eisenhower. The scientists’ role and Roosevelt’s aggressive effort to expand the Air Corps testified to civilians’ “interference” and their success in making combat “more absolute.” Not that generals often disliked the outcome. As Arnold’s interest in new technologies suggested, what characterized the Anglo-Americans at war was the coalescence, not the divergence, of civilian and military purpose and values. Military elites embraced civilian expertise, civilian elites embraced mili- tary purposes.  THE CIVILIAN EXPERTS  Civilian experts prosecuting the air war are more difficult to characterize than officers because civilians entered war work from far more varied backgrounds. Most officers were American by birth, had followed much the same course of training, education, and advancement, and were bound to similar professional norms. Scientists came to the American war effort from all over Europe; nor were all of them foreign-born refugees; some, like von Karman, had come for the intellectual and financial opportunities offered by American science. They varied enormously in the power, professional roles, interests, and talents they possessed, and some traveled far from their original scientific interests.  Many civilians performed the same tasks that they had in earlier wars, though on a much expanded scale. Phalanxes of businessmen and lawyers handled the intricate details of contracting, procurement, and allocation of resources. More novel was the movement of some into war-marking itself, as they helped to make decisions about how weapons should be used and operations conducted. Their assumption of such roles was an erratic process, more noticeable in England early in the war and accelerating rapidly toward the end of the war. Furthermore, civilians’ roles were never clearly sorted out along professional lines. For example, many nominally scientific positions were filled by nonscientists. Operations research was once defined by C. P. Snow a