American thinking about strategic bombing did occur during World War II. Before their entry into the war, Americans who supported air power generally saw it as capable of rapidly intimidating or defeating an enemy. During the war, they came to accept it as playing a different role, that of inflicting sustained destruction on enemy homelands. Attrition and annihila- tion replaced speed and selectivity—virtues which initially attracted Americans to the bomber—in their vision.  But the shock of Pearl Harbor did not abruptly sweep away moral scruples against annihilation, despite a common notion that Americans go to war believing it entitles annihilative force in the pursuit of total victory. What happened instead was a gradual descent into the hell of all-out air war, a descent made so incrementally that its flames and shadows were only dimly discerned. The few existing inhibitions against destruction of enemy cities were already slipping away before Pearl Harbor. Conversely, after December 7, even professional airmen still imagined “a telling and perhaps decisive blow” by air against Japan that precluded protracted annihilation.2 In short, acceptance of annihilation began before Pearl Harbor; realization of its likely costs, duration, and moral dilemmas only gradually emerged after December 7. Several factors in wartime political culture guided acceptance and slowed realization. Initial uncertainties about the war’s course, the purposes of political leadership, the stance of air power’s advocates, and the biases of prominent commentators—all these allowed concerned Americans to welcome the escalation of bombing and to ignore it, to celebrate its virtues and to overlook many of its consequences.  THE CONFUSION OF INITIAL EXPECTATIONS  Realization was slow in part because of strategic conditions abroad and political conditions at home. Despite defeats everywhere, the magnitude of the Anglo-American setback in the Far East was not immediately apparent even to high offici