anese as the bombing climaxed, “The supreme sacrifice and ultimate state of purification, by this terrible logic, had finally come to mean readiness to embrace extermination.” “The ‘national polity’ took precedence over the people,” concludes another historian.124 In any calculus of blame for the destruction of Japan’s cit- ies, its leaders figured alongside America’s, just as Germany’s did in the case of its destruction.  On the American side, too, leaders reacted cautiously to new possibilities. Age was no barrier to Stimson’s realization of the atomic bomb's novelty, which he had conveyed to Roosevelt and now made emphatic to Truman: “The world in its present state of moral advancement compared with its technical development would be eventually at the mercy of such a weapon. In other words, modern civilization might be completely destroyed.” Yet Stimson still did not connect the issue for mankind raised by the bomb with the immediate conduct of the war against Japan. He and most others who thought about the bomb overlooked the moral issue at hand and its connection to the larger matter of mankind’s fate: the possibility that the bomb’s use against Japan might establish a precedent for future use and intensify an international arms race. That connection was suggested only by those on the fringes of nuclear policy, among the Chicago scientists, and by that somewhat mysterious gadfly to Roosevelt, Alexander Sachs.125  As Stimson later suggested, no one at his level questioned the assumption that the bomb would and could be used against the enemy: “At no time, from 1941 to 1945, did I ever hear it suggested by the President, or by any other responsible member of the government, that atomic energy should not be used in the war. ... The entire purpose was the production of a military weapon; on no other ground could the wartime expenditure of so much time and money have been justified.” And yet Stimson’s recollections on this point were confusing, for he also claimed t