that also distanced them from war’s realities. In one way, this was hardly their intention. “It is not sufficient merely to bomb Japan.” Norstad reminded an audience. “The targets selected, the timing, the. weight must be chosen with surgical skill.”!4 It was the planners’job to help connect means and ends, to show how the force available could be used to secure victory. Often enough, the connection was hard to maintain, either affectively or conceptually, as designs for incendiary war showed.  Though central to Marshall’s scheme for intimidating Japan on the eve of Pearl Harbor, firebombing as a large-scale practicality became possible only after American entry into the war, when the technical work was carried out by the Army Chemical Warfare Service, the National Defense Research Committee, and the petrochemical industry. Much of their experimental work, presided over by the Harvard chemist Louis Fieser, concerned tactical weapons—flamethrowers and the jellied gasoline that Fieser’s scientists produced by adding extracts from aluminum napthanate and aluminum palmitate (from which Fieser drew the name napalm). Fieser, although he regarded use of poison gas as “inhumane,” relished development of incendiary bombs for strategic use, some of his experiments taking bizarre form. In 1943, he launched a project to release captive bats carrying tiny incendiaries from American bombers. These creatures, given to roosting in dark attics and cellars,  Page 221 of 368 51%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  ALS LLLPEL VIUUSLIESS LU LIC W LUC ALI VULSLUE LIULUCLICE, DULUUTL CULIaIU OCTIICU LU A LECIIIaLL VYSULL LU LLAVE VECIL LAVeLILCU UY SULIT AAU DULIUIUBISL, UCCULIUE a Luge Ulpailizauol UCUiLaLcU LU Lie purpose of burning cities and killing people, and doing the job badly.”13  The Twentieth Air Force was a less visibly demonic system, softened by Arnold’s genial public image and by the informality of the American bureaucratic style. Nonetheless, Washi