ex economic considerations and the most elaborate photographic surveillance and analysis. Incendiary attacks required only some general assumptions about the nature of the Japanese economy, easy photographic surveys to determine broad areas with dense workers’ housing, and the assignment of requisite tonnages. Outside the air force, a few voices offered caution in 1943. The flimsiness of Japanese cities making their destruction so easy also would make their rebuilding “correspondingly simple,” argued a State Department expert on Japan, while other officials worried that “the untold destruction” unleashed by incendiaries “would unite the mass of people more closely.” But the operations analysts were not examining the politics of surrender, and the destruction they envisioned seemed too extensive to worry about potential for recovery.21  After November, the technicians’ work went forward, as they revised sharply upward the tonnage requirements for incendiary raids.22 The high command was preoccupied for months with other matters, but in May 1944, as the Twentieth Air Force prepared for its first attacks, the issue of incendiary bombing resurfaced. On the ninth, Perera recommended that the incendiary campaign begin in March 1945, when wind and weather conditions would maximize its effect. At the same time, chemical and biological warfare again came in for high-level attention.23  Before June, the firebombing of Japan had been debated in an operational vacuum. It gained new urgency once the B-29s began flying. Operational considerations plunged the air staff into protracted debate. The ineffectiveness of the Twentieth’s early precision raids from China bases was quickly evident, and on August 8 one of the wing commanders due to bomb Japan from the Mari- anas pointedly raised the issue of bombing strategy with Arnold. Brigadier General Rosie O’Donnell argued that no small force of B-29s could achieve decisive effects on industrial targets: “Steam roller tactics are not a