ss any symptoms of impending German air collapse,” and Eaker offered reassurances about “the last final struggles of a monster in his death throes” and “our teeth in the Hun Air Force’s neck”—echoes of the unwarranted optimism of a year earlier. Arnold avoided those particular catchphrases before the press, choosing to emphasize the precision of the attack on Schweinfurt and implying paralyzing damage to the German war economy. “Now we have got Schweinfurt,” he said with soldierly simplicity and overstatement. Like Eaker’s private comments to Arnold, Arnold’s public statements fended off anticipated criticism only by increasing expectations still further.2!  Meanwhile, more substantive responses to the autumn crisis went forward. Strategists of air war had long maintained that losses would decline and damage increase in geometrical rather than arithmetical proportion to increases in bomber strength. They redoubled their efforts to bring the Eighth Air Force bombers and crews up to planned strengths, which had never been met. By December, the Eighth could send out over seven hundred heavies on missions, and it was joined by then by the Fifteenth Air Force based in Italy. Pending arrival of effective long-range fighter escorts, however, these two forces largely marked time.  By this stage in the war, production lines and training camps ground out the interchangeable parts of the war machine with such efficiency that supply no longer posed formidable problems. Differing strategic and political interests were timeless, however, and still mounting as England and the Mediterranean became an impenetrable tangle of bases, competing commands, overlapping jurisdictions, and baroque lines of authority. Plenty only made this tangle more dense and ambitions more intense. In the fall of 1943, the Allies made one last attempt to unscramble it, with only partial success. A renewed effort to streamline target objectives and tighten Anglo-American coordination fell victim to the diff