for the navy declined to install its high command into the new structure, any more than it would countenance unification of the armed forces. The Joint Chiefs of Staff, too, met elsewhere, in the Public Health Building, its presence away from the Pentagon a fitting indication of the legal limbo of this wartime improvisation.  Roosevelt was, of course, commander in chief. But by 1944, his declining energies were devoted to the election campaign and a few issues of paramount urgency. His once firm grip on strategy was slipping. In February 1944, he had put command of the Twentieth Air Force directly in Arnold’s hands, thereby reaffirming that the aerial weapon was to play an independent, strategic role in defeating Japan. Thereafter, his contribution to the air war was more than ever indirect or secret: by privately approving with Churchill the possible use of atomic bombs against Japan, he gave tentative sanction to the ultimate use of air power. Except for his forceful interest in bombing Japan from Chinese bases, the president had rarely been directly involved in the conduct of strategic air war, pre- ferring to concentrate on prodding the mobilization of resources for it. Inasmuch as that task was now completed, his active role diminished.  His personal relationship with military leaders remained politely distant. His chief of staff, Admiral William Leahy, chaired the Joint Chiefs but showed little interest in strategy. Harry Hopkins, earlier an intimate link between Roosevelt and Arnold, faced declining health. Rare, too, for Roosevelt were the social occasions with Arnold that Churchill sometimes had with Arthur Harris, the RAF’s Bomber Commander. Similarly, the fate of particular operations rarely engaged Roosevelt like they might Churchill. The machinery was in place; Roosevelt was largely content to let it turn. He was neither ignorant nor uninformed, Arnold alerting him, for example, to the first American experiments in firebombing Japanese cities.2 But Roos