ad worried the people of the city. Now they helped create something more furious in intensity and far different in mechanics than even Hamburg and Dresden had suffered. Unlike the firestorm that sucks everything to its center, the conflagration that swept Tokyo was rapaciously expansive, a pillar of fire that was pushed over by the surface winds to touch the ground and gain new fury from the oxygen and combustibles it seized. LeMay had chanced upon just the right use of incendiaries, and the wind served as a giant bellows to superheat the air to eighteen hundred degrees Fahrenheit.”°  In flight lay the only salvation, just as at Dresden and Hamburg, but few who fled successfully could recall how they did so. Hisaki Imai remembered deciding to gather up his younger brother and race against the prevailing tide of humanity to strike out for a vacant lot. Then, somehow, when he found the vacant lot was built up with houses sure to catch the flames, the two fled with dampened towels over their faces to the Tokyo waterfront and survived the night. Most made the wrong choice or found their flight blocked by the debris whistling through the air or by the thicket of fallen poles and charged electric wires that clogged the streets. Fire alone was not the only danger. The superheated vapors rushing ahead of the wall of flames killed or knocked unconscious its victims  Page 273 of 368 62%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON craft upward thousands of teet in a few seconds or flipped them over. There were unknown sensations, attractive and repellent, in what they were doing.  To people on the ground, the bombs seemed to be sown in a random manner. They were not. First attackers carved out an X of flames across one of the world’s most densely packed residential districts; followers fed and broadened it for some three hours thereafter. LeMay’s tactical design worked. Another design, the government’s plan for defense, was being played out below. “Why should w