an could match it or someone else could fly in the opposite direction or soar over an uncharted and presumably perilous route. America’s military aviators figured prominently in the race to set new records, flying across the Atlantic in 1919, nonstop coast-to-coast in 1923, around the world in 1924, and setting new speed, height, and endurance records—usually with an eye to publicity.  Preoccupation with breaking records and with the crashes that so often accompanied new ventures dominated the attention paid to aviation. In their speeches and writings, aviators were often on the defensive, pleading that the spectacular crashes described in newspapers and depicted in newsreels not blind Americans to realizing the practicality of commercial aviation. In truth, the disasters were as essential a part of aviation’s image as the records set and inventions tested. They contributed to a sense of individual daring, of the machine’s frailty, and of man’s resourcefulness that made aviation a benign attraction, a fusion of frontier spirit and machine-age discipline. Few wanted to hear Lindbergh say that his famous flight involved slight risk.  Achievements like Lindbergh’s were greeted as signposts on the road to an imminent aerial millennium. Sketched out before the war, the virtues of flight were now elaborated in a frenzy of celebration. “Aviation enthusiasts tended to view flight as a ‘holy cause,” and with religious fervor they outlined its potential to democratize, uplift, and pacify the nations that touched it. The conspicuous roles in aviation assumed by women in the late twenties and thirties popularized that perceived potential. As pilots, stunt fliers, saleswomen, and stewardesses, women served narrow interests: given the dominant image of women as less mechanically adept and physically courageous than men, their highly visible presence in the skies was deliberately contrived by the aviation and airline industry to make flying seem safe, easy, and accessible. The pio