me scientists did respond with special alarm to the peculiar effects von Karman wanted to overlook. Furthermore, even among some of those accepting of the bomb’s use, news of its employment against Nagasaki so quickly after its first application triggered special doubt and revulsion. These reactions, though by no means universal, helped mobilize their aggressive entry into many aspects of postwar nuclear policy. Not surprisingly, their inclination was to grapple with future dangers rather than dwell on recent realities or engage in “brooding about the tragedy of using science for de- structive purposes,” as one of their chroniclers put it.126  The new realities of air war, like the old ones, remained inexpressible or unimportant to other leaders as well. British politicians who had had a hand in the bomb had left office prior to Hiroshima after their election defeat. Perhaps that is why their memoirs said so little about the atomic attacks; Churchill’s own account ended on July 26. Attlee may have had a more troubled reaction, but he later claimed that he, Churchill, and Truman did not know that nuclear explosions differed from the conventional weapons, except in their “much greater explosive force.” If scientists shielded themselves from understanding the novel lethality of atomic weapons, surely the politicians could have done so with greater ease.122  Reticence also characterized American leaders. To nearly all, of course, the bomb’s advent raised important problems. In the armed services, the race was on to grasp the implications of atomic energy for the size and missions of the contesting parties. Within a few weeks of Hiroshima, active imaginations in the air force were proposing that the United States operate “a world wide police system... to prevent the manufacture of atomic bombs,” complete with orbiting satellites for spying, moon-based rockets with nuclear warheads, and computer guidance controls.128 At State, Byrnes immediately plunged into an experiment