airman they were nonetheless great; if most airmen calculated tangible rewards flowing from their war contract, others still saw themselves as warriors. Furthermore, wartime promises of GI benefits to veterans in some ways extended the entrepreneurial model to other servicemen. If the evolution toward an entrepreneurial model of service is difficult to date, so too have its causes been difficult for critics to locate. But the emergence of an entrepreneurial model in the air force was cer- tainly hastened by the close connections between military and civilian aviation and the reliance on men well acquainted with the norms of civilian business and technology.  The goals defined for airmen accorded well with those held by civilians and generals serving the wartime air force. For all, there was a definition of goals and rewards distinct from a traditional military ethic of winning wars. Victory could not be forgotten; it had attractions of its own, and it was a vehicle for meeting other goals. But mastery of technique—bureaucratic, intellectual, scientific, mechanical—promised rewards apart from and beyond the objective of winning the war. The inventors, organizers, and handlers of the technique of air war found a satisfaction in war that infantrymen or their commanders could not achieve. Concern with mastering technique was often what the leaders of the air force meant when they referred to the operational necessities that sup- posedly dictated strategy and tactics.  What we might call the sociological basis of air war had great potential to aggravate the disjunction between means and ends and thereby to accelerate the momentum of air war. Because the criteria governing air war did not relate wholly to war itself, bombing had a momentum apart from the conflict. Because men did not have to view bombing solely as an act of war but could also see it as the perfection of technique, they did not always look at its consequences in war or measure its virtues in terms of its i