nd even more so Vannevar Bush hurried past this aspect of atomic bombs and indeed the entire story of their development. The official history of the bomb project suggests that their memoirs faithfully reflected their priorities in August and September: “Because they had lived for more than four years with the quest for the bomb and knew of its effects at Alamogordo, they were not, like most people, stunned by the news from Japan.” For Bush and Conant, “the psychological impact lay rather in the shattering of the little world of secrecy in which they had so long been confined.” They were swept up in dealing with the political remifications of public knowledge of atomic energy. Like them, many scientists also experienced a “feeling of emancipation” at the end of years of secrecy imposed on them, their families, their entire lives. One physicist, although “shocked by the effect our weapon had produced,” later still had to “confess that our relief was really greater than our horror. For at last our families and friends in other cities and countries knew why we had disappeared for years on end. ... We ourselves also learned that our work had not been in vain.” Another man, responsible for fashioning the plutonium bomb, recalled being “desperately anxious to find out ... whether its intricate mechanism would work. These were dreadful thoughts, I know, and still I could not help having them.” In the face of these emotions, there was little time or inclination to ponder what in human terms had happened in Japan.125  For the scientists, part of the problem in confronting the bomb lay in their ignorance of the effects of radiation. It took time to absorb the new knowledge gained from Hiroshima and Nagasaki and courage to admit its implications. Zuckerman later recalled a conversation with “the great Theo von Karman” shortly after the war’s end:  “If you had been one of the dead,” he asked, “would it have made any difference to you whether you were incinerated in Hamburg or in