at regard because their rulers relied on ideals of military service and party ideology rather than on “military materialism.”32 Trusting their zeal to win the war, they miscalculated the demands of war and thus postponed until too late the task of conscripting or cajoling the services of civilian science and industry. Even had they appreciated those demands more promptly, they would have been disinclined to share real power with civilian experts because their war, especially the Nazis’, was waged against the existing system at home as well as enemies abroad.  In both Germany and Japan, the disadvantages of relying on the fervor and judgment of military and party elites extended further, ironically undermining the air forces as fighting units as well. Both countries began the war with the best-trained pilots and ended with the worst. Trusting the fighting man’s virtue to win the war quickly, they failed to amass the reserves of quality pilots needed for further training, and pilot skill and training plummeted. Failing also to exploit their civilian labor pool, both countries placed further demands on their military personnel. In contrast, the American air force employed some 500,000 civilians, including largenumbers of women, for maintenance and logistical tasks. Just when production in Germany and Japan peaked in 1944, they lacked the well-trained crews to make use of it.  A narrow definition of military strength also sabotaged Axis industrial production. Just as German leaders wanted the best pilots, they wanted the best weapons, ones that satisfied the leadership's thirst for the miraculous instrument of victory and the developers’ competitive quest for technological advance and hegemony. But no consultative authority existed to sort out the wheat from the chaff among these novelties, to balance the benefits of their introduction against the costs of disrupting industrial routine. The triumph of a narrow form of technological creativity seriously impeded Axis effo