e, in these accounts, strategy and politics were intertwined. Their authors paraded a vision of “victory through air power,” as Alexander P. de Seversky titled his 1942 manifesto, the most discussed of the war. But their accusations of corruption, conspiracy, and incompetence were as arresting as their strategic arguments. Not their least appeal was their spiteful but satisfying explanation of disaster at Pearl Harbor. They spoke to familiar issues largely rooted in domestic politics, and critical as they often were of the air force, they sometimes provoked a political response. Arnold, believing that de Seversky pursued publicity instead of his responsibilities as principal owner of Republic Avi- ation, turned the power of federal contracting against him, while Lovett worked through Walter Lippmann to secure a more favorable public image of the Army Air Forces.21  De Seversky and like-minded writers nonetheless set the tone of public debate about air power for two years after Pearl Harbor. They sometimes presented an almost effortless path to victory. In William Bradford Huie’s view, American bombers could strike Berlin or Tokyo “with city-block accuracy without a bombardier’s ever seeing anything on the ground,” seeking “not to destroy every building in the block; but to destroy the one building in the block where bearings for the Focke-Wulf planes are being made.” Victory would require little fighting on the ground. In The Coming Battle of Germany (1942), William Ziff thought an invasion of Europe not only unnecessary but impossible. Inasmuch as Americans were avengers, not conquerors like the Germans, they should happily settle for the destruction of Germany by air, though perhaps they would not have to carry it out, for “at the first sign of real disaster the neuroticism, the inner turmoil, the wild fears and hatreds of these people, will boil to the surface.” In a typical argument, Ziff urged Americans to avoid “a war of attrition” with the “rivers of blood” t