perts, knew the virtues of institutionalized research, and recognized that only government could offer them capital and a market.18 But as theorists and moralists of war, they had little to suggest. They offered only the raw materials which, as Elting Morison has commented regarding the navy, “were brought into successful combination by minds not interested in the instruments for themselves but in what they could do for them.”!2 Only a later generation of scientists sometimes felt sufficiently compelled or confident to tell military men how to use their inventions.  Among American army and navy fliers, the second group responsible for early developments in military aviation, practical concerns and patterns of improvisation were also dominant. Money was one preoccupation—the army hesitated to fund aviation at all. Staying alive was another—one-fourth of the first contingent of flying officers died in training. They crashed too often or left aviation too soon or were too low in rank to worry about doctrine and strategy. Between 1910and 1912, they were among the world’s first aviators to experiment with firing guns and dropping bombs from planes, but they leapt to few conclusions as a result. As for the Signal Corps, its interest was limited to the airplane’s role in reconnaissance and communications.  Military aviation was even then a public issue, but political debate did little to clarify conceptions of the airplane’s purpose. A struggle over where to place aviation in the military system—one destined to plague military politics for decades—was already beginning. But that struggle did as much to sidetrack thinking about the airplane’s purpose as to inform it, partly because it encouraged exaggerated claims from partisans, partly because it focused attention on the organizational forms rather than on the strategic substance of air power.  True, it was possible to imagine that the airplane would some day be more than “merely an added means of communication, observatio