gible criteria have invited escalation in the development and deployment of nuclear weapons. If those weapons only had the purpose of destroying targets in the event of war, their numbers still would be dismaying, but at least finite, for scientists and strategists can measure with some precision the forces required for destruction. Deterrence and prestige, on the other hand, dealing as they do with subjective considerations, have offered discouragingly few guidelines by which to determine what is “enough.” At what level of force can any nation be certain that it has dissuaded its enemy from going to war or convinced the enemy of its status?  Acontinuity ran through the century at a deeper level, regarding the intellectual challenge faced as well as the assumptions made about weapons. That challenge has been dual: to imagine the unimaginable, for only imagination could illuminate dangers and provide the incentive to avert them, and yet also to confront the essentially unpredictable nature of that future (which is the nature of all war as contemplated). To do both—to imagine without predicting, to alert without preaching—required an unusual combination of modesty and tolerance for uncertainty.  In both eras, responses to that challenge often calmed anxious minds but at a great price. Imagination was sometimes searching, arguably more so early in the century, when the danger was fresh rather than monotonously numbing. More often, people rushed to embrace dogma, coping with uncertainty by denying it. Before World War II, many people did so by conjuring up the comforting horror of an aerial blitz so terrifying that no nation would unleash it or long survive if the victim of it. Similar reasoning, responsive to visions of far greater horror, generally guided people in the nuclear era.  Most commentators confronting the aerial weapon have offered only two mutually exclusive alternatives: doomsday or deliverance. Designed to alert—to express a sense of the immense danger i