raft would.” Morgenthau set down FDR's ideas in all their boldness. Emphasizing that “sending a large army abroad was undesirable and politically out of the question,” even for hemisphere defense, Roosevelt saw air power as an instrument of nego- tiation and intimidation:  “T am not sure now that I am proud of what I wrote to Hitler in urging that he sit down around the table and make peace. That may have saved many, many lives now, but that may ultimately result in the loss of many times that number of lives later. When I write to foreign countries I must have something to back up my words. Had we had this summer 5,000 planes and the capacity immediately to pro- duce 10,000 per year, even though I might have had to ask Congress for authority to sell or lend them to the countries in Europe, Hitler would not have dared to take the stand he did.”  Or as Arnold later paraphrased the president:  the President came straight out for air power. Airplanes—now—and lots of them! ... Anew regiment of field artillery, or new barracks at an Army post in Wyoming, or new machine tools in an ordnance arsenal, he said sharply, would not scare Hitler one blankety-blank-blank bit! What he wanted was airplanes!  The president’s emphasis on sheer numbers of planes and his irritation at arguments for the supporting apparatus that would make them effective attested to an interest similar to Hitler’s in an air force whose appearance would be more important than its use.12  Roosevelt was not simply letting fly another trial balloon, as he was famous for doing so often. After the military responded coolly to his ideas, he persisted, even to provoking “table-pounding” confrontations with his generals. Roosevelt threatened that if the Air Corps could not use the warplanes he wanted, the RAF certainly could. He demanded aircraft “with which to impress Germany” and on January 10 lectured top army officials that “the only check to a world war, which would be understood by Germany, would be the cr