he century, when the danger was fresh rather than monotonously numbing. More often, people rushed to embrace dogma, coping with uncertainty by denying it. Before World War II, many people did so by conjuring up the comforting horror of an aerial blitz so terrifying that no nation would unleash it or long survive if the victim of it. Similar reasoning, responsive to visions of far greater horror, generally guided people in the nuclear era.  Most commentators confronting the aerial weapon have offered only two mutually exclusive alternatives: doomsday or deliverance. Designed to alert—to express a sense of the immense danger in an uncertain future—their attempts to view that future in either-or terms nonetheless carried a hidden agenda of seeking certainty by imposing simplicity upon the unpredictable. Even Jonathan Schell’s justly noted The Fate of the Earth, at one level a grim celebration of uncertainty, climaxed with the baldest certitude about the “choice” humankind faced between two paths in the nuclear era: “One leads to death, the other to life.”4  The continuity in habits of thought and practice regarding aerial warfare arose from several circumstances. The sheer magnitude of the danger, unevenly perceived but relentlessly growing, alone invited an apocalyptic outlook. The peculiar impersonality of long-range bombing made it possible both to imagine the worst and to turn away from it. Above all, the power of historical tradition —the persistence of the original terms on which the bomber was contemplated—was at play. Established at the turn of the century, the positing of a choice between doomsday and deliverance defined the alternatives for most observers throughout the century, even though the meaning of the alternatives and the perceived relationships between them underwent repeated modification.  The continuities of thought and practice in turn easily arouse pessimism about the chance of overcoming the threat of aerial warfare. If both the danger and the w