de danger appear remote. In turn, remoteness allowed technology and planning to proceed with important questions left unanswered, or even unasked.  PUBLIC IMAGE AND PROFESSIONAL DOCTRINE  As aviation was presented to Americans during the first half of the decade, its potential for peacetime uses seemed more than ever separable from its military application. To be sure, the onset of the Great Depression raised disturbing questions about the economic and social impact of technological change. But aviation was largely exempt from the doubts raised about technology. On the contrary, economic disaster encouraged Americans to see in the rapid growth of commercial aviation a rare glimmer of vitality. Not only did airlines expand rapidly, but the airplane itself appeared on the verge of democratization, near to becoming an article of mass production and consumption akin to the automobile. It seemed reasonable for a federal official to predict in 1930 that the day was near when “everybody would fly, everybody would have a plane, and aerial traffic cops would soon be busy handing out tickets.” With the appropriate fanfare and modest government subsidies, proto- types of a “poor man’s airplane” began rolling into public view, greeted as evidence that an automobile for the skies was around the corner.1  At the same time, in well-publicized events and spectacles, Americans glimpsed the growing range and power of military aviation. Army and navy aviators broke more records for speed, endurance, and range. Sleeker bombers, embodying the first real improvements in design since World War I, entered military service. The United States Army Air Corps, seeking publicity as well as strategic insight, staged bold flights, maneuvers, and war games, such as one that theoretically reduced a part of New York City to a “smoldering heap of ashes.”2  What most Americans learned about these episodes, however, gave them little reason to see anything ominous. The extensive press coverage of air fo