quently considered offensive missions. As Marshall knew, the AAF was rushing to the Phil- ippines incendiary bombs, whose utility against military targets was low and whose use the army had ignored before 1941.2 At the same time, studies of targets in Japan, begun the previous spring, now yielded a mounting flow to the Philippines of maps, intelligence information, and target folders needed to carry out raids on Japan. The quality of this data was probably low, but the urgency of sending it was unquestioned, Marshall himself asking his key AAF aide about what information the Philippines were receiving on “what General Mac-Arthur would attack in Japan... if war were declared December 1, 1941” and directing studies of “an air offensive against the Japanese empire.”®2 As far back as September 12, Marshall had informed Stark that the new B-24s “can reach Osaka with a full load and Tokyo with a partial load.” Stimson too knew of the developing hopes for a capacity to bomb Japan itself. Staff planning documents at a variety of levels made frequent references to how Japan would “be open to aerial attack by U. S.” and its cities would be “a lucrative target for bombardment aviation.” Both economic and civilian targets were repeatedly identified. Granted, the full extent to which MacArthur and his staff had been briefed to undertake raids against Japan is unclear, and the whole effort had a quality of desperate improvisation. But the ideas Marshall expressed on November 15, well documented also for the several weeks preceding and following it, were neither caprice nor simply bluff. As Marshall told an aide on November 1, “a strong stand meant nothing unless an actual action followed in case of necessity.”25  Mystery about Marshall's intentions persists, however. For one thing, American bombers were not really up to the task envisioned for them. With a radius of action of about nine hundred miles when fully loaded, the B-17s near Manila could hardly reach the southernmost Ryu