nd the Joint Target Group. Staff for the Headquarters Twentieth Air Force also helped to choose the timing and order of attacks on targets. At the bomber commands, LeMay and Hansell then conducted photographic surveillance and analysis, compiled the glossy target folders used by airmen, factored in operational considerations—weather patterns, available strengths, estimates of enemy reactions, and so forth—and, usually, chose the specific days and force assignments for attack. Once a mission was carried out, the whole process was reversed, as streams of information flowed back to Washington for evaluation.  Certain practices diluted the compartmentalization inherent in this method. Some officers like Kuter and Norstad effectively held responsibility for both planning and operations. Rotation among various duties might widen perspectives—before going to the Marianas, Hansell had been the Twentieth’s chief of staff and a key strategist at the outbreak of the war. Nonetheless, as the war dragged on, many of the best planners, like Kuter, tended to stay in Washington for long periods, and a topflight commander like LeMay never served ina planning agency. Civilians rarely glimpsed the operational dimension of war, and of course the men who designed and built the bombers rarely accompanied them to battle.  Certainly, as Arthur Harris showed, isolation from war’s realities could occur even without the physical distance that characterized command of the Twentieth Air Force. Only miles from the bomber stations and the wreckage of English cities, Harris nonetheless followed a more cloistered and imperious routine at High Wycombe than Arnold ever practiced. Bomber Command’s “absolute remoteness from the battlefront has led some historians to compare High Wycombe with the French chateaux from which generals of the First World War directed Passchendaele and the Somme.” In its imperviousness to new ideas and outside influence, Bomber Command seemed to Freeman Dyson to have been “i