ste of destruction may well have been offset by the indignation and the opportunity for tightened government control of the populace triggered by the raid. Even in the United States, whose public opinion was the main target, the results were confused. Satisfaction was widespread but so too were new fears, along the West Coast and in Washington as well, of Japanese revenge attacks on American cities, whose defense required more diversions of American forces.  Like the simultaneous incarceration of Japanese-Americans, the Doolittle raid was designed to give satisfaction to Americans feeling powerless toward Japan. And if Roosevelt was hypocritical in denouncing Nazi barbarism while sanctioning repression at home, his use of bombing was also disturbing.15 Of course, Pearl Harbor justified the raid in American eyes, but the strike at Pearl Harbor had been aimed at military targets, while Roosevelt’s response, made after his condemnations of enemy bombing practices, promised to escalate the war into an all-out assault on enemy cities. Ina moment of extreme emergency, a nation’s leadership may be entitled to lift morale by actions essentially nonmilitary in immediate effect, for a nation’s mood is one component of its military strength. But no such emergency existed, and bombing cities was not FDR's only choice even if the necessity of dramatic action be granted. A daring naval raid elsewhere in the Pacific or an air attack on military installations in Japan would have been feasible, similar to Japan’s attacks on American forces, and no more risky than exposing one of the nation’s few carriers and losing a squadron of medium bombers. By ordering the Doolittle raid, Roosevelt, through action rather than word, was not simply holding out a promise to take the offensive and secure final victory. He was setting expectations for the nature of that offensive: destruction of Japanese cities, with due revenge meted out.  That action also posed the risk of upsetting Roosevelt’s own