had a more comforting way of looking at the bomb’s use. He told Stimson “to use it so that military objectives and soldiers and sailors are the target and not women and children. Even if the Japs are savages, ruthless, merciless and fanatic, we as the leader of the world for the common welfare cannot drop this terrible bomb on the old capital or the new.” Truman’s diary did not record how he reasoned that avoiding Tokyo and Kyoto constituted sparing women and children. Presumably they lived in other cities as well, though after the war Truman wrote that he had asked Stimson “which cities in Japan were devoted exclusively to war production,” as if there were such cities. His memoirs noted Stimson’s insistence on Kyoto as “a cultural and religious shrine of the Japanese,” and apparently he accepted the familiar equation between a “shrine” and human lives. “The target will be a purely military one,” he noted at the time. Further-more, he found reassurance in the Potsdam ultimatum: by “asking the Japs to surrender and save lives... we will have given them the chance” to avert the holocaust. Apparently Churchill saw the ultimatum in much the same light.  After years of bombing cities and after the creation of rationalizations and euphemisms to mask the terror, the distinction between “military target” and “city” had totally collapsed. The attention to Kyoto indicated that the shell of a distinction remained, but not its substance, reflecting less a confrontation with the moral issue than a wish it need not even arise. That failure shaped not only the fact but the manner of the bomb’s use. It helps to explain why no serious consideration was given to confining use to a military or industrial target that would have limited civilian casualties while still revealing the awesome power of atomic energy. Such targets were of course few by the summer of 1945, and the bomb was far too powerful for its destruction to be limited to them. But they were ruled out for other reasons, b