n the South.” Implicitly, the Americans accepted the value of both aerial deterrence and actual attacks on Japanese cities. Weeks later, Stark half-seriously proposed the cruise of a powerful naval force through the North Pacific, mindful of Japan’s “unholy fear of bombing.” But the moment hardly seemed ripe for carrier action, when the British suggested it or at any time in 1941.74  Instead, Washington began moving toward employment of land-based air power to deter Japan or wage war against it. This was the most daring development in American Far Eastern strategy in the year before Pearl Harbor, though its origins remain obscured by the loss of records and the bureaucratic confusion that characterized the American government in 1941.72 Broadly, three threads of planning, knit together by a sense of strategic desperation, converged in 1941: the older, casual speculation on the susceptibility of Japan to aerial intimidation; the strategists’ rather sudden inter- est in the Philippines as a base for American action; and Roosevelt’s episodic but forceful attraction to air power.  Of these threads, only the role of the Philippines sprung from sustained bureaucratic interest—as well it might, because it posed a classic strategic problem. Army strategists had traditionally despaired of defending the islands in the event of full-scale war with Japan. Consequently, the Philippines had been fed only scraps from the War Department's table. Before 1940, only the navy had showed a lively interest in defending the island outpost. In 1940, the army and navy began crossing paths on the Philippines issue, the navy increasingly burdened by responsibilities in the Atlantic, the army studying how a rearmed Philippines might resist attack and provide “an additional deterrent to further Japanese plans for expansion.”3  Official doctrine continued to dismiss serious defense of the Philippines, but the ground beneath it shifted in a series of ad hoc initiatives in 1941. The impending ship