have been pursued as readily even if invasion had been foresworn. American war-making by the summer of 1945 was characterized by a broad-front strategy permitting each service to pursue its favored course, to avoid choices and do everything within the limits of American resources and of public demands for complete victory at minimal cost. The imperatives of invasion were not the foremost considerations leading the AAF to firebombing; it made that choice in March because incen- diary bombing was easy and because doing it rescued the AAF’s flagging fortunes. Even in the summer Arnold and his staff had no clear alternative to Marshall’s strategy. They pursued the campaign of fire as zealously as the invasion strategists, offering only the vague promise that destruction would make Japan surrender. Furthermore, the only pressure on the AAF to restrain its targeting came from Stimson, a man firmly reconciled to the necessity of invasion unless the atomic bomb forced surrender. Hansell was right on one score: the bombing campaign revealed the bankruptcy of Ameri- can strategy. But it was the air force as much as the army that had exhausted its storehouse of ideas.27  The bombing campaign waged and planned over the summer of 1945 indicated as much. Like Harris’s RAF late in the European war, LeMay’s air force had trouble reorienting itself despite improving technical proficiency. At the least, having incinerated Japan’s major cities, LeMay or Arnold might have concentrated on remaining military or industrial objectives. Instead, the summer campaign of fire turned against nearly five dozen lesser urban areas. With the targets much smaller and the bomber force increasing to seven hundred or more, several cities could be attacked in one mission. The results were immensely gratifying, destruction reaching 99.5 percent of one city’s acreage (Toyama), and American losses astonishingly low.  If in the spring the rationale for fire attacks had been casual, in the summer it rested e