and Arnold. By the end of 1944, Bowles, like many others, was speculating on the institutions suitable for preserving the wartime partnership between military men and civilian experts. Meanwhile, similar ideas were afoot at Douglas Aircraft Company, whose close professional contacts with Bowles and Arnold had been extended by the marriage of Arnold’s son to Donald Douglas’s daughter. By the summer of 1945, Bowles, Arnold, Douglas, and others were working out plans for Project RAND, a civilian group attached to the Douglas company which would contract with the air force to plan development and employment of new weapons. At the time, few probably saw the role the RAND Corporation would play in strategic matters. RAND was an acronym for “research and development,” implying a more narrowly technological role which probably caught Arnold’s attention. Soon, however, as one wag put it, RAND would mean Research and No Development, and its strategic role grew naturally out of the inroads into operations and tactics made by Bowles and others dur- ing the war.27  THE TRIUMPH OF CIVILIAN MILITARISM  Air war, even more than most modern warfare, was never just the enterprise of generals and fliers, as Arnold knew. It required a vast apparatus of technology, production, logistics, and economic and political analysis. Sustaining that apparatus was largely the task of civilians in the American air force. They too waged air war; similarly, their mentalities as well as their relationships to men in uni- form helped to define how Americans regarded and prosecuted strategic bombing.  While the other services were also broadening their use of civilian expertise, Arnold’s air force was at the forefront of this development. Its flexibility in employing civilian talent was one key both to American superiority in the air and to the air force’s emergence as the dominant military service. Contemporaries generally explained the forging of a close alliance among the air force, industry, and scie