ed. It was supplemented by lesser forms of air power; thousands of planes over Japan produced “the most impressive and nerve-wracking demonstration of the whole war.” Moreover, none of the events of August 6-9 changed the coalitions in Japan’s government or the minds of the major individuals involved. Instead, these events left the war party unbending but “at a loss for words which could make any lasting impression upon the end-the-war faction,” the war faction grudgingly yielding to the emperor’s intervention on behalf of ending the war. At that, Japan’s capitulation remained conditional on the emperor’s continued sovereignty. Byrnes, worried about the “crucifixion of the President,” at first would brook no waffling on terms. Finally, the clever wording was devised that made the emperor “subject to the authority” of the American occupational commander, a formula saving face on several scores by acknowledging the em- peror’s place without offending Americans at home and by writing the Russians out of a role in occupation.142  Diplomacy still ended the war. In its first use, the unconditional power of the atomic bomb did not compel unconditional surrender. By itself, it neither won nor ended the war, though certainly it hastened that end. Yet it quickly became possible for most Americans to think and speak as if the bomb had “won” the war, and as the cold war heated up, their leaders were disinclined to acknow- ledge a significant Soviet role in hastening Japan’s surrender or a significant limitation on a weapon becoming the mainstay of the American arsenal.  It was probably the conviction that the bomb was winning the war that made Americans, in an August 8 poll, so approving of the bomb’s use. The polls soon indicated subtle variations on that approval: many Americans wished the bomb had not been used first on a city or used the second time so quickly; on the other hand, in a Fortune poll taken in December 1945, almost 23 percent wished that the United States had “