re range of mountains to cross, not with the trip itself generating such excitement and anxiety, not with the machine built to make the trip yet to be fully tested. There was perhaps even a hope that the mountains would stand tall, to provide full measure for the test. “To test the [atomic] bomb’s real destructiveness,” Arnold later wrote about his concerns near the end of the war, “three or four cities must be saved intact from the B-29’s regular operations as unspoiled targets for the new weapon. Which cities should be spared was a problem,” he added.2! To Arnold, it seems, the test was as important as the destination. It lay ahead, with not only the atomic bomb but the “regular” forms of fire his bombers could hurl at Japanese cities. Technological fanaticism, long developing, could now be fully expressed.  Page 252 of 368 58%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON aisguised as technique Carried the gravest implications [or the fate of enemy civilians. At the same time, It nad Inherent limits because it nad Little sanction apart Irom the prosecution of war. since  destruction was felt, but rarely proclaimed officially, as a good in itself, its sanction continued only as long as the war and the mobilization of technique that went with it continued. It made all the difference in the world to the Japanese—if we are to contrast their fate to that of the Jews—that however much vengeance may have motivated Americans, it did not become official policy and remained fulfilled by policies undertaken for other stated reasons.  Technological fanaticism had many sources: in the nature of strategic air power, whose benefits promised to be so large yet whose consequences were so hard to observe; in its demands for technique that distanced men from its consequences; in war’s powerful emotions, difficult to recognize given America’s strategic position and its own self-image. At bottom, technological fanaticism was the product of two distinct but related pheno