ex of failure to exploit and coordinate resources.  Even at the time, some observers appreciated how the fascist states were falling behind the Allies in the application of modern technique to war. Arnold’s intelligence chief noted that “American policy is to expend machines rather than men,” a policy also comforting to the staff historians. Placing “their faith in the tank, the plane and the armored car,” Germany and Japan had “sacrificed to the United States their only major advantage,” their superiority in mobilizing and motivating mass armies, by waging a technological and economic struggle at which the United States excelled. “American national military policy,” the staff historians concluded, “thus may well have altered the dictum to ‘get there fustest with the mostest men’ to a more sensible—and more economic—‘get there last with the most machines.’ Machines are cheap in America; men are not.”34  Waging mechanical war required more than just the willingness of military elites to utilize civilian talent. It required civilians who would pursue a broadening role and be rewarded for doing so. Only the Allies succeeded fully in identifying the purposes of the war with the interests of powerful segments of civilian society. In the broadest sense, that identification arose simply because the Allied powers sought to preserve the status quo at home, whether corporate capitalism in the United States and Britain or Soviet Communism in the USSR. Where, in Japan and even more Germany, war brought the mounting subordination of powerful interests, a sense of common purpose derived only from ideological and patriotic goals insufficient to induce full cooperation.  Of course, in the United States and Britain, reward for cooperation took more concrete forms. “If you are going to try to go to war, or to prepare for war, in a capitalist country, you have got to let business make money out of the process.”35 Stimson’s famous dictum was applied with particular force to the product