the fire raids had been a contributing cause. Moreover, disenchantment focused on the failure to protect the home front, indicating that falling morale was linked to bombing, not to a more general failure of the war effort (about which, of course, Japanese knew relatively less). For many Japanese, the March 10 raid and the ones to follow it triggered the plunge into a mood of desperation even more than did the apocalyptic events of August. “Propaganda of the deed,” the term used later by American experts for the bombing, was taking its toll.8”  The dominant reactions were apathy, fearfulness, weariness, work absenteeism, and shame and depression over personal conditions of food and cleanliness—reactions also widespread among survivors of the atomic attacks. Absenteeism, for example, often occurred when family members left behind in the city attempted to visit loved ones or when no productive work could any longer be done. Because many factories remained intact but shut down for lack of raw materials, long lines formed at Tokyo’s remaining movie houses “when every able Japanese was supposed to be in the armed forces or toiling long hours in war production.”  Some Japanese able to experience rage expressed it in class antagonism. Primarily “tough people from one of the worst slum areas,” many of Tokyo's survivors fled into better neighborhoods, whose hosts took pity and offered succor. “Instead of being grateful,” however, “the slum people resented the fact that in war... people should be having such luxuries, ones they couldn’t dream of having even in peace. So they looted houses wholesale.” Although not always taking a violent form, bitterness about the advantages of the privileged amid the suffering became widespread, in Tokyo  Page 277 of 368 63%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Whatever the hostility, 1n overt public behavior at the time and in later responses to American occupiers it rarely emerged, muted as it often was by the prevail