to examine air war as “the end product of our scientific civilization.” In that Wellsian spirit, he emphasized the psychic necessity of combat aviators to achieve distance “from the messy and brutal part” of air war by turning combat into “a mechanical operation.” Similarly, engineers and industrialists who made air war possible found the act of killing repugnant but the preparation of killing machines satisfying: “To be an organizer of destruction is psychologically very different from being the destroyer in person.” Pierce portrayed aviation as the product of benign and malignant forces in modern society—the scientist who sought knowledge but could “prostitute his ability to the service of war for the pay of a policeman” and the imperialist who sought to achieve the fulfillment of his greed.53  Yet despite some probing essays into social psychology, Pierce could not define what made aviation “the end product of our scientific civilization” or what constituted its appeal to the modern spirit. Nor could he look squarely at the threat posed by air war. Like so many writers, he feared that air attack on cities would succeed because of the mass panic—illustrated for him by reactions to Orson Welles’s famous “War of the Worlds” broadcast in 1938—it would trigger. Because censorship, rumor, and distortion lay at the heart of such panic, he was hopeful that the democracies’ freedom of information and opinion would give them an edge in air war. But he also feared that the capitalist democracies, where the burdens of war might fall unevenly because of class, racial, and ethnic in- equalities, would fall prey to internal division and subversive propaganda. Here were more echoes of long-standing fears of how the threats of class war and national war might intertwine.  In his Wellsian approach to the problem of air war, Pierce attempted to break from the rigid categories of contemporary debate. Yet if he neither minimized nor exaggerated the dangers, in the end he simply looke