s and inventions—or more confidently, since the airplane was endowed with more virtues. It was as easy for some to prophesy, as Victor Hugo did in 1864, that flying machines would make armies “vanish, and with them the whole business of war, exploitation and subjugation” as it was for others to proclaim how the machine gun “would compel all nations to keep peace towards each other.” This habit was not entirely new, for centuries earlier John Donne had concluded that “the numbers of men slain now, since the invention of Artillery, are much lesse than before, when the sword was the executioner.”?  Now it was an article of faith. The airplane was like a host of other weapons invented or imagined in the nineteenth century and celebrated for their capacity to “diminish the evils of war.” To John Hay, the American secretary of state, these weapons demonstrated “the plain lesson of history that the periods of peace have been longer protracted as the cost and destructiveness of war have increased.” Hay’s assumption was similar to Jack London’s confidence that “the marvelous and awful machinery of warfare .. . today defeats its own end. Made pre-eminently to kill, its chief effect is to make killing quite the unusual thing.” An American newspaper caught the same mood succinctly: “Behind the images of carnage shines the light of universal peace.” The predictive literature of the times, I. F. Clarke has argued, was almost unanimous “in claiming that war had become too terrible to continue, or that it had become so rapid in its results that the modern battle was now far more humane than the dreadful engagements of the bad old days.” Just as with the other new inventions, there were opposing predictions about the airplane as well, some that dismissed it as a harmless, if amusing toy or a practical but pedestrian aid to armies and navies. But these predictions provided counterpoint, not corrective, to the faith that, in the modern world, “the greatest destroyer is the greatest ph