anese “war industries.” In fact, the Doolittle raiders were supposed to attack by night, when the precision suggested by FDR's phrase would have been impossible; only the apprehension that the Hornet had been spotted sent the bombers off in daylight. Industrial and military targets had indeed been prescribed, but bombs scattered into dense residential districts. Doolittle himself was aware of the possibility of starting fires “they’ll never put . .. out.” Two purposes were already pulling against each other—strik- ing terror and damaging the enemy’s war-fighting capacity. Official statements and news coverage allowed Americans to enjoy the former under the latter’s guise.14  For the Chinese, the raid caused disaster. To prevent any new raids using Chinese bases, Japanese forces pushed further inland and took punitive actions that caused the deaths of perhaps a quarter million peasants. Tokyo did withdraw some fighter forces for home defense, and the embarrassed high command, in an effort to extend its defensive lines, rushed into far-flung naval oper- ations at Midway and elsewhere that gave American forces their first opportunity for a decisive victory—a happy consequence that few American strategists had foreseen, however. In Japan’s cities, any weakening of morale induced by this first taste of destruction may well have been offset by the indignation and the opportunity for tightened government control of the populace triggered by the raid. Even in the United States, whose public opinion was the main target, the results were confused. Satisfaction was widespread but so too were new fears, along the West Coast and in Washington as well, of Japanese revenge attacks on American cities, whose defense required more diversions of American forces.  Like the simultaneous incarceration of Japanese-Americans, the Doolittle raid was designed to give satisfaction to Americans feeling powerless toward Japan. And if Roosevelt was hypocritical in denouncing Nazi barbarism while