h critics and proponents of air power failed to probe more subtly the lessons of World War I.  Restraining wartime practice, more skeptical attitudes might also have made a longer-term difference, leading Americans to view themselves, their victory, their war, and their weapons more modestly. Some Americans, including many in generals’ uniforms, did view the bombing as at best a dirty if necessary business. Had more done so, the tendency of Americans to see their role in the war self-righteously might have diminished, and along with it that sense of virtue that Americans carried into the postwar world. It would have been harder to equate technological superiority with moral superiority and take the latter “to be a permanent quality which not only explains past victories, but also justifies the national claim to be the lawgiver and arbiter of mankind,” as Hans Morgenthau complained in 1950. Likewise, the air force’s shining image and dominance in strategy during the postwar years would have been more difficult to maintain. Whether such outcomes be regarded as baneful or desirable, they surely would have made a difference. Whether they might have happened is indicated by the contrasting British experience. After the war, what Walzer calls “The Dishonoring of Arthur Harris,” the RAF’s Bomber Commander, “at least went some small distance toward reestablishing a commitment to the rules of war and the rights they protect.” Although a declining Britain cast its lot with strategic air power after the war, attitudes derived from the war in part accounted for British pressures upon the United States not to use the bomber in various cold war crises. As Walzer says, dishonoring a man seems a “cruel” way to establish standards. As it was for Churchill in Harris’s case, it would have been hypocritical for a Truman or an Eisenhower to dis- honor an Arnold, Eaker, or LeMay for actions so broadly sanctioned. But if they had, a different course of history might have resulted.s5  It m