cution complex,” as one sympathetic historian has put it, acontemptuous attitude that often saw stupidity or malice in the bureaucracy’s understandable stress on gradual change and discipline. Anachronisms imposed on aviators—“the somewhat ridiculous spectacle of aviators on horseback” at Maxwell Field, for example—did not help. “Anyone,” Foulois later recalled, “who went against staff thinking on any subject in those days invited a reprimand for himself rather than a reward for daring to think imaginatively.” Yet defiance was attractive as well as dan- gerous, as if “the more trouble you were in with your superiors, the higher your status among your own group.” In other words, airmen made a virtue out of inferior status.”  Frustrated in their efforts to influence higher policy, airmen were nonetheless largely masters of their own house. Except for the two top positions, promotions (although not necessarily assignments) in the Air Corps were made by the corps itself, not by the army. On matters of doctrine, the general staff’s lukewarm interest in aviation cut two ways. It required the Air Corps to perform the ritual of harmonizing its official doctrine with conservative War Department policy, downplaying aviation as an independent agent of victory and stressing its role in supporting conventional forces. But superiors rarely looked over the shoulders of the airmen once this ritual was complete. In their own institutions, most of all at the Air Corps Tactical School in Alabama, Air Corps officers were free to construct their own curriculum and dogma. The leisurely pace of life in the peacetime army gave them plenty of time to do so.  By the 1930s, both the airmen and their institutions were also mature enough to carry on their struggle in more sophisticated ways. A cohort of officers had a decade or two of experience in aviation and had passed beyond the youthful stage of infatuation with the joys of flying. The Air Corps Tactical School had established a body of li