ion to an agreed-upon strategy for victory. Those seeking to strike at Japan’s ships and fuel in the southwest Pacific looked toward a quick payoff that would assist an advance on Japan by ground and sea. Conversely, Arnold’s staff stuck to their position because they sought victory without resort to traditional methods. Neither side invoked higher authority because higher authority had made no decision on the ultimate method of victory, whether by strategic devastation, invasion, or a combination of the two. Nor could they relate their preferred methods to a strategic timetable, for none existed.  Indecision stemmed in part from the one premise about global strategy that had governed since 1941: concentration on Europe first. Even in January 1944, invasion of Japan seemed too remote to compel close attention to what role it would have in victory over Japan. In addition, military leaders preferred, as they had often during the war, to address logistical and technological problems before deciding on strategy, and those problems loomed far larger for the Pacific than for Europe. Shipping over vast ocean distances and over the land hurdles of Asia imposed the most intractable obstacle. When Marshall had commented on the “massive effort here to get a pin point out there,” he described not only a strategic problem but the orientation of staff in Washington. Admirals and generals often worried about getting the forces out there before pondering what to do with them.  Mundane problems tugged hard at Arnold over the winter of 1943-44, especially regarding the B-29. Embodying several technological advances, it was nonetheless rushed into production without testing of prototypes, so that the new aircraft required extensive modification before they became suitable for combat. In the meantime, the bomber’s troubles spawned a highly critical inquiry from Senator Harry Truman’s committee watching over mobilization for the war. Because Boeing could not handle all the orders for th