mericans were assembling a new force of thousands of bombers to launch massive attacks in 1919 on German “industry, commerce, and population,” including Berlin itself, with incendiaries and a new poison gas developed in the United States. “I would very much like if you could start up a really big fire in one of the German towns,” Trenchard’s superior instructed, and “I would not be too exacting as regards accuracy in bombing railway stations. ... The German is susceptible to bloodi- ness, and I would not mind a few accidents due to inaccuracy.”22  Borrowing German practice, the British reversed Germany’s pattern of decision making: whereas officers overcame civilian reluctance in Germany, in England outraged civilians wore down the generals’ doubts about strategic bombing. But London echoed Berlin’s strategic reasoning. “Conceptually,” one historian has said, “British insight was acquired at the receiving end of German bombs.” Now Allied bombing, it seemed, might sap the enemy’s strength on the front, deplete production, and unnerve the population. In Britain’s case, an additional impetus to bomb came from the apparent failure of the vaunted British navy to achieve a strategic breakthrough through blockade—hence the “first essays in strategic bombing on the British side were framed by the Royal Navy.” As in Germany, some doubts about strategic bombing arose in England. Like Bethmann-Hollweg, Churchill, though no opponent of bombing, questioned whether any “terrorization of the civil popula- tion... would compel the Government of a great nation to surrender.”2°  Doubts like Churchill's never halted air raids, in part because rational calculations about damaging the enemy were never the sole motivation for the strategic bombing conducted by either side. Bombing escalated through a series of challenges and responses, raids and reprisals, all initiated as much to satisfy popular demands for revenge and punishment against supposed war crimes as to achieve any tangible ga