the translation of ideas into action, often more so than statesmen or warriors initially realized. Because that was so, my account necessarily becomes lengthier and more complex once it reaches World War II; the simplicity of war possible in imagination diminished in execution. The interplay of ideas and actions, theory and technology, dreams and deeds constitutes a significant focus of this account. But I emphasize that practical developments were usually secondary to imagination in shaping strategic air war.  At the same time, to treat bombing simply as an abstraction—as a strategy or horrible fantasy or set of statistics—would be to repeat a persistent error in a halfcentury’s preoccupation with the bomber: the tendency to regard it (and finally the atomic bomb) as more potent in imagination than in its capacity to kill and destroy. In part for that reason, I examine not only what people thought about bombers but what bombing actually did, especially in the massive campaigns of World War II that preceded use of the atomic weapon. Only a full appreciation of those campaigns can establish how the problem of air war became acute long before the nuclear age.  This account may strike some readers as unduly harsh toward American leaders, especially those generals, Henry Harley Arnold and Curtis E. LeMay, who championed the most destructive forms of bombing. But it should also emerge that the limitations of these men were generally the product of the political, cultural, and intellectual environment in which they worked. At times military men did better than civilians in overcoming that environment, and rarely did they do much worse. Limited or ambitious men, both in and out of the military, often sanctioned a kind of casual brutality. Yet their roles do more to illustrate than to explain why the story unfolded as it did. Similarly, while they often quarreled with each other, generating those feuds and conflicts that are the stuff of much military history, in the end it