ents that left little visual record tended to disappear. Perhaps the closest the newsreels came to spelling out the truth visually came in the scenes released in May of firebombed German cities. Even that footage showed only the still aftermath of destruction, not the act of destruction itself. Perhaps the lack of good photographs also led Life to give the fire raids little play. As always there was a preference for action pictures whose heroic or grisly content was immediate. One consequence was continued attention to men and planes, not to the destruction they did on the ground; even Japanese newsreels featured the brave handfuls of fighter pilots still ris- ing to meet the enemy hordes. Another consequence was enormous attention to the final drama of Germany’s defeat, a story photographers could capture graphically.148  Yet the dominant limitation in reporting was ideological and imaginative. Reluctant to challenge authority, most papers and editorialists followed the air force line by emphasizing the economic purposes and effects of the fire raids and raising few questions about whether the raids represented a departure from previous policy. They were equally reluctant to speculate whether this new form of bombing might change official strategy for an invasion. Because officials repeatedly described the bombing as still only in an initial phase—a stance that further minimized sensitivity to the damage already done—it seemed premature to speculate on it as an instrument of imposing surrender. In the press as well as in government, a preoccupation with analogies to the manner of Ger- many’s defeat, secured only with bloody invasion, also discouraged such speculation. In addition, there was the familiar tendency to look past the surrender issue to more distant matters, particularly the role of air power in the postwar world. With the battle over postwar unification of the armed forces heating up, that role was ripe material for commentary. The more expansive view w