e bomb’s use seemed as compelling as it did revolting. Only “the actual use with its horrible results,” Stimson later paraphrased the advice he received from scientists like Conant, could “awaken the world to the necessity of abolishing war altogether.” If the bomb promised either deliverance or doomsday, if it loomed as either scourge or savior of mankind, then its  Page 321 of 368 73%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  he “had realized, of course, that an atomic bomb explosion would inflict damage and casualties beyond imagination.” At the time, however, he had a more comforting way of looking at the bomb’s use. He told Stimson “to use it so that military objectives and soldiers and sailors are the target and not women and children. Even if the Japs are savages, ruthless, merciless and fanatic, we as the leader of the world for the common welfare cannot drop this terrible bomb on the old capital or the new.” Truman’s diary did not record how he reasoned that avoiding Tokyo and Kyoto constituted sparing women and children. Presumably they lived in other cities as well, though after the war Truman wrote that he had asked Stimson “which cities in Japan were devoted exclusively to war production,” as if there were such cities. His memoirs noted Stimson’s insistence on Kyoto as “a cultural and religious shrine of the Japanese,” and apparently he accepted the familiar equation between a “shrine” and human lives. “The target will be a purely military one,” he noted at the time. Further-more, he found reassurance in the Potsdam ultimatum: by “asking the Japs to surrender and save lives... we will have given them the chance” to avert the holocaust. Apparently Churchill saw the ultimatum in much the same light.®  After years of bombing cities and after the creation of rationalizations and euphemisms to mask the terror, the distinction between “military target” and “city” had totally collapsed. The attention to Kyoto indicated that the shell of a di