to emphasize the common humanity of the warring cultures, its photos of Japanese in everyday tasks, even the sheer vividness of these color photographs, humanized an enemy once regarded only as bucktoothed, ugly, and menacing.*2  But these changes came only after a deluge of propaganda, often crudely racist, about the Japanese. Any doubts they raised about the utility and morality of the Allied bombing effort arose too late to affect a momentum of effort by 1944 fully accelerated. Similarly, in England a lively debate developed only after the RAF’s bombing was already reaching its wartime peak. The debate over air power—itself a debate on limited terms—had already receded, and naval and ground operations were crowding the air war off the front pages. In sum, what Americans could learn from the media about the air war was not always blindly praiseworthy of bombing or simplistically degrading of the enemy, but even a limited appreciation of the war’s complexity came mostly after the course of bombing was already set.  THE LIMITS OF CONTROVERSY  Public opinion polls, which might have clarified public debate, were surprisingly uninstructive. True, along with much subjective evidence they indicated consistent if not clear-cut distinctions between views of the nation’s two enemies. Americans were more likely to describe pejoratively the Japanese than the Germans and especially later in the war to view the Japanese people, not just their government, as America’s enemy. No one doubted that the Japanese were the more hated enemy, in good part for racial reasons. An equally telling difference between views of the two enemies, however, lay in the pervasive shallowness of American knowledge of the Far East. As Jerome Bruner commented in 1944, “Probably never has a modern nation fought an enemy about which she knew so little as we of Japan.”53  Early in the war, Americans expected victory to come more easily over Japan than over Germany, although such expectations diminished wit