evelt’s ideas about aerial deterrence was ever joined. It could not be because he kept those ideas mostly secret and steered debate elsewhere, while critics preoccupied with naval policy offered little opposition to rearmament of the American Air Corps.22  By defining the issue as hemisphere defense, Roosevelt found another way to divide his opponents and establish common ground with many of them. While Herbert Hoover saw FDR's warnings of Nazi attacks on the Western Hemisphere as “sheer hysteria,” other critics accepted the need for more planes to guard the Americas. They also played into Roosevelt’s hands by continuing to see danger and deceit in administration plans for short-range tactical aircraft whose only foreseeable use would be to accompany American ground forces in battle on the European continent. Long-range bombers served Roosevelt’s purposes and these were just what some prominent critics advocated—a fleet of several thousand precision bombers capable of intercepting an attack on the Americas by sea or air.23  Thus a developing capacity to intimidate or bomb others remained disguised by the preoccupation with protecting America. Far from decrying air power, many anti-inter-ventionists sought to bend it to their purposes. In doing so, they supported the big bomber air force that Air Corps officers wanted, and they smoothed Roosevelt’s path toward creating a deterrent force even as they carped at his immediate plans.  Encountering only oblique public opposition to his plans, Roosevelt faced a more formidable threat from within his administration, ironically from the military and the Air Corps itself. Air Corps’ resistance to French orders was a bitter point of conflict. Arnold, promoted by FDR to chief of the Air Corps in September, accepted foreign orders in principle but sharply contested the way Roosevelt handled them, especially the end run Roosevelt made around the army by delegating Morgenthau to supervise foreign orders. When Arnold felt he had to