eriors trained in ground warfare, intensifying the drive for a doctrine that would justify independence. Aviators were set apart because they were relatively young, few in number (everyone knew everyone), low in rank, less often products of the West Point fraternity, and engaged in the most dangerous assignment (in one typical year, 2.5 percent of all army aviators died in crashes). Their one toehold in the bureaucracy, the position of assistant secretary of war for air (a civilian post), was eliminated in the budget crunch of 1933. Their weak position in the army bureaucracy encouraged them to circumvent it by courting support in Congress, the press, and the public. It also contributed to “something of a persecution complex,” as one sympathetic historian has put it, a contemptuous attitude that often saw stupidity or malice in the bureaucracy’s understandable stress on gradual change and discipline. Anachronisms imposed on aviators—“the somewhat ridiculous spectacle of aviators on horseback” at Maxwell Field, for example—did not help. “Anyone,” Foulois later recalled, “who went against staff thinking on any subject in those days invited a reprimand for himself rather than a reward for daring to think imaginatively.” Yet defiance was attractive as well as dan- gerous, as if “the more trouble you were in with your superiors, the higher your status among your own group.” In other words, airmen made a virtue out of inferior status.”  Frustrated in their efforts to influence higher policy, airmen were nonetheless largely masters of their own house. Except for the two top positions, promotions (although not necessarily assignments) in the Air Corps were made by the corps itself, not by the army. On matters of doctrine, the general staff’s lukewarm interest in aviation cut two ways. It required the Air Corps to perform the ritual of harmonizing its official doctrine with conservative War Department policy, downplaying aviation as an independent agent of victory and stress