iescence in our national policies.” And he added, in an echo of reactions to Munich and a prophecy of plans to come, that “the mere existence” of an American bomber force on Luzon might “restrain Japan from open and active opposition to our national policies.”37  Spaatz’s ideas added another reason to develop the B-29, which he simultaneously recommended, but apparently received no immediate follow-up. More than ever after September 1, air officers devoted attention to industrial mobilization, development of new aircraft, the continuing demands of foreign orders, and the requirements of hemispheric defense. Neither the outbreak of war in Europe nor Marshall's ascent to the post of Chief of Staff had an immediate effect on long-range strategic planning or on Roosevelt’s views. Perhaps, as a contemporary account implied, Germany’s limited use of the bomber against Poland that fall may have come as a relief to Roosevelt and his advisors. Air war “had assumed, in their eyes, as in everyone else’s, a shape more dreadful than was to be justified by the event. All sorts of catastrophic happenings—great air raids over Paris and London, panics in the markets, death and destruction on the wholesale plan—were momentarily expected.” But the long-feared knockout blow did not materialize.38  Roosevelt requested the belligerents to avoid bombing open towns. Britain, France, and Germany, all too uncertain of their capabilities to take the first plunge, happily agreed. He authorized small increases in the armed forces. But he did not focus on air power as he had a year earlier, instead turning toward revisions in the neutrality laws that would permit belligerents to purchase by “cash and carry.” He also reportedly came down hard on the War Department when he learned of its planning to equip an expeditionary force, insisting that “we won’t send troops abroad. We need only think of defending this hemisphere.” Such a statement hardly ruled out eventually “assisting the democracies with