ndest hopes” of air power ad- vocates, as he put it in June, were now in jeopardy. His personal health as precarious as that of the air force, he may as well have despaired of his own fortunes.  In a war of vast organizations and impersonal strategies, an individual leader's impact was not always decisive. But Arnold showed how personal and organizational anxiety provided one spur to escalation of the air war. It was not necessarily Arnold’s intention to make that war more costly or brutal—efficiency, the clean kill, promised large rewards for the man and the air force. But inten- tion and result did not always correlate.  How they could diverge was already evident in the spring of 1943, when the British and Americans once again reviewed bombing policy. The occasion arose in May when Eaker’s command presented its operating plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive (Operation POINTBLANK as it was codenamed) to the Joint and Combined Chiefs. On some points, Eaker’s plan represented a dubious but politically necessary compromise. By placing priority on submarine yards and bases, the plan did not reason from operational necessity—from what the bomber could do—and instead, despite mounting appreciation of how invulnerable the submarine targets were, responded to assessments of what needed to be done in winning the Atlantic battle. With more success, the AAF also employed B-24s in direct aerial operations against the subs at sea. But to admit that the submarine war was better won that way would have undercut long-standing claims for the air forces as an independent strategic weapon. In that sense, organizational goals were perhaps foremost in the Eaker plan.  The determination of bombing strategy and methods could be surprisingly casual. The strategists reviewing Eaker’s plan did dovetail the bomber offensive with the planned invasion, partly because they had by then set a date for the invasion. Too, Marshall now put the greatest stress on success of the bomber offensive, se