acity to mobilize perhaps ten times that number. More than that, they were increasingly conscious of their technological rivalry, especially in naval armaments, the race for which even distant upstarts like the United States and Japan now joined. Free from the burden of a major war for thirty years, Europeans were nonetheless troubled as well by how they might reconcile a developing faith in peace with evidence of escalating armaments and international tensions. It was not a simple fear of war, but rather a desire to deny that fear and reconcile it to the faith in peace that stimulated an extensive literature about new weapons. The gravity of hopes and fears regarding war and technology, arid the style adopted in appealing to a new mass readership, gave that literature its distinctive character.  Prophecy about new weapons did not come so freely to Americans at the turn of the century as it did to Europeans. Some Americans did see military purpose in the airplane, but more with an eye to commercial possibilities than to war itself. Samuel P. Langley, the venerable scientist whose crowning effort at powered flight dropped “like a handful of mortar” into the Potomac River, coaxed a grant from the United States Army in 1898 with vague promises as to how his machines might change warfare. But Langley cared most about his experiments and their financing, little about war.4  Inthe American Army’s Signal Corps, overseer of a feeble effort at military aviation, some of the pioneer fliers naturally took war more seriously. They had read daring predictions for air power, like that made in Chicago in 1893 by a British officer who foresaw the day when “the arrival of the aerial fleet over the enemy capital will probably conclude the campaign.” They could speculate, as one American officer did in 1908, that powerful airships would some day be so frightening that they would “make war less likely in the future than in the past.” But military men were generally reticent or uncertai