editorialists followed the air force line by emphasizing the economic purposes and effects of the fire raids and raising few questions about whether the raids represented a departure from previous policy. They were equally reluctant to speculate whether this new form of bombing might change official strategy for an invasion. Because officials repeatedly described the bombing as still only in an initial phase—a stance that further minimized sensitivity to the damage already done—it seemed premature to speculate on it as an instrument of imposing surrender. In the press as well as in government, a preoccupation with analogies to the manner of Ger- many’s defeat, secured only with bloody invasion, also discouraged such speculation. In addition, there was the familiar tendency to look past the surrender issue to more distant matters, particularly the role of air power in the postwar world. With the battle over postwar unification of the armed forces heating up, that role was ripe material for commentary. The more expansive view was that the Twentieth Air Force showed the way to the “future global air power upon which American security will proportionately rest” and through which the nation would achieve “realistic world influence.”!12  Amid these commercial and political preferences, little inclination was left for pondering what happened on the ground in Japan. If noted at all, loss of enemy life was sometimes mentioned with passing regret, but also the reminder that “Tokyo is a prime military target, so recognized under the rules of war and... civilians remain there to man Japan’s armament industries at their own peril.” More often, the attacks were just described as “the bombing of factories and plants,” undertaken against “a fanatical foe prepared to fight to the death.” The New York Herald Tribune followed a more tortured path around the humanitarian issue. “Any impression that precision bombing is abandoned by the 20th [Air Force] should be corrected.” It was simp