of the military command. The paucity of American resources for the Pacific war, the immensity of Chinese armies, the pull of China’s plight all coincided to accord China a pivotal place in American plans. By August 1943, planners recognized how their strategy had been made hostage to China’s ill fortunes. The Combined Staff was now projecting a bomber offensive for 1947, a dismaying prospect to Arnold’s staff. The 1947 timetable was no less satisfying to Admiral Ernest J. King or to Marshall, who feared that a “growing impatience” for quick victory over Japan would develop among Americans once Germany collapsed. Roosevelt was  Page 157 of 368 36%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  That came only in the summer and fall of 1943, yielding an improved P-51 Mustang fighter that was to play a decisive role in the air battles of 1944.  Meanwhile, OVERLORD, the Allied invasion of France, was fast approaching, and the time fast diminishing before RAF and AAF bombers would be transformed by invasion into little more than a glorified support force for a conventional strategy. And invasion itself would be imperiled if the German air force were not defeated. Far from validating aerial doctrine and rescuing the Eighth’s tenu- ous fortunes, the recent campaign, with losses unavoidably publicized, threw the AAF command into a renewed crisis heightened by the imminence of invasion.  Crisis was also aggravated by a lag in preparations to bomb Japan. Hopes to use Siberian bases for that purpose, as predictably recurrent as the seasons, had generated more staff studies, frustrating negotiations, and no results. Roosevelt on occasion derived optimism from “evidence in the recent disputes between Japan and Russia that the Russians have no cause to love Japan.” But Roosevelt felt more urgency about getting bombers into China, a priority still governed, as so often in the long record of American air power in Asia, more by politics than strategy. Nineteen forty- th