uld be “really much more humane than the present methods of blowing up people to bits by cannon projectiles or butchering them with bayonets.”!2  Such reassurance was commonplace. “Jingoes,” wrote the head of the army’s Chemical Warfare Service in 1921, “will hesitate long before they start war in the future, knowing that they themselves” will face its “terrors.” (“If this be a chemist’s idea of humane warfare,” a New York paper retorted, “God deliver the world from its chemists!”) Air war against cities would be a “calamity,” one of Mitchell’s fellow airmen wrote, but one “of this magnitude would create a demand for peace that could not be denied.”2°  As in European writings on this subject, tortured arguments were frequent. Mitchell claimed that the “more terrible” weapons of recent wars had actually reduced total casualties because with their long range “the defeated side can get away with its men as they are far off from their opponents.” He suggested that strategic bombing would somehow both democratize future warfare and diminish its casualties because it would confine fighting to smaller numbers of skilled specialists—he compared them with the knights of the Middle Ages—rather than mass armies. In promising the “distinct benefit to civilization” that air war would bring he offered a curious distinction: “air forces will attack centers of production . .. not so much the people themselves.” Somehow, victory would ensue, his followers argued in 1926, “by terrorizing the whole population of a belligerent country while conserving life and property to the greatest extent.” Air prophets were not invariably system- atic thinkers.21  Yet inconsistencies in their argument for strategic bombardment mattered little simply because Mitchell and his contemporaries presented it as an attractive theory disconnected from American realities. The challenge for Americans was less to learn to wage strategic bombing than to guard against it. In theory, the most effective defense wa