e advice of scientists. On the other, he concluded that “the more technological the war becomes, the more disastrously a bad choice of means will change a good cause into evil”; no one was more eloquent than Dyson in explaining how “science and technology ... made evil anonymous.” Dyson believed that scientists on a day-to-day level could have made the bombing effort less wasteful and inhumane, even as the ultimate tendency of science was to aggravate those evils. He wanted it both ways—to criticize the contributions of science to war and to condemn those who ignored its contributions. Out of that confusion came Dyson’s curious reaction at the end of the war to the American bombing of Japan. “Once we had got ourselves into the business of bombing cities, we might as well do the job competently and get it over with,” he had believed. Some- how, a “bad choice of means”—how Dyson earlier described the bombing of cities—became good simply because it was successful.5°  More often than not, these civilian critics did not want to understand the military men they berated but to score points off of them. The officers’ narrow minds were their foils for demonstrating the civilians’ breadth and intelligence. More than vanity was at stake, of course. At issue was the fate of civilian militarism—whether the broadening influence and heightened status of civilian expert- ise in war-making would be sustained. The critics pursued that goal as avidly as cooperative civilians like Bowles and Perera, only through conflict rather than compromise.  Their critique of bombing policies suggests their penchant for enhancing their status by scoring easy points. “The strategic air forces were almost sovereign powers” led by “air barons” who “ruled their commands like feudal lords,” Zuckerman complained. Yet Allied victory did not rest only on some triumph of abundance over the failures of command but on the relatively ordered manner in which rivalrous commands cooperated. “To the airmen and sol