”!31 For Stimson and for most others advising the American government that potential translated into an immediate issue with reference to the Soviet Union. For all the controversy among historians regarding “atomic diplomacy,” the importance for the bomb’s use of the developing antagonism between the two great powers was limited and indirect: there was no particular correlation between attitudes on the Soviet question and stance on the bomb’s employment. But that antagonism, and the long- range issues it raised regarding nuclear policy, did diminish attention to the bomb’s use in the context of war against Japan. It became hard to ask what would secure Japan’s capitulation without  drawing in so many other matters that the immediate question became lost. The pursuit of victory, though often seen as the dominating concern of Americans in wartime, was sometimes crowded aut hy ather anvieties  Page 294 of 368 67%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  vuiiw.—  Stimson convinced himself that “precision” bombing remained American practice in part through unwillingness to confront the contrary evidence in the press and to penetrate the transparent distinctions about targeting offered by the air force. After the war he wrote: “In March, 1945, our Air Force had launched the first great incendiary raid on the Tokyo area. In this raid more damage was done and more casualties were inflicted than was the case at Hiroshima.” But there is no evidence that Stimson at the time appreciated the magnitude of the March 10 raid, unless it provided him the spur to approach Lovett—if so, he did not note it at the time. To the contrary, only the renewed fire raids on Tokyo at the end of May caught his attention and led him to query Arnold about “my promise from Lovett that there would be only precision bombing in Japan.” Stimson was disturbed by press reports indicating a “bombing of Tokyo which was very far from that.” Arnold explained that Japan presented a “difficu