nce and imagination.” Theirs was a speechless horror, one usually identified later only with the victims of atomic bombing. For the few who escaped the vortex of the storm, the experience dwarfed all other emotions. Even the police- president’s report allocated few words to “the murderous lust of a sadistic enemy.” It was the death of the city itself, not antecedents and results, that he struggled to comprehend.13  In its murderousness, the Hamburg firestorm was also a fluke, “like a hole in one in a game of golf,” devoutly desired and almost irreproducible. The third and fourth raids on the city produced no comparable toll, in part because a vast exodus limited further casualties. Yet nothing distinguished the second raid from countless others during the war except for the unpredicted convergence of forces which the British routinely tried to exploit. The raid’s planning and success simply revealed British intentions more nakedly than usual. All the Hamburg raids targeted residential, especially working-class areas of the city, a frequent RAF practice. But because Hamburg’s waterways so clearly separated residential from industrial areas, the subterfuge often permissible during the war —that area raids were only an efficient means of destroying economic objectives, dictated by operational necessity—dissolved, though able historians characterize the area attacks misleadingly as “indiscriminate bombing of industrial targets.” Harris, who at least had the virtue of an ugly honesty rare in high circles, was closer to the mark in his memoirs, when he referred to “the destruction of factories” as only “a bonus.” The rationale for British bombing methods had clearly changed from the early days of area bombing, when the destruction of workers and their housing had been deemed the regrettable by-product of industrial raids. Hamburg marked grim progress toward a goal for bombing once proposed by Harris’s superior, Sir Charles Portal—killing 900,000 Germans and render- ing 25