that it succeeded in that purpose. The scare over Japanese revenge bombing suggested the contrary. So too did the expression of “exterminationist sentiment” (as one historian has called it) found in a patriotic parade in New York in June 1942, when a popular float displayed “a big American eagle leading a flight of bombers down on a herd of yellow rats which were trying to escape in all directions.” And even a year after the raid, when Americans learned of the execution of some of the Doolittle fliers, indignation prompted bitter calls for revenge by bombing and other means and shook once again the American commitment to the Europe-first strategy. If Roosevelt had raised the expectations on which he would have to deliver, they were not ones with which he was uncomfortable. But he established a disturbing precedent for employing military force to meet psychological expectations. And because those expectations are usually mercurial and immeasurable, in contrast to the finite (if huge) demands of military victory,  Page 120 of 368 28%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON Japanese to withdraw lignter alrcralt Lrom Compal tneaters, proviae a SMOt-1M-Lhe-arin LOF Generallssimo CNlany, amd Salisly PuOLIC Option 1 Lhe states, where te DONUS CLUDS Nave Deen putting  up prize money for the first air attack upon Japan.” At the State Department, the principal Far East official believed that an aerial blow on Tokyo would demoralize the Japanese and sap their confidence in the emperor.12  The raid’s results were more mixed than American officials and a jubilant press acknowledged. General James Doolittle’s bombers carried out low-level bombing runs with incendiaries and high explosives, but in flying on to Chinese bases, the planes were all lost when forced to land in Japanese-held territory (or, in one case, Siberia). As Arnold wrote to the president, “No raid is a success in which losses exceed ten per cent.” Roosevelt described the raid as an attack on J