anation of American behavior is incomplete, however. Had preemption of Russian entry been an overriding objective, Truman and his aides would have more willingly pursued the assurances on the throne and hesitated less about them in the final moment. Even men who shared similar suspicions of Soviet ambitions—Grew and Byrnes are the most notable examples—could not agree about the content of American messages to Japan. Timing the bomb’s use to come after Soviet entry was not rejected late in July, but rather it was never seriously considered before then. The timing of the bomb’s use always had been dictated by operational considerations—when it was ready—irrespective of other threats to Japan that might be applied. Moreover, just as no one could predict that the bomb would end the war quickly, no one could be certain that Russian entry would do so. Even Marshall had hedged his bets: it would be “decisive . . . at that time or shortly thereafter if we land in Japan.” In that climate of uncertainty, it seemed to make little sense to delay on either option, atomic bombing or Russian intervention. And there were palpable risks in forestalling the latter. If then the bomb failed quickly to win the war and if word later leaked out that the war had been prolonged because Americans delayed Russian entry—all this allowing the Russians off the hook and American boys to die in their place—American leaders could have been deeply embarrassed. Sen. Alexander Wiley had made quite clear on July 25 the feeling at home that “countless American lives are at stake in Russia’s decisions.” Out in the Pacific, MacArthur, belatedly informed of the bomb, told reporters Russian entry was “welcome” for just the same reason: “Every Russian killed was one less American who had to be.”105  To enter the most speculative realm, it seems likely that even had Russian entry been greeted with open arms, rather than accepted as a painful aid and inevitability, the bomb would have been used on the same tim