an arguments Stimson offered his own tough-minded case. With respect to firebombing, he worried that Japan might become “so thoroughly bombed out that the new weapon would not have a fair back-ground to show its strength.” (Truman “laughed and said he understood.”) Later he insisted on protecting Kyoto from atomic attack lest it become “impossible. . . to reconcile the Japanese to us... rather than to the Russians.”13°  The nub of the matter was the connection Stimson made in his own mind between power and morality. For him, power was not just a necessary evil, but a potential way to serve moral ends, victory over Japan and a reordering of international relations. Little in Stimson’s long record of government service had led him to doubt that connection. But firebombing and the atomic weapon threatened to sever it, for their destructiveness created an evil that might overwhelm any good that could come from them. At the same time, Stimson could not resist the temptation to employ them for desired short-run gains. He wriggled free of this dilemma by his ritual of scrutinizing air force bombing policy and preserving Kyoto. That ritual was not meaningless: if it sanctioned a course of bombing whose nature Stimson refused to acknowledge, it also preserved the residue of moral concerns that might be acted upon later, foreshadowing the final breakdown of the connection between power and morality which Stimson had so long confidently posited. For Japan, however, the ritual offered scant protection.  For the moment it was sufficient to quell any doubts about targeting and move on to the real moral issue he saw, the bomb’s dual potential either to destroy “modern civilization” or “to bring the world into a pattern in which the peace of the world and our civilization can be saved.”!31 For Stimson and for most others advising the American government that potential translated into an immediate issue with reference to the Soviet Union. For all the controversy among historians reg