ith than officers in any form of deterrent—hence repeated proposals from Roosevelt for various forms of naval action as well. The president urged his strategists to consider “the possibility of bombing attacks [from aircraft carriers] against Japanese cities.” He also apparently prompted Stark to ask Admiral Husband Kimmel in Hawaii to “study very carefully the matter of making aircraft raids on the inflammable Japanese cities (ostensibly on military objectives), and the effect such raids might have on Japanese morale and on the diversion of their forces away from the Malay barrier.” Stark had doubts about the usefulness of such raids but added, in a clear reference to Roosevelt, that “you and I may be ordered” to have a plan for them ready, noting too a “rising tide” of public pres- sure for action against Japan.72  Stark may also have been reflecting British pressures for action. A “really effective” air attack on Japan’s cities, London’s spokesmen suggested, “might well result in a public demand for the return of Japanese forces from theatres vital to us.” They proposed using air power not precisely to deter war but at least to contain it cheaply so that the Anglo-Americans could keep top priority on Europe, an approach similar to Roosevelt’s. But American officers, testy as always about British measures to lure American forces into the western Pacific, outlined their fish-or-cut-bait position: in- decisive action seemed worse than none at all. The few American carriers in the Pacific, they complained, could only “deliver a bombing attack so ineffectual that its value would be less than as though it were undelivered but retained as a constant threat to the Japanese people.” Pinprick attacks “might even raise Japanese morale and thus free their naval forces for work in the South.” Implicitly, the Americans accepted the value of both aerial deterrence and actual attacks on Japanese cities. Weeks later, Stark half-seriously proposed the cruise of a powerful naval fo