mselves as enlisted in the war effort, their task that of establishing confidence in Allied virtue and victory and commanders. Journalists did sometimes probe and question. But more often, as a Canadian reporter later confessed, “we were a propaganda arm of our governments. ... We were cheerleaders.” What the reporter did best in these circumstances was to capture the heroics, the sufferings and failings of the individual soldier, as Ernie Pyle did. Such reporting was by no means always celebratory or single-mindledly patriotic, but it did shift away from broader issues of strategy, politics, and morality, and it meant that “the more the importance of the individual soldier was reduced by technology, the more correspondents concentrated on writing about him.”¢ Finally, there was the need to view the war in uplifting and reassuring ways. If American participation in World War II lacked the naive idealism of that of the First World War, Americans still needed to view the war as a positive experience. Neither editors nor officials wished to present it as too shocking, although fears of public com- placency gradually loosened restrictions on grimmer portrayals of combat.  The best combat reporting challenged American expectations of easy victory through application of superior technology. Released a few months after American forces suffered shocking losses on the island in November 1943, Robert Sherrod’s Tarawa reported the sacrifices of American soldiers as well as their naive hopes on the eve of battle that the naval and air barrage might make the  Page 130 of 368 30%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  RUevULaLg KLUOULy WHU Le ad, BIULL LR GL LULUL, 20 L1tCdd, GLI Heo WUUIUULO. ALAR LU LULL WUUU® CUMVUUUio, 2 ULC OULU LUM LULL addy uk CULpo CiUL ue Wao LU VCLIg aLUu CVE corner” and the product was “pure sentimentalized corn.” The latter was most evident in A Guy Named Joe, in which Spencer Tracy, killed in a suicidal attack on a German aircra