asty, sometimes conflicting answers from the military staff. The intent was grand: deter Japanese expansion, interdict it if it flowed southward, even, as both Stimson and Marshall conjectured, wean Japan from the Axis powers. As translated into operational plans, the most obvious mission for the bombers was to defend the Philippines against invasion by attacking any landing force in its ships or on the beaches. With the Philippines so neatly astride Japan’s sea routes southward, the bomber could also disrupt Japanese convoys and bomb airfields on Formosa. The Philippines’ proximity to Japan, long seen as their weakness, now became their advantage.  These missions, though within the range of B-17s and the B-24 Liberators now also in the pipeline, were ambitious indeed for an untried air force stationed far from home base. But War Department plans did not end there. For one thing, the bombers might be useful in situations short of war. “There is war in China and there is war in the Atlantic at the present time, but in neither case is it declared war,” Marshall reminded his staff, echoing Roosevelt’s views. Pending full-scale hostilities, MacArthur might carry out reconnaissance over Japanese-held territories, perhaps even over Japan itself. Believing that Japan might resort to further gradual encroachment, Marshall perhaps foresaw the bombers’ use in some sort of undeclared war in the Pacific.8¢  Here lay temptation to consider even more extravagant possibilities. If Tojo and Hull gave Marshall more time and if Tokyo launched only a limited offensive, Marshall could checkmate Japan in a bolder way. Military estimates in October still listed attack on Russia as the most probable Japanese action, with attack on American installations far down the list. “They are headed north,” Roosevelt advised Churchill on October 15. As late as November 26 Marshall discounted attack on the Philippines “as a probability because the hazards would be too great for the Japanese.” Marshal