ctiveness was “known to them cerebrally, but hardly comprehended affectively; it was, paradoxical as this may sound, none of their concern,” and the airmen, like the engineers of the bombing effort, were “completely alienated from the product of their work.” Fromm did not appreciate how quickly “meticulously organized plans” could collapse when men set out on a mission (or even before they did). His characterization may conflict with the liveliness evident in some firsthand observations of airmen’s personalities, which hardly alwrave seamed dehimanized Rut eanditians acted ta drain men af ematioans ahnut the enemy whataver their nersanalities Guilt did arice far death meted ant ta victims helaw annar-  Page 207 of 368 47%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Even then, headquarters’ information might be wrong.  Distance from a human enemy was not unique to air war. Even within its boundaries a sense of distance varied widely. Destructiveness and exposure to danger simply did not correlate with each other: the Twentieth Air Force, the most devastating of all the wartime air forces, took only 2.8 percent of all losses by the American air force during the war—some 3,415 casualties, of whom 576 were killed and 2,406 missing—while the AAF in Europe and the Mediterranean endured 94,565 casualties.” Fighter pilots came closer to seeing the whites of the enemy’s eyes. But even pilots of naval torpedo bombers reported that they often could not see their torpedoes explode because they had to turn away so quickly.  Often enough narrative accounts indicated the remoteness of what warplanes did to others simply by omitting mention of the matter. It often took the interloper on air combat to notice its special sense of unreality. Charles Lindbergh, denied active duty by Roosevelt, nonetheless remained an informal advisor to Arnold and the aviation industry and flew tactical combat missions in the Pacific. His observations were acute:  You press a button an