it homhing cities hevand the fact that it invalved killins “the wrong neonle” and was done hv fascists who were inso  Page 70 of 368 16%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON far behind Germany and Italy in the development of strategic air power strengthened this perspective. So, too, did the resounding denunciations of bombing in China and Spain made by the press and by the governments of the democracies and the general emphasis on the defensive nature of British and American preparations for air war. Bombing cities was something that only fascist govern- ments, foolishly or not, attempted.  The rise of the fascist powers and their air raids on cities were very convenient for the Western democracies. The opposing images of the two camps that were fashioned almost inverted reality. The Germans never made a concerted effort to wage strategic air war, although occasionally they shifted tactical aircraft to strategic missions when opportunity, miscalculation, or fits of desperation came into play. Later, Hitler yearned for a miracle instrument of strategic air war. But he never gave strategic air power sustained support, and it lacked solid grounding in both the technology and the doctrine of the German air force.  An impression to the contrary outside Germany may be forgiven in light of Hitler’s boasts and the fascist record in Ethiopia and Spain. Exaggerating German intentions and capabilities, British and American officials thought they were following the Nazis’ lead, not pioneering the course toward air war against cities. But it remained the case that, in the 1930s, only England and America seriously developed the concept and instruments of strategic air war. Of course, in both countries that development was shrouded in a fog of bureaucratic battles, governmental indecision, shifting strategies, and unarticulated purposes. In the United States, the defensive rationale for heavy bombers and the continuing struggle over air force autonomy obscu