eas, and practices that defy precise chronological placement.  Above all, I have emphasized the diversity of the appeals that air power has had for Americans. The result is a somewhat eclectic explanation of how Americans came to embrace strategic bombing, but this is deliberate, for it is important not to see the bomber as satisfying merely the needs of particular interest groups or the strategic demands of particular campaigns. The diversity of its appeals made the bomber a unique weapon and helped its rise to first place in national strategy and policy. Particular arguments for or against the bomber might come and go, but a host of others was always available. Like most important changes in how nations behave, the rise of American air power rested on arguments whose collective force was greater than the sum of their parts. In the end, the United States often accepted air power regardless of the merits of specific arguments, leaving us a legacy with which we still grapple.  Anote on terminology. I have tried to avoid the special language of military organizations. While at times I refer to the Army Air Corps, an official designation applying to the period 1926-41, or to the Army Air Forces (AAF), the wartime designation, I often refer to the “air force” or the “American air force,” a generic term for the aviation of the United States Army, which went through numerous bureaucratic mutations to which the reader need not be subjected and did not attain independence from the army until after World War II. When I refer to “airmen,” I usually mean military aviators, primarily those within the United States Army except where the context indicates otherwise.  Many readers will be aware of several recent books relevant to my topic, including some which, to this writer’s consternation, appeared just as this book was going into production. At the last moment, I briefly and selectively drew on three of special importance: Ronald Schaffer’s Wings of Judgment; Paul Boyer’s By t