nable harm to humanity. Of course, the promise of air power had always inhered in its capacity to bring terror. Precision bombing did not entirely divorce the two, but it pushed terror so far into the background, placed so much distance between the act and the result, that it had much the same effect. Like the strategy of economic blockade practiced by both English and Germans in World War I, it proposed to attack the enemy population indirectly, by disrupting and starving it rather than by blasting and burning. But if no quick victory came and the enemy’s will remained the objective, then airmen might have to strike at it through systematic rather than selective destruction, that is, by direct attacks on the civilian popula- tion. If that possibility remained alive, then both the moral and practical case for precision bombing became vastly more problematic.  Mostly out of view, these tensions and potentialities in the theory of air power emerged more starkly in contemplation of war with Japan. His court-martial having cut the last bonds of discretion, Mitchell gave such contemplation a more fanciful and menacing twist than he had in the 1920s. Now he regarded American action in the Far East as an instrument of American expansion. “It is westward that our course of empire will take its way,” he grandly pronounced. He also portrayed Japan as scheming to attack not only American possessions but the United States itself, construct- ing secret “air fortresses” from which huge fleets of aircraft would bomb American cities. The Japanese, he warned in one of the last speeches he wrote, considered the United States “a decadent military power” and believed that “we will be as easy to attack as a large jellyfish.”24  More menacing than ever, Japan also appeared more vulnerable. Submarines could destroy Japan’s commerce, and its cities were attractive targets: “These towns are built largely of wood and paper to resist the devastations of earthquakes and form the greatest aeria