cance in private conversations that spring, Stimson appreciated its similarity to Dresden as a cultural and historical city of unique importance. His motives for exempting Kyoto were complex and shifting. On the one hand, he exhibited the wartime habit of elevating preservation of monuments above preservation of lives. Arthur Holly Compton later recounted a conversation with Stimson on May 31 which proved to Compton that Stimson was  aman of wide culture and broad sympathy, to whom Japan was a living reality. To him Japan was not just a place on the map, not only a nation that must be defeated. The objective was military damage, he pointed out, not civilian lives. To illustrate his point he noted that Kyoto was a city that must not be bombed. It lies in the form of a cup and thus would be exceptionally vulnerable. But this city, he said, is no military target. It is exclusively a place of homes and art and shrines.  In fact, sparing Kyoto while bombing other cities saved few civilian lives, but as Stimson told Truman in connection with firebombing, he “did not want to have the United States get the reputation of outdoing Hitler in atrocities.” Military men regarded it as unthinkable that a city of Kyoto’s size would be spared; General Leslie Groves, whom Stimson had to overrule persistently, saw in Kyoto an experimental opportunity beyond military need, the chance “to gain complete knowledge of the effects of an atomic bomb.” Against such utilitarian arguments Stimson offered his own tough-minded case. With respect to firebombing, he worried that Japan might become “so thoroughly bombed out that the new weapon would not have a fair back-ground to show its strength.” (Truman “laughed and said he understood.”) Later he insisted on protecting Kyoto from atomic attack lestit become “impossible . . . to reconcile the Japanese to us... rather than to the Russians.”132  The nub of the matter was the connection Stimson made in his own mind between power and morality. For hi