the Zeppelins and later the lumbering Giant bomb- ers, with a wingspread scarcely shorter than that of the B-29s of World War II, imposed a considerable cost on the Germans as well. Not for the last time, airmen employed a facile but faulty calculus.  The German command also sought to damage the English economy, directly by destruction of physical plant—a farfetched possibility given the weight and accuracy of the bombers’ effort— and indirectly by causing demoralization and panic in the work force. “The German people,” one communiqué warned, “has become a hard race with an iron fist... . The hammer is in our hands, and it will fall mercilessly and shatter the places where England is forging weapons against us.” In fact, it fell randomly, noisily, but hardly mercilessly. Results were occasionally spectacular, especially when German bombers struck in darkness, as the English air defense often forced them to do. On some nights, hundreds of thousands of Londoners streamed into the tubes and tunnels under their city, pro- duction in some key industries was disrupted, and even David Lloyd George himself, who “lacked physical courage,” fled the city.25  English terror mirrored German hopes. It was undoubtedly not just a response to the scale of the raids, each of which, as one observer commented, hardly compared to “a before-breakfast skirmish almost any morning on the Somme,” and which together inflicted some fourteen hundred English fatalities during the war. Terror sprang from the unpredictability of the raids as well as from shock over the violation of accepted standards of war, a response possible only for a generation that ignored the long record of horrors in centuries of wars.2&  Contemporaries as well as later observers exaggerated the extent and importance of the panic in England. Panic existed, perhaps more in the government than in the people themselves, as Wells predicted; but so too did a “stiffening of morale.” The Daily Mail captured the popular response w