ed, “can we so quickly or so surely render valuable aid to our allies. ... Airplanes can be rapidly built. ... Money is all that is lacking.” This apparently naive American faith in air power was shared by the French government, which quickly turned to the United States for planes, and by English newspapers which promised tens of thousands of American machines in breathtakingly short time.37  The views of officials responsible for aviation were as formless in April 1917 as those in the press and public. Their journeys to the battlefields of Europe soon sharpened their outlook. First to go was Major William Mitchell, a zealous advocate of military aviation even though a latecomer to it. His somewhat unreliable Memoirs of World War I portrayed him as horrified by the senseless slaughter he observed during the Nivelle Offensive in the spring of 1917 and determined to find a more effective way to wage war. Pugnacious and ambitious, he instructed John J. Pershing that strategic bombing could have “a greater influence on the ultimate decision of the war than any other arm.”38 But Mitchell’s advocacy of such bombing did not evolve in the straight-forward way later imagined by both defenders and detractors. Trenchard, apparently the major influence on him during his first months in France, preached the virtues of massed air power concentrated in the hands of one commander and used offensively. Mitchell still applied such maxims largely to battlefield situations.  Less famous visitors to France were as important as Mitchell. The Bolling Mission, sent to evaluate requirements for aviation, was favorably taken by the potential for long-range bombardment, and by fall of 1917 some air officers were promising that night missions could “put an end to the war far more quickly than sending one or two million men to line the trenches.” Over the following months an organization took shape in France designed to plan a strategic bombing effort. In one officer's bleak view, bombing was n