ies would lead their nations to ruin, victims of the “shortsighted, if natural delu- sion... that the armed forces themselves were the real objective.” Attack on those forces was only one means to the end of subduing “the enemy’s will to resist.”!  The only hope for restoring decisiveness to war was to cease battering at the enemy’s strongest point, the surface forces now developed to defensive perfection, and attack the enemy’s will behind the lines, just as Paris had found Achilles’ weak point (the pun Liddell Hart played on in his title). For the first time in history, man could do this swiftly. “Aircraft enables us to jump over the army which shields the enemy government, industry and people, and so strike direct and immediately at the seat of the opposing will and policy.” Or, as Douhet put it, “Now it is actually populations and nations,” rather than their agents, “which come to blows and seize each other’s throats.”2  Prophets of aerial apocalypse in the 1920s displayed remarkable unanimity in imagining how the bombers would do their job. Flying in numbers and with bomb loads unimaginable in World War I, fleets of aerial dreadnoughts would strike in the first hours of war, perhaps even before any declaration of war, and rain tons of explosive, incendiary, and gas or bacteriological bombs on an en- emy’s metropolitan centers. J. F. C. Fuller, the other major British proponent of new forms of warfare, asked his readers to  picture, if you can, what the result will be: London for several days will be one vast raving Bedlam, the hospitals will be stormed, traffic will cease, the homeless will shriek for help, the city will be in pande- monium. What of the government at Westminster? It will be swept away by an avalanche of terror. Then will the enemy dictate his terms, which will be grasped at like a straw by a drowning man. Thus may a war be won in forty-eight hours and the losses of the winning side may be actually nil!3  Scenarios rarely ran to much more detail