chiatric services led to earlier identification of severe problems.®”  Still, for both flight surgeons and psychiatrists in rear areas treatment was always a struggle because of the unpredictable or intractable problems they confronted. The best doctors perceived keen limits on their predictive and curative abilities. Proud or frightened men masked symptoms adroitly; the triggers to anxiety and dysfunction were too multiple and environmental; and combat aviation, like other branches of service, did not always reward the “normal” or unconflicted personality. Thus the mildly neurotic man might fare better simply because his previous experience with anxiety left him less surprised and frightened by experiencing it in battle or because for the first time he might “be able to feel as well as his neighbor.” More dismaying, models of treatment from civilian life had little relevance. There the environmental stimuli to trauma might be controlled or altered to some extent. “In battle,” however, “the stress is never concluded, nor can it be controlled. Rather, the intent is to increase the stress continually in the furious pursuit of victory.” In the realm of their work, air force psychiatrists acknowledged, “a hair divides the normal from the neurotic, the adaptive from the nonadaptive. The failures of adaption of the soldier ... mirror Everyman’s everyday failures or neurotic compromises with reality.”68  Page 204 of 368 47%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  AVE Shaisil DOLE CES Sy Sr SELlee Ct SLE ees Bes, CEL pints eta See 8 Serena le eee oe oe eee SS LA Ly LER USSG, OSLO dls le SLO ES Se ete  they gained mastery of their fate as they accumulated skill and experience. As Freeman Dyson, who made the statistical findings at the time, observed, “Experienced and inexperienced crews were mown down as impartially as the boys who walked into the German machine gun nests in the battle of the Somme in 1916.” Dyson attributed this to failures in the gunne