more than ready with a peace plan.”64  Convergence, however at work implicitly, was not to come for a fatefully long time, for its workings were hardly the only “actuality” of the times. On neither side was a “peace plan” ready, but only bruited about by men of limited authority cautiously exploring the possible. On both sides, too, powerful passions arrested the movement toward formulation of compromise peace terms. Japan, having fueled the fires of anti-Western hatred, could not now easily bank them. Most of all, the peace faction felt repeatedly intimidated by militarist die-hards and chastened as well by its fears of triggering revolutionary upheaval. Nor was it clear how much Japanese talk of satisfying the national aspirations of conquered peoples was sincere. In any event, the crudest forms of exploitation con- tinued whatever the rhetoric.  Some of the same forces at work in Japan also arrested the American effort at reformulation. Much that Americans learned in 1944 only strengthened the urge to pursue vengeance, despite occasional restraint in the media. Now that timely Japanese retreats had ceased, the most graphic evidence of Japanese tenacity emerged. During the battle for Saipan in July, even Japanese civilians leaped to their deaths rather than surrender, a grim omen of the response the enemy might make to an invasion of the home islands. No less ominous were official estimates—published to prepare Americans for years more of war—that Japan still had millions of men available for a last-ditch stand.®*  Moreover, Americans learned of Japanese atrocities as the government parted the gates of censorship in order to stiffen American resolve for bombing and the bloody invasion that might follow. The atrocity stories hardly put many Americans in the mood to support a compromise peace. Their mood was illustrated by Senator Bennett Champ Clark’s call “to bomb Japan out of existence.” Public opinion polls indicated some sentiment for a lenient treatment of pos