fore 1938. When he did consider the possibility of war with Japan he turned first to naval power, toying in 1937 and 1938 with vague schemes for an Anglo-American “peaceful blockade” of Japanese commerce or for undeclared maritime war against the Japanese. Most commentary in the media reflected Roosevelt’s orientation: occasional loose talk about the tempting vulnerability of Japan’s combustible cities to aerial attack, alongside a prevailing assumption that any war with Japan would be primarily naval.28  The casualness in contemporary speculation about air war against Japan, stemming from preoccupation with naval arms and the remoteness of actual hostilities, also reflected prevailing racial attitudes among Americans toward the Japanese. The ease and openness with which bombing Japan was mentioned and ethical considerations were disregarded had no equivalent in speculation about war against Germany or other Western nations. The attribution by some writers of vicious and grandiose designs to the Japanese justified aggressive American fantasies in the classic pattern of racist psychology: fear, contempt, and aggression mingled, each justifying but masking the other. Doubts about Japanese military capabilities in the air often rested on explicitly racial distinctions— the inferior eyes and ears of Asians supposedly made them poor fliers. Yet in part because Americans deprecated the prowess of the Japanese, mention of bombing them required little consideration of how aerial victory would be accomplished. Hence contemplation remained occasional, almost offhand.  Racism was hardly peculiar to Americans, mirrored as it was among those Japanese caught up in their own visions of racial destiny. It weaved its way through the whole course of Japanese- American relations. But in contributing to early notions about bombing Japan, it helped expose important dynamics behind the rise of American air power. Those notions revealed the aggressive fantasies about air power that aviato