ntimidation; the strategists’ rather sudden inter- est in the Philippines as a base for American action; and Roosevelt’s episodic but forceful attraction to air power.  Of these threads, only the role of the Philippines sprung from sustained bureaucratic interest—as well it might, because it posed a classic strategic problem. Army strategists had traditionally despaired of defending the islands in the event of full-scale war with Japan. Consequently, the Philippines had been fed only scraps from the War Department’s table. Before 1940, only the navy had showed a lively interest in defending the island outpost. In 1940, the army and navy began crossing paths on the Philippines issue, the navy increasingly burdened by responsibilities in the Atlantic, the army studying how a rearmed Philippines might resist attack and provide “an additional deterrent to further Japanese plans for expansion.”73  Official doctrine continued to dismiss serious defense of the Philippines, but the ground beneath it shifted in a series of ad hoc initiatives in 1941. The impending shipment of modern aircraft to the islands elicited new hope from Douglas MacArthur and his air officers in the Philippines and from Marshall himself, who by February could comment: “If we had a single squadron of modern planes in the Philippines, it would at least give the Japanese something to think about.” Doubtless Marshall was then thinking only of a tactical role for his modern planes, but Air Corps officers were bolder. By April, their Intelligence Division was canvasing other government agencies for data on economic objectives in Japan suitable as targets for American bombers. In thé Philippines, Colonel Harold George initiated new plans for the defense of the islands and for air strikes against “Hainan, Formosa, and the main Japanese islands.” These developments paralleled the thinking of State Department hawks, who were “confident that the Japanese structure will collapse like the Italian one once a deter