ort threatened to subordinate one part to another. Simplification of priorities made little headway, and interest in a combined command for all Anglo-American strategic air forces was never serious. Finally in February, the two allies revised priorities by providing for “mutually supporting attacks” on the part of the RAF and AAF to be “pursued with relentless determination against the same target areas or systems.”32 These were fine words, and the priority assigned to the German air force was now incontestable, the essential prerequisite for both OVERLORD and further bombing. But no mechanism yet existed to enforce adherence, particularly on the RAF’s part, to stated objectives.  Tn lian af euch a machanicm a meaacura af cantralizad eantral amarced anly at ather lavale A unifiad eammand wrac craatad far tha ll & Stratacie Air Enreac in Purana nlacad in tha charca nf  Page 159 of 368 37%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON turn Roosevelt continued to apply the screws to the War Department, giving the matter far more attention than the much weightier air effort being mounted against Germany. Finally, in April 1943,  the Flying Tiger himself, along with General Joseph Stilwell, the American commander in China, returned to the states for discussions that sometimes turned ugly. To Stilwell, Chennault’s plans were a pipe dream because the Chinese would never defend the air bases. They “stopped fighting about three years ago,” he advised. As for military operations, “The Generalissimo has no plan. If he had one it wouldn’t be the one he would have tomorrow morning anyway.” He was simply “a very slick political manipulator.” In contrast, Chennault promised a big boost to Chinese morale, attacks on Japanese cities, and a fatal assault on Japanese shipping. Marshall and Arnold were eager enough to bomb Japan, but the logistical and military obstacles against doing so from China were staggering. “It requires a massive effort here to get a pin point out