rdly fail to be decisive.14  This was a disturbing mixture of confidence about success and evasion about how to achieve it. Admittedly, Fairchild finally considered the enemy’s will as the ultimate objective, and distinctions between the will and the capacity to wage war can be arbitrary. Yet it made a great difference, in strategy and in the lives of attackers and defenders, which objective was singled out. For Fairchild, ap- parently, one objective was as good as another. As was often the case in strategic thinking, belief in success encouraged imprecision about how to achieve it.  This conceptual problem was equally evident in imagining what would happen once an objective was attacked. Few airmen speculated about when an enemy’s will would collapse or how a discouraged populace would bring a nation to surrender. Perhaps, it was argued, “the citizens of a democracy will demand that their representatives accept peace even with defeat when their will-to- fight has completely changed to fear.”15 Combining the red scare with the air scare, this said nothing about how dictatorships would respond to war’s horrors. In any event, no one worked out the en- suing chain of events in any detail. Even the references to panic in World War I that peppered writings in the 1920s largely disappeared.  Indeed, numerous flaws in American air doctrine went largely unexamined. The invincibility of the unescorted bomber formation was an article of faith; Flying Fortress was no idle choice of name for the B-17. In theory, bombing by daylight permitted the necessary precision, while the bomber’s speed, thick skin, bristling armament, and high altitude provided the requisite defense. But unexpectedly strong enemy air defenses, in conjunction with foul weather and human error and all the other things that can go wrong in war, would disrupt navigational precision. Only a slight disruption in the air would translate into gross inaccuracies on the ground, especially inasmuch as Air Corps calcu