ery of man’s susceptibility to propaganda and manipulation, to the dark passions that Freud had uncovered. The new technology of mass communications, far from inducing confidence about a government’s ability to control its population, spawned visions of internal collapse, with both propaganda and bombardment eroding the will to resist. Modern economic systems appeared equally brittle. Akin to the “engine and transmission of an automobile” in their “intricacy and delicacy,” a nation’s “industrial resources and communications form its Achilles’ heel.”?  The Achilles’ heel, however, was not so much the home front in general as the war-weary and exploited urban masses. If soldiers fled combat more often than “imaginative soldiers” usually acknowledged, then surely “the workers in shop, factory, or harbor will melt away after the first losses.” In focusing on working-class reaction to bombing, air power arguments fused apprehensions about a delicate social organism with commonplace fears about the economic failings of capitalism. Particularly in England, it was feared that bombing might trigger “Bolshevik upheaval.” “The Red Scare could so easily be tied to the Air Scare,” as one historian has put it.2  The next war, then, would be a test of shattered nerves. In hours, Liddell Hart speculated, London would find “the business localities and Fleet Street wrecked, Whitehall a heap of ruins, the slum districts maddened into the impulse to break loose and maraud, the railways cut, factories destroyed. Would not the general will to resist vanish, and what use would be the still determined fractions of the nation, without organization and central direction?”2 Where Wells envisioned war sustained by stubborn, if unreasoning, patriotism, postwar prophets saw it decided quickly, above all by the disloyalty of an alienated working class.  Geography also made England's plight seem grave. The sea approaches to Britain made incoming bombers hard to detect and English cities easy to lo