gestions, however, are possible, and in keeping with the focus of this book they concern how we think about the problem of aerial warfare rather than specific political or strategic solutions.  One suggestion is for a different attitude toward the search for certainty. A notable example of that search in recent decades has arisen in contemplation of the possibility of “limited” nuclear war. Many commentators have deemed it imperative to rule out that possibility and to brand those who foresee it as all too willing to let it happen; otherwise, they suggest, nuclear war might seem in some measure “acceptable.” Most likely, those commentators are correct, for the technical and political forces compelling escalation of any limited conflict to all-out war are formidable. But the unlikely often happens in war, as the weak record of prophecy about the bomber before World War II indicates. Limited nuclear conflict can be imagined, even if only as a remote possibility, and then the obvious point still be made about it: that even it is a horror which must be prevented. To appreciate the necessity of averting nuclear war does not require imagining only the destruction of the United States, or of Western civilization, or of all civilization, or of all human life, or of the ecosphere itself. We rule none of them out either; we accept them as points on a continuum of uncertainty.  For the most part, we have regarded the uncertainty in aerial warfare as an enemy. It frays nerves, disturbs sleep, vexes policies, and, so it seems, invites miscalculation. If we must face a terrifying future, we prefer the terrors to be known; simply to define them gives some hope of managing them. But we might better regard uncertainty as a friend, trying of course to fathom it but in the end also embracing it. It may be the best hope that the nuclear powers will be deterred from waging war. The very fact that they cannot know what would happen in war may be more daunting than scenarios filled with c