ive shelters and attempts to fight fires, along with general flight from the cities, kept casualties down. Thousands more died, however, and millions were rendered homeless.  LeMay and his crews were immensely satisfied. Losses were neglible and results spectacular, and whereas crew morale had seemed “ominous” before March 9, now cases of “personnel disorders” suddenly dropped almost to nothing, to the point that LeMay’s experts believed the crews could be “ ‘flown to death” without developing “ ‘escape behavior” (the maladies or excuses that took men out of action). But after ten days of blitzing Japan’s greatest cities, LeMay had to pause. Both fliers and ground personnel were exhausted, supplies of incendiary bombs had given out, and orders had come down to support the invasion of Okinawa—like Iwo Jima, an operation whose benefits for the air force and even bloodier consequences gave Arnold and Norstad no choice but to lend a hand. The stra-  tain namnaion had ta en an halad 95  a»  Page 279 of 368 64%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  As evacuation went forward, the gruesome work proceeded of pulling bodies out of buildings and canals, clearing them from the streets, and piling them up for mass burial or incineration. The city staggered back into some of its normal routines. A few of the more deadly results expected from incendiary raids by some Americans did not take place. An outbreak of contagious diseases, for example, was headed off because incinerated areas “were, in effect, sterilized. Rats and mice, lice and fleas, were destroyed along with other animals,” and nothing remained to sustain any new insect or vermin population. Mass exodus also minimized the outbreak of diseases. The raid shattered the medical system, but no immediate medical catastrophe ensued, in part because the wounded were so many fewer than the dead. A crushing burden on the city’s housing supply arose, however, despite exodus: housing in Japan’s cities, dens