tian conscience among the combatants.” But in World War II, “the contesting parties pay little heed to the former decencies and chivalries.” Brittain was trying to establish standards by which the brutalities of bombing could at least be measured, even if not stopped. Her target was conscience as much as deeds.  In that effort she succeeded to some degree, in part by flushing out the mood of vengeance usually shrouded by utilitarian arguments for bombing. The writer MacKinlay Kantor justified “socking the rapacious German nation with every pound of high explosive available” as necessary for punishing aggression and deterring its recurrence, while other responses spoke of bombing as justified repayment for Nazi crimes. Here indeed was evidence that bombing satisfied more than just hopes for victory. (Just before the controversy arose over Brittain’s declaration, a statement on the bombing of Monte Cassino by General Dwight Eisenhower was released warning that the same problem could arise on the battlefield, for “the phrase ‘military necessity’ is sometimes used where it would be more truthful to speak of military convenience or even of personal convenience.”)  Other responses to Brittain published by the Times refused to justify bombing in terms of retribution or revenge. For these writers, as for Brittain, moral justification inhered in military utility and in the saving of Allied casualties bound to result from the imminent invasion of France. They disagreed with Brittain about the utility of bombing but acknowledged that it was not yet proven. More than that, so Anne O’Hare McCormick worried, the Allies preferred a solely military path to German surrender, failing to exploit Germany’s internal weakness through rhetoric as well as through bombs. “Words are still cheaper than lives or planes. But so far neither Mr. Churchill nor Mr. Roosevelt has said anything to counter the German propaganda that the peace will be worse than the war.” If not entirely fair to Roosev