nt of field artillery, or new barracks at an Army post in Wyoming, or new machine tools in an ordnance arsenal, he said sharply, would not scare Hitler one blankety-blank-blank bit! What he wanted was airplanes!  The president’s emphasis on sheer numbers of planes and his irritation at arguments for the supporting apparatus that would make them effective attested to an interest similar to Hitler’s in an air  Favan ved ann annnnvanan vera TA LA manen In nctant than tea winn 10  Page 77 of 368 18%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  chasing many more. Munich accelerated French and British interest, though the obstacles to American assistance were formidable. Roosevelt delegated responsibility to civilians, especially Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau, for steering a difficult course past the shoals of French pride and financial exhaustion, American neutrality legislation, suspicion of entangling alliances among congress- men and editorialists, and the military’s wariness about losing technological secrets and production capacity to foreigners.  More attractive than arming others was the prospect of a commanding American aerial deterrent which would best Hitler at his own game. Pursuing that goal, on October 14 Roosevelt announced his intention to revise American defense plans and seek additional military funds (eventually the figure of $500 million was set). Privately, he began tossing about extravagant figures for an expanded American air force. By November 14, at a key meeting with eleven subordinates, he had settled on the round number of ten thousand planes for the American air force and a capacity to produce another ten thousand each year.?  This was “a bolt from the blue,” something far beyond the airmen’s own plans for expansion that autumn. Arnold recorded that Roosevelt sought “a striking force to back United States foreign policies,” arguing that a ground army “would not be considered in the light of a deterrent by any foreign powe