ound generals, Spaatz and LeMay and Hansell were subject to much tighter control from the Pentagon. Norstad reassured Hansell that he had “the utmost latitude in accomplishing [his] mission,” but latitude extended only to “the dates that you select, the size of force, and the sequence of targets within the priority list.” As Norstad told a different audience, with coy understatement, the bomber commanders were “not told how to do it [their job] although sometimes they have been, I will admit, subject to a little persuasion.” The priority list itself—and with it a host of variables: whether to strike by night or day, at cities or individual factories, with high explosives or incendiaries—came from Washington. And despite Norstad’s disclaimer, even the freedom to choose targets from the list was sometimes abrogated. As Arnold reminded LeMay, “I follow the work of the XX bomber Commander in far greater detail than you probably think.” Arnold’s ambitions for the political future of the air force further put the Twentieth “under extreme pressure to perform.” Individual commanders felt the pressure an- other way, too, for Arnold was not above trying to provoke competition among them.”  Ever since the telegraph was invented, and doubtless long before, field generals have complained of interference from superiors safe in capitals and insensitive to war’s realities. Oversight— watchful, suspicious, domineering—was not new to warfare in 1944. The novelty lay partly in the technology of control. Through radio and teletype and through the rapid courier service and the personal visits made possible by air transport, Washington’s contact with its far-flung Asian bomber commands was even more exacting than it was with the strategic air forces in Europe. The sheer volume of communications—ranging from Arnold’s chatty but pointed personal letters to reams of target information and the trivial detritus of military bureaucracy—was also novel. Hansell had earlier presided over the crea