y.” He did sometimes describe combat, not to give Americans a feel for it, but to evoke the familiar—how many gallons of fuel they had to produce for an aerial mission, for example. Roosevelt captured one reality of this war in which production capabilities loomed so decisively. But, conforming to a culture disinclined to look at war’s hardships and conscious of its economic prowess, as well as to official fears of shocking Americans, he kept the other reality of combat and destruction at a distance.?  Beyond emphasizing the production effort, Roosevelt said little to establish or excite expectations of the role strategic air power would play in securing victory. His few references to the air war were usually brief, anecdotal, or misleading. His April 1942 promise that “soon American Flying Fortresses will be fighting for the liberation of the darkened continent of Europe” hardly characterized the slow progress in organizing the Eighth Air Force. Reporting to Congress in September 1943 on bombing Hitler’s fortress without a “roof,” Roosevelt distinguished between German bombing of Britain undertaken “for the sheer sadistic pleasure of killing” and Allied aerial attacks on “carefully selected, clearly identified strategic objectives.” In the few instances when reporters questioned him about bombing, he was unwilling to acknowledge or discuss the savagery of the air assault on Europe. Significantly those instances arose when places of religious or political value were threatened, such as the Vatican, the abbey at Monte Cassino, and the Swedish legation in Berlin. The fate of civilians commanded no attention comparable to that given famous buildings.1°  Roosevelt did hint at a distinction between American bombing of Germany and Japan by suggesting that only in Germany did the bombers aim at specific economic objectives. In January 1943, he promised vaguely to “bomb them [the Japanese] constantly from the air,” while the targets for Germany were more precisely described