the war” as well as alarm them at the prospect of quick Russian entry into the Asian war. These possibilities, along with some shrewd analysis from army intelligence about the Suzuki cabinet, flowed into Norstad’s office. Even before the staff studies were completed, Norstad wrote LeMay anticipating “Japan’s hour of decision,” and on April 10 he alerted LeMay to the time “very soon when it will be desirable to change the Japanese cabinet by another blitz period,” probably when Germany capitulated. Weather ex- perts added their own reasons for a quick resumption of the urban blitz: “Favorable fire weather conditions have almost never occurred from June to October at Tokyo.”132  In all, LeMay’s March triumphs excited expectations for a knockout blow, delivered by bombers before invading troops need storm ashore. LeMay responded accordingly, relaying to Norstad his “conviction that the present state of development of the air war presents the AAF for the first time with the opportunity of proving the power of the strategic air arm.” And yet LeMay’s wording betrayed the sharp limitations on his vision. For one thing, the AAF’s opportunity for “proving” itself seemed more important than a conception for achieving victory. In turn, he really had no such conception beyond trying to apply “maximum pressure on the Japanese Empire by increasing the sortie rate and bomb load,” as he put it to Arnold on April 5. After the war, he described his firebombing as having “whipped the populace into a state where they could—and would—accept the idea of surrender.” At the time, LeMay and his staff developed no clear rationale even for that strategy. Youth, inexperience, and his place in the chain of command perhaps discouraged LeMay from connecting his operations to the final goal of victory. And yet Eaker and Spaatz, though senior in age and experience, held comparable commands in Europe and on occasion spoke out forcefully on larger strategic and political issues. The difference lay pa