rough a series of escalations undertaken by both sides. As early as July 8, Churchill had called for “an absolutely devastating, exterminating attack” on Germany, and he sanctioned the first raid against Berlin on August 25. By then, German planning to bomb English cities had already begun; night attacks, initiated on September 7, continued until tapering off in 1941, when the Luftwaffe turned against British shipping and prepared to move east. Neither side had a well-conceived rationale for bombing the other’s cities. Hitler’s intentions were particularly murky, unless he thought that terror alone was to suffice, which it was not. The British at least had a strategic doctrine and now also the sense of “a supreme emergency” justifying the bombing of Germany’s cities; but the argument that such bombing was an unavoidable necessity overlooked what the bombers could have done in North African operations and in the critical Battle of the Atlantic. Like the Luftwaffe, the RAF was soon forced to bomb at night, although for a while longer the language of precision bombing provided a figleaf for attacks on the Nazis’ cities and morale. Cities were the only target RAF night bombers could hit, and satisfying ones for a beleaguered power seeking revenge and straining to impress Americans and Russians with their ability to inflict it. Whatever the intentions on either side, the result for both was aimless, even counterproductive bombing campaigns. As one historian has commented, “If the object had been to stimulate the German war economy and to encourage the Germans to fight, no better technique than the clumsy [British] air offensive of 1940-1943 could have been devised.” Much the same might be said of the German blitz of Britain.*¢  Covering the blitz, America’s radio journalists possessed a supreme opportunity for enlightening Americans about air war on cities. Radio had seized first place in the homes of Americans as the medium for reporting events abroad and for heightenin