rs thought they had the chance to implement that vision—not immediately in Europe but in the Far East. Their efforts to do so marked the decisive transition from fantasy to attempted action.  The occasion arose when American grand strategy began conferring a new importance on the Far East. The tightening connection, real and imagined, between the Far Eastern and European crises was bringing Tokyo and Washington closer to conflict. For Tokyo, the defeat of the European colonial powers in their war with Hitler afforded Japan the chance to move south into French Indochina and toward the mineral-rich Dutch East Indies in an effort to salvage Japan’s fortunes in its war with China and slip the noose of American economic sanctions. For Washington, Japanese expansion imperiled the lifeline of its European allies to their colonies and their capacity to sustain the war against Hitler. By September 1940 in particular, when the Japanese completed the Tripartite Pact with Berlin and Rome, the two crises seemed to have merged into one. Acceptance of further Japanese expansion ran the twin risks of further weakening the Allies and compromising the admin- istration’s leadership in the fight against fascism. “The people of the United States... reject the doctrine of appeasement,” Roosevelt commented in October 1940.4  Yet the same global perspective that raised the Far Eastern crisis to new urgency also condemned it to second place in Washington’s priorities. Operating on the Europe-first strategy, Washington tried to arrest Japanese expansion on the cheap, husbanding its resources for rearmament at home and aid to allies across the Atlantic. It was a perilous course to take. Minimal measures to deter Japanese expansion ran the risk, given the overall weakness of the American posture, of seeming only to be provocations or empty bluffs, as military leaders often feared. “The delicate line between what would deter and what would provoke.” Roberta Wohlstetter has written, “was evident