ing away from the rapidly disappearing problems of the bomb’s technical development to ponder its place in long-run strategy for handling the Soviet Union. Much the same could be said of scientific advisors like Bush and Conant and of working scientists, who, when not still immersed in just trying “to get the job done,” ignored the bomb’s use and wondered: “What should be done to make sure the possibilities of atomic weapons in the hand of a future Na- poleon or Hitler would not bring world disaster?”44  Ina way, it was odd that Stimson in particular overlooked the surrender issue. Self-appointed expert on Japan, he might have been expected to take the lead. But when he had a “long talk with Marshall on the coming campaign against Japan” on February 27, he acknowledged that “it is a new problem for me.” One difficulty for Stimson, as for many tired leaders late in the war, was a calendar cluttered with more immediate issues. But if a fatigued nearsightedness had been the only problem, Stimson would not have looked so closely at issues of postwar policy. More likely, he saw nothing problematical about securing Japan’s surrender and using the bomb to get it. A half century in public life had taught that “power when available but renounced as an instrument of policy—out of fear or guilt or presumptions of kindness—had, in his time, produced meaningless confusions and then the perilous circumstance.”45  Page 266 of 368 61%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  PatlUtiig UpCLauOlis ditu Ue CCUMULIUE ULs1OCaLiULt Lc y WUULU Cause.  With the air force attending to operations and the Joint Chiefs’ deliberations dwindling, it fell to others to peer into the future of Japan’s surrender. At Yalta Churchill had opened a new path by suggesting “mitigation” of the unconditional surrender formula and an ultimatum to call on the Japanese to surrender. Marshall and other military leaders were sympathetic to modification of the formula, particularly on the ques