ll the more inclined to grab for a cheap victory by resorting to terror. Opinions differed about whether the resort to ter- ror would work and whether it reflected fascist stupidity or cunning, desperation or design. Agreement was widespread, however, that bombing cities had a special place in the hearts of fascists.  Debate on air war had taken on a political complexion that was largely missing in the 1920s, when its eventual employment was regarded as possible by all nations, regardless of their political forms or ideology. In one more way, the danger of air war had become both magnified and circumscribed—magnified in that the Axis powers now loomed as a force lacking scruples in the resort to air war, but circumscribed insofar as its use by other nations, its role as a universal weapon of war, had faded from debate. The widespread opinion in the late thirties that the Western democracies lagged far behind Germany and Italy in the development of strategic air power strengthened this perspective. So, too, did the resounding denunciations of bombing in China and Spain made by the press and by the governments of the democracies and the general emphasis on the defensive nature of British and American preparations for air war. Bombing cities was something that only fascist govern- ments, foolishly or not, attempted.  The rise of the fascist powers and their air raids on cities were very convenient for the Western democracies. The opposing images of the two camps that were fashioned almost inverted reality. The Germans never made a concerted effort to wage strategic air war, although occasionally they shifted tactical aircraft to strategic missions when opportunity, miscalculation, or fits of desperation  Page 67 of 368 16%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON When Franco’s rebels bombed Madrid, “Vid the Maadrilenos sue for peace No, they shook futile Mists at the murderers 1n the sky and muttered, Swine.” His conclusion: “lerrorism trom the air h