swamped with demands for expansion, it was forced after 1940 to recruit heavily from the ranks of civilian talent and to turn to private industry for help. This was the case, for example, in organizing a worldwide military air transport system, whose development the airline industry assisted, seeing peacetime advantages in doing so.  Even in rarefied areas of strategy much the same thing happened. Lacking its own intelligence staff, the prewar Air Corps had never examined in depth what target systems of any enemy would be the most vulnerable to destruction. For that reason, in December 1942 Arnold authorized a Committee of Operations Analysts, its members mostly civilians, to supplement the air staff’s efforts in that regard. A MacArthur or an Eisenhower rarely had to enlist civilian help to decide which island to take or what part of France to invade—for those decisions ample precedent and talent existed within military circles. As in the army and navy, civilians sometimes aroused the resentment of the air officer: even Arnold’s references to the “long-haired boys” assisting the air force mixed affection with the layman’s bewilderment about the scientists’ curious ways.28 Yet cultural distance and rivalry for influence never seriously impeded the deepening of the military-civilian alliance.  The air officers’ relative lack of isolation from civilian society also arose from their professional and class background. At the top ranks, airmen had followed largely the same professional paths as had ground army officers, but they were somewhat younger and less often the product of the service academies, a substantial number having been educated at prestigious technical institutions.22 Some divergence between air officers and others was also sustained down through the ranks. Air forces demanded a higher proportion of technically trained personnel and had much higher ratios of officers to men. The American air force thus recruited from a higher level of class and educationa