campaign that might backfire against the air force by revealing its ambitions too baldly and by promising more than the air force could deliver. Lovett wanted “a conservative and constructive educational campaign.” He shifted emphasis in public relations from extravagant pronouncements by airmen to the careful shaping of media reporting.  The shift in tactics did not preclude muscular methods, but they were now employed behind the scenes. Angered by Newsweek’s treatment of the Eighth Air Force in 1943, Lovett turned to Averell Harriman, whose brother was Lovett’s partner at Brown Brothers and a director of Newsweek. Harriman’s response was encouraging. “I have not supported Newsweek for 10 years through its grave difficulties to allow our hired men to use the magazine to express their narrow, uninformed or insidious ideas.” If persuasion would not change the magazine's tune, Harriman gave his brother “my full authority to use any strong arm measures,” including forcing out Newsweek's other directors. Lovett also exploited other contacts with eastern financial and publishing elites to bend coverage of the war to favor the AAF. By granting privileged access to newsworthy war stories, Lovett could get trusted reporters to cover the air force. Moreover, privilege was a two-way street—it was helpful that a former Newsweek editor, Rex Smith, became public relations officer for the Washington headquarters of the Twentieth Air Force.12  The air force was not alone in these practices. The rivalry among the services for headlines was fierce, inasmuch as the stakes were high. But the air force’s effort was more intense, for while admirals and ground generals sought only to preserve existing institutional relationships, the air force tried to change them by winning independence from the other services. Whereas Marshall devoted little time to the conduct of public relations, they were a major preoccupation for Arnold by 1944, made more critical by the air force’s declining chanc