which industries, military installations, and geographical areas should be bombed to prepare for invasion, what conditions within Honshu the ground soldiers should expect after the bombing campaign was concluded, and how those conditions would affect requirements for the invading force. But invasion was primarily a responsibility for the army and navy, and a year or more in the offing. The pressing problem was to accelerate the bombing campaign and coordinate it, when necessary, with the preliminary campaigns pending against the Philippines in the fall and against Iwo Jima, Okinawa, and eventually Kyushu in 1945. To the extent that the contribution of bombing to the final invasion was measured, it was primarily in terms of general destruction to Japanese industrial production and morale.  On September 27, Norstad, as the Twentieth Air Force’s new chief of staff, offered a view of the strategic task ahead in the Far East: “Whether or not air bombardment alone can defeat a power like Japan is of no concern of ours. Whether or not we can destroy their morale is of no great concern. Our primary interest is the destruction of their means of fighting by destroying those economic and industrial establishments upon which her military strength depends.”=! Inasmuch as airmen remained intent on proving the bomber as a war-winning weapon, Norstad’s statement was disingenuous. More important, resolution of the issues he dismissed might vitally affect the course of bombing chosen. As long as the bombers’ objective remained only the “Japanese ability to wage war,” then it enjoyed only a loose connection to a conception of victory.  ’To oversimplify our basic operating policy,” Arnold wrote Hansell in December, “it is our purpose to destroy our targets.” As a statement of long-range strategy, this oversimplification was not far off the mark. Nor was it clarified in Arnold’s memoirs, where he characterized the “two main jobs ahead of us” at the close of 1944: “To complete the bombin