th sufficiently majestic force: “Single bombs from flying machines are wrong; they are odious when they hit and kill an old woman. .. . [But] if one could set fire to London in thirty places, then what in a small way is odious would retire before something fine and powerful. All that flies and creeps should be concentrated on that city.”34 Tirpitz’s twisted logic was not entirely irrelevant to the moral issue at hand. He, like other people in the war, did feel forced to make moral calculations about the relationship between ends and means. What limited their debate was partly the carelessness of those calculations.  The principal element in the moral case for strategic bombing was that it would rescue humanity from the horrors of stalemated, industrialized war, making conflict either so mercifully decisive or so mercilessly horrible that it could not continue. Bombing could not do this, however. Instead of breaking from the attitudes and conditions which led to slaughter on the battlefield, air war expressed and in some ways aggravated them. Never the cheap weapon some thought it to be, air power consumed the same enormous technological and economic resources that sustained the ground war: by November 1918, the British and French had produced one hundred thousand aircraft and were employing over a half-million people in their production. On the front, it intensified the destructiveness of firepower, as aerial observation guided artillery fire with unprecedented accuracy. At the same time, given a war in which the British could use 321 trainloads of shells in one seventeen-day barrage at Passchendaele—a year’s production of fifty-five thousand war workers—tactical aircraft could make no decisive addition to firepower, especially as soldiers burrowed further underground. Only when German forces began faltering anyway could air power give the Allied armies a significant advantage in battle.  Warplanes, used in part in response to the futility of the offensive 4 outranc