planning. On July 9, he sent the war and navy secretaries his request for an estimate of “overall production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies.”®! Logistical needs were Roosevelt’s primary concerns, but they could not be determined without making strategic assumptions, as FDR knew. For the AAF, Roosevelt’s request was the opportunity to expound its vision of air war. Rather than pool its planning effort with that of the Army general staff, Arnold pressed hard for permission for his new Air War Plans Division (AWPD-1) to do its own planning. The general staff, perhaps itself overwhelmed by the magnitude of FDR's request, granted permission, acceding surprising autonomy to the AAF. Heavily staffed with bomber advocates like Haywood Hansell and Kuter from the tactical school, the AWPD wrote into basic war plans the long-standing faith in precision bombing.  AWPD/1, as the result was called, concentrated on Germany’s defeat. The air planners believed that bombing alone might achieve that objective but hedged their bets because they still needed to make their plans acceptable to the general staff. Bombing would proceed with complementary objectives: to defeat Germany alone if possible, to prepare for invasion if not. Since the air force could go into action before an invasion force could be trained, a choice between those objectives seemed unnecessary for the moment anyway. A preliminary effort to subdue the German air force would be necessary, but the ultimate priority for bombing was the German economy, “presumably drawn taut,” as Hansell later put it, by the massive demands of war. Scheduled to begin twenty-one months after American entry into the war, the main assault by an American force of four thousand bombers would “in six months bring much of her [Germany’s] vital industry to ruin.” The principal targets would be Germany’s electric power system, its transportation network, and its petroleum industry.®  Far more sophisticated than the speculat