sense he loved it, and all the world loved him for that affection. I have not heard him called a robot.”47  For Chase, the airplane was a sign of the harmony of man and machine, one countering contemporary fears that mass production made modern culture vulgar and monotonous. As of 1929, he explained, airplane-building still employed skilled craftsmen fashioning “not disembodied standard parts ..., but a living unity, with a character of its own.” He admitted that soon aircraft assembly lines would “spew out their millions of interchangeable parts,” a possibility suggested by Henry Ford’s widely publicized interest in aircraft manufacturing. “We may weep for the spirit of craftsman- ship here crucified,” Chase conceded, but the “standardized airplane” would allow the masses to fly, and it “need send no hostages to loveliness. Her design and her medium call for the micrometer and the superlative finish of the grinding tool. These can if they choose deliver a more just and lovely thing than craftsmanship could ever achieve,” Henry Ford’s visionary advertisements depicting sleek  eee Me Va I et 2 ee te ee at Wet at 2 ot a tat ee att et at a te tte a a ee  Page 39 of 368 10%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  Preoccupation with breaking records and with the crashes that so often accompanied new ventures dominated the attention paid to aviation. In their speeches and writings, aviators were often on the defensive, pleading that the spectacular crashes described in newspapers and depicted in newsreels not blind Americans to realizing the practicality of commercial aviation. In truth, the disasters were as essential a part of aviation’s image as the records set and inventions tested. They contributed to a sense of individual daring, of the machine’s frailty, and of man’s resourcefulness that made aviation a benign attraction, a fusion of frontier spirit and machine-age discipline. Few wanted to hear Lindbergh say that his famous flight involved sli