dell Hart found expression only on the fringes of American debate.  The arguments of skeptics about air power did not penetrate far either. One presidential board appointed to investigate the aviation controversy, challenging the air prophets, contended that World War I “taught us again that man can not make a machine stronger than the spirit of man.” The board condemned “the belief that new and deadlier weapons will shorten future wars” as likely to “lead to a readier acceptance of war as the solution of international difficulties.” As so often with skeptics, however, in dismissing the promise of air power they also came near to dismissing its danger: “The next war may well start in the air but in all probability will wind up, as the last war did, in the mud.” The skeptics’ dismissal of air war on cities, like Mitchell’s vision of sturdy self-sufficiency, gave Americans the luxury of developing the bomber in the reassuring context of continental defense.12  PROPHECY AND POLITICS  The controversy over Mitchell’s ideas merged seamlessly into a more immediate political debate, in the United States and among all the major powers, over disarmament and military budgets. Naval armaments bore the burden of that debate. But despite its slow progress, military aviation also played an inescapable role. Given the war’s legacy and the ideas expounded by prophets of air power, few leaders could escape the bomber’s darkening shadow, much less broader pressures from exhausted populaces to limit the burden of armaments. In England, the nation most vulnerable to air attack, expansion of the RAF was held back lest it undermine international efforts at arms control. But even in the United States, lingering hope for international cooperation, widespread desire to limit gov- ernment spending, and fear of the political gains opponents might score on the disarmament issue forced a return to the conference table.  From Versailles to the eve of World War II, various leaders strove for limit