y as to deserve annihilation. Two considerations crucial for justifying war on Japanese cities were not yet in view. First, while the Japanese were still on the offensive, the seemingly suicidal nature of their resistance hardly appeared; even into 1943 they sometimes retreated rather than fight to the death. Furthermore, evidence of Japanese mistreatment of prisoners of war accumulated slowly and was even more slowly released to the American public. The passions and hatreds of war mounted gradually in response to months of sustained defeat and frustration and to the manner in which dominant institutions interpreted these phenomena.  Popular expectations for the strategic course of the war remained similarly diffuse. Many Americans, moved by anglophobia or by panic over events in the Far East, challenged the administra- tion’s Europe-first priority and later its quest for unconditional surrender. Others suspected that the American stake in the Far East was imperial rather than moral or strategic. To some observers, the popular mood seemed variously listless and quixotic, given over first to “a kind of puzzled boredom about the war in general.” then to spurts of excessive optimism at the first signs of success. “Daily one hears talk of the war being over in six months,” commented a British observer after November's landings in North Africa. Months later, he complained about American politicians who “have poured oil on these flames... . of national anger and humiliation,” making “the Pacific front permanently a more burning issue than [the] European front is ever likely to be.” December 1941, then, brought prac- tical unanimity on the necessity of victory but not on the purposes for and means of achieving it, not on the degree of it to be sought, not on the magnitude of destruction necessary to achieve it.  Beneath the widespread acceptance of the necessity of war and victory was a poor grasp of the war’s costs and purposes. John Blum has reminded us that “only the Un