ident in their day bombers, the American air planners did not address this danger or the possibility that even successful precision strikes might fail to paralyze the German economy. True, they did not rule out “heavy and sustained bombing of cities” as a kind of coup de grace climaxing the success of economic attacks or decisive German setback in ground fighting. But throughout the 1930s their strategic arguments had rested on the moral assumption that precision bombing would bring swift, economical, and humane victory. The justification for strategic bombing was the alternative it offered to the carnage of ground warfare. In 1941 the air strategists saw no reason to challenge that as- sumption. Brushing aside the English and German experiences in 1940 and 1941, they felt no need to review the moral issue.®3  Their pressing concerns were neither strategic nor moral but political and economic. Their attention flowed to threading AWPD/1 through the channels of the conservative general staff and to mobilizing industry for the war. To the air planners’ relief, Marshall gave AWPD/1 his approval, steered it around the Joint Board, and sent it on to a sympathetic Stimson. The general staff still believed that destruction of the enemy’s ground armies was the only sure path to victory. But doubts about the survival of Britain and Russia ran large in the War Department, making a land invasion of the Continent seem remote at best: hence even conservative officers acknowledged the imperative of first weakening Germany by bombing. Strategy, then, along with Roosevelt’s wishes about how to fight the war, made the War Department amenable to a vision of air war that would have seemed repugnant and fanciful a few years earlier.  “THE PAPER CITIES OF JAPAN”  In 1941, American policymakers thought they had the chance to implement that vision—not immediately in Europe but in the Far East. Their efforts to do so marked the decisive transition from fantasy to attempted action.  The occa