ng to entertain the basing of British Lancaster bombers in the Philippines or Okinawa. A more promising British contribution to the air war— the transfer of its famous Mosquito aircraft, for which Americans had no equal—was not pursued by the Americans. In the end, the British aerial contribution was still in the pipeline at war’s end, the victim of American delays, the prolonged war in Europe, and the unexpectedly early termination of the Asian war. It cannot be said that Americans pursued their contribution zealously.33  They eyed much more eagerly the contribution that might be made by a much less willing partner, the Russians. In that regard, too, however, progress was hampered by developments in the European war, in this case a failed experiment there in Soviet-American military cooperation. In the summer of 1944, the American Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces inaugurated shuttle bombing operations using bases in Russian-held territory. Nominally strategic in design, these operations really had political purposes: to establish a precedent for American use of Siberian bases against Japan, to demonstrate American commitment to the Grand Alliance and to Germany’s defeat, and perhaps to impress the Soviets with the power of America’s strategic bombers. In the end, none of these purposes was fulfilled. Strategically, operations were insignificant and costly. Politically, the arrangement dissolved into bitterness over Soviet rejection of American requests to fly missions in support of Warsaw’s uprising against the Nazis. Planned as cement for the Grand Alliance, shuttle bombing turned into quicksand.  Efforts to secure cooperation against Japan did not cease. For one thing, more was at stake than just air bases. Russian entry might pin down Japanese armies otherwise free to defend the homeland or save Americans the messy task of securing Japanese surrender on the continent. A seemingly minor matter—Soviet weather reports—also became vital in light of the obstacles faci