ded, not fresh and girded for protracted war. In truth, though he needed a moral argument to still his conscience, he probably rebelled against the demand to have to make it. For a soldier “to worry about the morality of what we were doing—Nuts. A soldier has to fight. We fought. If we accomplished the job in any given battle without exterminating too many of our own folks, we considered that we’d had a pretty good day.”1!° One moral argument was compelling to LeMay: his overriding duty to limit the losses of the men in his unit. On that score, his firebombing tactics succeeded brilliantly, as American losses declined sharply after March 9. Having met that test, he cut off further argument.  At tha cama tima afRinrare lileaT aMar Aid nat urant ta admit haus heital thaiv mathad af ume had harama Of nauv)en thara ure nn annfircian amana AAT afBnare ahaut urhat thar had dana “Tha  Page 284 of 368 65%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  was less visible, although American economists and intelligence experts had considerable insight into how war was changing industrial production in the major powers; even in the winter, air force experts had commented on the dispersal of Japanese industry out of the cities, begun in response to precision attacks and reducing the value of urban cottage industries. Attacks on the German petroleum industry and other German economic objectives were already discrediting the value of incendiary attacks on cities there. And Hansell, among others, had already mounted a considerable case for the efficacy of precision attacks.  The answer, then, is that a good deal of knowledge was available and more could have been assembled. To be sure, some of it was only arriving in the spring of 1945, but as events that summer showed, it was often resisted by airmen asked to confront it. Much of it suggested the navy’s critical role in shutting down Japanese industry, a role airmen were reluctant to acknowledge. None of it directly ad