ined. Yet Allied victory did not rest only on some triumph of abundance over the failures of command but on the relatively ordered manner in which rivalrous commands cooperated. “To the airmen and soldiers, more meant better,” Zuckerman wrote in condemning the pointless destructiveness of much bombing. Yet his own account of the bitter debate over bombing railway targets in France indicated that he had not given the issue of civilian casualties “much, if any, thought when the plan was first conceived. By that stage of the war, I had become inured to the idea of casualties, whether our own or the enemy’s.” His consuming concern had been economy of operations and acknowledgment of the scientist’s gift in achieving it —worthy goals perhaps but ones whose moral dimensions did not clearly separate Zuckerman from his opponents. As another British boffin put it regarding a different argument on bombing, “It was on the grounds of probable effectiveness and not of morality”—between which he apparently saw no connection—“that the battle was fought.”5!  When Galbraith wrote his memoirs, he recalled how he had described the bombing of Japan at the end of the war as “ ‘this appalling business.’ which was how anyone of any sensitivity would have felt.” Galbraith’s dismay would have been more convincing had he introduced evidence that he felt it while the war was still going on. Galbraith’s retrospective critique of bombing’s role in winning the war was unfair. “But no more than in Germany was it bombing that won the war. Japan’s defeat began with the luminous insanity of its own military leadership,” he observed, and “the war was won... by the greater weight of industrial power and of manpower and immediately by troops and ships and aircraft in direct and dangerous combat.” But enemy incompetence and Allied superiority did not alone decide the war—if they had, there would have been no need actually to fight it; they opened opportunities for victory, but only when transformed by s