pathetic to modification of the formula, particularly on the question of the emperor’s fate, but met resistance from State’s representatives and apparently had no sanction from Roosevelt to pursue Churchill’s idea. Progress in thrash- ing out a formula would not resume until April.42  Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson entered the scene in February, and his meetings with State’s Grew (acting secretary for Stettinius) and the navy’s James Forrestal provided another stage on which the scene could be acted out. Yet through February and March they dwelt on issues at the fringes of surrender policy—Philippine independence, the economic rehabilitation of Japan after the war, the fate of Japan’s mandated islands—but not surrender itself. On February 20, the newly re-turned Admiral William “Bull” Halsey warned Stimson against any relaxation of peace terms because too many Japanese were “unregenerate and there was no hope of educating them to a decent life.” But neither the talk with Halsey nor other deliberations that month prodded Stimson into immedi- ate action.43  Stimson was also critically located to connect atomic policy with conventional military strategy and the concern about surrender. No one else of his stature had given the bomb as much thought. But, as earlier, when leaders lifted their eyes from immediate technical and policy concerns, they looked past the intermediate issue of surrender and gazed into the murkier reaches of postwar policy. Indeed, as his biographer has said, “On the question of whether this power should or should not be applied within the particular context of the war the Secretary said no single word.” Just as Arnold’s vision oscillated between the daily task of operations and the lure of greatness for the air force after the war, Stimson was pulling away from the rapidly disappearing problems of the bomb’s technical development to ponder its place in long-run strategy for handling the Soviet Union. Much the same could be said of scientific ad