iroshima’s victims. “Now it is peopled by [a] ghost parade,” Groves quoted from the broadcast, “ ‘the living doomed to die of radioactivity burns.” Since these reports were being picked up by the American media, Groves was angry and incredulous. He thought he had solved the problem of radioactivity by avoiding a ground burst of the bombs, so he blamed “a good dose of propaganda” on the “idiotic performance” of American scientists and the media's exploitation of sensational news. Rea offered reassurance: “The thing is these people got good and burned—good thermal burns.” As at Tokyo, many indeed had such burns, but many also suffered from radiation burns and sickness. Neither Rea nor Groves could believe it. Rea thought “there’s something hookum” about Japanese claims of grossly abnormal blood counts and told Groves “you had better get the anti-propagandists out.” Groves also worried about stories on radiation sickness suggesting that the bomb’s managers knew or should have known what would happen when the bomb was used. “Is there any difference between Japanese blood and others?” Groves asked in searching for an explanation for altered blood counts. “It seems to be pretty standard,” Rea replied unhelpfully. So instrumental in building the atomic bomb, Groves was still trying hard to regard it as just a bigger version of conventional weapons.124  The point man on these troublesome matters, Groves could not entirely ignore them. Others responsible for the bomb, however, often sustained the reticence that had characterized their response both to firebombing and to the Trinity test. They appreciated the use of the bomb as a political and psychological event. But as physical phenomena, Hiroshima and Nagasaki elicited little comment from them. In their memoirs, James Conant and even more so Vannevar Bush hurried past this aspect of atomic bombs and indeed the entire story of their development. The official history of the bomb project suggests that their memoirs faithfully