warning (signed by Fermi among others) that an international arms race in atomic weapons could spell national suicide for the United States, provoking a sudden attack that “might literally wipe out even the largest nation.”>5  The scientists pondered the nature of uranium and plutonium spheres at the instant before fission: “By their calculations, no living creature could ever see such a sphere. It would destroy itself before the eye could deliver an image to the brain.” But before brought to a critical mass, the sphere could be handled, and “the thing was warm,” seemingly moving and pulsating with life, creating a “thrill of realization and dread,” as ifthe men held in their own hands the secret of nature and of power over it. Working on the bomb instilled a sense of ultimate potency, a triumph of man over nature. “Nuclear explosives have a glitter more seductive than gold to those who play with them,” Dyson has commented. “To command nature to release in a pint pot the energy that fuels the stars, to lift by pure thought a million tons of rock into the sky, these are exercises of the human will that produce an illusion of illimitable power.”=©  Dominated by men, Western science has aspired to unlock the secrets of the natural world. Often its practitioners have also sought immortality through escape from that world, a world so often associated with women and femininity. By their colloquial language, the men at Los Alamos hinted at such aspirations. They asked themselves before the Trinity test “the question whether the first complete atom bomb would be a ‘dud’ or a success, or as they said at Los Alamos, a ‘girl’ or a ‘boy’.”®2 Femininity was weakness, masculinity was the power to transcend nature and its mortal reality. If these men entertained a male fantasy of ultimate potency, it was perhaps not coincidence that they gave their bombs masculine names (Fat Man, Little Boy).  Aspirations for ultimate power seem to have been especially intense among three Hungaria