, THERE ARE NO CIVILIANS IN JAPAN.” The goal was to do anything “which saves American lives, shortens the agony which War is and seeks to bring about an enduring Peace.”3!  The strafing of passenger trains became a favored action. It may have aroused Japanese indignation even more than the fire raids. There was, after all, some appreciation that B-29s hit general areas because they could not easily target anything else. But there was something gratuitous about the way fighter pilots, flying at low levels and able to discern their targets, singled out civilians for attack. “The Japanese,” noted an American visitor in October 1945, “classed such attacks as atrocities, because the passenger trains were not thought to be military targets.” Those attacks suggest that even if implemented, Hansell’s favored transportation strategy would have been only marginally more discriminate in its treatment of civilians: with the impulse to kill so widely shared, the nature of target selection made only limited difference. So too did the tactical potentialities of the various forces involved. Even though B-29s were clearly best equipped for incendiary raids, other bombers sometimes resorted to the same tactics against Kyushu. “It seemed,” commented the official history, that the tactical forces “were prepared to obliterate whatever the B-29’s may have left of Japan’s urban centers.”32  Summer plans for future bombing campaigns, those not carried out because of the war’s sudden end, measured the widening circles of the destructive impulse. When the last cities were finished off, targets would still have to be found, and it was doubtful that transportation alone could absorb all the capacity. Operations analysts proposed moving on to “all urban areas with a population greater than 30,000 peoples,” some 180 towns in all. They could be wiped out by November, when, it was said, “the back of Japan thus will have been completely broken,” as if it was not already and as if planners had no id