ry mind parochial and self-serving, its methods brutal and wasteful. Yet they recount with such pleasure the various struggles they waged that their claimed distaste for wartime service seems disingenuous. They enjoyed violating military protocol just as the airmen did with the older services; both groups came across a bit like small boys enjoying pranks against their elders. Berating airmen for the wastefulness of their bombing methods and their blindness to the civilians’ rational findings, these experts presented themselves, as Ball did in commenting on arguments over targeting in 1944, as “interested only in making as objective an assessment as possible.”48 Yet the tone and substance of their arguments suggested they desired something more: rec- ognition of their status and the superiority of their minds in the making of war.  “Command turned simple men into prima donnas,” Zuckerman complained of his military superiors, but he did not recognize that war might do much the same to men like himself. Zuckerman’s own parochialism mirrored what he attacked in others. “Operational problems, I discovered [after the war], savoured more of the characteristics of biological enquiry than of those encountered by chemists or physicists.” Apparently not only were most officers unfit for the task of analyzing operations, but many scientists as well. In arguing for his plan of attack against the German railway network, Zuckerman “constantly resorted to biological analogies,” as he recalled—without a hint that such analogies might color his argument. The scientists’ pretense to objectivity, so abrasive to military men though they did not know how to challenge it, disguised both professional ambitions and intellectual predispositions.42  In truth, scientists like Zuckerman and Dyson were naive and confused about what science had to offer to war-makers. Much of Zuckerman’s memoirs presumes that there were “right” conclusions to be drawn by objective analysis from intelligence data,