d to demean the responsibility shouldered by those who possessed it.  The fantasy that had ebbed and flowed for decades—that of a new weapon that transcended and thereby ended war—had been realized. Yet Hiroshima and Nagasaki mocked the fantasy that they seemed to fulfill. For the atomic bomb, like bombing in its other forms, had triumphed not as a weapon of shock that obviated a protracted struggle, but only as a climax to it. Only by forestalling invasion did the bomb lay a limited and highly debatable claim to meeting the test of fantasy. Worse, the very power of the bomb that secured momentary fulfillment of fantasy prevented its realization again. The moment of fulfillment was a fluke made possible only by the extraordinary circumstance under which only one nation possessed the new weapon, and its enemy already lay in ashes. The fantasy momentarily unleashed seemed immediately to rebound. Any attempt to realize it again imperiled those who held it as well as those others whom the bomb was to instruct. Some hoped that air power in its new form would realize its old promise by deterring war altogether. There was no easy or safe way to validate that notion. In an earlier age, it had been possible to test fantasy, even if little enlightenment had been drawn from London in 1917, Barcelona in 1938, and Berlin in 1943. In the new age, it seemed likely there would be no rehearsal for Armageddon.  Page 353 of 368 80%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON  we Oe ee ae aay J Cee Cee ak RE Cee ee CURR US Ye R ee RARE TERRE EE Cake Sa REAR Oa CARS A Rey Oe ee OC ae ne rr ene Uae CO aeee  Finally, the clever wording was devised that made the emperor “subject to the authority” of the American occupational commander, a formula saving face on several scores by acknowledging the em- peror’s place without offending Americans at home and by writing the Russians out of a role in occupation.142  Diplomacy still ended the war. In its first use, the unconditional