owardly, he would “pack up the so-and-so and send him home.”4 Operational challenges preoccupied LeMay, and for him joy lay in command itself—less for the power it bestowed or the victory it promised than for the cre- ative skill it demanded.  LeMay had little time or interest to explore the strategy or politics of air power. Before the war his rank had been too junior to place him in the service schools and the planning offices where these matters arose. The strategic issues raised by the failure of Germany’s blitz against England, the RAF’s shift to nighttime attacks against Germany, and the relationship between ground invasion and strategic bombing—these were beyond his province as middle-level operational commander, and he was too busy anyway to worry about them. “The only thing I was thinking about was living for the next twenty-four hours and... trying to keep my outfit alive and the airplanes flying. ... We weren't thinking about strategy at the time. ... We had to have an air force before we could do anything.”> In war, commanders in the field and planners in Washington both suffocated under the sheer volume of operational detail, until strategic questions often became merely further matters to be slotted to the appropriate compartments of bureaucracy. LeMay’s job was to fashion the machinery of war, not to worry about its purposes.  To a surprising degree, Arnold shared that mentality despite his much loftier perch. Though a veteran of battles over air power and a defender of the AAF’s interests, he was never an articulate or visionary exponent of air power on a doctrinal level. Almost everyone close to Arnold saw him as “in no sense a thoughtful, precise thinker but a doer.”® Had he been a visionary, he might never have become the air force’s commanding general, and those who were mostly had fallen from the ranks. Arnold had the doctrinal flexibility to adjust to the shifting strategies of the war. He owed his pre- eminence not to strategic imagination but