hrough conventional and atomic bombing: the difficulty of presenting visually the realities of bomb damage. The copy accompanying the drawing, indicating that it “shows more graphically than aerial photographs [the] effect of [the] atomic bomb hit on Hiroshima,” was quite accurate in that Life’s accompanying photographs revealed little indeed. But even the drawing, replicating the billowing clouds that obscured destruction in photographs of firebombed cities, suggested scarcely more.  The Dynamics of Escalation  “You can’t hit a town like Cologne without its having a definite effect upon the morale of the entire German people,” said General H. H. Arnold in December 1942.1 The Americans were not yet able to hit Cologne or any town in Germany, but many welcomed the British effort to do so without quarter and shared British illusions about its efficacy. In light of those illusions, it is clear that professional officers had difficulty viewing the air war any more realistically than did the general public. For a variety of reasons, including the role of strategic realities and perceptions, they too maintained a distance on the air war, especially when that war intensified in 1944. Certainly intelligent men tried to formulate intelligent plans. But plans and actions diverged in ways that leaders often were either helpless to resist or incapable of comprehending.  1942-43: THE PERILS OF DISPERSION  One reason they diverged was that forces were scattered in ways that strategists had not foreseen—to the North African theater, for example, where the Army Air Forces gained much of its first experience. Its participation there was at best reluctant, retarding as it did the buildup of the Eighth Air Force in England and confined as it was largely to support of surface forces moving against the Germans and Italians. Most bombing done by Allied air forces in North Africa was hardly strategic. Yet there were compensations. For Arnold, even a North African campaign was preferable t