an Dyson to have been “invented by some mad sociologist,” becoming “a huge organization dedicated to the  Page 221 of 368 51%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON communications and transportation, far from facilitating the close witness of war, impeded it by allowing decisionmaking to take place far away. In such circumstances, William Blanchard speculates, “Man no longer feels his aggressive impulses with the same intensity. Aggression is viewed more with the intellect,” through the “symbolic representation of events rather than his own awareness.”!1 To the authorities in the Pentagon, what the bombers did was represented by strike photos, telegraphed reports, and statistical summaries. They enlivened symbols and abstractions with an occasional visit to the field, but even then they were hundreds of miles away from the action.  Operational commanders also experienced war secondhand, for the notion that the practice of war could be separated from its management was also applied to them. When LeMay insisted that he fly missions with the 21st Bomber Command he headed up in the fall of 1944, he found the “people upstairs were yipping shrilly at the idea.” They included “those misguided souls in Washington [who] had the notion that a commanding officer didn’t need to be qualified as an Aircraft Commander. He had a lot of those folks under him. ... His job was to proceed in his own echelon and on his own exalted level.” For LeMay, command meant the sharing of danger, the knowledge derived from firsthand experience, not the bureaucrat’s management of men. But his victory in this skirmish was token—permission to fly one mission. The more cerebral Hansell was equally determined to fly but found that his slight familiarity with the atomic bomb (about which LeMay then knew nothing) and Allied code-breaking prohibited his participation in combat missions as well.12  Whether Arnold did not feel “his aggressive impulses with the same intensity” because of