he story of the atomic bomb competed not only with news of triumph by more conventional weaponry, but with word of the Soviet declaration of war. In Japan, too, the bomb story stood alongside “banner headlines that the Soviet Union had de- clared war on Japan.”148  The headlines reflected realities soon easily forgotten: contemporaries attached great importance to Soviet entry into the war, and that entry played a major role in Japan’s surrender. For all the complex and loaded arguments about the relative importance of the bomb and of Russian entry in compelling Japan’s capitulation, it was probably their cumulative and mutual impact that made them decisive. At that, their decisiveness was limited. It was supplemented by lesser forms of air power; thousands of planes over Japan produced “the most impressive and nerve-wracking demonstration  Page 350 of 368 80%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON bomb in a broader context. As Life declared, “Every step in the bomber’s progress since 1937 has been more cruel than the last. From the very concept of strategic bombing, all the developments—night,  pattern, saturation, area, indiscriminate—have led straight to Hiroshima.” Unlike MacDonald, Life did not criticize the bomb’s use. Neither did Hanson Baldwin, the prominent commentator for both Life and the New York Times. Employment would “probably save American lives” and might “even compel Japanese surrender.” Yet even in June he had worried that “strategic bombing is a two-edged sword, and in the decades to come the specter of revenge may arise from the ashes of Tokyo to haunt us.” The bomb’s use further eroded his confidence that war served the state’s rational ends, and he explicitly traced the breakdown of rationality to the nature of air war. Both sides had aimed their bombs “against civilians. Because our bombing has been more effective and hence more devastating,” however, “Americans have become a synonym for destruction.” Now the “new weapon.