interest developed in collecting its victims’ recollections and examining their experience.?5  Eastern Tokyo—some sixteen square miles, a larger area than LeMay had even targeted—was totally burned out. With it perished at least eighty-four thousand people, and probably far more —by some reckonings the highest toll of any air raid, conventional or atomic, during the war or for that matter of any single man-made catastrophe.”° Most likely, with many schoolchildren already evacuated and younger males in military service, women and old people suffered grossly disproportionate losses.72  Because the fire burned out so quickly, the carnage was soon visible. A Danish diplomat witnessed “a long procession of silent people, men, women and children,” passing by at dawn, “quiet and forlorn.” “Refugees began to pour in by the hundreds” to a Catholic university campus: “All were silent and calm, but the horror they went through reflected in theit faces. ... All the caravans I met had an atmosphere of deep silence about them.” Only a few sounds were to be heard—the coughing and gasping of victims with scarred lungs, the occasional call of the name of a loved one. Gullain saw “hideous sights: wretches with burnt limbs who showed fleshless hands or feet or bloody masks that once were faces peering through filthy bandages.” Soon grotesque keloid scars appeared on burn victims—masses of rubbery tissue detached from underlying structure, migrating over healthy tissue, perversely reappearing in larger form if surgically removed, ripe material for skin cancer and other diseases. On others the scars would be, misleadingly, the emblem of shame reserved for atomic victims.”8  In the smoking moonscape there were bizarre sightis: “seeing a man pausing to light a cigar from a blazing telephone pole,” at the same time spotting piles of bodies “looking like misshapen lumps of charcoal,” often too melted to be identifiable even by sex, and everywhere giving off a “sickeningly sweet odor.” “Long