conveyed much the same message to the American diplomat W. Averell Harriman. Postponement of war in the Pacific was already the guiding principle, if not always the day-to-day practice, of American policy. The air strategy gave new urgency to what Marshall called “some very clever diplomacy,” even “certain minor concessions” for Japanese face-saving, in order “to save the situation.”84  By holding the Japanese in check, America’s bombers might also resolve the vexatious demands of the Allies for more explicit American commitments to come to their aid in the event of war.  Amorican air nowar could ha danlavad indanandantly and uced unilaterally Tt allawad the Amarircane and tha Rritich ta mawe alana narallal hut indanendant tracke ac Tandan wrac ruchine naval  Page 103 of 368 24%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON engine bomber. “lhe President was impressed,” noted stimson, who was not past flattering himself about nis own influence but 1n this case was probably correct.©¥  Following almost daily the progress of bomber flights to the Philippines, Stimson worked with Marshall to integrate the new air strategy with diplomacy and to fight off Roosevelt’s inclination to disperse American resources too thinly. When Roosevelt considered a reduction in the army’s size to facilitate increased aid abroad, Marshall prepared his case for exempting the Philippines from cuts: “Critical situation. Japan wavering. Strong air and navy forces on her flank may deter her or wean her from Axis. If Japan moves, forces in position to assist Associated [British, Dutch, Australian] Powers.” Roosevelt stated his “complete agreement about the necessity for the 4-engined bombers in the Philippine Islands and Hawaii.”8!  Apparently still unsure of Roosevelt’s stand, Stimson and his staff gave the president a sweeping statement on air strategy. Like military men had been doing ever since the fall of 1938, they instructed him in the complexities of an effective air force.