because they had been felt keenly by men like Marshall and Roosevelt even before Pearl Harbor—by then, they had already anticipated wartime pressures and come to share many of the assumptions behind them. After December 7, public opinion was evident in the wide attention given to the prophets of victory through air power, in the applause for the Doolittle raid and early Anglo-American efforts against Germany, and in fears expressed about mounting American casualties. National leaders shared those fears. According to Averell Harriman, “Roosevelt was very much affected by World War I” and “had a horror of American troops landing again on the continent and becoming involved in...trench warfare with all its appalling losses.” Marshall, himself acutely sensitive to casualty figures, made a special effort to keep Roosevelt informed of them “because you get hardened to these things and you have to be very careful to keep them always in the forefront of your mind.” Roosevelt also recognized the limits on American tolerance of sacrifices in another world war and knew that, as Harriman put it, “if the great armies of Russia could stand up to Germans,” the strategic opportunity existed to limit American losses. No similar opportunity existed in the Pacific, which only made the incentive to employ air power there more intense.  At the same time, pressure to employ air power was not strong enough to lead the Roosevelt administration into an exclusive reliance on it. Alarm about casualties did not always push policymakers toward expanding the strategic role of bombers. With the invasion of Europe imminent, 1944 opened with widespread “anticipation of vast American losses.”*? Insofar as Allied leaders responded to that anxiety, they diverted the heavy bombers away from Germany into a massive effort to weaken German defenses in France against invading forces. More broadly, countervailing considerations reined in a rush to air power: it was still too untested a weapon to place all b