n into high-powered circles. He showed few strong feelings about the enemy or the war’s purpose. When he visited Saipan late in the war, he found inspiration in the “spirit of this enterprise, its magnitude and beauty” that carried him “into the realm of enchantment so long as one can throw into the distance the dread and the horror of war.” Despite that horror, there was “the thrill and the satisfaction that real achievement carried with it” and admiration for the nation’s “ability to do on a big scale” and for the “great silence and seriousness of men” taking off in their B-29s to bomb Japan. Untroubled by the technology of war he helped to develop, he did raise for himself one good question about the future: “Will we be able to restrain our avarice and grasping tendencies, or will we press on and be obliged some day because of our ambitions to engender an- other great conflict?” Neither duty nor temperament inclined him to seek an answer to that question.44  The war offered Bowles a comfortable mix of opportunities for status, creativity, and participation in a cause. A lawyer, Robert L. Stearns, an air force operations analyst on leave from his post as president of the University of Colorado, identified similar satisfactions. “The lawyer makes the Air Force his client, contributes broad judgment and investigative skill,” Stearns told his alumni. In return, Stearns received “a series of the richest experiences of my life.” He echoed wartime mythology about the homogenizing virtues of military life, only he celebrated camaraderie among diverse professional elites rather than the class and ethnic unity of the all-American platoon. Engineers, corporation scientists, government statisticians, and Harvard professors came together in his team of analysts. They were “men who had never met each other before and who had come from widely different homes and backgrounds... and who became, as time went on, one of the most closely knit and harmonious faculties I have ever ser