” and “by far the greatest economizer in human lives.” In short, Arnold, in line with a generation’s prophecy, celebrated both the destructiveness and the restraint of air power, its military utility and its capacity for vengeance. Similarly, Lovett asserted that by destroying factories, bombers can give enemy populations “their first searing lesson ... that crime doesn’t pay.” Statements like these gave Americans a hint of the satisfactions beyond victory that the bomber might achieve, although air force leaders usually were more cautious in their public pronouncements.18  PROPAGANDA AND PROPHECY  Official words and actions constituted one influence on the expectations Americans held for the strategic air war. Another came from public advocacy of air power during the war, which often mirrored the obliqueness of Roosevelt’s approach to the matter. Even more than their president, air power’s proponents confused debate more than they clarified it, championed destructiveness even as they de- nied it, and celebrated the national genius for production with only a glimpse at its consequences in war.  That celebration was the theme in the most trivial but pervasive medium of advocacy, the corporate advertising which did much to define the war’s nature and purposes simply because government was reluctant to assume that task. Advertising offered verbal and visual images of the air war that were rarely instructive about its realities. It stressed the romance of aviation and the technological prowess of American business, the fruits of which were to flow to the postwar civilian. There were exceptions, as in the Nash-Kelvinator ad linking its peacetime manufacture of refrigerators with the war against Japan: “Ice Cubes for Japan!” promised that flying boats would deliver not only bombs but “hate and vengeance” to Tojo. But even ads like NashKelvinator’s visually depicted air war in highly stylized or romanticized ways that rarely suggested the scope and nature of the destructio