orld government. The bomb’s “measurable destruction” seemed less telling to the novelist Mary McCarthy than its explosive impact on “the moral world.”137  Like American governmental leaders, the American media emphasized the pro-found novelty of nuclear technology. The bomb story “read like some incredible fiction,” commented the New York Times, although it was, as the New Yorker wryly pointed out, something that science fiction writers had merrily published during the war years.128 It seemed that the bomb’s advent, far from being a logical culmination of an air war long practiced, had severed the continuity of history itself. This was what the War Department called the “Cosmic Bomb,” and it marked the dawn of a “New Age,” not the high noon or sunset of an older one.132  Even the few critics of bombing had trouble placing atomic weapons in historical context. The Christian Century mounted a harsh attack on the bomb’s use, but its mention of the war’s earlier bombing was perfunctory, allowing the magazine to speak of “the impetuous adoption of this incredibly inhuman instrument,” when in fact the bomb’s use, seen in war’s context, was hardly impetu- ous at all. That characterization was in part a result of the religious community’s awkward position regarding America’s record in the air war. A few of its representatives had expressed opposition to bombing. More had recorded the pain felt in accepting it. Most had maintained caution or silence before August 1945, which compromised criticism after it. One way out of the awkward position was a frank admission of error, expressed in letters to the Christian Century: “We Christians have been too slow, too afraid, perhaps, to speak and act conscientiously as the war has progressed in its downward spiral of scientific ghastliness,” pointed out one writer. “Our gasoline holocausts already exceed all barbaric crucifixions of history,” claimed another. The magazine itself preferred a more comfortable course, focusing on the bom