d knew that I had stepped on another black-widow spider or scorpion.” Scott recorded brutalities by Americans that he condemned when carried out by the enemy, and likewise recklessness by Ameri- cans which was merely suicidal fanaticism when mirrored in Japanese actions. But however skewed, the focus on individual feats was widely sustained.2%  New circumstances pulled against it, however. If individual heroism was still the salient quality observed, it took on a certain grimness. While some crewmen relished combat and the enemy’s destruction, such passion was rare. The enemy was usually faceless, almost an incidental element of the story; crews had “no personal feeling against Germans” or an “impersonal attitude toward the enemy, so hard for Europeans... to understand.” Emotion ran strongest in loyalty to comrades and the service. The bombers themselves were often the heroes of accounts.4°  In fact, hatred of the enemy was generally strongest among the civilians furthest removed from him, but even Americans at home attempted to view this war more coolly than they had the First World War. In part the changing nature of air war, in which bureaucracy and the machine threatened to dwarf the individual, accounted for these different emotional attitudes. As a consequence, the struggle to reconcile a romantic view of military aviation with modern realities defined much of the writing on the air war. Already in May 1942, Saturday Review saw in the airman a new elite, anew “Hero for America,” indeed “a new human type” whose “task is usually destructive,” but “it is not civilization that he wants to destroy.”4!  In November 1942 John Steinbeck’s Bombs Away: The Story of a Bomber Team, which he wrote for the Army Air Forces, appeared. Steinbeck struggled to find the familiar and the redemptive in the modern work of bombing. For him, the war brought welcome release from the despair and disunity of the “directionless depression.” The air force provided men the “antidote for the