F stumbling toward each other in technique and rationales because of parallel organizational drives and technological developments. Harris had long measured RAF efforts in terms of tonnage dropped and rubble piled up, positing only the loosest connection between those measurements and the enemy’s defeat. Conversely, the AAF had never ruled out its own attacks on enemy manpower and morale, objectives whose attractiveness gained as the precision campaign floundered. By 1944, the two air forces were positioned to cross paths. The RAF was developing techniques that gave the night bombers a precision approaching that of the AAF’s Fortresses and Liberators, while the Americans were beginning to loosen their defin- itions of precision bombing.  Before that trend could fully develop, improving weather, the Luftwaffe’s threat, and the demands of OVERLORD forced the AAF back on its original track. In one week in February 1944, the Eighth, often assisted by Eaker’s bombers based in Italy, launched a furious series of assaults on Germany’s aviation industry. Despite long-range fighter escort, appalling losses of bombers occurred on particular missions, at the expense of twenty-six hundred Americans killed, missing, or seriously wounded. Yet American fighter losses were astonishingly low, and so huge was the American bomber force that the bomber losses were hardly crippling. The AAF now also practiced complex diversions and maneuvers to divide and confuse the German air force, and for the week at least, the RAF struck some of the same targets, marking an unusually high degree of coordination between the two forces.  The result was success but of a kind not always anticipated or immediately understood. Again the bombs rained down on German factories, often with impressive accuracy. And yet, after a pause to complete the dispersal of the aviation industry, German fighter production began its striking upward curve, one carried through September and accompanied by manufacture of thi