d commanders in uniform, insofar as they were recognized at all.  THE FAILURE OF STRATEGY  Page 232 of 368 53%  THE RISE OF AMERICAN AIR POWER: THE CREATION OF ARMAGEDDON were doing. “By means of technique,” William Blanchard has written, “man changes not only the method by which he thinks but the content of what he thinks about.”44 By the language they used, the methods they employed, and the concerns they focused upon, the experts helped change the content of what decision makers in the air force thought about, permitting them to see air war less as a strategic process aiming at victory and more as a technical process in which the assembly and refinement of means became paramount.  They did so in part because the refinement of means and the achievement of destruction were what operations research could most effectively achieve. Assessment of how means related to ends required subjective judgment resistant to quantifiable measurements. Operations analysts focused on the measurable, and in 1944 the most measurable kind of air war was incendiary bombing, whose gross effects were far more quantifiable than campaigns against enemy shipping or steel production. Furthermore, a concentration on things measurable produced a personal and bureaucratic investment in them. The original purpose of examining incendiary war might only have been to clarify it as a choice, to decide if it was effective. But the method most reducible to quantification also received the closest scrutiny, thereby attracting the greatest investment and the most refined justification.  By one standard, this characterization suggests the indifference of scientists and statisticians to strategic purposes and their immersion into the technique of war. Their mentality was not the one so often ascribed to American war-makers, an exclusive focus on victory, but the pursuit of destruction without a clear notion of its relationship to victory. In another sense, however, ends were not so much abandoned as redefi