voys coming from either Suez or Gibraltar and heading for Malta, Allied maritime trans- port had to be suspended and could only be resumed in 1943. As it turned out, Mussolini’s vaunted air force suffered from poor preparation and low serviceability rates.26As his son-in-law, the minister of foreign affairs, Galeano Ciano maliciously wrote in his di ary, it sometimes looked as if the Regia Aeronautica and the Regia Marina hated each other more than they did the British. The former told Il Duce that it had eliminated “50 percent of the British naval potential” in the Mediterranean, whereas in reality the damage it had done mounted to exactly zero. The latter complained that its sister service bombed its ships for six hours.27In September 1940 the Italians invaded Egypt, but three mon ths later they found themselves reel- ing back into Libya. In October of the same year they invaded Greece, but soon found themselves in headlong retreat into Albania. In both theaters the hapless Regia Aeronautica did what it could. It provided close support to the ground forces—in the Balkans, this meant operating in the teeth of absolutely atrocious weather conditions—and ﬂew in some men and sup- plies. T o no avail; by the beginning of 1941, out of 700 Italian aircraft sta- tioned in Libya, only one-tenth were still operational.28 At sea, things went no better for the Italians. Repeatedly, their attempts to use their bombers in high-level attacks on British warships proved inef- fective. What did prove effective was a well-planned, well-executed attack by British carrier-borne torpedo bombers on the port of T aranto; on the night of November 11–12, 1940, about half of the Italian battle ﬂeet was put out of action for a long time to come. Only when the Germans, in the form of X. Fliegerkorps and the soon-to-be-famous Africa Corps, began arriving in force in December 1940–February 1941 did the balance of forces change. Some of the troops, incidentally, were ﬂown across the Med- iterran