ublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 18 --- Though some air attacks were mounted on major industrial cities such as Leningrad, Moscow, Bryansk, Orel, Tula, Kharkov, Rostov, and Odessa, they were met with unexpectedly ferocious resistance by the anti-aircraft defenses in those cities. This was one more reason why, on the whole, the Germans, or at any rate the Army High Command, much preferred to focus on the Red Army in the ﬁeld. Invariably the goal was not simply to hold and wear down. Instead it was to use superior organization, superior intel- ligence, superior mobility, and a superior command-and-control system to drive deep wedges between the opposing enemy formations, separate them from each other, and if possible force them to surrender. The Luftwaffe’s assigned mission in all this was to gain air superiority (accomplished, as we saw, early in the campaign), reconnoiter, and inter- dict. From time to time it also concentrated as many aircraft as possible to deliver massive blows on targets immediately ahead of the attacking ground forces. It was by such means that it helped capture Novgorod and T allinn (Reval) on the northern front; in the summer of 1942, in one of its last large-scale offensive moves, it was to play a similar role at Sebastopol in the Crimea. So accurate were its dive-bombers, and/or so great the command- ers’ determination to win even if it meant taking some casualties by friendly ﬁre, that bombs were sometimes dropped within 600 feet of the German troops. One Stuka pilot, Hans-Ulrich Rudel, was ultimately credited with busting no fewer than 519 Soviet tanks; such were his exploits that a whole series of medals had to be designed especially for him.40 Up until the end of September the system yielded very good, indeed un- precedented, results. Entire Soviet armies were surrounded, cut to pieces, and smashed. Millions of Red soldiers were killed or injured or taken pris- oner, booty sufficient to equip doze