s and the ﬁghter “jocks” complicated the issue even further to say nothing of the “objective” interventions by military historians. The ﬁrst factor governing the effectiveness of tactical airpower (T ac/Air, as it was called), whether it is employed immediately behind the front or used to interdict enemy movements and supplies at some distance behind the front, is the weather. Where the weather did not cooperate, as happened during the ﬁrst days of the German Ardennes offensive in December 1944, ﬁghter-bombers, in this case Allied ones, were all but impotent. Next in144 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 144 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 55 --- line come timeliness and accuracy. Time liness itself is a function of several factors, including the number of available aircraft, organization, commu- nications, and, last but not least, the di stance between the air bases and the front.31During the early years of the war, the Luftwaffe had often per- formed miracles in rapidly pushing its bases forward behind the armored spearheads. Now the British and Amer icans, whose forces had far more motor vehicles and construction equipment per soldier than the Germans ever did, showed that they could do the same. Operating on a much larger scale, they took over abandoned German airﬁelds in France, restored them to working condition, and provided them with everything they needed by way of facilities, supplie s, communications, and so on. Even so, ground troops who asked for air support could hardly expect to receive it within less than an hour of the request being made. One hour might entail extraordinary efficiency on the part of a host of forward ob- servers, communicators, a