s not symmetrical. Wherever they went, the British could and did use aircraft, whether land- launched or carrier-borne, to hunt for German submarines as well as the few other blockade runners, armed and unarmed, that got through. What- ever may be said about relations between the navy and the RAF, coopera- tion between it and Coastal Comma nd was always exemplary. Meanwhile the German Navy, the Kriegsmarine, owing partly to geography—Britain still stood between it and the open ocean—and partly to its peculiar rela- tionship with the Luftwaffe, did not have nearly as much support from the air. Lacking it, the Naval War Command, the Seekriegsleitung, in Kiel had to rely mainly on RDF (radio direction ﬁnding), ELINT , and SIGINT to receive warning that Allied convoys were setting sail, on what course, with what destination, and so on. The ability of submarine captains to locate their prey was greatly, perhaps fatally, reduced. They were forced to spend more time on the surface, where they were vulnerable both to surface ships and to aircraft; coming under attack by the latter, all they could do was either submerge or ﬁre a few shots from the guns some of them started car- rying from 1943 on. From the Allied point of view, the worst moments in the anti-submarine struggle were the ﬁrst half of 1942 and the ﬁrst half of 1943. The worst month of all was June 1942, when 700,000 tons of merchant shipping were lost.1During both periods, airpower played a critical role in defeating the menace. Based in Scotland, Ulster, Iceland, Greenland, and along the North American coast from Newfoundland to the south, aircraft protected con- voys and searched for submarines. Either they attacked those submarines on their own, dropping depth charges on them, or else they acted as the eyes of hunter-killer groups made up of destroyers and other light naval132 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 132 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffai