ica and was in charge of the German defenses, to try to meet the landings on the beach instead of concentrating his reserves in the rear and counterattacking at a later point.24Both in Europe and the Far East,War of Factories, War of Wits 1231586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 123 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 34 --- for the Allies things worked the other way around. The longer the war went on, the better able their pilots were to ﬂy over enemy territory and photo- graph every inch of it. Entire teams of specialists developed the photos and interpreted them. They turned their craft into a highly specialized, if some- times arcane, art. As important as the battle for intelligence was the effort to achieve and maintain technological superiority. Improved aircraft, as well as the even more numerous improvements inaircraft, followed each other at a pace never equaled before or after. Still, except for the atom bomb, about which more later, probably the most important single contribution science made to the ﬁeld was the above-mentioned in troduction of radar. T o this day it remains an indispensable tool of air warfare. It was from there that it spread to sea warfare, space warfare, and, much more slowly but surely, land war- fare. The leaders in the ﬁeld were the British and the Americans. The Ger- mans were only slightly behind, the Soviets considerably so, whereas the Italians and the Japanese hardly counted. The ﬁrst operational radar sets were  installed in large ground stations and used to serve as early warning against approaching enemy aircraft and to track friendly ones. Somewhat later they also started to be used to direct anti-aircraft artillery ﬁre, a function th at gave ri