be so easily removed. All these were hit and, if not completely eliminated, had their capacity greatly reduced. Two days after September 1, the Polish Air Force had been broken up into small units with hardly any central direction. Still it did what it could to continue the ﬁght, sending up as many as its 463 mostly obsolete aircraft as possible only to see them shot down in great numbers by the far superior Luftwaffe machines. It was heroic, magniﬁcent even, but it can hardly be called war. Each one of the two German army groups invading Poland was sup- ported by a Luftﬂotte consisting of a suitable mixture of aircraft of all types and cooperating with the ground forces by means of specially trained liai- son officers. Each Luftﬂotte also had organic motorized supply columns and airﬁeld construction companie s directly under its own command.2As the armored spearheads advanced, the Luftwaffe, partly supported from the air by its trusty Ju-52s, moved its bases with them. Once command of the air had been ensured, the Luftwaffe devoted most of its efforts to in- terdiction. During the ﬁrst ﬁve days alone, it ﬂew almost 5,000 sorties of this kind.3The main targets were the Polish rail network as well as march- ing columns. Military installations such as bases, depots, and the like also came under attack. On several occasions the Stukas provided close support, helping break up some of the fortiﬁed perimeters that threatened to hold up the tanks. Amidst all this there were certainly cases when civilian refugees came under attack, sometimes deliberately, s ometimes not; still, by and large the Germans, following Goering’s order, which was issued August 31, seem to have adhered to the laws of war as they then stood. Certainly they did not do so out of what they called humanitarian tomfoolery, which God forbade. Rather it was because their “operational” doctrine called for the destruction of the enemy’s armed forces as the condition for everything else.4Only late94 The Age o