ention was to capture as ma ny islands as possible as far away from home as possible and fortify them—which, of course, also meant preparing them for use as air bases—against an American counteroffensive. All this came on top of the four-year-o ld war in China. Thousands of miles separated the three theaters from each other. The Japanese resembled their German allies on the other side of the world in that, operationally speaking, initially their strikes were highly successful. Strategically, though, seldom in history can any nation have overestimated its own capabilities to such an extent; perhaps this explains why, faced with his country’s plans to go to war with the United States, Isoroku Yamamoto, naval marshal general156 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 156 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 67 --- and commander in chief of the Combined Fleet, at one point wrote that all he could rely on were “the Emperor’s virtue and God’s help. ”6 Wherever the Japanese went, their aviation, especially their naval avia- tion, not only went with them but helped open the way. Only three days after Pearl Harbor, 86 aircraft of the Imperial Navy operating from airﬁelds around Saigon sank the British battleships Repulse and Prince of Wales. Churchill personally had sent the two vessels to Singapore in the hope of deterring Japan from attacking. Originally they were supposed to be ac- companied by an aircraft carrier, the Indomitable . However, at the time the war in the Far East broke out, that ship was undergoing repairs and thus not available for action. Consequently when the two battleships and the four destroyers that escorted them left Singapore to hunt for the Japanese, they