emy from the frequency of his radio trans- missions, the direction from which they c ome, and so on), and much more.War of Factories, War of Wits 1211586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 121 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 32 --- Few, if any, of these methods had not been tried during the First World War. Few, if any, were not practiced on a much larger scale during the Sec- ond. As specialized equipment was added, they also became more sophis- ticated. An excellent example is Ultra, the later-to-be-famous British project that intercepted, deciphered, and exploited German radio traffic. Of course it was not the Luftwaffe’s fault that, with its “teeth” consisting of ﬂying units, it was more dependent on wireless than the army. It was its fault that, compared to the navy, its communications discipline was lax. Not surprisingly, the various air intelligence services got some things right, others wrong. Perhaps the most important thing almost everybody (except for the Soviets and the Japanese, who never went for it in the ﬁrst place) got wrong was the effort strategic bombing would require if it were to have any real impact. Simply deciding which elements were critical to the German economy in particular proved much harder than anyone had anticipated. The result was repeated di sappointments and frequent shifts from one kind of target to another, not to mention unnecessary losses. Be- yond that, the situation varied. Starting around 1935, the British greatly overestimated the speed at which the Germans were building up the Luft- waffe, an error that contributed ﬁrst to appeasement and then to every sort of dire prediction and to accelerated rearmament on their part.23On the German side th