, indeed un- precedented, results. Entire Soviet armies were surrounded, cut to pieces, and smashed. Millions of Red soldiers were killed or injured or taken pris- oner, booty sufficient to equip dozens of divisions was taken, and hundreds of thousands of square miles were occu pied so that their populations and much of their economic resources were lost to the Soviets. At that point, however, diminishing returns set in. One reason was that the German lines of communication had become too long. The outcome was constant logis- tic problems from which the Luftwaffe, desperately trying to move its bases108 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 108 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 19 --- forward as fast as it could, was not exempt.41In October the rains arrived, followed by frost. The former turned practically all roads into bottomless quagmires, bringing most ground movemen ts to a complete halt; the latter hampered all operations and badly reduced serviceability rates. Behind the front, large numbers of Soviet soldiers whose units had ceased to exist refused to give themselves up. Instead, seeking and ﬁnding shelter in the woods, they joined a growing force of partisans. As the Ger- mans found to their cost, in this kind of operation neither aircraft nor most other heavy weapons were of much use.  All along the front, these factors caused operational moves to be stymied. Hitler himself had begun to ques- tion their value, telling Halder that Stalin’s hordes of subhuman Slavs were too primitive to understand when they were beaten and that, in the future, it would be necessary to proceed more slowly and systematically.42The greater the problems of the Luftwaffe, the less