devices but also of inventing others to counter them. Right from the beginning it was clear that radar, while vital to intercept enemy aircraft at night in particular, also gave warning about its own presence. Instruments could be and were built to warn pilots that they were bein g targeted. One way to counter radar was by using paint that absorbed at  least some of the radio waves; another was to drop masses of tinfoil specially cut to such dimensions that they would appear on the screens in the form of vast clouds, thus blinding the operators. Nor was radar the only form of electronic wizardry aircraft used or had used against them. As important were navigation aids used to guide bombers to their targets. Methods of interfering with the operation of each of these devices were conceived almost as soon as the devices themselves were introduced. From idea to operational deployment, of course, it took longer.28 As successive devices were introduced, each radio beam by its very ex- istence became a treasure trove of information not only on the type and apparatus that generated it but also, often enough, concerning enemy ca- pabilities and intentions. Vice versa, the same applied to aircraft shot down over enemy territory and which carried either radar or some device for countering it. No sooner had it touched down or crashed than teams of technicians swarmed over it, trying to learn its secrets, examining the sur- viving crew members if any, and immediately setting to work in an attempt either to counter them or to copy them. The difference was that, from the second half of 1942 on, increasingly it was the Western Allies who pene- trated Axis airspace. The opposite ha ppened less and le ss frequently; thus, paradoxically, an advantage was turned into a disadvantage. That this was by no means a theoretical problem only is demonstrated by the fate of the proximity fuse. Having invented it in 1942, the Allies delayed its opera- tional use until late 1944 because the y fea