to look down on their Soviet enemies, attribut- ing the latter’s victories, and their own defeats, to hammer-like blows de- livered by overwhelming numbers rather than to any tactical and operational ﬁnesse. Always it was the supply system that broke down, or some neighboring unit that gave way, rather than they themselves who were defeated. For most of these generals, admitting that Soviet successes in the war in general, and in the air war in pa rticular, might be due to qualitative superiority was little but heresy; during the Cold War, such an admission would cast doubt on Germany’s usefulness to its newly found NATO allies. As we saw, early in the war the Luftwaffe had enjoyed some notable suc- cesses in its conduct of airborne operations—successes, however, that were made possible partly by the enemy’s weakness, as in Norway, and partly by the fact that sea and land forces were  close at hand and came to the rescue.150 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 150 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 61 --- The latter factor in particular was critically important; where no supporting forces were available, as happened around The Hague in particular, the German airborne troops barely survived. At Crete, so appalling were the losses among the paratroopers that from this time on they were used only as ground troops. On the whole, the Allied experience was not dissimilar. Airborne forces assisted the landings in Sicily in July 1943. However, bad weather caused the U.S. paratroopers to be scattered over 50 miles. Out of 134 British gliders, 47 landed in the sea with heavy loss of life. Their activ- ities made little impression either on the Italians, who surrendered with ha