done; as is often the case, the defender enjoyed some important advantages. The RAF could keep many of its ﬁghter squadrons in north and west England and Wales, where they were out of range of most of the Luftwaffe’s aircraft; compared with the German need to coordinate bombers and ﬁghter escorts with their very different characteristics, sending up ﬁghters to counter them was simple. German pilots shot down over England were invariably lost. By contrast, British ones, provided they managed to crash-land or parachute to earth, were often able to ﬁght another day. Occasional help came from Ultra, the organization responsible for monitorin g, intercepting, and deciphering German military wireless traffic in general and that of the Luftwaffe in par- ticular. Yet perhaps the most important single factor was the failure of the Germans, whose aircraft were equipped for offense rather than defense, to recognize the critical role that the Chain Home radar stations were playing in the battle. Had they attacked those stations ﬁrst of all and sustained the offensive, preventing them from being repaired, the outcome might well have been different.20 The turning point in the battle came early in September. The RAF in- ﬂicted such heavy losses on the Luftwaffe, its bombers in particular, that it had to switch from day to night bombing. Yet in the Second World War, as in the First, bombers operating by  night could not hit their targets nearly as accurately as those operating by day. Any attempt to focus on militarily and economically valuable ones became a question of sheer luck. The sig- nal was given by a German squadron that had lost its way and struck Lon- don. In response Churchill, who had become prime minister in May 1940, sent the RAF to bomb Berlin. Whether he had been waiting for such an opportunity in the hope of making the Germans change targets and taking the pressure off his hard-pressed few remains in dispute; certainly Hitler100 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van C