such as the Avro Lancaster entered ser- vice, did things change.134 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 134 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 45 --- The shortage of resources apart—what general in history has not called for more men and materiel?—the principal obstacle facing Bomber Com- mand during this period was that no long-range ﬁghters were available to escort the bombers. Unable to defend themselves effectively against the Luftwaffe, they were compelled to operate mainly, indeed almost exclu- sively, at night. Operatin g at night, they at ﬁrst had great difficulty ﬁnding their targets in the darkened countryside below. Often they missed it not by yards but by miles. Even after that problem had been solved, accuracy remained, to put it mildly, doubtful. T o make up for this, their normal aim- ing point was the central railway station. Over time special mixtures of in- cendiaries and high-exp losive bombs were developed, resulting in ﬁrestorms and widespread destruction of everything around. At the time the U.S. Eighth Air Force, commanded ﬁrst by General Carl Spaatz and then by General Ira Eaker, joined the campaign in 1943, they at ﬁrst tended to look on their British allies with some contempt, which the British heartily reciprocated. As we have seen, during the interwar period the chief fount of U.S. Army Air Corps doctrine had been the T ac- tical School in Alabama. Few instructors posted to this backwater allowed foreign writers, let alone an Italian one, to inﬂuence them. Some mimeo- graphed extracts of Douhet’s works were indeed circulated in translation. But they were by no means universally welcomed; there were even claims that applying his ideas would