ior to their own, and this belief turned out to be correct. They also thought that Soviet an- cillary equipment such as radios and navigation aids was on the primitive side, and in this, too, they turned out to be correct. Soviet organization was judged as being heavy-handed, overcentralized, and inﬂexible, Soviet train- ing as below par. Where they were wrong was in their belief that, once the industrial centers in the USSR’s western provinces had been overrun, So- viet production, including the production of aircraft, would all but collapse. As it turned out, they could not have made a greater mistake. As in Poland, Norway, and the west, the Luftwaffe started the war with a devastating strike directed against Soviet airﬁelds—by the end of the ﬁrst week, the number of those attacked reached 130. Then and later the Ger- man aircraft, the Stukas in particular, ﬂew as many as four, ﬁve, six, or even seven missions per day—astonishing ﬁgures made possible by the relatively simple construction of the machines, the excellent training of the ground crews, and a special apparatus that allowed no fewer than nine aircraft to be refueled at the same time. The Armed Forces High Command proudly claimed the elimination of 4,017 Soviet aircraft against the loss of just 150 of their own; by July 9, the Soviets, in a highly unusual statement, admitted that 3,985 had been destroyed.37Most of the losses were incurred on the ground; however, entire Red bomber squadrons, ﬂying without escort in a desperate attempt to stop the Wehrmacht, were shot down. Whatever the precise ﬁgures, clearly command of the air was won easily and at a low cost. As early as June 25, the Luftwaffe began allocating part of its sorties to sup- port the army’s ground operations by attacking the Soviet transportation system in particular. Since the Luftwaffe’s central archives were destroyed at the end of the war, all we have is the scattered records of individual units. T ake the case of a Kampfgeschwader (bomb