ey should ﬁre or drop. OR was equally useful in plannin g and deploying anti-aircraft de- fenses, logistic systems, training sche dules, and, above all, communication systems. The following is a summary of a document that spelled out the results of applying OR to air attacks on submarines: 1. [Since a submarine only took 25 seconds to submerge] the attacking approach was to be made by the shortest path and at maximum speed. 2. The actual attack could be made from any direction relative to the U-boat. 3. The depth of setting of all depth-charges was to be 50 feet, the spac- ing of depth-charges in a stick was to be 60 feet and all depth charges carried were to be released in one stick. 4. The ideal was to attack while the U-boat or some part of it was still visible. Data was given, however, to enable pilots to estimate quickly how far ahead of the point of ﬁnal disappearance their stick should be placed if the U-boat got under just before release was possible. 5. In cases where the U-boat had disappeared for more than 30 seconds it was pointed out that success was unlikely owing to the progressive uncertainty of the U-boat’s position either in plan or depth. 6. The height of the release must not be greater than 100 feet.30 Though air warfare was better suited to OR than almost any other form of war, the extent of the role it played on the latter’s conduct remains diffi- cult to assess. Much depended on access to enemy information—in other words, knowledge of the results. Such knowledge might or might not be available. Throughout the war, pilots on all sides greatly exaggerated the number of enemy machines they had shot down. In air-to-ground warfare, too, attempts to ﬁnd out how much damage this or that strike had reallyWar of Factories, War of Wits 1271586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 127 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665