his was by no means a theoretical problem only is demonstrated by the fate of the proximity fuse. Having invented it in 1942, the Allies delayed its opera- tional use until late 1944 because the y feared it might assist the enemy more than it beneﬁted them.War of Factories, War of Wits 1251586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 125 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 36 --- Though not every problem required a scientiﬁc breakthrough, many de- manded a great deal of technical ingenuity. An excellent example comes from the ﬁeld of anti-submarine warfare. German submarines in the At- lantic usually stayed submerged during the day, but at night they rose to the surface to stalk their prey. Once the presence of a submarine had been determined by airborne surface vessel (ASV) radar, it had to be illuminated so the Coastal Command aircraft could drop depth changes on it. The problem was made more difficult by the fact that, at ﬁrst, it was confused with the one of illuminating German cities so that bombers could attack them. Once this hurdle had been cleared—in other words, once it had been determined that submarine hunting required a searchlight and not some kind of ﬂare—an aircraft had to be found with enough room to permit the searchlight and the dynamo it needed to be installed. Next, a method had to be found for clearing away the fumes generated by its carbon lamp. All this explains why it took about a year and a half to bring the idea from the drawing board to full operational use.29 Intelligence and technical excellence are one thing, the ability to use them effectively and translate them in to military results, another. Because air warfare, which takes place in a relatively simple environme