44 that an alternative presented itself. Even so, there was plenty to be done before the bombers could land and take off again. Runways had to be built—the heavy machines needed no less than one and a half miles, considerably more than any aircraft in history until then. With runways came a demand for parking spaces, command-and-control installations, repair-and-maintenance facil- ities, depots, and quarter s for the personnel. All of these went up with amazing speed; indeed throughout the Paciﬁc War a major advantage the Americans enjoyed was their extensive use of earthmoving machinery to construct bases on newly conquered island s. By contrast, the Japanese re- lied on gangs consisting of thousands of half-naked men laboring in the sun—with the result that they took weeks to accomplish what the Ameri- cans did in days. The ﬁrst B-29s left the islands on their way to attack Japan in November. However, their efforts, based on the same theories as had governed the use of B-17s in Europe and aiming at the d estruction of large industrial instal- lations, were not a success. Thanks to their pressurized cabins, a techno- logical ﬁrst, they could cruise comfortably at 30,000 feet and more. But at this altitude they ran straight into what was later known as the jet stream. Severe buffeting and problems in navigation also made aiming very diffi- cult. Most of the time, the aviators had no idea where their bombs had gone. As one story has it, so many bombs missed their intended targets and fell into T okyo Bay that the city’s residents told one another that the Allies had decided to reduce them to starvation by killing all the ﬁsh.18Owing to the weather, many missions had to be canceled or aborted. Even so, weak though the opposition was, losses were not negligible but ran at a steady 4.5 percent per mission. Thus things continued until January 1945, when the Army Air Forces kicked out the c ommander and brought in a new one, Major General Curtis E. LeMay. Not yet 38 years