l.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 28 --- RAF to accept several types of bombers that turned out to be obsolescent; early on they were shot out of the sky and had to be withdrawn. Retooling the assembly lines to build their successors took time, which meant that production was slowed down or had to be halted.14This was one reason why, once the British were able to turn back from defending themselves against the Luftwaffe toward strategic bombing, it was found that the avail- able forces were totally insufficient for the purpose. This brings us to the largest belligerents of all, the Soviet Union and the United States. Over the ﬁrst six months of the war the Soviet Union lost a huge part of its territory, population, raw materials, energy sources, and in- dustrial potential. Either they were destroyed or they were overrun by the advancing German armies. In the face of such problems, the country’s abil- ity to maintain and even expand production can only be called a miracle. Much of the miracle was due to the evacuation of an entire plant from the western USSR to locations east of the Urals. However, compared to the rest, the Red Air Force also enjoyed some advantages. Owing to the cir- cumstances of geography and the limited role that the sea played in the conﬂict, it never had to build up a really strong naval arm with all the com- plications it creates.15Owing to a deliberate decision, it only ever produced a single heavy bomber. Even this machine could only carry half as many bombs as the American B-17.16Only a few were built, and a few nuisance raids on Berlin apart, even these were used mainly for tactical and opera- tional purposes, as during the Battle of Kursk in 1943. The Soviets did pro- duce some two-engine machines—the Ilyushin Il-4, the Peltyakov Pe-2, and the Tupolev Tu-2—that could be classiﬁed a