ction?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 66 --- and ﬁghters was dispatched to attack harbor installations, aircraft, and, above all, fuel depots. The operation was much the largest of its kind in history until then—a fact that helps explain why U.S. radar operators mistook the approaching Japanese aircraft for American B-17 bombers that were due to arrive as re- inforcements.5As a result, surprise was total and resistance initially very slight. Most of the troops were caught in their barracks, fast asleep. Rushing to their battle stations, they found the guns covered and the ammunition boxes locked. This explains why the ﬁrst wave of attackers only took light losses, but also why the second one suffered considerably more. These losses in turn led Nagumo to abandon his plan for launching a third attack wave consisting of aircraft that had returned from the ﬁrst. As it turned out, the attackers failed to sink the carriers of the U.S. Paciﬁc Fleet. Unknown to the Japanese, they happened to be absent on exercises. Still the sinking of several battleships and the damage inﬂicted on others left the Western Paciﬁc essentially a Japanese lake, where, over the next few months, the Imperial Navy did much as it pleased. Following their prewar plans, Japanese  strategists divided their war ef- fort between two prongs. One pushed southward by way of the Philippines (and Indochina, which was already under Japanese control) into British Malaya, the Dutch East Indies, and a n umber of smaller islands near them; here the objective was to seize raw materials, primarily rubber, nonferrous metals, timber, and oil. The other was directed eastward into the Paciﬁc. Here the intention was to capture as ma ny islands as possible as far away from home as possible and fortify them—which, of course, also meant preparing them for use as air bases—against an American counteroffens