ing about air warfare.23Later in this book we shall have occasion to see the “lessons” of the war being applied in subsequent ones: what part in the overall war effort that airpower should play, in what manner it should be waged, what kinds of targets it should focus on, what it could reasonably be expected to achieve, whether it could be morally jus- tiﬁed, and so on.24Meanwhile, though, there was still the Wehrmacht to beat. We left the Allied struggle to close the ring on the Axis in Europe at the time they invaded Italy, landing ﬁrst at Salerno and then at Anzio. T aking the Italian campaign as a whole, the performance of the Allied air forces proved disappointing. T o be sure, one German general writing not long after the war expressed the view that Allied air support at the beachhead, and later at the battle of Monte Cassino, was “magniﬁcent. ” He personally had witnessed the density of the bomb patterns, the accuracy with which they were delivered, and the destr uction they wrought. However, he also noted that “on entering a position immediately after the bombardment one would ﬁnd that, aside from a few exceptions, the guns, machine guns, and observation instruments were intact, and that even the effect on the men’s morale, which initially had reached critical proportions, wore off after theClosing the Ring 1411586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 141 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 52 --- initial experience. ” An “exact” check of the casualties inﬂicted by a “heavy” air attack near Monte Cassino showed that they were far lower than those caused by artillery. “ Apparently,” the general concluded, “an air attack ac- complishes its objective only to some extent if its effect on m