nter-killer groups made up of destroyers and other light naval132 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 132 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 43 --- vessels. The more time passed, the more technological progress and the introduction of more long-range aircraft limited the ocean spaces where submarines could operate in relative safety. Some historians claim that this factor was the most important reason why the Allies eventually came out on top.2As one German U-boat captain told his commander in chief, suc- cessful attacks on convoys were only possible as long as there were no Al- lied aircraft around.3 Another means for closing the gap were escort carriers—meaning small and relatively cheap ones—and so-called merchant aircraft carriers (MACs). The latter were simply merchantmen, often grain ships or tankers. They were converted for the purpose by being made to carry a catapult, a few antiquated Swordﬁsh biplanes, and a crane or two for lifting them out of the water once they had accomplished their mission. As often happens, their very simplicity and low cost caused them to be disliked by “real” navy commanders; no sooner had the war ended than the latter did what they could to make people forget they had existed at all. Nevertheless they were very effective. The record shows that no MAC-escorted convoy ever lost a ship to a submarine, nor was any MAC lost.4 Still other Coastal Command aircraft, operating from airﬁelds in the east- ern part of Britain, visited the submarine bases in an attempt to learn more about the submarines’ arrivals and departures. Often encountering intense anti-aircraft ﬁre, these aircraft suffered the heaviest losses. While many fac- tors playe