Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 58 --- to break the siege, although doing so cost them much of their heavy equip- ment. Now Goering told Hitler that the Luftwaffe might repeat the perfor- mance. Yet conditions were entirely different. Whereas the battle for Demyansk took place toward the beginning of spring so that the weather could be expected to improve, that for Stalingrad got under way just when winter was setting in. Whereas the troops at Demyansk needed a minimum of 265 tons a day to survive, the 220,000 at Stalingrad needed at least twice as much. Flying in and out of the city, the distances the aircraft had to cover were also much longer. Mobilizing every aircraft and every crew, braving nights that were be- coming increasingly longer, atrocious weather conditions, and growing So- viet resistance in the air and from the ground, the Luftwaffe, still ﬂying mostly obsolescent Ju-52s, did what it could. However, during the entire period when the air-bridge was in operation only once did it succeed in de- livering as much as 280 tons, whereas the daily average stood at a mere 90 tons. T oward the end, as more and mor e airﬁelds were lost to the advanc- ing Soviet columns, the Germans were reduced to dropping supplies by parachute, with the result that many were lost or fell into enemy hands. None of this could save the doomed Sixth Army; by the time it surren- dered, the Luftwaffe’s transport command, having lost almost 500 aircraft and many experienced crews, had received a blow from which it would never recover.35 The last occasion when the Luftwaffe on the Eastern Front was able to intervene effectively in the ground battle was at Kursk in July 1943, when it saved the German Ninth Army from encirclement and possibly annihi- lation. From this point on, in the air as on the gr