g as subcontractors to produce parts. In April there was a pause. Partly this was because LeMay had run out of ammunition; partly because, like Harris before him, he was made by his superiors to divert some of his bombers to other missions. This time it was to mine Japan’s straits and harbors. For heavy four-engined machines to operate on such a mission was somewhat of an innovation but one that, using their now stan- dard low-ﬂying tactics, they carried out with great success. By May, mines of various types were sinking three Japanese ships per day. In May, the city raids were resumed. As Japanese resistance dimin- ished, LeMay felt conﬁdent enough to mount some of them in daylight so as to improve accuracy. Even before atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the total number of Japanese his men killed ex- ceeded 300,000. Adding the injured, probably over 1 percent of the entire population was physically hit. The list of targets included T okyo again— after 56 square miles of urban land had been razed, the city was no longer considered worth attacking—as well as Yokohama. Losses went down to an acceptable 2 percent. As had happened in Germany, and as was also to happen in Vietnam 20-something years later, in time the heavy bombers, joined by medium ones and ﬁghter-bombers operating from Okinawa, turned their attention to smaller and smaller objectives. By July, cities numbering just 100,000–200,000 inhabitants were being hit. The last ones to be attacked during the early days of August had fewer than 50,000. Two months earlier, in June, LeMay had already warned the Army Air Forces commander, General Hap Arnold, that he was about to run out of targets. In the whole of Japan, there were no cities of any size worth bombing left.23 Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of the entire campaign was the vast scale on which it was conducted. Each of the dozens of city-burning mis- sions had to be prepared by many thousands of technicians and other per- sonnel. Eac