veld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 127 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 38 --- inﬂicted often yielded results very different from pilots’ reports.31Nor could the question always be resolved by means of photoreconnaissance; furthermore, a ground survey could only be contemplated by the side in possession of the battleﬁeld, and even the n it was often hard to carry out. T o this is added the fact that generals are extremely status conscious and tend to have huge egos. As Harris’s correspondence in particular demon- strates, they were not necessarily prepared to accept “a panacea plan de- vised by a civilian professor whose peacetime forte is the study of the sexual aberrations of the higher apes. ”32 In this respect, as in so many others, there may have been some differ- ences among the belligerents, and, pace Harris, of the ﬁve principal armed forces the ones most open to seek the advice of OR experts were those of Britain and the United States. Not accidentally, the societies they served were the least militarized and the ones that, in peacetime at any rate, held uniforms in relatively low esteem. Roosevelt and Churchill appointed sci- entiﬁc advisers, and some of their subordinates followed their example until having a scientist at one’s beck and call became something of a status symbol. On the other side of the hill, things were entirely different. Hitler never had a scientiﬁc adviser—with the result, as he himself commented, that he had to learn about the possibility of setting off a nuclear explosion from his postmaster general.33Many German and Japanese generals had too good an opinion of their profession, and of themselves, to allow civil- ians to tell them what to do. Little is known about the