13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 20 --- were left standing wingtip to wingtip on the aprons. Losses were immense and the confusion perhaps even greater; never in history has any air force met a worse disaster. For several weeks, even months, what operations the Red Army was still able to mount tended to be scattered, uncoordinated, frequently ineffective, and, at times, truly desperate. For example, large numbers of obsolete bombers were sent to attack the German spearheads and entire squadrons of them shot down like turkeys. As German intelligence had correctly per- ceived, a large part of the problem lay with the centralization of the com- mand system. Another was rooted in the fact that, before the war, the Red Army’s doctrine, whether the one centering on strategic bombing or the one that advocated deep operations, had been almost purely offensive. T aken by surprise by the outbreak of hostilities, the Stavka, the General Staff, in Moscow did not know how to use aircraft for defensive purposes. Stalin’s interference, which was always backed up by the not too remote possibility of drastic punishment for failure, did not help. By the time the battle of Smolensk was fought in mid-July the Red Air Force had fewer than 2,000 serviceable aircraft left. Still, as had also been the case in China and for many of the same reasons, Soviet air operations never came to a complete halt. Not every airﬁeld could be located and sub- jected to attack. Not every attack inﬂicted irreversible damage. So many aircraft having been destroyed on the ground, for a time the Soviets even had a surplus of trained pilots. Often operating under the most primitive conditions, they took off whenever they could, only to ﬁnd that their ma- chines, such as the I-16, Yak-1, and MiG-3 ﬁghters and the LaG-3 ground support aircraft, were no match for the Messerschmitts. In a wordplay on the manufacturer’s initials, the LaG-3 even acq