others similar to themselves. Provided only it had been located and identiﬁed, as far as the carriers’ aircraft could range no other vessel could sail without their captains’ permission. In most of the long series of operations that followed Midway, carriers formed the backbone of the ﬂeet. All other kinds of ships found themselves operating in such a manner as to protect them and support them. Light and escort carriers used their aircraft to cover the hundreds of convoys that crossed the Paciﬁc carrying troops and equipmen t. In the huge naval battles for the Philippine Sea ( June 1944) and Leyte Gulf (October of the same year), it was mainly carrier aviation that ﬁred at the enemy by bombing, launching torpedoes, and straﬁng. At the latter in particular, U.S. carrier aviation ﬁrst sank four Japanese carriers and then prevented the Japanese force of four battleships and eight cruisers in the San Bernardino Strait from mauling the American invasion ﬂeet. Lieutenant Donald Lewis, who piloted a160 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 160 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 71 --- Douglas Dauntless dive-bomber in the ﬁrst of these battles, recalled what it was like:8 Everywhere I looked there seemed to be ships with every gun blaz- ing. The sky was just a mass of black and white puffs and in the midst of it planes already hit, burning and crashing into the water below. It’s strange how a person can be fascinated even in the midst of hor- r o r ....  I  w a s  e m p l o y i n g  the wildest evasive tactics possible. I would be down low on the water and then pull up quick and hard rudder one way, hold it for a moment, then kick rudder the opposite way. I had decided it didn