establish improvised airﬁelds of their own. The Luftwaffe was also able to provide effective support to the ground forces in their ﬁght against the retreating Norwegians, particularly in the valleys between Oslo and Trondheim and Oslo and Bergen. The one thing it was unable to do was to prevent the British forces from being withdrawn; this was due above all to the near absence of specialized naval aviation as well as the fact that the Luftwaffe itself did not operate at night.6 On paper, the forces facing each other in the west appeared much more balanced than had been the case in Norway. The Germans had 3,578 aircraft— 1,563 bombers, 376 dive-bombers, 1,279 single-engine ﬁghters, 311 twin- engine ones, and 49 Schlachtﬂieger, or close support aircraft, in the form of Henschel 123 biplanes. Of those aircraft, 2,589 were operational. The Allies had 4,469, of which, however, only 1,453 were immediately ready for action.7The mystery as to why only 32 percent of the Allied aircraft in France, but a full 72 percent of the German ones about to attack them, could be thrown into the struggle is soon solved. Recalling the events of 1914–18, the French High Command believed that it was facing a long war in which the side with the last reserves would win. Hence they stationed almost three-quarters of their aircraft so far to the rear as to be out of the Luftwaffe’s reach. Unfortunately this meant that they were also unable to help in repelling the German invasion. Indeed not the least remarkable fea- ture of the “strange defeat,” as it has been called, was the fact that the Armée de l’ Air ended the campaign with more operational aircraft than it had at the beginning.8Qualitatively speaking, the Luftwaffe was about equal to the RAF but superior to the French, Belgian, and Dutch air forces. The French in particular did possess some modern aircraft, such as the Dewoi- tine D.520 ﬁghter, which were a match for the Messerschmitts.9However, owing to the above-mentioned consideration