r Monte Cassino showed that they were far lower than those caused by artillery. “ Apparently,” the general concluded, “an air attack ac- complishes its objective only to some extent if its effect on morale is im- mediately exploited by a ground attack. ”25 The remarkable thing about this campaign is that, from its inception in July 1943 to its end in April 1945, the Allies always enjoyed a very clear edge in the air. The few remaining Italian Air Force units in the area could do very little; the Luftwaffe, whose aircraft were increasingly diverted to protect the Reich, was not in a much better position. Another reason for this was that Allied radar worked so well that their ﬁghter-bombers were always able to elude the Axis ﬁghters trying to intercept them. Neverthe- less, if ever there was a campaign th at unfolded slowly and with great diffi- culty it was this one. It was really and truly a tug-of-war. In what was known as Operation Strangle, on countless occasions the Allied air forces bombed and strafed German communication lines, both rail and road, all over the country. Almost completely defense less from the air, all the Wehrmacht’s ground troops could do was to deploy anti-aircraft artillery and set up dummy motor columns, depots, loading site s, and the like. Still, Allied air- power never really succeeded in depriving them of so many supplies as to paralyze their ability to resist.26In particular, the vital Brenner tunnel, with- out which the Germans in Italy could not have existed, was never closed for long. The difficult topography, as well as the inability of Allied pilots to attack by night, both contributed to this. When the time came to invade northwestern Europe, airpower once again played a critically important role. The officer in charge of drawing up the preliminary plans, the British general Frederick Morgan, later explained how he went about it.27Dividers in hand, he ruled out any coasts that could not be effectively covered by ﬁghters operating