he case even as late as World War I.1Though the motorized and armored forces that saw their debut during that year can do much better, before and after 1939 rare were the occasions when large formations of this kind advanced more than a few dozen miles a day; even in 2003, while enjoying absolute domination of the air and faced with very little opposition on the ground, the Americans took three weeks to cover the 300 miles from Kuwait to Baghdad. By com- parison airpower, even the relatively primitive airpower available at the be- ginning of World War II, was able to carry war into the enemy’s deep rear within a matter of hours or less. Scant wonder it became the favorite in- strument in the hands of commanders intent on delivering the most pow- erful blow possible as quickly as possible. The story of the ﬁrst two years of the war in the air is largely that of the Luftwaffe’s offensives and the Allied attempts to respond to them. Among those Allies, the ﬁrst to feel the full weight of modern airpower were the 931586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 93 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 4 --- Poles. Outnumbered six to one at the beginning of the war, attacked simul- taneously from three sides, the Polish Air Force, like the rest of the coun- try’s armed forces, stood no chance; in fact, having dispersed its most modern machines in time, the best it was able to do was to escape destruc- tion on the ground. But supporting facilities such as hangars, repair shops, and ammunition dumps could not be so easily removed. All these were hit and, if not completely eliminated, had their capacity greatly reduced. Two days after September 1, the Polish Air Force had been broken up into small units wit