fenses were staffed not merely by men but by women and youngsters; in Berlin, a 16-year-old Hitler Jugend member noted in his diary how proud he and his comrades were to be called up and serve so that nobody could call them cowards.18T o this extent, bombing ac- tually helped the Nazis stiffen their people’s resistance. The Luftwaffe also built up formidable anti-aircraft defenses. By the end of 1942 there were over 200 heavy ﬂak batteries and 300 light ones. The number of troops was over 100,000; as had previously happened in Britain, a growing number of them were women.19In July–December 1942, whereas ﬁghters shot down 169 British bombers, ﬂak accounted for 193.20 Yet this was just the beginning. During 1943, the number deployed within Germany went up to 1,300 heavy and 728 light batteries. They were sup- ported by 395 searchlight batteries. In time, the quality of the defenses improved. Much heavier guns—up to 128-millimeter caliber—were in- troduced; ﬂak towers, providing unobs tructed vision and ﬁelds of ﬁre, were built; increasingly sophisticated radar sets were added; and the problem of coordinating with the ﬁghter units and thus preventing friendly casualties was tackled if never completely so lved. The ﬁrst three months of 1943 showed that, whereas ﬁghters and ﬂak each ﬁnished off about equal num- bers of bombers, taking into account damaged machines the balance in favor of the latter was nine to one.21Late in the war, after the Luftwaffe’s ﬁghters had been all but eliminated, ﬂak remained almost the only means by which the Germans could ﬁght back at all. Would the Allies have used their airpower to better effect if, in 1944– 45, instead of building thousands of bombers and sending them over the skies of Germany, they had focused on ground support as the Luftwaffe had done during the early years? Some authors think so, but proof is hard if not impossible to get. This particular problem may also be turned around; some authors argue that the greatest beneﬁt o