ffe had done during the early years? Some authors think so, but proof is hard if not impossible to get. This particular problem may also be turned around; some authors argue that the greatest beneﬁt of the strategic air campaign consisted less in any damage it inﬂicted on the German people and economy than in that it compelled the Luftwaffe to abandon its doc-140 The Age of Airpower1586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 140 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=665872. Created from columbia on 2024-10-12 13:57:35. Copyright © 2011. PublicAffairs. All rights reserved.  File: --- creveld_never.pdf --- Page 51 --- trine and focus on defending the Reich. Th is was taken to the point where, from mid-1943 on, many of its ground forces were left almost unprotected from the air, greatly facilitating the Allied advances on many fronts. Finally, was the U.S. method preferable to the British one, or vice versa? Again a deﬁnitive answer is very hard to get. One reason for this is that, in reality, precision bombing was not nearly as precise as its advocates claimed. Even according to the U.S. Official History of the Army Air Forces in World War II, the longer the campaign went on, the more the U.S. bombers found themselves engaged in RAF-  style area attacks.22 Historical truth is no doubt a very important thing to have. Neverthe- less, looking back, it would seem that the true signiﬁcance of these and sim- ilar questions does not consist of the answers that were provided for them either at the time or later. Instead, what matters is the fact that, for years and even decades after World War II had ended, they continued to form the framework for thinking about air warfare.23Later in this book we shall have occasion to see the “lessons” of the war being applied in subsequent ones: what part in the overall war effort that airpower should play, in wh