Page 24 --- potential did not translate directly into airpower. Depending on geography, national objectives, the characteristics of enemies and allies, doctrine, and so on, some belligerents put much greater emphasis on their air forces as opposed to the older two services. Some belligerents focused on relatively small and cheap single- and twin-en gine machines; others, again for vari- ous reasons, produced a greater number of large, heavy, and expensive four-engine ones. The precise mixture was not necessarily ﬁxed but might change sharply over the years. Brieﬂy, a detailed comparison of the number of aircraft produced by the various c ountries is both impossible and mean- ingless. On the other hand, since God so often supports the large battalions, there is no alternative to trying our hand at it in spite of all the difficulties. Not much needs to be said here about the two smallest powers, France and Italy. From 1937 until 1939 inclusive, France produced 4,288 aircraft against Germany’s 19,136 and Britain’s 12,920.2In the next year, the coun- try was knocked out of the war. French aviation ﬁrms such as Amiot, Morane-Saulnier, and Potez continued to work and certainly made some contribution to the Luftwaffe’s order of battle. However, for various rea- sons, productivity was abysmally low; it took four times as many man- hours to assemble the same aircraft in France as it did in Germany. Consequently the number of French-built aircraft that the Germans were able to put their hands on was rather small, never exceeding 100 per month. Much more important were French de liveries of bauxite and aluminum. Were it not for those critically important raw materials, the German aircraft industry could never have expanded as much as it did or maintained output for nearly as long as it did. Whereas the French economy assisted the German aviation industry to some extent, Italy and the Regia Aeronautica were a burden on the German one. As in France, production was carried out in