g  the wildest evasive tactics possible. I would be down low on the water and then pull up quick and hard rudder one way, hold it for a moment, then kick rudder the opposite way. I had decided it didn’t make any difference which way I went. . . . Any direction I went, I would still have to run the gauntlet. Whenever there was an amphibious invasion to be carried out, aircraft, launched from light and ﬂeet carriers, protected the naval task forces. They fought off counterattacks at sea and in the air, and struck at ground targets beyond artillery range just before the landings proper began. In principle, once an island had been occupied, carriers could also be used to transfer aircraft to it; even though, since many land aircraft could not take off or land on them, doing so usually required fairly extensive port facilities at both ends of the journey. Qualitatively, too, the advances of these years were impressive, and here again the Japanese were less and less able to match their enemies. During the early months of the war, U.S. carrie r commanders had experienced diffi- culty in coordinating their various types of aircraft as well as their anti-air- craft defenses. These problems are said to have played a role at Coral Sea in particular.9Later, things changed. The new Essex class carriers began joining the ﬂeet during the second half of 1943. Capable of carrying almost a hundred aircraft each, they bristled with anti-aircraft guns. Above all, they made good use of radar—both to direct their anti-aircraft ﬁre, which was becoming increasingly automated as new direction ﬁnders and ballistic cal- culators were introduced, and to ﬁght  at night. Since the Japanese did not have anything as sophisticated, within a short time they found themselvesFrom Carrier War to Grande Finale 1611586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 161 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbi