entary training, many volunteers made the mistake of going after all kinds of ships rather than focusing on the vital carriers. T o defend against the attack s, the carrier commanders themselves started ﬂying constant air patrols. That was an expensive tactic, but thanks to Allied technical superiority it was able to keep many Japanese pilots away from their intended targets. Needless to say, as each Japanese aircraft ap- peared, it was also met by ﬁre from every available anti-aircraft gun. The total number of attacks was probably around 2,800; they appear to have sunk anywhere between 35 and 60 ships, damaged 368 more, and killed or injured some 10,000 sailors.12On the whole, the campaign was not a suc- cess. By the time it was started, and even more so when it ended, the im- balance of forces between the two sides was simply too great.13 One thing that the relatively small naval aircraft, including carrier air- craft, were never able to do was to engage in strategic bombing. The Japa- nese tried it in China, but never to very great effect except, perhaps, in terrorizing the populations of cities such as Nanking. Even so, airborne ter- ror on its own achieved little, and it was left for Imperial Army units to enter the city and commit the famous “rape. ” The islands of Southeast Asia and the Paciﬁc contained few, if any, strategic targets worthy of the name. As the string of Japanese victories early in the war showed, the navy’s air- craft sufficed to help combat and occupy them. Japanese land- and sea- based aircraft even attacked Darwin, at the northern tip of Australia. Though the damage they inﬂicted, especially during the ﬁrst raid on Feb- ruary 19, 1942, was considerable, they did not really manage to disrupt the functioning of the town as a center for mining operations as well as a major basis for Allied troops. Lacking heavy, long-range bombers, the JapaneseFrom Carrier War to Grande Finale 1631586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 163 Va