le, and growing, ad- vantage), and sea- and air-reconnaissance. The enemy’s strength, location, course, and speed having been determined, quite often not without any number of errors, again it was a question of striking without being struck. In doing so the Americans were greatly assisted by the fact that, though they only had three carriers against the Japanese four, they used Midway itself as an unsinkable aircraft carrier. Thanks to this fact the Americans could deploy 362 aircraft versus the Japanese 254;7as it turned out, it was U.S. land-based machines that drew ﬁrst blood even though their opera- tions were not terribly effective. In the end, surprise determined the outcome at Midway just as, seven months earlier, it had at Pearl Harb or. Just as the Americans in December 1941 had been unaware of the Japanese approaching them, so, but with far less excuse, the Japanese in June 1942 were unaware of the presence of three American carriers. In fact Nagumo only learned of that presence after his planes returned from their ﬁrst mission against the island and reported. Next, though an entire squadron of U.S. torpedo bombers was shot down, it was American dive-bombers that were able to catch the Japanese with their pants down. Having lost four out of four aircraft carriers present (the Americans lost only one), the Imperial Navy was crippled. Never again was it in a position to mount an operation nearly as large as the one at Midway. Now it was the American forces’ turn to engage in a two-pronged advance, one leading northwest from Australia and one west from Hawaii. Their common destination was the Philippines, from which the invasion of Japan would have to be launched. As the Americans fought to conquer one island after another so as to get within striking distance of Japan proper, inevitablyFrom Carrier War to Grande Finale 1591586489816-Van Creveld_Layout 1  1/21/11  11:09 AM  Page 159 Van, Creveld, Martin. The Age of Airpower, PublicAffairs, 2011. ProQuest Eboo