ther empirical material concerning the effects of strategic bombings. The USSBS produced about 200 reports on Germany and almost as many on Japan. Although the USSBS was officially an “independent and scientific” study, it is important to highlight that a particular interest weighed on the decision to launch the study and the production of the reports. At that time, the United States did not have an air force. The majority of US “strategic” bombing had been carried out by Army air forces grouped in what was called the “Air Corps.” Senior Air Corps officers were eager to become autonomous from their parent organization, the Army. They hoped for the creation, after the war, of an independent air force similar to the British Royal Air Force. They were supported in this endeavour by the industries who produced the flying fortresses, notably Boeing and the Douglas Aircraft Company. For these companies, the creation of an air force with strate - gic forces appeared to be the condition for the perpetuation of contracts with the War Ministry after the end of hostilities. These airmen and industrialists formed an alliance in 1944 to convince the War Department and President Roosevelt to launch an evaluation of strategic bombing, the results of which they hoped to control in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of such bombing. Hence, “Senior air officers had spent the preceding seven months establishing the survey’s scope, framing its questions, and building an organizational framework that reflected the AAF’s conceptual approach to strategic bombing” ( Gentile, 2001 , p. 50). These airmen and industrialists formalized their lobbying activities in 1946 in a network hosted by the Douglas Aircraft Company: the “Rand Project,” the ancestor of the Rand Corporation created in the wake of the USSBS in 1948 ( Dafinger, 2018 ). As a matter of fact, the USSBS synthesis reports ‒ the only reports that had an impact on the public debate ‒ all concluded that the Allied strategic bombi