roup air force would ultimately be to ﬁght and win a war against theSoviet Union by relying heavily on conventional strategic bombing.Symington told the congressmen of the Air Policy Board: “The moreair you can get us, the happier we are.” 29 III The atomic bomb posed a different challenge to the navy and itspostwar interests. If the air force had to tread cautiously in dealingwith the atomic bomb, the navy struggled to demonstrate that it tooa-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 140 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 152 --- could include atomic weapons in its vision for the national defense. Naval officers did this by conducting their own public relationscampaign showing that the navy’s carrier-based airplanes had a roleto play in strategic bombing. Navy officers did not accept the airmen’s argument that strategic bombers like the B- 29and the air force’s newest bomber, the B- 36, had so radically altered “time and space” as to make the geographi-cal barrier created by the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans irrelevant forthe nation’s defense. One navy officer argued that naval aviationwas “the frontier defense of the United States.” In this line of think-ing, because the oceans still provided the United States with geo-graphical protection from enemy attack, the navy and its carrier-based airplanes would be able to operate on the edge of that “fron-tier” and protect the United States “from surprise attack.” 30 Admiral Ofstie told a 1948 Navy Day audience that he did not be- lieve the Soviet Union could launch a long-range conventionalbombing attack against the United States. The great oceans thatseparated Russia and the