the grip of historians. eliot cohen, 1992 After World War II, Bernard Bro- die and other defense analysts read, and often used, many of theUnited States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS) conclusions intheir postwar writings on military strategy and defense policy andorganization. The Survey’s published studies provided postwar ana-lysts with a wealth of evidence to support their wide-ranging argu-ments. The reports of the USSBS also helped the air force in its post-war fight for independence, and provided support to both the airforce and the navy in the fierce interservice battles over defensefunding in 1949. The “internal war” between the military services over defense dollars and organization turned to actual war in late June 1950 when North Korea attacked South Korea across the 38th parallel. The Korean War was indeed a very different type of war to theAmerican military, especially the United States Air Force. 1If the po- litical objectives of World War II that airmen helped to achieve werethe unconditional surrenders of Germany and Japan, the politicalobjectives of the Truman Administration in Korea were much morelimited. Instead of attacking what most airmen believed to be theroot cause of the war in Korea—the Soviet Union and later China—President Truman restricted the use of American air power to the 167 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 179 --- Korean Peninsula.2The airmen were thus limited to bombing a small number of strategic targets in North Korea and to supporting the ground operations of the army.3 When it came to evaluating the effects of air power in the Korean War, members of the Air Staff thought that an