d: “In the historicwords of the ‘Casablanca’ directive, it was the progressive destruc-tion and dislocation of the German military, industrial and eco-nomic system . . . to a point where . . . capacity for armed resistanceis fatally weakened.” This, according to the report, was “the under-lying concept on which all strategic operations of this Air Forcehave been carried out.” 43But the report omitted an important clause from the Casablanca directive, according to which the ulti-mate objective for the Combined Bomber Offensive was “The pro-gressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, indus-trial and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resist- ance is fatally weakened.” 44The Eighth Air Force memorandum omitted the clause that made morale an objective probably becauseit wanted to confirm in the minds of Survey analysts who read thereport the AAF’s approach to strategic bombing, which was subtlydifferent from that stated in the Casablanca directive. 45Survey ana- lysts, however, fully accepted the notion that the purpose of Ameri-can strategic bombing was to attack the war-making capacity ofthe enemy, and they conducted their evaluation with that concep-tion in mind. III A troubling tendency in post- 1945 writings on strategic bombing in World War II has been the conflation of the term area bombing (or area attacks, area raids, fire bombing, fire raids) with the termmorale bombing (or terror bombing, terror attacks, morale at-tacks). According to this line of thinking, when American bombersconducted an area raid against a German or Japanese city, it wasstrategic bombing against germany 64 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 200