ir Force Base, Ala.: Air University Press, 1955), argues that the influence of Douhet on American thought was “indirectly and directly substantial” ( 49). Robert Futrell in Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine: Basic Thinking in the United States Air Force 1907–1960 (Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala.: Air University Press, 1971), points out that many airmen in the 1930s were aware of Douhet’s theory of air warfare but were unwilling to acknowledge the Italian’s influ-ence because of the fear of political repercussions over an independent airarm and public reaction to Douhet’s advocacy of the direct bombing ofcivilians (39). The most recent analysis of Douhet by historian PhilipMeilinger, “Guilio Douhet and the Origins of Airpower Theory,” acknowl-edges Douhet’s influence on American air power theory and cites the airforce’s experience in the Gulf War as a vindication of Douhet’s general the-ory of air power in achieving command of the air ( 31). 8.Lee Kennett, A History of Strategic Bombing (New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1982), 57; Richard H. Kohn and Joseph P. Harahan, intro- duction to Douhet, Command of the Air , viii. 9.Finney, History of the Air Corps Tactical School ; Haywood Hansell, The Strategic Air War against Germany and Japan: A Memoir (Washing- ton, D.C.: USGPO, 1986), 13. 10.According to Douhet’s theory and the American conceptual ap- proach to bombing, strategic bombers might have to attack the enemy airforce either on the ground, in the air, or in production factories. But thiswas only the first step in achieving command of the air that would allowthe bombers to attack targets in enemy territory. 11.On William Mitchell and the development of American air power, see Mark L. Clodfelter, “Molding Airpower Convictions: Development andLegacy of William Mitchell’s Strategic Thought,” in Meilinger, Paths of Heaven, 79–114; Alfred F. Hurley, Billy Mitchell: Crusader for Airpowernotes to chapter 1 197 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learn