odifications, to destroy large quantities of war materialthat the Japanese would use to resist the American ground invasionof the home islands. 46 In one of its ﬁnal air estimates of the Paciﬁc war, “Principles for the Selection of Air Target,” the Joint Target Group developed a sophisti-cated theory of air power that manifested their belief in the necessityof invading Japan with ground troops. The estimate stated that a fun-damental of modern war was to use as early as possible “long rangeweapons of war [strategic bombers] to create conditions under whichengagements of enemy armed forces in being can be brief, decisive,and preponderantly favorable.” The use of strategic bombers, arguedthe JTG, “can best be described as preparatory.” The group’s estimatecautioned, though, that “long chance objectives,” like the basic in-dustries of a war economy, have a “high probability of achieving nosigniﬁcant success whatsoever” in preparing for the decisive engage-ment of the “armed forces.” The most promising objectives, therefore,would be the enemy’s “reserve position,” which consisted primarily ofwar material that the enemy’s armed forces could use to ﬁght the “de-cisive engagement.” 47 Brigadier General A. W. Kissner, chief of staff of Curtis LeMay’s XXI Bomber Command, disagreed. In fact he stated emphatically toGeneral Kuter that the JTG’s program for the XXI Bomber Com-mand’s strategic air campaign against the Japanese home islandsfailed “to recognize the potency of strategic air bombardment as a de-cisive force by itself.” Kissner did not want to split up his command’sstrategic bombing campaign into “‘preparatory’ and ‘participating’phases with respect to plans for invasion by surface forces,” as theJTG suggested. Instead he recommended to Kuter that the XXIBomber Command should “proceed according to its own time table”and not be made “contingent upon, land invasion plans. It is consid-the survey presents its findings 96 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bomb