strategic bombing operations to limit “replacements in certain weapons and materialsof war essential to the defense of the Japanese homeland.” GeneralSamford noted that the “dispersal of small industry throughoutcongested urban industrial areas [was] of such a high order that thisdispersed industry alone, if undeterred, could provide an increas-ingly significant volume of defense material.” These industrial areaswere “highly vulnerable to incendiary attacks.” The estimate alsorecommended that the AAF use precision attacks to destroy aircraftengine factories, weapons and ammunition arsenals, electronicplants, and thermal electric power facilities on Kyushu. The in-tended purpose for these different methods of attack was to lessenthe Japanese ability to defend the home islands against an Americanland invasion. 16 A February 1945 general analysis by the JTG stated its “concept of area attacks”: Area attacks, interpreted as attacks directed at concentrations of di- versified industrial/military facilities and/or housing, are effective pri-marily in terms of the relatively large amount of physical damage andproduction loss which they impose. Maximum loss will result from\successful attacks against target areas which combine high physicalvulnerability and important industrial facilities. 17 The objective for area attacks, according to the group, was “industrial concentration[s] in principal urban areas.” Within those “urbanareas” were speciﬁc war industries like aircraft production, steel fac-tories, and ammunition plants. The targets contained in the “indus-trial concentrations” could be attacked with incendiary or precisionbombing, depending on operational and target factors. Area attacks,therefore, were a method, like precision bombing, to destroy the warindustry in Japan’s largest cities. The JTG realized that area attackswould kill “workers.” But causing terror was not the primary purposeof area attacks, according to the JTG. Instead area attacks would pro-duce indus