d some com- ments on the future of air power.102His desire was fulfilled, at least for the time being. Although other senior AAF leaders did not make official com- ments on the European Survey reports that were published in thefall of 1945, many of those leaders did rely heavily on the them in the postwar debates over the unification of the armed services andthe independent status of the air force. 103General Spaatz’s biogra- pher, historian David Mets, tells us that Spaatz claimed to havenever read the Survey and “displayed limited enthusiasm” for it.But Mets acknowledges in his biography what the general mostlikely believed: the Survey’s evaluation of [Spaatz’s] work was in the main favorable. . . . It explicitly favored precision bombing. . . . It claimed that air-power had been a decisive factor in the war against Hitler. . . . Theconclusions of the USSBS on the correctness of precision bombingtheory matched those of Spaatz. . . . 104 The Survey in its evaluation of Allied air power against Germany confirmed the soundness of the American concept of strategicbombing, just what the airmen had intended it to do.strategic bombing against germany 78 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 90 --- chapter 4 ✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦ ✦ The Survey Presents Its Findings from Europe and Develops an Alternate Strategic BombingPlan for Japan General Norstad: Under the Circumstances that existed in Germany, the enemy’s capacity to resist would have been weakened by oil alone or transportation or by the combination of both to apoint where he had to quit? Mr. Alexander: Of course when you say “have to quit[,]” decisive doesn’t mean that completely. Ther