ess widely) their opinions.” 60the origins of the american conceptual approach 27 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 39 --- In their final study of 18January 1944, the Committee of Histo- rians expressed their opinion to General Arnold that by its nature modern war using strategic bombers was filled with imponderablesthat could “not be assessed.” The historians acknowledged thatthey could evaluate the effects of strategic bombing on certain Ger-man economic, military, and political factors. Yet they also realizedthat the relationship between cause and effect in war (in their reportthe cause being strategic bombing attacks on Germany and the ef-fect being Germany’s possible surrender) was filled with complexityand nuance, and in its essence impossible to determine. The historians also differed from other AAF agencies in their methodological approach to evaluating the effects of strategicbombing. The COA, for example, broke its members down into an-alytical subsections that reflected the American emphasis on attack-ing “vital links” in the enemy’s industrial structure. 61The Commit- tee of Historians not only studied strategic bombing’s impact onGerman military and economic factors (like the COA), but also in-cluded a systematic analysis of its effect on the German political sit-uation and on German morale, areas that the COA did not address. Analyzing the German economy, the historians stated that it was “suffering from critical shortages and qualitative deterioration ofconsumer goods—the result both of a rigid war economy and ofdevastating air attacks.” Even though Allied air attacks had greatlydamaged the German consumer