Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 76 --- necessarily morale bombing—with the morale of the enemy being the objective of the attack. The two terms are treated synonymouslybecause the results of area bombing apparently confirmed the no-tion that the enemy’s morale was the objective: Area bombing didcause indiscriminate destruction within a designated aiming area inGerman and Japanese cities, and area bombing did cause massiveterror and suffering to the enemy population. Hence, in this formu-lation, when the AAF carried out limited area bombing against Ger-man cities and extensive area bombing against Japanese cities, theobjective of those attacks automatically became morale. Historian Ronald Schaffer, in his important 1985 book Wings of Judgment, treats area and morale bombing as one and the same.Shaffer argues that the AAF was able to conduct Operation Clarionin February 1945 “because the people who strongly opposed morale and area bombing lacked the power to impose their views.” Or in another passage, Schaffer notes that the great number ofAmerican bombers and crews “toward the end of the war also con-tributed to U.S. terror and area attacks.” 46It is arguable whether the AAF, especially by the closing months of the Pacific war and thetorching of Japanese cities, considered morale to be the primary ob-jective for area bombing. 47But it is certain that AAF planners, oper- ators, and evaluators thought of area bombing as a method of drop-ping bombs on strategic targets in enemy cities. It was completelypossible, in their minds, to conduct an area attack against theenemy’s war-making capacity. Area bombing, therefore, was not al-ways synonymous with attacking morale. George Ball’s Area Studies Division noted that t