f strategic targets in North Korea and to supporting the ground operations of the army.3 When it came to evaluating the effects of air power in the Korean War, members of the Air Staff thought that another study like the World War II USSBS was unnecessary since the preponderance of air power used in Korea was “tactical interdiction.”4The Korean War did not fit airmen’s conceptual understanding of the primary use of strategic air power and therefore did not warrant a civilian-led evaluation on the scale of the USSBS. Neither would the nextlimited war fought by the United States after Korea. In 1965, as the United States was beginning its large-scale mili- tary involvement in the Vietnam War, erstwhile air force chief ofstaff General Curtis E. LeMay boasted that in order for the UnitedStates to win in South East Asia it should use strategic air power tobomb North Vietnam “back into the Stone Age.” 5LeMay ignored the relative fact that, compared with the industrial might of theUnited States, North Vietnam was already in the “Stone Age.” The World War II USSBS informed the airmen that the way to use strategic air power in Vietnam was to bomb the enemy’s war-mak-ing capacity. The American air chiefs believed that the air force’sapproach to fighting a strategic air war—shaped by the World WarII experience much more than by Korea—was adaptable to any typeof conflict, including a limited war in Vietnam. 6 As the war progressed, however, airmen were unhappy with the gradual, limited approach to bombing North Vietnam forced uponthem by their civilian masters. Rolling Thunder, the air campaignfrom 1965 to 1968 designed to apply incremental pressure on the North Vietnamese leadership, seemed wrong to air officers becauseit placed what they saw as artificial limits and restrictions on theuse of air power. According to airmen, Rolling Thunder did notallow the air force to apply overwhelming air power on a strategiclevel quickly and decisively against North Vietnam. 7 In 1972 Amer