evaluations of strategic bomb-ing that used scientific “calipers” instead of historical analysis. 75 “Calipers” grasped the imponderables of strategic bombing, tookthem apart, and discerned from them cause and effect. Historicalanalysis, like the one produced by the Committee of Historians, ac-knowledged the existence of imponderables but allowed them to re-main intact. The civilian experts who would come to fill the analyt-ical positions in the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, beingfully in line with the American conceptual approach to strategicbombing, adopted the “caliper” framework of analysis for theirevaluation of American strategic bombing in World War II.the origins of the american conceptual approach 32 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 44 --- chapter 2 ✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦ ✦ The United States Strategic Bombing Survey and the Future of the Air Force We can be sure that this concept will not be accepted by the nations of the world unless air power proves itself during the course of this war. frank m. andrews, March 1943 Our entire future air policy might well be determined from the [Sur- vey’s] report. laurence kuter, April 1944 Establishing the facts that proved the effectiveness of American air power in World War II would lay the foundation for a postwar independent air force. Senior AAF leaderslike Major General Laurence Kuter, the assistant chief of staff forplans, therefore, committed themselves to proving the efﬁcacy of airpower through a civilian-led, scientiﬁc evaluation of the Americanstrategic bombing effort against Germany. Civilian experts would beable to tackle the complex problems of strategic target a