ght © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 177 --- journalists like David Halberstam and I. F. Stone used selected por- tions of the Survey to support their criticisms of President RichardNixon’s bombing campaign against North Vietnam. 105More re- cently, the Survey has been used by analysts writing on the use of airpower in Kosovo and Yugoslavia. In an April 1999 editorial that heavily criticized NATO’s air campaign in the Balkans, the Nation, citing USSBS conclusions as proof, argued that the use of air strikeswould not break Serbia’s will. 106 The conclusions contained in the published reports of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey have tended to be perceived asfacts, rather than interpretations, of strategic bombing in WorldWar II. The Survey’s published reports, unfortunately, have taken on the mystique of “biblical” truth. Trying to tell the truth aboutair power in the Persian Gulf War almost a half century after theUSSBS completed its work, the analysts of the Gulf War Air PowerSurvey (GWAPS) understood that their conclusions were interpreta-tions, based on facts, about air power in Southwest Asia.a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 166 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 178 --- chapter 7 ✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦ ✦ A Comparison of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey with the Gulf War Air Power Survey [According to Pentagon gossip] it appears we are in the grip of historians. eliot cohen, 1992 After World War II, Bernard Bro- die and other defense analysts read, and often used, many of theUnited States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS) conclusions in