stie’s Naval Analy- sis Division’s published study, Campaigns of the Pacific War . The navy’s report was a calm, methodical narrative of the major navalbattles of the Pacific war. There were no grandiose claims about thedecisiveness of the navy’s antishipping campaign or of its carrier-based aircraft. The most sweeping conclusion, if one can call it that,was the following: By January 1945, Japan was in fact a defeated nation. . . . All hope of future resistance had depended upon oil and now the tankers were sunk and the oil cut off. . . . At home the bad news began to beknown and mutterings of negotiated conditional peace arose even inthe armed forces. Japan was defeated: it remained only necessary topersuade her of the fact. 80 This statement does not differ from observations found in other Pa- ciﬁc Survey reports: Japan’s economy had been broken before themain AAF attacks; the antishipping campaign had been decisive inJapan’s defeat; conventional strategic bombing had persuaded the po-litical leadership to realize defeat and accept unconditional surrender. The process of getting Anderson’s Air Campaigns of the Pacific War and Ofstie’s Campaigns of the Pacific War to the Government Printing Office for publication in late 1946 and 1947 demonstrates the powerful postwar interests of both the Army Air Forces and thenavy that operated within the Pacific Survey. The process alsostrategic bombing against japan 125 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 137 --- shows that the services’ representatives on the Survey, General An- derson and Admiral Ofstie, were not “evenly matched.”81Instead, the AAF clearly had the upper hand becaus