reased impor- tance of studying the amount of physical damage caused by strate-gic bombing. He recommended to D’Olier that the Survey reducethe size of the Physical Damage Division and direct its energy in-stead toward evaluating the effects of strategic bombing on the Ger-man war economy. As a result the Survey transferred most of theanalysts from the Physical Damage Division, under the directorshipof Harry Bowman, to other divisions. These transfers apparentlyupset one of Bowman’s assistants, Lieutenant Colonel John Bereta.Bereta sent a long letter to Bowman (who was in Washington, D.C.,at the time) complaining about Nitze’s desire to discredit the workof the division and remove most of its personnel. Bereta fumed thatbecause Nitze was a trained economist, he seemed to believe “thatweapons effectiveness can in some manner be ascertained from sta-tistical, economic and industrial data.” He noticed that Nitze wasbecoming impatient and annoyed with the division’s persistence instudying the physical destructiveness of strategic bombing. Beretawas sure that this was due to Nitze’s “not being a technical man . . .his life work has been economic in nature, beginning with a Har-strategic bombing against germany 68 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 80 --- vard education.” In the closing remarks of the letter, Bereta com- plained that he was “at a loss to express an opinion as to why theeconomic, industrial, and statistical phases of the Survey [were]being accented more than the physical damage phase.” 62 Part of the problem that Bereta and his division faced was the growing influence Nitze wielded among Survey members, especial