mbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 69 --- 1945 as the early work of the field teams began to produce data for division analysis: “To estimate the total economic effect, we have to compare Germany’s total output and available manpower withwhat they would have been in the absence of our bomber offen-sive.” As a guide to the field teams conducting data collection, thechairman’s office emphasized that “to determine what productionwould have been in the absence of bombing, we must start out byexamining the German plans for production.” It cautioned, how-ever, that “subtracting actual from planned output . . . will by nomeans yield the loss due to bombing.” Realizing the German pen-chant for meticulous record keeping, the chairman’s office admittedthat “the production plans of the Germans still remain the mostpractical starting point for determining what production wouldhave been if bombardment had not interfered with their production programs.” 14The Pacific phase of the Survey also featured counter- factual arguments over the AAF’s role in ending the war againstJapan. 15Speculations on events that might have happened in the past, and predictions of future events, were embedded in the Ameri-can conceptual approach to strategic bombing, and the UnitedStates Strategic Bombing Survey had its evaluation methodologyand conclusions shaped by that conception. Germany’s surrender in May allowed Survey field teams to move freely within the Allied occupation zone. 16Consequently, more and more evidence piled up on the desks of the division directors, whostarted to feel pressure from the chairman’s office to produce tenta-tive conclusions on the effects of strategic bombing. 17The directors had come to realize that to analyze the data and produce conclu-sions the Survey could not only rely on statistical evidence. 18Inter- rogations