een October and November 1945. The division’s experts used the statements on the completed questionnaires as their primarysource of evidence for their conclusions concerning the effects ofstrategic bombing on the economies of Japanese cities. 9Emphasiz- ing the importance of the interrogations of Japanese leaders, Gal-braith lectured Survey analysts in October to show more patience“with each interrogation to be sure that complete information is se-cured on any important points. . . .” 10 The data collection portion of the Pacific Survey went much faster than in Europe. While it took almost eight months to collectinformation on the effects of strategic bombing in Germany, the Pa-cific Survey did it in about three months. The intensive data collec-tion began in early October and ended when most of the Survey de-parted Japan on the navy ship USS Ancon in mid-December 1945. 11 There were three primary reasons for the speed of data collection:(1) the experience gained in Europe made Survey analysts in the Pa- cific much more efficient in collecting and processing information;(2) since the preponderance of data in the Pacific Survey was madestrategic bombing against japan 106 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 118 --- up of interrogations and questionnaires, analysts did not have to spend as much time interpreting voluminous production and statis-tical records; ( 3) Pacific Survey analysts could move about freely from the very start of their evaluation owing to the American occu-pation of the Japanese home islands. Nitze was so impressed withthe Survey’s work in Japan that he called it “the fastest moving,hardest-hitting post-w