l, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 149 --- attack. The solution, according to the article, was for the American people to form “atomic councils” and demand that their govern-ment authorize an “immediate activation of an Air Striking Forceadequate to blow out any aggressor” with atomic bombs. 19 General Spaatz told the editors of the Washington, D.C., newspa- per Evening Star that their ongoing writing on the importance of air power reﬂected “in large measure the interest of the American peoplein their security in this Atomic Air Age.” General Spaatz noted thatthe effects of the atomic bomb would have “far reaching” conse-quences on the American defense establishment. He closed the letterby suggesting to the editors that much of the “misdirection of thoughtand effort [concerning defense issues] could be eliminated if the NavalAir Force became a part of the United States Air Force. . . .” 20 Air force advisor W. Barton Leach recommended to Spaatz and Symington that they emphasize, when speaking in public, that theair force in peacetime must have a “long range striking force, capa-ble of delivering atomic weapons.” Leach pointed out that aggres-sors could “be deterred, not by defensive measures but by a force inbeing which can strike them hard and hurt them badly if they start afight.” 21General Spaatz’s successor as chief of staff of the air force, General Hoyt Vandenberg, told a “civilian seminar” in 1948 that the air force’s primary wartime mission was to launch an “aircounter-offensive” at the “earliest possible moment” with Amer-ica’s “most powerful weapons.” 22 Both generals, though, along with Secretary of the Air Force Stuart Symington, downplayed the importance of the atomic bomb in na-tional strategy when they briefed the Congressional Air Policy Boardin early 1948 o