le that the most efficient method of destroyingsuch precision targets is by area rather than precision attack. 59 The above passage from the Survey’s plan clearly demonstrates Nitze’s view that area and precision attacks were different methodsfor the AAF to bomb Japanese war-making capacity. According toNitze’s plan, the most effective way to destroy Japanese “end prod-ucts” (the JTG’s primary concern) was by precision attacks againstJapanese transportation that linked together the factories that pro-duced war material. However, Nitze cautioned that for the recom-mended bombing program to be decisive, it would “take time.” 60the survey presents its findings 99 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 111 --- The JTG disagreed with certain parts of Nitze’s plan. They placed greater emphasis on continuing the XXI Bomber Com- mand’s area attacks against Japanese cities to destroy “identifiedconcentrations of end product industries and stores, including am-munition storage.” The group believed that the targets contained inthese “concentrations” were “highly vulnerable to incendiary at-tacks.” The purpose of the raids, argued the JTG, was “to destroyby fire large quantities of war material produced and being pro-duced . . . thereby creating expenditures over which the Japanesecannot exercise control.” 61The JTG’s reliance on area raids to de- stroy Japanese end products reflected their belief that strategicbombing should be directed at ultimately preparing the way for asuccessful American land invasion of fortress Japan. The JTG did agree, though, with the high priority the Survey plan placed on attacking Japanese transportation. In