wn analysis of the American indus-trial system was somewhat “amateurish” and that target selection andassessment of “vital links” in the enemy’s industrial structure calledfor analysis by “the economist—the statistician—the technical ex-pert—rather than a strictly military study or war plan.” 29the origins of the american conceptual approach 18 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 30 --- II Since according to Douhet and Wilson the essence of air strategy was target selection, and since according to Hansell and Fairchildtarget selection for strategic bombing must rely heavily on civilianexperts, the logical conclusion then was that civilians—economists,industrialists, and technicians—were the most qualified to plan andevaluate strategic air warfare. As air officers became immersed inorganizing and operating the Army Air Forces to fight Germanyand later Japan, there was a growing reliance on civilian experts fortarget selection and evaluation within the Army Air Forces. Air officers also realized that evaluations would become the evi- dentiary base establishing the efficacy of strategic bombing and,they hoped, an independent postwar air force. General Henry H.Arnold, air power pioneer during the interwar years and AAF com-manding general during World War II, noted that the StrategicBombing Survey’s evaluation of American air power in the Euro-pean theater would “prove to be the foundation of our future na-tional policy on the employment of air power.” 30Civilian experts would come to play a crucial role in formulating air strategy, andtheir evaluations would assist the airmen in their postwar crusadefor an independent air for