eir minds, to conduct an area attack against theenemy’s war-making capacity. Area bombing, therefore, was not al-ways synonymous with attacking morale. George Ball’s Area Studies Division noted that there was a “mode” (method) and “objective” for area attacks on cities. The difference be-tween the methods of area and precision bombing, according to theArea Studies Division, was “in the size and character of the bomb pat-tern.” The objective of precision raids was the systematic attack on“selected classes of installations” (e.g., oil plants, aircraft plants, mar-shaling yards, etc.). In contrast, the objective of area raids was “urbancenters containing various classes of installation, civilian, military,and industrial.” 48Area raids meant the general destruction of thestrategic bombing against germany 65 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 77 --- city’s war industry, while precision bombing attacked speciﬁc indus- tries. The overall objective of both area and precision bombing,though, was still the enemy’s war-making capacity. There were a number of key factors that the Area Studies Divi- sion believed led to a reduced capacity to produce war materiel:“absenteeism; direct damage to plants; destruction of inventories;disruption of facilities; disruption of transportation; diversion of re-sources to repair and replacement; casualties; dispersal of indus-tries; [and] evacuation of [the] civilian population.” By using thesefactors, the analysts could then “compare variances betweenplanned and actual production of plants in raided areas with likevariances of undamaged plants in non-raided areas,” thus providinga reasonable indic