eral Lauris Norstad told the committeethat owing to the decisive results produced by strategic bombing ina-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 135 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 147 --- World War II, the Army Air Forces should be granted independent status within a unified defense establishment because it was the service best suited to carry out the revolutionary methods of strate-gic air warfare. To support his position, General Norstad used theconcluding passage from the Pacific Survey Summary Report that called for, “in addition to the Army and Navy . . . an equal and co-ordinate position for a third establishment.” 15 Yet a naval officer who testified to the committee shortly after General Norstad raised some troubling questions about pressureput on some Survey authors to reach conclusions claiming the deci-siveness of strategic bombing in World War II and the need for apostwar independent air force. The Pacific Survey’s Naval AnalysisDivision director, Admiral Ofstie, told the committee about hisfrustrating experience with the writing of the Pacific Survey Sum- mary Report . He provided draft versions of the Pacific Survey Sum- mary Report that showed the gradual shift from concluding that an independent air force was not desirable to the published report’simplicit call for a coequal air arm. 16The draft versions disclosed by Admiral Ofstie demonstrated to the committee the partial, not im-partial, nature of Survey conclusions. Military officers were not the only ones relying on Survey reports to support their positions in the unification debates. RepresentativeW. J. Dorn of the House Committee on Expendit