ound operations or to prevent the complete destruction ofher industries, her cities and her communications by aerial bombard-ment.” But the decisive event that would create the conditions insideof Germany to compel surrender would be the land invasion of theEuropean continent, argued the historians. 66 This was not the conclusion that either General Kuter or General Arnold wanted to hear, because it placed air power fundamentallyas an adjunct, or supporting arm, to ground power. In fact EdwardMead Earle, who had been overseeing the historians’ work, com-plained that the historians had been “one big headache” to him.Their final report, lamented Earle, was “highly unsatisfactory” tohim and also to General Arnold. 67Although General Arnold agreed with the overall Allied strategy that called for an invasion of the Eu-the origins of the american conceptual approach 30 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 42 --- ropean continent, he along with the senior ground commanders maintained the lingering hope that air power alone could force Ger-many to surrender. 68General Arnold also asked the Committee of Historians to compare the condition of Germany in 1943 with that of Germany in 1918 on the eve of its surrender in World War I. Per- haps he was trying to find a historical precedent for the surrender ofa major power in war before its home territory was invaded. 69The historians, however, concluded rather bluntly that the German sur-render of 1918 afforded “no real analogy with the present military situation” of Germany. 70 In his cover memorandum to President Roosevelt that went along with the historians’ report, General Arnold made