ork for strategic bombing during the 1930s. The first cru- cible for the airmen and their strategic bombing concept was WorldWar II, when high-flying bombers were used to attack the war-mak- ing capacity of Germany and Japan. The experience of strategicbombing in World War II helped the American Air Force preparefor “toe-to-toe nuclear combat” 1against the Soviet Union during the cold war. Strategic bombing was tried in the limited wars ofKorea and Vietnam, but it was a frustrating experience to airmen.More recently, technological improvements allowed the UnitedStates Air Force to conduct strategic bombing campaigns in theGulf War and Kosovo using bombs guided to their targets by lasers. Throughout its evolution, however, strategic bombing remained controversial because of the difficulty of proving its effectiveness.During strategic bombing operations, owing to the short amount oftime over the target and the distance separating the airplane fromthe ground, it has been hard to determine success or failure simplyin terms of physical destruction. And evaluating the effects ofstrategic bombing on vital enemy targets is especially difficult be-cause that evaluation requires not merely an assessment of physicaldamage but an analysis of the entire enemy system. In short, theoverall effect of strategic bombing on the enemy has not often beenimmediately apparent, sometimes taking an extended period of timeto manifest itself. In early 1944, well aware of the problem of prov- ing the effectiveness of strategic bombing, American airmen cameup with a way to deal with one of their most vexing problems. Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson officially established the United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS) in November 1944 to analyze the effects of strategic air power in the European theater.Later, President Harry S. Truman expanded the Survey’s scope tostudy all types of aerial war against Japan, including the effects ofthe atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In an atte