ew York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 51 --- quicker.” Implicit in Eaker’s response was that British area bombing directly attacked the will to resist while American precision bomb-ing attacked the means of making war. Although the RAF and AAFwere working together to attack Germany by air, they were carryingout two fundamentally different doctrines of air power, accordingto Eaker. 22 As the war progressed in Europe, the AAF conducted limited area attacks against the German war economy (and later, on a much largerscale, against Japan). The RAF, beginning in 1942, also used areabombing to attack the enemy’s war economy, but its primary purposewas to undermine the morale of the German population, speciﬁcallythe industrial workers. 23When American airmen themselves con- ducted area raids, they understood those raids to be a method of using strategic bombers to attack the war-making capacity of the enemy,which was the objective of the attacks. In the American conception, area or precision attacks would ideally also lower the morale of theenemy population, but morale was not the primary objective for pre-cision or area bombing, according to American airmen. 24Strategic Bombing Survey analysts would carry out this conception in their an-alytical approach and published reports. III In the earliest correspondence within the AAF over the primaryquestions that the Survey should answer, senior airmen posited thatthe Survey ought to determine the overall relevance of air power asa means of modern war. The Survey would provide the country withan evaluation of the “potentialities of Air Power as an independentinstrument of military strategy.” 25But once the airmen began to think through the questions that the Survey would address, the rele-vance of air power to military strategy was never really challenged.Instead, they began to construct an organization designed to evalu-ate the effectiveness of strategic bombing against German w