tp://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 110 --- would be sufficiently effective so that additional bombing of urban industrial areas would not be necessary.”57 The actual plan that Nitze wrote for the Survey in July 1945 called for top priority to be given to precision bombing attacks on Japanesetransportation and “an increased emphasis on the [naval] blockade ofthe Japanese home islands.” Next in priority would be a “concen-trated attack in a short period of time” on Japanese central ammuni-tion reserves. But the AAF should attack ammunition reserves, ac-cording to the plan, only if it had conﬁrmed intelligence that these re-serves were centralized at a few locations and that “a signiﬁcantportion of them” could be destroyed. Following the attack on ammu-nition, the plan called for the AAF to bomb electric power and nitro-gen production plants that they had not already destroyed by either“precision bombing attacks or by urban industrial concentration at-tacks.” Nitze also recommended in 1945 that the AAF bomb rice pro- duction in Japan with chemicals, thereby starving the people and elim-inating any “hope of long term resistance.” 58 Nitze gave a low priority to area attacks on industries in Japan- ese cities. The plan did not, however, omit this method of bombing,as Nitze implicitly suggested in his memoirs. Instead the plan rec-ommended that the AAF bomb urban industrial concentrations only insofar as operating considera- tions make it probable that there is a relatively small chance of hit-ting any of the precision targets listed above, selected as priority tar-gets, or make it probable that the most efficient method of destroyingsuch precision targets is by area rather than precision attack. 59 The above passage from the Survey’s plan clearly demonstrates Nitze’s view that area a