it now before it’s too late. I think I could ex-plain to Him that I had saved civilization. . . . This doctrine of waitinguntil you’re hit ﬁrst—even when you know the ﬁrst blow will kill you,is queer. . . . Right now, today, this nation is committing the greatest sinin history—the sin of not providing for the assurance and security ofour own posterity. Damn it! We are obligated to them. . . . There’s norealism here! . . . We’re at war, damn it! We want to call it a police ac-tion [the Korean War], but American lives and dollars and time arebeing lost in that action. It has all the features of war except the deﬁni-tion! . . . With it [the A-bomb], used in time, we can immobilize a foe,reduce his crime before it has happened. . . . If you take the heart outof the enemy’s body, you don’t have to cut his ﬁngers off. . . . Realism,oh, for a little realism in America before it is too late! 84 Anderson’s frightening remarks anticipated the deranged movie char- acter of “General Jack D. Ripper,” who on his own volition initiatesa preventive war against the Soviet Union, in Stanley Kubrick’s 1964 satire of American nuclear strategy, Dr. Strangelove. 85 The Anderson interview was in fact a very accurate representa- tion of the general’s view of air power strategy and his deeply feltbelief that the United States should launch a surprise attack on theSoviet Union to prevent it from attacking the United States first. Butfor stating those beliefs on strategy and preventive war in a publicforum, Air Force Chief of Staff General Hoyt Vandenberg relievedOrvil Arson Anderson of his post as commandant of the Air WarCollege. Even though a good number of other military officerswould have agreed with Anderson in private, stating those thoughtsin a public forum challenged the official policy of containing (notrolling back) the Soviet Union and terrified the majority of theAmerican people. 86Simply put, Anderson crossed the line by stating in public what he and many others believed about s