m-mendations for the AAF. Since, according to Perera, German frontlinemilitary strength—not the destruction of German industry—was theobjective for the AAF, the attacks on ball-bearing and airframe pro-duction were effective because they reduced the capacity of the Ger-man army to resist invasion. 89But Perera’s memoirs allowed the pres- ent to cloud the reality of the past. In December 1944, as the Survey was preparing to conduct its evaluation, Perera lectured new Surveyanalysts on the purpose of American strategic bombing. According toPerera, American air power intended to strike a blow “directly againststrategic bombing against germany 74 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 86 --- the industrial heart of the enemy [Germany], the mainsprings upon which its armies depend.”90The “mainspring” Perera referred to was, naturally, German war-making capacity. Judge Cabot’s interest in the chairman’s final report rested on his desire, as George Ball recalled in a letter to Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.,“to advocate drafting the survey report as a public relations effortfor the birdmen.” Cabot, as the Survey’s Secretariat, Ball charged,“rarely stirred out of London, and read little of the material turnedup by the Survey. . . . [He] was indubitably a barnacle on the rearend of objectivity.” 91Ball asserted that Cabot’s draft report proved to be “wholly inadequate. It was confused, diffuse and technicallyunacceptable. Its conclusions repeated the conclusions of individu-als attached to the Survey who, because of their previous work withthe Air Force, had a vested interest in the vindication of certain as-pects of the air offensive.” 92Th