urvey conclusions. Military officers were not the only ones relying on Survey reports to support their positions in the unification debates. RepresentativeW. J. Dorn of the House Committee on Expenditures in the Execu- tive Department obtained a number of unpublished Survey interro-gations of key Japanese and German military and political leaders.The congressman provided a litany of statements made by these in-dividuals attesting to the importance of strategic bombing in defeat-ing Germany and Japan. The excerpts that Congressman Dorn usedalso expressed the notion that both Germany and Japan would havedone better in the war if they had had an independent strategic airforce. He included in the hearing record the conclusion from the Pa-cific Survey Summary Report about the need for a “third establish- ment” that would be responsible for strategic air power. The Sum- mary Report’s  conclusion supported Dorn’s desire for an air arm of coequal status with the army and navy. 17a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 136 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 148 --- Although President Truman signed the unification of the armed services into law in July 1947, there remained strong disagreements between the services over roles and missions. In the summer and fallof 1948, service leaders met with Secretary of Defense James Forre- stal at Key West, Florida, and Newport, Rhode Island, to iron outsome of these problems. Although the meetings did reduce tensions,important questions remained unanswered over which servicewould control the atomic bomb and the method for dropping it in apotential war against the Soviet Union. II The atom