an theater.Later, President Harry S. Truman expanded the Survey’s scope tostudy all types of aerial war against Japan, including the effects ofthe atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In an attempt tokeep the Survey’s findings impartial, prominent civilians were ap-pointed as directors of most of the Survey’s divisions. The key direc-introduction 2 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 14 --- tors of the Survey were Franklin D’Olier (Chairman), Henry Alex- ander (Vice-Chairman), George Ball, Paul Nitze, John Kenneth Gal-braith, Admiral Ralph A. Ofstie, and General Orvil Arson Ander-son. The final studies, completed and published in late 1945 through 1947, numbered over 330 reports and annexes; the amount of research and statistical data is staggering. In 1991, forty-four years after the last USSBS reports were published, Secretary of theAir Force Donald B. Rice commissioned another extensive, civilian-led evaluation of American Air Force operations in the Persian GulfWar: the Gulf War Air Power Survey (GWAPS). The chairman for the GWAPS Review Committee was Paul Nitze. Two scholarly writings on the combat use of the atomic bomb against Japan, and the Pacific Survey’s counterfactual conclusion onJapan’s surrender, sparked my interest in the evaluation of Ameri-can air power. The argument that President Truman dropped thebomb on Japan not to end the war (because he knew Japan wouldsurrender soon) but to intimidate the Soviet Union, 2seemed flawed to me at an intuitive level. Moreover, the Survey’s counterfactualconclusion stating that Japan would have surrendered, even with-out the atomic bomb, “certainly prior to 31Dece