anese schol-ars’ findings as well as other evidence challenging the Survey’s inter-pretation of Japan’s decision to surrender. V Not tucked away in the midst of published Survey reports was theJuly 1947 study produced by Orvil Anderson’s Military Analysis Division, Air Campaigns of the Pacific War. Making the same points that he made in his July 1946 memorandum to the secretary of war on the Summary Report, Anderson’s Air Campaigns sought to bludgeon the “American Public” into accepting the idea that the na-tional defense establishment had to be “oriented toward airpower”and that the future of air power must “not be restricted, as inpre–World War II years, by the inertia of established organizationsor personalities.” Anderson’s report argued that the experience ofWorld War II proved that:strategic bombing against japan 124 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 136 --- Airpower dominated its own element. Airpower dominated naval warfare.Airpower dominated ground warfare.Airpower was capable of forcing the capitulation of an enemy nation without surface invasion. 79 Anderson’s pamphletlike report, with its blatant air force parochial- ism, was certainly different in style and reasonableness of tone fromthe other Pacific Survey published reports. Yet it nevertheless re-flected accurately the overall partiality of the Strategic BombingSurvey toward air power and an independent air force. In stark contrast to Anderson’s report was Ofstie’s Naval Analy- sis Division’s published study, Campaigns of the Pacific War . The navy’s report was a calm, methodical narrative of the major navalbattles of the Pacific war. There were no grandi