ill of Germany to wage war.” Thiswould be accomplished, according to Hansell, by “destroying thewar-supporting industries and economic systems upon which thewar-sustaining and political economy depended.” 38 III From late 1942 to the end of 1943 the AAF put into practice its the- ory of strategic bombing in the skies over France and Germany. TheAAF’s Eighth Air Force began bombing operations out of bases inBritain in August 1942 by attacking German submarine pens in the coastal waters of France. While conducting these early operations,American airmen realized that their prewar idea of having largebombers fly over enemy territory without fighter aircraft protectionthe origins of the american conceptual approach 21 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 33 --- was wrong. In August and October 1943, respectively, the Eighth Air Force conducted two large-scale bombing missions against ball- bearing factories in Schweinfurt, Germany. But without their ownfighter protection the bombers suffered prohibitive losses to Ger-man fighters. With the arrival of substantial numbers of new Amer-ican fighters, the P 51Mustang, the airmen were able to resume their full-scale attack on the German war economy in February1944. As the airmen of the Eighth Air Force worked through thetactical and operational procedures of strategic bombing, they gavemore attention to strategic target selection and evaluation. 39 But the selection of targets produced by the AAF’s military and civilian intelligence sections created a good deal of controversy.Some airmen believed that the analyses were too pessimistic in theirappraisal of the effect that target destru