knowledged at the beginning of the lecture that “it maywell be possible for air attack directly on the civilian populace todestroy morale—provided of course that the air force can strikesoon enough and hard enough.” But, Fairchild asked, “how hard, ishard enough?” Whether it was possible to break the will, or morale,of an enemy nation, based on the limited experience with Japaneseattacks on Chinese cities, was in the realm of an imponderable, as-serted Fairchild. In fact attacking morale directly by killing people,as he put it, might have the effect of increasing “the morale of thenation as a whole.” Fairchild thus concluded that “for all of thesereasons the School advocates an entirely different method of attack.This method, is the attack of the National Economic Structure.” 24 According to Fairchild, a nation had to possess “a highly organ- ized and smoothly functioning economic system, to carry on war inthe modern way. The capacity to wage modern war is definitelyfixed by the capacity of the national economic structure to providethe raw materials and to connect these materials into the sinews ofwar.” Although efficient in peacetime, the economic structure inthe origins of the american conceptual approach 17 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 29 --- war would be highly susceptible to the application of strategic bombing. Air power could apply, as he put it, “the additional pres-sure necessary to cause a breakdown—a collapse—of this industrialmachine by the destruction of some vital link or links in the chainthat ties it together, constitut[ing] one of the primary, basic objec-tives of an air force—in fact, it is the opi