eek to confirm it. orvil arson anderson, 1945 At a Survey directors’ meeting on 1April 1945, Franklin D’Olier expressed his amazement that the “Air Corps should have given us this job with no qualifications . . . at no time has there been the slightest inclination to interfere withus. They want us to find out what the facts are from an absolutelyimpartial civilian point of view.” 1D’Olier was naively correct. The Survey did conduct an “impartial” civilian-led evaluation of strate-gic bombing, but that evaluation was shaped by the AAF during theyear prior to D’Olier’s conference with his civilian directors. Between January and March 1945, the Survey had grown into an organization of approximately three hundred civilian and eighthundred military analysts and support personnel. When Germanysurrendered in May 1945, Survey field teams were inspectingbombed targets in France and Germany and gathering extensivedata on the German wartime economy. Survey analysts came to re-alize, though, that statistical data told only part of the story. Theyturned to interrogations of important German officials to fill in the 54 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 66 --- gaps. By August 1945, John Kenneth Galbraith, George Ball, Paul Nitze, and the other directors had moved back to Washington,D.C., to craft their final division reports. Some of them were alsopreparing to continue their work in the Pacific. 2 To write those final reports they had to develop an evaluation methodology to gauge the impact of strategic bombing on Germanwar-making capacity. If the Survey’s mandate had been only to as-sess the amount of physical destruction caused by st