n the famous 1925 Scopes trial, the Bible was only one of many truths that purported to explain the origins of man. And theSurvey contains the truth about the effects of strategic bombingintroduction 4 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 16 --- against Germany and Japan as the writers of its reports discerned that truth through their own attitudes and biases. Writing on the use of airpower in the Persian Gulf War almost ﬁfty years later, the analysts ofthe Gulf War Air Power Survey told the truth about air power, as theyperceived it, but with a more subtle understanding of the policy im-plications of their published volumes. 6 The ﬁrst, and only, book-length study of the USSBS, David MacIsaac’s Strategic Bombing in World War II: The Story of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, did not appear until 1976.7 It is ironic that such a study was so long in coming, considering the in-ﬂuence the Survey was having on postwar scholarship and journalism.MacIsaac accepted the ofﬁcial premise that the Survey conducted anobjective and impartial study of strategic bombing because civiliansheaded it. Many analysts in postwar writings, therefore, have usedMacIsaac’s book as a scholarly conﬁrmation of the Survey’s purportedimpartiality, thereby reinforcing the aura of “biblical truth” sur-rounding the Survey’s conclusions concerning strategic air power inWorld War II. As a collection of documents, as an establishment organization, and through the ideas of its civilian and military analysts, theUnited States Strategic Bombing Survey reflected the American con-ceptual approach to strategic bombing. Two fundamental tenetsformed the Amer