refore, had to couchtheir crusade for an independent air force (an air force that they un-derstood fundamentally as an offensive weapon) in the rhetoric ofdefensive military policy that coincided with the isolationist temperof the American public. 16 In 1937, Major General Frank M. Andrews, commanding gen- eral of the Army Air Forces, supported a congressional bill to makethe origins of the american conceptual approach 14 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 26 --- the air arm independent from the army. The general stated in a memorandum to the army adjutant general that the rapid evolutionof bombardment aviation in other threatening nations throughoutthe world had convinced him “that a safer state of national securityand peace can be insured more positively and sooner, through thedevelopment of air defense and the Air Forces which make possiblesuch defense . . . on a basis coequal in authority with the Army.”The implication of General Andrews’s statement was that the pro-posed independent air force would use its airplanes in a defensiverole: to engage and destroy enemy aircraft in the air as they at-tempted to bomb American cities. This was not primarily the wayGeneral Andrews and other airmen intended to use an independentair force. The general went on to acknowledge in the same memo-randum that the modern bombardment airplane existed to attackthe enemy nation’s “vital organs.” To keep a potential enemy fromattacking the “vital centers” of the United States, General Andrewsargued that the airplane is an engine of war which has brought into being a new and entirely different mode of warfare—the application of Air Power.. .