:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 227 --- draft report happened, but it is referred to in too many other sources to dismiss. Hershberg, in James B. Conant (611– 12), discusses it in the con- text of the 1949 attempt by the Harvard Board of Overseers (of which Cabot was a member) to block Galbraith’s appointment as professor. Atissue, ostensibly, was Galbraith’s “intellectual dishonesty” when he chal-lenged Cabot’s version of the Survey chairman’s final report. Hershbergpoints out, however, that attempting to prevent Galbraith’s appointment asHarvard professor had more to do with Galbraith’s liberal politics than hiswork on the Survey. Nevertheless it was Galbraith’s challenge to Cabot’sdraft report and his purported “intellectual dishonesty” that the Harvardboard used in 1949 to determine whether or not he would attain professor- ship. The result was a number of memorandums written by Galbraith in1949 that explained the controversy over the writing of the chairman’s final report as well as a series of letters between Galbraith and other Sur-vey directors that addressed the early September 1945 controversy. I will therefore rely on these documents heavily when discussing the controversyover the chairman’s final report. 77.Untitled and undated [remarks on exhibits for the appointment of Galbraith as professor of economics at Harvard, October 1949], box 70, Harvard University File, Galbraith Papers. Galbraith’s abrasive personalityalso seems to have contributed to the tension. He clearly did not get alongwith Cabot and Perera, yet his relationship with Orvil Anderson was gen-erally positive. Galbraith recalled his “relationship with Anderson withsome pleasure.” Anderson was quoted as saying, “I think Galbraith wasone of the most valuable men on the Survey, if not the most valuable.” Seememo from Galbraith, 19October 1949, box 70, Harvard University File, Galbraith Papers; Ramsey Potts to Gal