elt sent a letter to Secretary Stimson on 9Sep- tember 1944 formally requesting that he organize a study of the Combined Bomber Offensive; its value, according to the president,“depends on the quality and impartiality of the group selected tomake the study. . . .” 40About two months later, on 3November, Stimson in turn sent a formal request to Franklin D’Olier askinghim, “pursuant to the President’s letter [of 9September],” to headthe united states strategic bombing survey 45 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 57 --- “an impartial and expert study of the effects of our aerial attack on Germany and report thereon.” D’Olier agreed, and the Survey wasofficially under way. 41 V Franklin D’Olier, president of Prudential Life Insurance and firstnational commander of the American Legion, however, was not thefirst choice for chairman of the Survey. Arnold and Spaatz had ini-tially tried to get Harvard University president and National De-fense Research Committee member James B. Conant to take thepost. 42Conant declined because Vannevar Bush, director of the Of- fice of Scientific Research and Development, would not approve hisrelease. 43Other prominent civilians considered by Arnold and Spaatz were New York Times publisher Arthur Sulzberger; Donald David, dean of the Harvard Business School; Robert Sproul, presi-dent of the University of California; and Karl T. Compton of MIT. 44 They all declined for various reasons. Some may have turned downthe job out of doubts about the very impartiality the senior airmenwere claiming. John Kenneth Galbraith, who would become headof the Economic Division of the Survey in February 1945, explai