eat damage to the urban workforce and socialstructure. According to the report, absenteeism of workers, directlycaused by air raids, turned an already critical situation into one ofcomplete desperation. The air raids also caused widespread destruc-tion and deprivation not only in the cities but throughout theJapanese homeland. 72But when it came to assessing the effective- ness of the area attacks on Japanese war production, this reportstrategic bombing against japan 121 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 133 --- became less favorable to area bombing. Indeed, the report’s recur- ring theme was that the Japanese economy was already defeated be-fore the AAF began its air campaign: “As in Germany, the air at-tacks against Japanese cities were not the cause of the enemy’s de-feat. The defeat of Japan was assured before the urban attacks werelaunched. . . . The insufficiency of Japan’s war economy was the un-derlying cause of her defeat.” 73This conclusion, which downplayed the effectiveness of urban area attacks on Japan’s war production,was often followed, strangely, by statements giving much weight tothe importance of area attacks in lowering Japan’s morale and willto resist: “The raids brought home to the people the realization thatthere was no defense against the Allied aircraft; that nothing couldprevent the wholesale destruction of every inhabited area in Japanand that further resistance was futile.” 74The implicit argument here was that urban area attacks had a more decisive impact on moralethan on Japan’s war economy. But the Pacific Survey report The Effects of Strategic Bombing on Japanese Morale argued that lowered