n often noted that the Survey would bring out “the accom-plishments and potentialities of Air Power as an independent instru-ment of military strategy.” 28The Survey would do this by evaluat- ing the effects of strategic bombing on the German war economy. Once the Joints Chiefs of Staff had formed the Joint Target Group (JTG) in the fall of 1944, it too provided Survey planners with a set of questions that it desired to have answered concerningthe effectiveness of strategic bombing. Since the JTG’s purpose wasto provide centralized strategic target planning for the AAF in theFar East, it appreciated the opportunity for a “scientific evaluationof the effectiveness of air attack under battle conditions againststrategic targets” that could be applied to “target selection anddamage assessment in the Far Eastern Theater.” The JTG was mostinterested in a comparative study of American precision attacks andRAF area attacks against German cities. The JTG wanted the Sur-vey to determine the “loss of production in plants and industriesfrom precision attacks by U.S. Strategic Air Forces [and the] loss ofproduction from RAF area attacks.” 29 Although the JTG did not ask the Survey to study strategic bomb- ing effects on German morale, other AAF agencies did. But interest-ingly, they wanted the Survey to study morale not in terms of the col-lective will to resist of the German people, or the political will of theNazis to continue ﬁghting under strategic bombing attacks. Insteadthey thought the Survey should determine how lowered moraleamong individual German workers affected Germany’s war economy.The AAF’s air inspector, for example, wanted to know “what effectstrategic and tactical bombing had upon morale as it affected war pro-duction.” When recommending the types of civilian experts thatshould man the Survey, the air inspector called for a number of soci-ologists “to study the effect of bombing on the capacity of families tothe united states strategic bombing survey 42 Gentile