24-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 123 --- His answer to this question was clear: “Since airpower is the only force capable of being launched directly against the enemy econ-omy, it has become the primary weapon and must dictate the futurestructure of our armed forces and the overall strategy of anotherwar.” Anderson’s draft charged that if the nation did not heed theSurvey’s “recommendations” for an independent air service, the fu-ture would be “fraught with grave warning. . . .” 32 Admiral Ralph A. Ofstie, director of the Pacific Survey’s Naval Analysis Division, recalled that the Survey’s secretariat, WalterWilds (who replaced Judge Cabot in the Pacific), believed that all of the Survey directors were “convinced of the desirability of settingup a separate air establishment.” Yet for his part, Ofstie “expresseddifficulty in understanding how the Survey had arrived at its [im-partial] conclusions relative to a separate air department particu-larly when it so exactly coincided with Air Force proposals.” 33Of- stie did everything he could to move Nitze and other Survey direc-tors away from what he called the air force’s “party line” andtoward the postwar interests of the navy. 34Those interests did not embrace an independent air force, because an independent air forcecould possibly subsume the navy’s carrier-based aircraft. Ofstie was unhappy with some of the conclusions and recom- mendations of an April draft of the Summary Report that Nitze had written. The draft pointed out in a section on “the impact of theatomic bombs on the role of airpower” that the bombs “raised thedestructive power of a single bomber or guided missile” by a hugefactor. Ofstie commented on the draft’s margin that he had “neverheard” of employing atomic bombs on “guided missiles.” 35He later recalled that exploring the potential use of “guided missiles” wasnot within “the purview of the Survey.” 36Ofsti