owever, crafted to “make specificrecommendations for future policy.” 73 The GWAPS volumes certainly acknowledged the achievements of air power in the war against Iraq, but they also pointed out thea comparison of surveys 189 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 201 --- shortcomings. The Command and Control volume, for example, concluded that the American air force “did win an overwhelming victory” in Desert Storm. But the primary authors of the volume(Thomas C. Hone, Mark D. Mandeles, and Lieutenant Colonel San-ford S. Terry) cautioned that the advanced technology used in theGulf War by the air force to “solve old command and control prob-lems” had in fact “created new problems” in managing air powerassets in combat. 74Williamson Murray, the principal author for the Operations volume, agreed that the air campaign was decisive and “destroyed whatever willingness” the Iraqis might have had to fighta ground war against the American-led coalition. But like the au-thors of the other GWAPS volumes, Murray warned against claim-ing too much for the air campaign: “In the end, the campaign wasrelatively successful, but only because the time and air assets thatwere available to attack those enemy forces were almost limit-less. . . .” 75The GWAPS volumes thus brought out both the good and the bad of the American-led air campaign against Iraq.76 So too did the USSBS’s evaluation of strategic bombing in World War II. Yet the conclusions drawn by the USSBS were shaped and influenced by the powerful postwar interests of the AAF. For theGWAPS in the early 1990s there were clearly similar air force inter-ests at work trying to affect the out