e the invasion of Japan possible; theGround Forces had the power to make it successful and the B- 29 made it unnecessary.” The essence of General Doolittle’s argumentwas that strategic air power had changed the face of warfare by ob-viating the need for a ground invasion of the Japanese home islands.The past, argued General Doolittle, proved that “Air, due to the fa-cility and speed with which we move through it and the inherentlimitations of land and sea, is the medium through which theweapons of the future will travel.” 9 Throughout 1946 and into 1947, the battle lines hardened be- tween the air force and the army on one side, and the navy on theother, over the unification of the armed services and the independ-ent status of the air force. The festering issue of naval air power wasat the center of debate between the air force and the navy. In a November 1946 speech to the Air Force Association, Gen- eral Doolittle wondered why the United States needed “two aira-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 134 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 146 --- forces any more than we need two armies or two navies.” He fur- ther stated: “All land based planes must be under one command inorder to achieve not only the most economical air power possible,but the most effective air power possible.” That “command,” notedDoolittle, would be an independent American air force. 10General Spaatz insisted to the Joint Chiefs that the air force should subsumeall naval land-based aviation. 11The navy’s budget for 1947 con- cerned Secretary Symington because of the navy’s demand for “landbased planes to protect their ships. . . .” Symington remin