, though, along with Secretary of the Air Force Stuart Symington, downplayed the importance of the atomic bomb in na-tional strategy when they briefed the Congressional Air Policy Boardin early 1948 on the air force’s proposed seventy-group program. Since the end of World War II, the seventy-group air force had cometo deﬁne what the airmen believed to be adequate air power for thenational defense. The core of the seventy-group program was twenty-ﬁve very heavy bomber groups that could deliver a conventional,strategic bombing attack against the Soviet Union, and possibly anatomic attack as well. 23General Vandenberg told the congressmen of the Air Policy Board that the seventy-group program that he was rec-a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 138 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 150 --- ommending dealt solely with “conventional types of bombs, and [did] not include atomic weapons, which should be regarded as a comple-ment to conventional bombs, rather than as a basis on which an en-tire plan should be built.” That seventy-group program, which wouldcost $7.5 billion, was the “minimum force” that the United States should maintain in peacetime, argued General Vandenberg. 24 During the discussion period that followed General Vandenberg’s presentation, the first remark made by Congressman John Hinshaw,the board’s head, pointed out that the general’s presentation “omit-ted any mention of the use of atomic weapons.” This was perplex-ing to the congressman because of all the published statements hehad read touting the exceptional power of atomic weapons as com-pared with conventional bombs. Congressman Hinshaw noted that