japan 118 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 130 --- American negotiations with the Soviet Union in Paris, raised a ques- tion about the Summary Report’s early-surrender counterfactual. In a letter to Locke, Wilds reminded him that Acheson had read theSurvey’s analysis on Japan’s surrender decision and held “certainreservations with respect to making public at this time the sectionsdealing with Russia’s role in the Pacific war.” 61Acheson was proba- bly worried about the Soviet response to the counterfactual conclu-sion that Japan would have surrendered “even if Russia had not en-tered the war.” Locke himself was concerned about the Survey’s early-surrender counterfactual. Wilds noted that Locke had discussed with him“certain points,” “especially the language in the surrender reportwhich describes the role of the atom bombs in terminating thewar.” 62On several drafts of the Summary Report in Locke’s “Strategic Bombing Survey” folder there are handwritten questionmarks in the margins next to the early-surrender counterfactual. 63It is unclear who placed those question marks on the drafts. Probablyit was Locke himself and not the president. Locke told the presidentthat he had been following the Survey reports closely and had goneover “the preliminary drafts” and had advised the president “to thebest of [his] ability.” 64 President Truman met with D’Olier and Nitze on 29March 1946 to discuss their conclusions.65No transcript exists for this meeting. It is possible, though, that they talked about the necessity of usingthe atomic bombs to force Japan to surrender. In a May letter to thepresident, D’Olier asked him to recall fr