ng in Europe, theSurvey did not question the relevance of air power but only assessedthe degree of strategic bombing’s effectiveness. 2 From March to November 1944, AAF officers shaped the ques- tions that the Survey would answer and constructed an organiza-tional framework that reflected the American strategic bombingemphasis on attacking national economic structures. By the timeSurvey directors like lawyer George Ball, financier Paul Nitze, andeconomist John Kenneth Galbraith began their evaluation in early1945, the AAF had already established the parameters for an evalu-ation of strategic bombing. Those parameters would fundamentallyshape the conclusions that the Strategic Bombing Survey wouldreach in its evaluation of the effectiveness of strategic bombingagainst Germany (and later, Japan). A truly impartial and unbiasedreport, therefore, was never really a possibility. I In May 1944, Edward Mead Earle, special consultant to GeneralArnold and the AAF, toured the European theater of operations dis-cussing operational and strategic problems with AAF commanders.Earle had been a member of the Committee of Operations Analystsand the Committee of Historians and by mid- 1944 was an influen-the united states strategic bombing survey 34 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 46 --- tial civilian analyst within the AAF.3During the tour, Earle met with Major General F. L. Anderson and Colonel Robert Hughes of the United States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF). Hughes, a senior intel-ligence officer for the command, told Earle that target selection wasa continuing challenge and he was convinced that military peoplewere not properly qual