ri-ence strongly supports the position that one objective be selected asthe basic target system. . . .” Transportation, according to Nitze,was one of those “vital factors.” He posited that the “lateness” ofthe AAF’s attack on transportation “prevented a clear-cut demon-stration of its effectiveness as a means of attacking the enemy’sbasic economy.” But even though the attacks on German trans-portation began later in the war, as he put it, they “preceded thefinal collapse of the enemy . . . in a most significant way.” 71 The Transportation Division, which was under the directorship of George Ball, published its final report, The Effects of Strategic Bombing on German Transportation, in September 1945. That re-port reiterated the conclusions that Nitze and Ball had presented toAAF leaders in June and July. The report lamented the fact that theAAF did not apply the full weight of strategic bombers against Ger-man transportation until after the Normandy invasion, but it hadstill “so paralyzed the German industrial economy as to render allfurther heavy war production virtually impossible.” 72Looking around from the inside at the effects of strategic bombing on Ger-many, Survey analysts comfortably accepted the conclusion thattransportation, oil production, and electric power were critical in-dustries for the German war economy. V The analytical divisions of the Survey had completed their final re-ports by August 1945 and forwarded them to the chairman’s office to write the important Over-all Report. 73When John Kenneth Gal- braith and the other directors arrived back in Washington, D.C., inSeptember they discovered, according to Galbraith, that the Surveystrategic bombing against germany 71 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyrig