the Nazi Gov-ernment on the German people.” 63 If the committee downplayed the decisive effects of strategic bombing on the German economy and political situation, it viewedattacks on morale with much greater optimism. During the sessionson evidence with the OSS and the OWI, discussion was almost al-ways centered on the effects of bombing on the individual and col-lective morale of the German people. In their final report to GeneralArnold, when considering the impact of the British area attack onHamburg in July 1943, the historians admitted that its psychologi- cal effects could not yet “be fully measured, but bombing of thisscope and intensity is already producing a situation in which fear ofthe consequences of continuing the war is becoming greater thanfear of the consequences of defeat.” The report argued that eventhough the limits of endurance of the German people had not beenreached, “the German will to resist, already subjected to the cumu-lative effect of years of strain, is almost certain to be broken as theresult of intensified mass bombing, and further defeats on land, atsea, and in the air.” 64 It was the committee’s focus on the effects of bombing on morale that infuriated airmen like General Laurence Kuter, the assistantchief of staff for plans. In a memorandum to General Arnold, Kuterrecommended that the historians’ report be returned “for filing,” tokeep it from getting to President Roosevelt’s desk. In a shrill com-ment General Kuter told General Arnold that what he received wasa “cold, unimaginative report by professional historians.” Kuterthen drove straight to the crux of the difference between the air-men’s conceptual approach to strategic bombing and the conclu-sions drawn by the Committee of Historians in their final report:the origins of the american conceptual approach 29 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcen