lysis. Certainly,GWAPS analysts shared a common framework for analysis, but itwas very different from that of the USSBS. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, after the American military’s traumatic experience in Vietnam, there was a renewed interestamong defense intellectuals (both military and civilian) in the oper-ational level of war, the level between strategy and tactics. Harry G.Summers in his well-known book On Strategy: A Critical Analysis of the Vietnam War created a kind of populist movement within the American military that partly blamed America’s loss in Vietnam ona lack of operational vision. 40A more deep-rooted and sophisti- cated understanding of the operational level of war—informed bythe Prussian military theorist Carl von Clausewitz—began to takehold in the defense establishment. Many civilian and military de-fense intellectuals especially embraced the notion of operationalart—the creative part of war that links political objectives to thetactical application of military force—as a way of rejuvenating anintellectual approach to warfare in American defense circles. Thisway of thinking about warfare manifested itself in the late 1980s with the army’s Airland Battle doctrine and Colonel John Warden’sbook The Air Campaign; both were profoundly shaped by the con- cept of operational art. 41Even in the late 1990s Clausewitz still shaped the thinking of many defense analysts. A professor of strate-gic studies at the Marine War College noted that “the Clausewitziantheory of war remains huge within the American DOD/National Se-curity community—among academics and practitioners alike.” 42 At least some of the primary contributors to the GWAPS volumes, including the task force chiefs, were inﬂuenced by Clausewitzian the-ory. For example, Mark Clodfelter, a contributing author to theGWAPS Planning volume, wrote an important book in 1989, The Limits of Air Power: The American Bombing of North Vietnam . In the book, Clodfelter argued that Clausewitz’s famous dict