S” were lost after World War II. 70 It is interesting to note that like the USSBS European and Pacific Summary Reports, but unlike any of the GWAPS volumes, Hallion’sbook finished with a section titled “Toward the Future.” Like thetwo USSBS reports, Hallion called for a future defense policy to bebased on air power. Using a favorite word of General Orvil ArsonAnderson, Hallion boasted that “today, air power is the dominant form of military power.” 71 Ironically it was an air force historian who tried to suppress the GWAPS reports, reduce the number of GWAPS published copies,and ultimately champion the air force cause in a book about airpower in the Gulf. When we remember the “headache” that theCommittee of Historians gave Edward Mead Earle and GeneralArnold over their report in 1943 and the intentional exclusion of historians from the USSBS, historian Richard Hallion’s pitched bat-tle against the GWAPS is indeed ironic. Furthermore, about a yearbefore the release of the GWAPS volumes, Eliot Cohen had beentold that “gossip” from the Pentagon had it that they were in the“grip of historians.” 72The implication of this statement was that since many historians made up the ranks of the GWAPS, their con-clusions about air power against Iraq would not be favorable to theair force’s performance. Yet it was a historian who would try tomend the perceived damage to the future interests of the air forcefrom the release of the GWAPS reports. The GWAPS was simply not willing to make defense policy rec- ommendations, as did the two USSBS Summary Reports and Hal- lion’s book, Storm over Iraq . Eliot Cohen noted in a letter to the re- view committee in August 1992 that the GWAPS volumes were written “with an awareness of the policy issues” that the Gulf Warraised. The volumes were not, however, crafted to “make specificrecommendations for future policy.” 73 The GWAPS volumes certainly acknowledged the achievements of air power in the war against Iraq, but they also pointed out thea c