s largest cities. The JTG realized that area attackswould kill “workers.” But causing terror was not the primary purposeof area attacks, according to the JTG. Instead area attacks would pro-duce industrial loss consisting “of direct damage to factories and theirequipment . . . and of time lost by workers through the disorganizingthe survey presents its findings 85 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 97 --- effects of de-housing, casualties, disruption of utilities services, and general administrative disorganization.”18 A major recipient of the JTG’s analyses was Brigadier General Haywood Hansell’s XXI Bomber Command. The Twenty-first hadbeen flying bombing missions against Japan out of Tinian Island, inthe Mariana chain, since November 1944. Hansell’s command con-ducted mostly precision bombing missions against specific Japaneseindustrial targets. As a former instructor at the Air Corps TacticalSchool and an architect of precision bombing doctrine, Hansell feltthat he could effectively attack Japanese war-making capacity usingprecision bombing methods. 19 Owing to numerous operational problems and difficult flying weather over Japan, Hansell was never able to achieve much successwith precision methods. As a result, General Arnold replaced Han-sell on 20 January 1945 with Major General Curtis E. LeMay. His- torian Conrad Crane notes that LeMay was probably “the most in-novative air commander of World War II.” It was LeMay’s opera-tional boldness that led to his decision in March 1945 to switch from precision attacks on specific Japanese industries to firebomb-ing Japanese cities. This shift was not a result of pressure pla