iesor services” rather than cause a minor amount of destruction tomany industries. According to this early report, critical targets,once selected, should be attacked with “relentless determination,”which would probably cause “grave injury” to German war-makingcapacity. 44 The COA did not consider German morale a target. Their analy- sis was directed at evaluating the effects of strategic bombing onGermany’s “economic system.” Likewise, when they later studiedthe potential effectiveness of “urban area attacks” against Japan, itthe origins of the american conceptual approach 23 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 35 --- was in the context of overall war production, not morale.45The committee analyzed the impact of British area attacks on German cities, but only insofar as those area attacks related to the industrialtargets that American strategic bombers were attacking. 46The COA’s dismissal of German morale as a target reflected the Ameri-can emphasis on attacking industrial targets, and it demonstrated acontinuing desire on the part of airmen to separate themselves fromBritish morale attacks on German cities. 47 General Arnold’s request for a prediction as to when strategic bombing attacks would reduce German war-making capacity to apoint where a land invasion would be possible drew an ambiguousresponse from the committee. Perera’s group stated that they couldnot give a “precise answer to this question.” But they went on tosay that the destruction of a number of key targets “would gravelyimpair and might paralyze the Western Axis war effort. . . . In viewof the ability of adequate and properly utilized air power to impairt