llion, argued in his 1992 book Storm over Iraq: Air Power in the Gulf War that the ground war against Iraq “could not be decisive in the way that earlier ground wars had been.” Hallionthen professed that the Gulf War had proven that “Air power canhold territory by denying an enemy the ability to seize it, and bydenying an enemy the use of his forces. And it [air power] can seizeterritory by controlling access to that territory and movementacross it.” 68 Hallion wrote Storm over Iraq around the same time that GWAPS analysts were reaching their conclusions about air power in the GulfWar. Hallion was not at all happy with the GWAPS reports because he believed they would produce a negative reaction among the public to-ward the American air force’s performance against Iraq. 69 Like Hallion, the air force was very uncomfortable with the GWAPS conclusions, which did not provide the expected glowingendorsement for the dominance of air power in the Gulf War. Somemembers of the GWAPS felt they were pressured to mute their criti-cism, and Hallion warned the administrative assistant to the secre-tary of the air force that there should be a forceful reconsiderationof “the implications of releasing” the GWAPS reports. Hallion wenta comparison of surveys 188 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 200 --- on to caution that whatever “positive statements” the GWAPS vol- umes made would “be gradually lost in much the same way thatthose of the USSBS” were lost after World War II. 70 It is interesting to note that like the USSBS European and Pacific Summary Reports, but unlike any of the GWAPS volumes, Hallion’sbook finished with a section title