he Survey. 14Airmen below Spaatz and Arnold appre- ciated the Survey’s potential for establishing the theoretical base fora future independent air force. The assistant chief of staff for per-sonnel, Colonel John H. McCormick, pointed out to General Kuter:the united states strategic bombing survey 37 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 49 --- Although a survey of results of the Combined Bomber Offensive ap- pears highly desirable with respect to post war air policy, this officequestions its advisability with respect to future offensives in theJapanese theater for several reasons: The full weight of the Air Forcewill be thrown against Japan regardless of the relative value of strate-gical bombing [against Germany]. McCormick’s report went on to lament how the Survey would draw away manpower from other AAF missions.15Yet the thrust of his argument to Kuter was emblematic of the desire of senior AAF offi-cers to use the Survey’s results as a tool for creating a postwar inde-pendent air force. II The Americans, however, would have to conduct their survey sepa-rately from the British, who were also creating an organization toevaluate the effects of strategic bombing against Germany. TheBritish wanted the Americans to conduct a joint investigation of theCombined Bomber Offensive carried out by the RAF and AAF. 16 But differences with the British over bombing doctrines and the de-sire by the American airmen to use the Survey’s results for postwardefense policy kept both countries from conducting a joint evalua-tion. For the Americans, a joint U.S./British survey would end up asa “mark of self-justification” for Britain’s own bombi