ome to an agreement with the British that would allow the British and the Americans to share databut conduct independent evaluations. The reason, according toGeneral Spaatz, was obvious: “The whole purpose of the Americansurvey is to arrive at the plain facts upon which our future air forcedoctrines, both tactical and strategic, can be based. These doctrineswill be an essential ingredient of our national defense policy. Acomplete community of interest in the survey and its results cannotbe assured to exist between ourselves and any other country.” 19 American airmen perceived a fundamental difference between the AAF’s precision bombing and the RAF’s area bombing. The AAFused its strategic bombers in Europe for the precise destruction ofspecific industrial targets. 20The RAF, conversely, had developed a different doctrine of strategic bombing. By 1942, the RAF was com- mitted to using strategic bombers to attack German morale directlyby bombing large areas of German cities. 21A reporter asked Gen- eral Ira Eaker, commanding general of the Eighth Bomber Com-mand in Europe, about the apparent opposite approaches to bomb-ing practiced by the RAF and AAF. The general responded by argu-ing that both RAF and AAF bombing doctrines were in harmony,because as he put it: “There are two ways to win a war. One is tobreak the enemy’s will to fight and the other is to remove his meansof waging war. Either way wins a war. Use both and you do it muchthe united states strategic bombing survey 39 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 51 --- quicker.” Implicit in Eaker’s response was that British area bombing directly attacked the will to resis