ry Report, the early-sur- render counterfactual, stating the atomic bomb was unnecessary inforcing Japan to surrender, remained unchanged. IV There is no question that Japan was a defeated nation by very earlyAugust 1945. But would Japan have surrendered “certainly prior to 31December 1945, and in all probability prior to 1 November 1945,” without the atomic bomb or Soviet war declaration, as theSummary Report argued? President Truman told the American peo- ple shortly after the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, “We have used[the bomb] . . . in order to shorten the agony of war, in order to savethe lives of thousands and thousands of young Americans.” TheSummary Report’s conclusion challenged President Truman’s re- marks that Japan would not have surrendered soon if the UnitedStates had not used the bomb. 68 Not only did the Summary Report ’s early-surrender counterfac- tual contradict official explanations of the use of the atomic bomb,it implicitly contradicted some of the other conclusions brought outin the Summary Report itself and other published reports from the Pacific Survey. The Summary Report, though acknowledging that the war against Japanese shipping was an important factor in destroyingJapan’s war economy, argued that the decisive factor in persuadingthe Japanese leaders to surrender was the conventional strategicstrategic bombing against japan 120 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 132 --- bombing of the home islands.69But two reports—the Economic Di- vision’s The Effects of Strategic Bombing on Japan’s War Economy and the Transportation Division’s The War against Japanese Trans- portation —subtly differed from t