experience like Watts and Guilmartin, he did teach strategyat the Naval War College and served as a contract historian for theOffice of Air Force History. The executive director of the GWAPS,Colonel Emery M. Kiraly, was a serving air force officer and hadbeen Colonel John Warden’s deputy during the development of theInstant Thunder air campaign plan against Iraq. Thomas A. Keaney,chief of the Summary Report, a retired air force officer and a B- 52 pilot, had flown combat missions over Vietnam. Keaney, like Watts,had taught at the Air Force Academy, and had taught at the Na-tional War College before coming to the GWAPS. 39 The professional experiences of GWAPS and USSBS personnel shaped the analytical framework that they brought to their evalua-tion of air power in the Gulf War and World War II, respectively.USSBS members were for the most part industrialists, financiers,economists, and engineers, with a small number of lawyers and be-havioral scientists. Their professional experience fit comfortablywith the American conceptual approach toward strategic bombingof attacking “national economic structures.” Moreover, the stridenteffort on the part of the airmen to shape the organizational struc-ture of the USSBS and the questions that it would answer causeda comparison of surveys 179 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 191 --- USSBS analysts to accept the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing as their framework for analysis. Certainly,GWAPS analysts shared a common framework for analysis, but itwas very different from that of the USSBS. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, after the American military’s traumatic expe