w York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 204 --- of determining the effects of strategic bombing has not gone away. Indeed, the Yugoslavia air campaign shows that when an enemyleader remains in power and is unlikely to tell the world what madehim act, the effectiveness of strategic bombing is even more difficultto know. There are some questions to think of regarding the American-led air campaign in the Balkans: Was it the impact of air power on Ser-bian infrastructure that caused Milosevic to withdraw his forcesfrom Kosovo? Or did the bombing of targets in Serbian cities likeBelgrade create hardships and terror among the civilian populationthat in turn somehow influenced Milosevic’s actions? Did the threatof a ground invasion by NATO armies ultimately persuade the Ser-bian leader that he had to accept NATO and U.N. demands? Fi-nally, what effect did Russia’s removal of support for Serbia have onMilosevic’s decision? If modifications are made to the language andcontext of these questions, they appear strikingly similar to thequestions that Paul Nitze and his fellow USSBS analysts askedabout the role of strategic bombing in the unconditional surrenderof Japan in 1945. Back in the fall of 1945, General Orvil Arson Anderson stri- dently believed that he knew the answer to why Japan surrenderedunconditionally: American strategic bombing. He subsequently ap-plied a heavy parochial hand to the writing of Pacific Survey reportsto shape conclusions that were favorable to the interests of the air-men and their institution. The civilian analysts of the USSBS ac-cepted the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing ofGeneral Anderson and other airmen, made it the analytical frame-work for their evaluation, and wrote conclusions about air powerin World War II that vindicated that conception. Shortly after the Yugoslavia air campaign ended in 1999, American airmen proclaimed in a manner similar to that of General Andersonin 19