ot efficiently run; it neverachieved its full war potential, mostly because of poor strategicplanning and inept economic management by Adolph Hitler and hisstaff. Second, attacks on urban areas were not effective in seriouslyreducing or breaking German war production. Finally, the AAFachieved its most decisive results by attacking German transporta-tion, and should have devoted a greater effort to bombing Germanelectric power. 100 The real difference between Galbraith’s Economic Division report and the other two had identical concluding sections commenting on“some signposts” for “the future.” In a frequently quoted passage, theOver-all Report and Summary Report state in identical words: The foregoing pages tell of the results achieved by Allied air power, in each of its several roles in the war in Europe. It remains to look at theresults as a whole and to seek such signposts as may be of guidance tothe future. . . . Allied air power was decisive in the war in Western Eu-rope. Hindsight inevitably suggests that it might have been employeddifferently or better in some respects. Nevertheless, it was decisive. 101 Evidently General Anderson’s “controversialist” stance during the debate over Cabot’s draft ensured that the Summary Report andstrategic bombing against germany 77 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 89 --- Over-all Report would include favorable remarks on the “decisive- ness” of strategic bombing in the European war and some com- ments on the future of air power.102His desire was fulfilled, at least for the time being. Although other senior AAF leaders did not make official com- ments on the European Survey reports