result being an assessment of “how good” the overall strategic bombing offensive worked against Germany.64 It was within this conceptual framework that sought to evaluate therelative effectiveness of strategic bombing that Nitze, Alexander,and the others would conduct their evaluation. While shuttling between Washington, D.C., and London trying to get the Survey under way, Paul Nitze spent a week with ColonelFred Castle, a wing commander in the Eighth Air Force, learningthe concept of strategic bombing as the Americans were practicingit. Nitze had great respect for this combat leader who would even-tually lose his life on a bombing mission over Germany. Nitze re-membered that Castle enjoyed “educating me on all the manifoldproblems of his command and also speculating on those of the post-war world, and how the United States might best go about dealingwith them.” Castle provided Nitze with an essay that he had writ-ten, “Airpower in This War and the Following Peace.” In the essay,Castle argued that during World War II American air power wasbeing used for “economic-strategic warfare against the heart of theNazi military system.” Castle warned that the United States mustnot wait too long in drawing conclusions about air power’s use inwar because it would prove to be “the most important implementof national policy of the future.” Castle deeply impressed Nitzewith his courage and intellectual capacity. 65Nitze would take Cas- tle’s recommendation to heart; his work with the Survey would beguided by the belief that it would lay the theoretical groundworkfor American air power in the future. Nitze later noted in a letter toJohn Kenneth Galbraith that “almost all discussion on the conceptsof the role of air power in general and strategic bombing in particu-lar . . . takes off from the Survey’s reports as the one body of au-thoritative and impartial data and analysis on the subject.” 66 Lectures given to Survey members in London in December 1944 expressed the same notion tha