analysis: When can the histo-rian ever collect “all” the evidence on a given historical problem?Physical scientists, conversely, operate differently in that “all” thefacts—or at least all the necessary representative facts—pertainingto a given line of inquiry can usually be gathered and systematicconclusions can thus follow based on those facts. 57 In a series of meetings held between the committee and members of the Office of Special Services (OSS) and the Office of War Infor-mation (OWI) from October to November 1943, the historians wrestled with problems of evidence. In one such session a represen-tative from the OSS, Hajo Holborn, presented his agency’s findingson the effects of bombing on German morale. But Louis Gottschalkwas concerned about the evidence that Holborn was presenting tothe committee. The historian argued that if his committee wasgoing to try and evaluate the effects of bombing on the enemy, thenthey needed “some notion of what it is that creates a fact and somenotion of how you measure that fact.” 58And the committee mem- bers realized that once they determined what exactly the facts were,they still would be unable to collect and analyze “all of the facts.”Since General Arnold had given them only about two months tocomplete their report, there simply was not enough time. 59 Not only did the historians chafe under the deadline imposed on them, they also had to deal with security restrictions on classifiedevidence. The chairman of the committee, Major Frank Monaghan,told the historians that there was no question concerning the “loy-alty, integrity or the discretion of any member.” But Monaghanpointed out to them that their evidence was still of a classified na-ture. He then went on to remind them that “professors have a habitof speaking (and more or less widely) their opinions.” 60the origins of the american conceptual approach 27 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York Universi