electric power, it did, by the closing months of the war inEurope, heavily attack German transportation and oil production.General Spaatz, on orders from Supreme Allied Commander Gen-eral Dwight D. Eisenhower, reluctantly diverted his bombers fromstrategic attacks on the German war economy to tactical bombingagainst local railroad facilities in France to support the Normandylandings. Once the Allied forces had established themselves on thecontinent, the AAF again concentrated its strategic bombers againstGermany. But having seen the value of using its bombers to attackrailroads in France as a part of the Normandy invasion, the AAFdecided to make similar strategic attacks against transportation tar-gets inside of Germany. 69 Survey analysts accepted the notion that strategic bombers should attack basic industries that linked together the enemy’s wareconomy. Moreover, it was logical for them to conclude that theAAF’s attacks on German transportation and oil production“brought about a total disintegration of the German economy.” 70strategic bombing against germany 70 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 82 --- Nitze, working together with Ball and other key directors, had de- termined that there was no doubt about “the vulnerability of theGerman [war production] system to air attack.” It was simply amatter of selecting the right “vital factor” for destruction, and thenkeeping it destroyed by continuous air attack: “The German experi-ence strongly supports the position that one objective be selected asthe basic target system. . . .” Transportation, according to Nitze,was one of those “vital factors.” He posited that the “latene