s of the Pacific War, in early 1947. Once Ofstie read Anderson’s draft of Air Campaigns, he immediately told Nitze that the report was anything but “an objec-tive study of the war.” Ofstie found Air Campaigns “to be in major part a vicious and deliberate attempt to discredit the entire navalservice.” Ofstie forcefully reminded Nitze that Anderson’s proposedreport had not been approved by the key Survey directors as was hisown Campaigns of the Pacific War. He considered the potential publication of Air Campaigns “to be directly contrary to the princi- ples under which the Survey operated and decidedly inimical to thebest interests of the armed services and the government. . . .” 93 Nitze suggested to Ofstie that he meet with Anderson’s staff “to see if an understanding could be reached on material objected to inthe manuscript.” But Nitze reassured Ofstie that if an agreementbetween the “Army and Navy representatives” could not bereached over Air Campaigns , “the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey would not publish this document. . . .” Ofstie met with two of An-derson’s assistants on 14March at the Burlington Hotel in Wash- ington, D.C., to discuss Air Campaigns . After that meeting Ofstie informed Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal, Nitze, and D’Olierby memorandum that no agreement had been reached. Ofstie “as-sumed that publication of subject manuscript” was a “closed issue”as far as the Survey was concerned. 94 Ofstie was wrong. In July 1947, the Government Printing Office published under the auspices of the Strategic Bombing Survey, Air Campaigns of the Pacific War . Naval officers were furious. After reading Air Campaigns of the Pacific War , Ofstie’s assistant, Cap- tain G. W. Anderson, roared that the report would be better titled“Everyone’s Out of Step but Orville [ sic].” Captain Anderson then recommended to Ofstie, because the report was of the most “perni-cious” nature, that it be “withdrawn from circulation and discipli-nary action taken. . . .” 95 Secretar