served.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 184 --- analysis on thematic aspects of the Gulf War such as operations and effects, logistics, and command and control, to name a few.21The GWAPS conducted most of its work out of Crystal City in theWashington, D.C., area. Arguably, the GWAPS is comparable in stature and magnitude to the World War II USSBS. The fact that the USSBS had over onethousand civilian and military analysts, while the GWAPS had justslightly over one hundred, suggests that the former conducted amuch greater amount of research and analysis simply in terms ofraw numbers of personnel. It is important to note, though, that theGWAPS did not have to man numerous field teams to collect evi-dence inside Iraq, simply because Iraq, unlike Germany and Japan,was not occupied by American forces after the war. Moreover, re-garding the collection of evidence, modern technologies and infor-mation systems provided the GWAPS access to large amounts ofdata, thereby reducing the need for substantial numbers of analyststo conduct research. One could also point out that the USSBS pro-duced over three hundred reports and studies, while the GWAPSwrote “only” five volumes. Such a comparison can be misleadingbecause many of the USSBS’s published studies were supportingdocuments (field team reports on specific bombed targets) for eachof its divisions’ overall reports. Writing to the director of the jointstaff in January 1992, Colonel L. E. Trapp, Jr., military assistant tothe secretary of the air force, anticipated the importance of theGWAPS by noting that it would be “equivalent in depth and impactto the landmark Strategic Bombing Survey of World War II.” 22 III The intellectual beginnings of the USSBS and the GWAPS came notfrom outside the air force but from the airmen themselves. After thenegative experience General Arnold had with the report produced bythe Committee of Historians in early 1944, he determined that an- other civilian-led evaluation of air power’s eff