al centers” of the United States, General Andrewsargued that the airplane is an engine of war which has brought into being a new and entirely different mode of warfare—the application of Air Power.. . . It is another means, operating in another element, for the samebasic purpose as ground and sea power, the destruction of theenemy’s will to fight. It is a vital agency, to insure in peace, the con-tinuation of our nation’s policies and existence, or in war, the de-struction of the enemy’s will to invade our defensive jurisdiction. 17 According to the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing that by 1937 was reaching maturity at the inﬂuential Air Corps Tac- tical School, the way to break the enemy’s will to resist was ﬁrst to de-stroy its war-making capacity by bombing key economic-industrialtargets. 18Once those key targets had been selected and bombed, the will of the enemy would most likely collapse.19General Andrews’s rhetorical allusion to the defensive use of airpower nevertheless wasgrounded in an offensive conception for an independent air force. Todestroy the enemy’s “will to invade,” as the general suggested, theUnited States would have to launch a strategic bombing offensive thatthe origins of the american conceptual approach 15 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 27 --- would prevent the enemy nation from using its war-making capacity ﬁrst to attack American soil with strategic bombers.20 The Munich conference of 1938 and Hitler’s subsequent march into Czechoslovakia created a more conducive atmosphere for airofficers forthrightly to advocate their conceptual approach tostrategic bombing. 21Air Corps Ta