power and material incurred in the land battles. . . . Airpower played, of course, a decisively important role in all the greatland battles.” 97In Blackett’s judgment, strategic bombing had pro- duced decisive results only in conjunction with the “great land bat-tles” of World War II, and military strategy based solely on the pur-ported decisiveness of atomic weapons did not take into accountthis “lesson” of history. Blackett also argued that atomic bombs, because of their widely destructive capabilities, could be used only against large cities. Ac-cording to Blackett, the relative inaccuracy of contemporary deliv-ery systems and the bomb’s overwhelming destructive power madeatomic weapons inappropriate for destroying smaller “precision”targets such as industrial factories or transportation centers. Hetherefore concluded that the most efficient use of atomic weaponswould be against large, highly populated cities. The United States,consequently, would have to target large urban areas in a major warwith the Soviet Union. Using the Survey’s conclusion that urbanarea attacks did not substantially reduce Germany’s war productionin World War II, Blackett contended that nuclear attacks on largeSoviet urban areas would have the same negative result. 98 TheNew York Times military correspondent, Hanson Baldwin, an Annapolis graduate, relied on the Pacific Survey Summary Re- port to support his argument that the combat use of the bomb was unnecessary. In his 1949 book The Great Mistakes of the War ,a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 163 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 175 --- Baldwin used the often-cited conclusion from