bs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 146 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 158 --- appreciably the Soviet people’s will to resist. In fact the Harmon Re- port argued that the atomic offensive, for the majority of Soviet cit-izens, “would validate Soviet propaganda against the United States,unify these people and increase their will to fight.” The report con-cluded that the most effective and tangible results of the atomic of-fensive would be to quickly attack the Soviet Union and “[inflict]shock and serious damage to vital elements of the Soviet war-mak-ing capacity.” 49 In many ways the Harmon Report read like so many of the Strategic Bombing Survey’s European and Pacific analyses. Therewere points where the enemy’s will was considered a possible targetfor strategic air power. But the postwar plans for a war against theSoviet Union, the Harmon Report, and the Strategic Bombing Sur-vey reports shared a common conception of using strategic airpower to attack the enemy’s war-making capacity. In the Americanconception, therefore, the enemy’s will to resist would be a targetthat was too ambiguous to plan for and evaluate. V The Joint Chiefs of Staff seemed to have formed a consensus overthe approach to war fighting that was manifested in the series ofwar plans produced between 1945 and 1950. With regard to air power, the Chiefs considered the concept of strategic bombingbrought out in the plans to be correct. General Omar Bradley, thearmy chief of staff, and Admiral Louis Denfield, the chief of navaloperations, for example, told Representative Carl Vinson, the chair-man of the House Armed Services Committee that was prepa