r II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 23 --- Some analysts argue that air power proponents like William Mitchell had greater inﬂuence on American thinking on strategic bombing thanDouhet. Others argue that Douhet’s proliﬁc writings played an im-portant role in shaping American views on air power. 7Most scholars, however, would agree that Douhet’s collective works gave a literarycomprehensiveness to the ideas that shaped the American conceptualapproach to strategic bombing. 8 By 1939 American airmen had developed a conception of air power that envisioned using strategic bombers to attack the “vitallinks” of the enemy’s war-making capacity, thereby breaking theenemy’s will to resist. 9But what were the “vital links” in the enemy’s industrial structure essential to the capacity to resist?American airmen were soldiers, not experts in industrial economies.They were trained to fly aircraft and to drop bombs on critical tar-gets. However, the targets to attack under the American conceptionwere economic in nature. To assess how the destruction of anygiven target would affect the overall war capacity of the enemy na-tion required a level of analysis that airmen, by their training, wereunable to provide. Naval and ground commanders of the same period did not have the same problem. For an army officer commanding an infantry di-vision, for example, the target or objective to attack was generallysimilar in nature to his own command. It would probably be an-other infantry division or smaller-sized unit trying to block his ad-vance. To analyze the target and its importance, therefore, wassomething that the ground officer was trained to do. The groundcommander could determine success or failure by the amount ofground gained