Yet in comparison to the USSBS, theGWAPS review committee seems remarkable in its desire to avoida comparison of surveys 182 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 194 --- service parochialism and bias. Instead, their overall goal was to ad- vise the GWAPS analysts on the best ways to produce a balanced as-sessment of air power in the Gulf War. Secretary of the Air ForceDonald Rice and Cohen agreed that there were “ferocious battlesduring the writing of the USSBS” over service interests. Both menalso acknowledged that even though there would be “creative ten-sion” within the GWAPS and the review committee over “differ-ences of opinion,” it would be nothing along the lines of theUSSBS. 51 Paul Nitze (who of course was caught in the middle of the battle between Ofstie and Anderson over certain USSBS conclusions) toldthe review committee that he believed the job GWAPS analysts haddone on their respective volumes to be “superb.” Yet in an informaldiscussion with Eliot Cohen, Nitze thought that the most criticalissue for the GWAPS to address was the effectiveness of “the strate-gic air campaign against Iraq.” 52Nitze may have sensed an underly- ing problem with evidence that Cohen and other GWAPS analystswere confronting as they conducted their research and analysis. VI If the USSBS’s focus was on the effects of strategic bombing on Ger-many’s and Japan’s war-making capacity, the GWAPS directed mostof its analysis toward the operational aspects of American airpower in the Persian Gulf War. The GWAPS did produce a volumeon the effects of the air campaign against Iraq; however, unlike theWorld War II USSBS, which had access to evide