he conduct of the AAF’s aerial waragainst Japanese cities. 27Perhaps Ball and some of the others felt that a strong emphasis on the potential decisiveness of area raids—with morale as the objective—might increase the AAF’s area raidson Japanese cities. Paul Baran, a friend of Ball and an important an-strategic bombing against germany 60 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 72 --- alyst in the Economic Division, told Galbraith that he (Baran) was an “outspoken enemy of area bombardment,” and implicitly its im-morality. 28Galbraith expressed a loathing in his memoirs for the fire raids against Japanese cities and referred to them as “an ap-palling business.” 29One can assume that he felt the same way about the RAF’s area raids against German cities. The Survey, in its formal evaluation in Europe and the Pacific, never addressed the morality of strategic bombing in general, andmore specifically the morality of the area bombing of German andJapanese cities. 30However, the postwar accounts by Survey direc- tors, a few snippets of contemporaneous documents, and the dis-missal of Speer’s testimony concerning the Hamburg raids suggestthat ethical considerations were on the minds of at least some Sur-vey members. The purpose of psychologist Rensis Likert’s Morale Division was certainly not to explore the morality and ethics of strategic bombingbut to “submit a report [that] evaluated the effects of bombing uponenemy morale.” 31Paul Nitze told Likert and other Survey directors that it would be “necessary for the Economic and the Morale Divi-sions to work together, as closely as possible.” 32Nitze’s guidance to the Survey directors re