nfluential advisor tothe emperor and to other key leaders, on 9November 1945. The principal interrogators were Nitze, D’Olier, Galbraith, and PaulBaran. When questioned by Nitze 50about how much longer the war would have continued if the atom bomb had not been dropped,Konoye responded: “Probably it [the war] would have lasted all thisyear.” Nitze then became more specific and asked if the war wouldhave been terminated prior to 1 November; Konoye’s response was “Probably would have lasted beyond that.” 51 Franklin D’Olier followed Nitze in the interrogation of Konoye and parroted Nitze’s counterfactual line of questioning. D’Olierasked the former premier whether the Japanese leadership would“have been forced to surrender even if Russia had not come in oreven though we had not dropped the atomic bomb?” Konoyereplied that the “Army had dug themselves caves in the mountainsand their idea of fighting on was fighting from every little hole orrock in the mountains.” D’Olier then asked if the emperor wouldhave allowed the army to do that. Konoye replied that the emperor“would not have let them go that far. He would have done some-thing to stop them.” 52Although Konoye’s testimony to Nitze and D’Olier provided some support for the early-surrender counterfac-tual, his testimony leaned heavily toward a more prolonged war,one that could have continued beyond 1November, and perhaps even after 31 December 1945, without the atom bomb and Soviet declaration of war. But testimony by key Japanese leaders likeKonoye that challenged the Survey’s conclusions never made it intothe pages of the published final reports. It was noteworthy that during the Konoye interrogation only Nitze and D’Olier pursued the counterfactual questioning aboutending the war with Japan. Galbraith confined his questions ofKonoye to Japan’s decisions in 1941 to go to war against the Unitedstrategic bombing against japan 116 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II