hould “proceed according to its own time table”and not be made “contingent upon, land invasion plans. It is consid-the survey presents its findings 96 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 108 --- ered that the strategic bombing effort should be planned as an end within itself rather than as a means to an end, namely, invasion.”48 The differences between the JTG, the key leaders of the XXI Bomber Command, and Survey directors over the necessity of theground invasion of the Japanese home islands shaped their viewsover strategic bombing methods and objectives. The JTG, in fact,during the “preparatory phase” of their bombardment plan,wanted Curtis LeMay’s command to curtail the number of fire raidsagainst “urban concentrations” and increase the precision raidsagainst specific industrial targets. Area attacks should resume in fullforce, argued the JTG, once the preparatory phase had been com-pleted and the ground invasion date drew nearer. 49LeMay and Kissner, however, owing to operational considerations, wanted tocontinue with the firebombings of Japanese cities, which they be-lieved would eventually force Japan to surrender without a groundinvasion. 50Survey directors like Paul Nitze agreed that a properly directed strategic bombing program could bring about a decision,and in this sense they were in line with LeMay and Kissner. Butsince the Survey argued that the best objectives for strategicbombers to attack were basic industries such as electric power andtransportation, they therefore recommended that the AAF use, pri-marily, precision attacks instead of area raids. 51 IV The Survey directors had impressed senior AAF leaders