ure vision for the security of theUnited States. Admiral Ofstie, however, turned this argument on itshead and labeled air proponents “zealots” for pulling the nation’sdefense into the future with a flawed understanding of the past. But attacking the air force’s method of strategic bombing on the grounds of military ineffectiveness was only part of the navy’s overallcritique. Building on their argument (based on Survey reports) thatstrategic bombing in World War II was deeply ﬂawed for militarya-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 153 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 165 --- reasons, naval ofﬁcers argued that it was also immoral. Admiral Of- stie told committee members that the United States was morallywrong for bombing civilians during World War II and Americanswould be equally immoral if they had to kill civilians in a war with theSoviet Union. According to the admiral, the American people were in“strong opposition to military methods [area bombings of cities] socontrary to our fundamental ideals.” 70 What was striking about the moral tack of the navy’s critique was that the majority of senior naval officers followed it. AdmiralRadford “condemned” the potential area bombing of Soviet citiesand did not “believe in [the] mass killing of noncombatants” basedon what he had learned since the war. Admiral Thomas Kinkaid re-ferred to the strategic bombing of Germany and Japan as “terroriz-ing bombardments” that violated established laws of war. Whendiscussing with committee members the appropriate targets if theUnited States had to fight the Soviet Union, Admiral Blandy statedthat “no sane man would derive any satisfac