eared before the committee to explain theirpositions on uniﬁcation. Even though the Paciﬁc portion of the Strate-gic Bombing Survey was still ongoing, some of its draft reports hadmade their way back to Washington along with the many completedreports from the European Survey. When arguing either in favor of oragainst uniﬁcation, military leaders would often use reports from theSurvey as proof of their services’ accomplishments during the war.Proving which service played the decisive role in victory was closelylinked to arguments over the future structure of the defense establish-ment. Vice-Admiral Dewitt C. Ramsey, deputy commander in chieffor the Paciﬁc ﬂeet, told the Senate Military Affairs Committee that hevehemently disagreed with the AAF claim that carrier-based aviationhad become obsolete by the closing months of the war owing to theability of the AAF to bomb the Japanese home islands. According toAdmiral Ramsey, carrier aviation played a critical role in forcingJapan to surrender unconditionally, and if a land invasion of Kyushuhad been necessary, carrier aviation would have played a decisive rolein that operation as well. 5He used evidence from the Strategic Bomb- ing Survey to support his description of the war and the navy’s role inwinning it. The Survey, argued Admiral Ramsey, would “set forth inthe record . . . that the Navy has measured up to the conﬁdence re-posed in it by the American people in spelling doom for the Japanesedreams of conquest long before the ﬁrst atomic bomb descended onHiroshima.” 6 General Spaatz also appeared before the committee to provide his opinions on uniﬁcation. In his testimony he used key passages fromthe Survey as justiﬁcation for the air force’s postwar plans for airpower. An often-used passage from the European Survey’s Summary Report states that “Allied air power was decisive in the war in west- ern Europe.” 7General Spaatz quoted this passage to committeea-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 133 Gentile, Gian P.