inly forced the Japaneseleadership to realize that defeat was inevitable. But there is a differ-ence between the realization of defeat and the political acceptance ofsurrender. Here is where the atom bomb enters into the equation. Ifread as a collective whole, the Paciﬁc Survey reports implicitly suggeststrategic bombing against japan 123 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 135 --- that the atom bomb was the sufﬁcient cause that transformed the re- alization of defeat into surrender, thus contradicting the early-surren-der counterfactual. Tucked away in an often-ignored appendix of The Effects of Air Attack on Japanese Urban Economy is a postwar analysis of strate- gic bombing, produced by scholars from Japan’s Imperial Univer-sity. Their analysis agreed with most of the Survey’s main themes,except for this striking remark about the conventional air attack,the atom bomb, and the end of the war: “Though there were manydifferent views [over whether to continue the war], the majority ofleaders entirely lost heart to continue hostilities. Particularly, thedebut of the atomic bombs in the Pacific war theater was deci- sive.” 77It is unclear how this statement made its way into the final report. Paul Nitze himself was one of four Survey directors whosepersonal approval was necessary before any reports could be re-leased for publication. 78Somehow those responsible for revising or rewriting “contradictory” material overlooked the Japanese schol-ars’ findings as well as other evidence challenging the Survey’s inter-pretation of Japan’s decision to surrender. V Not tucked away in the midst of published Survey reports was theJuly 19