the Soviet war-making capacity.” Inthe war plans written between 1945 and 1950, the atomic bomba-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 142 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 154 --- was a critical component of that air offensive because the United States held sole ownership (until the Soviets exploded their firstatomic bomb in August 1949) of atomic weapons. According to the planners, that produced a “distinct advantage” over the SovietUnion. 36War with the USSR, according to the plans, would be “total” and would involve the industrial power of both nations. Inorder for the United States to destroy the Soviet will to resist, itwould first have to destroy the “effectiveness of her [the SovietUnion’s] war-machine.” 37 The first plans written in early 1946 for a potential war against the Soviet Union—the pincher plans—placed a heavy reliance on attacking Soviet industrial systems such as transportation, petro-leum production, tank factories, ball-bearing plants, and other warindustry. The pincher plans noted that most of these Soviet indus- tries were located in major urban areas, therefore requiring a strate-gic bombing campaign that would attack Soviet cities. Urban areas,according to pincher, “would remain highly important for very long range air operations. The industrial structure . . . together withthe known industrial dispositions abatable to the Soviets in westernEurope, constitutes a sound premise on which to select [targets] forstrategic air operations.” 38 The pincher plans and supporting intelligence estimates as- sumed that the Soviet Union did not pose an immediate militarythreat to Western Europe. Accordi