rom the Survey’s reports as the one body of au-thoritative and impartial data and analysis on the subject.” 66 Lectures given to Survey members in London in December 1944 expressed the same notion that the Survey would lay the theoreticalgroundwork for postwar air power. Hamilton Dearborn, who was amember of the Economic Division’s training branch, told new Sur-vey analysts thatthe united states strategic bombing survey 52 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 64 --- the fundamental, and the most interesting, task of the Strategic Bombing Survey is to lay the foundations for a broad theory of airstrategy—to produce the equivalent of Clausewitz on ground war-fare, or Mahan on naval warfare. No such theory exists today, andnone could be built up without the material which it is the functionof the Survey to gather. 67 Other lectures stressed the importance of understanding the effects of strategic bombing on the industrial capacity of Germany. MajorWalter W. Rostow, a Rhodes Scholar and a member of the EOU who would later rise to prominence in various government posi-tions, discussed the history of the AAF in Europe, emphasizing thenature of selecting critical economic target systems for attack. 68 During these training lectures, Survey instructors emphasized that the Survey would analyze urban area attacks in terms of their effectson the war-making capacity of Germany. Rostow, in the same lecture,posited that an area raid was “a raid in which you set yourself to doa maximum of physical damage of all sorts . . . an area raid is designedto destroy general enemy resources to the maximum extent, and it isfor this reason that the c