can conceptual approach 29 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 41 --- [The historians’] approach, one of housing, morale, and manpower, makes operations by the RAF Bomber Command their principal in- terest, considers only specific factories known to be smashed. Verylittle consideration is given to the intricate industrial and economicmachine behind the German effort and dislocation that must havebeen caused when obscure ex-sewing machine factories, etc., havebeen hit. Had the full utilization of the bombardment offensive beendirected against vital targets such as aircraft, ball-bearing, rubberand oil production, the German position today would have been ex-tremely critical. 65 With the airmen’s focus on the use of strategic bombers to attack “industrial systems” and the historians’ emphasis on enemy morale and political decision making, they were both, in a sense, talkingpast each other. But even more troubling to Kuter than the focus on morale and the British area bombings of cities was the central thesis to the historians’forty-two page report: even though morale attacks held the greatestpossibility for strategic bombing, there was still “no substantial evi-dence that Germany [could] be bombed out of the war during theearly months of 1944. The ﬁnal collapse of Germany requires large-scale invasion operations against the continent of Europe.” Germanywould then “be unable to maintain a prolonged resistance to Anglo-American ground operations or to prevent the complete destruction ofher industries, her cities and her communications by aerial bombard-ment.” But the decisive event that would create the conditions insideof Ger