--- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 112 --- issue of American casualties in any of his work with the Survey con- cerning the strategic bombardment of Japan.65 General Spaatz had the strategic bombardment plans of the Sur- vey and the JTG presented to him on 18and 19July.66The Survey directors who had spent the first half of the summer in Washington,D.C., sensed that the JTG had not given their ideas on strategicbombing an impartial hearing. Henry Alexander was relieved thatthe “judge” who would listen to “both sides of the case” that heand the other directors felt was lacking in their earlier discussionsseemed “to have been found” in General Spaatz. 67The meeting with the general went very well for the Survey and their alternatebombardment plan for the defeat of Japan. D’Olier spoke with An-derson on the phone shortly after the meeting on the eighteenth andcrowed: “everything has wound up very, very satisfactorily.”D’Olier claimed that they had convinced General Spaatz (and AAFDeputy Chief of Staff General Eaker, who was also at the meeting)that transportation was “absolutely the prime target.” The AAFwas “going at it just as soon” as possible, boasted the chairman. 68 General Eaker noted that Spaatz “was inclined to concur with theD’Olier Committee’s recommendation. . . . [The] disruption ofJapanese transportation is of such significant importance that anoverwhelming attack on transportation may well have a direct andearly effect on the other priorities.” 69 Spaatz and other airmen thought that American air power proba- bly could end the war against Japan, thereby eliminating the needfor an “other” priority—the land invasion. 70As the newly assigned commander of the U.S. Army Strategic Air Forces in the Pacific,Spaatz, in accordance with a directive from General Arnold, in-tended to implement the plan. 71As a devoted advocate of precision bombing doctrine, Spaatz certainly must have appreciated the Sur-vey’s emphasis on the precise destruction of Japanese transporta