in that he had “neverheard” of employing atomic bombs on “guided missiles.” 35He later recalled that exploring the potential use of “guided missiles” wasnot within “the purview of the Survey.” 36Ofstie made his most lac- erating comments on the draft’s “recommendations” for the future.The draft noted that the “Survey had been impressed with the need. . . to unify and reorganize our military establishment. . . .” But Of-stie questioned whether “all the Directors” agreed with the pur-ported need to reorganize and unify the military establishment.Nitze’s draft lamented that the “lack of complete integration” ofstrategic bombing against japan 112 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 124 --- the Pacific Command during World War II was traceable “to the basic structure of our prewar military organization.” Ofstie calledthis “nonsense.” It was obvious to him that the draft was advocat-ing an independent air force. So “why not say so,” asked the admi-ral. The final paragraph of the draft argued that the United States“should unify and reorganize” its military establishment, implicitlyrecommending an independent air service. In Ofstie’s mind, how-ever, the Summary Report draft had arrived at a conclusion that was “totally unsupported by the work of the Survey, and certainlynot related to the [presidential] directive.” 37 Ofstie’s biting marginal comments on Nitze’s draft were largely unsuccessful in changing the published ( 1July 1946) Summary Re- port’s recommendations and conclusions. The published report began its concluding remarks by stating that “the role of air powershould be given thorough consideration by those working out t