areas of Japanese cities using incendiary weapons (areabombing). The objectives of both these bombing methods could havebeen either to lower morale by killing Japanese civilians or to destroyJapanese war-making capacity. But in the minds of Survey analystsand targeting planners, morale as an objective did not necessarily haveto be synonymous with area bombing. When conducting its evaluation of air power in the Pacific, in ad- dition to studying the effects of area bombing against Japanesecities, the Survey also assessed the navy’s use of air power againstJapan and the effects of the atomic bomb. The Pacific Survey had towrestle with the fact that, unlike Germany, Japan was forced to sur-render without a land invasion. But if it was not a ground invasionintroduction 7 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 19 --- that ended the war, then what did force Japan to surrender? The air- men believed that Japan’s surrender confirmed the decisiveness ofthe AAF’s conventional bombing campaign and the war-winningpotential of air power for the future. The Pacific Survey Summary Report supported the airmen’s belief by calling for an independent “third establishment” that would be responsible for strategic airoperations in postwar American security. Airmen and navy officers used the published reports from the European and Pacific portions of the Survey during the postwarcongressional hearings over unification of the armed services andthe independence of the air force. The Survey’s numerous pub-lished studies turned out to be very malleable sources, especiallyfor airmen and navy officers arguing their respective cases beforecongressional co