n 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 78 --- The Area Division investigated a number of German cities sub- jected to area attacks to “determine the economic effects of the area raids.” The division’s Hamburg study argued that “concentrated at-tacks [precision bombing] on limited targets were more effective indisrupting vital production than were the area raids on workers’ quar-ters throughout the city.” 52The study went on to conclude that al- though area attacks on Hamburg did lower the overall war produc-tion of the city, they were not “as effective in disrupting the enemy’sability to wage war as the destruction of transportation facilities ingeneral throughout the industrial regions of the country.” 53 Building on the findings of the Hamburg study, the published Area Studies Division Report was more direct in pointing out the indecisive nature of area attacks on German war-making capacity.Because area raids generally damaged “sectors of the German econ-omy not essential to war production,” the raids, according to thereport, “did not have a decisive effect upon the ability of the Ger-man nation to produce war material.” 54According to the report, a city attacked by an area raid would experience an immediate de-cline in the labor force due to the deaths of workers or absenteeism,but the city would be able to quickly recover most of its industriallabor force within two to three months following the raid. 55 IV In the summer of 1940, when he helped write AWPD/ 1, Haywood Hansell believed that the AAF should use its strategic bombers toattack critical target systems that linked together the enemy’s wareconomy. 56AWPD/1 ended up selecting German transportation and electric power as two high-priority targets for the AAF to bomb.57 In his 1986 memoirs, Hansell used Survey conclusions to argue that the AAF’s strategic bombing campaign against Germany had vindi-cated AWPD/ 1’s choi