ge proportion of the housing in the city.” 22Nei- ther the city summary nor the Nagasaki target sheet listed themorale of the civilian population as an objective for strategicbombers. The JTG knew that the AAF would kill large numbers ofcivilians with their fire raids, but the objective was to reduce theproductive level of the city. Killing and injuring civilian “workers”would help lower the output of factories due to “losses in labor.” 23 The JTG prepared an air bombardment plan in June 1945 to sup- port Operation Olympic (the code name for the planned ground in-vasion of Kyushu). There were two phases to the plan. The firstphase would attack “production and storage capacities,” whilephase 2attacked “transportation and other targets in direct support of an invasion.” Both phases were designed to “reduce the presentindustrial output of all military products by more than 50%, to de- stroy 70% of central ammunition stocks in Japan proper, to reduce production capacity of ground forces ordnance and munitions by75%, and to interdict rail and coast-wide shipping during any se-lected period.” 24Clearly the JTG wanted the AAF to bomb the Japanese home islands with the intent of taking war material likeammunition, rifles, aircraft, etc., out of the hands of the Japanesesoldiers who would defend their country against the American inva-sion. The JTG’s emphasis on reducing the “end products” of Japan-ese war industry was markedly different from the Strategic Bomb-ing Survey’s belief that the most successful strategic bombing at-tacks in the European theater were against “basic industries” likeelectric power, oil, and transportation. Because of the perceived Japanese ability to shift their war indus- tries to different areas within a given “urban concentration,” the JTGargued that “strong air forces can be exploited better against broadobjectives than against narrow ones regardless of their calculated sig-niﬁcance.” For the JTG “broad objectives” meant “urban concentra-tions” o