e told a 1948 Navy Day audience that he did not be- lieve the Soviet Union could launch a long-range conventionalbombing attack against the United States. The great oceans thatseparated Russia and the United States were still America’s bestlines of defense, and the navy’s wartime mission was to control thatdefensive area. 31 Navy officers also argued that carrier-based aviation would be more capable of carrying “the war to the enemy.” Admiral ChesterNimitz noted in his 1947 valedictory address that for “several years to come,” the air force’s bombers would not be able to make “twoway trips between the continents.” 32The navy’s carrier-based air- craft would be the most logical choice, according to Nimitz, to con-duct strategic bombing operations against the Soviet Union. Re-sponding to Nimitz’s remarks, General Spaatz lamented to Syming-ton that an article in a New York newspaper covering the Nimitzvaledictory highlighted the admiral’s position that aircraft carriersand their planes could “deal shattering blows to an enemy’s indus-trial potential far inland in the event of war. . . .” Spaatz was upsetbecause in his mind the navy was going far beyond the notion thatnaval aviation would be used only to support “fleet operations.”Spaatz interpreted the navy’s public statements as an attempt toa-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 141 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 153 --- convince the public that the navy should be allowed to take part in strategic bombing operations.33 Spaatz’s concern was justified. The navy’s assistant secretary for air, John Nicholas Brown, was reported to have testified to theEberstadt commit