cluded fromthe narrative that the United States had to drop the bomb to end thewar quickly and save American lives. Stimson, though, did not explicitly seek to rebut the Survey’s “of- ficial” explanation for Japan’s surrender (even though Stimson’s ex-planation contradicted Nitze’s counterfactual conclusion). Hesought to avoid controversy and formal argumentation in an inten-tional rhetorical strategy urged by close advisors. 101Stimson’s im- plicit critique, though, was still potent because it suggested thatNitze had incorrectly interpreted his evidence.a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 164 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 176 --- Franklin D’Olier knew that Nitze’s Pacific Survey’s counterfac- tual conclusion raised troubling questions about the end of World War II in the Pacific. Shortly after Harper’s Magazine published Henry Stimson’s article on President Truman’s decision to use thebomb, University of Chicago theologian Fred Eastman told D’Olierthat he was “struck by the difference between “the two explana-tions for Japan’s surrender.” Eastman wondered if Stimson had readthe Pacific Survey report (that argued the bomb was unnecessary)“before [Stimson] wrote his article.” D’Olier informed Eastmanthat he had never read Stimson’s article. 102D’Olier chose not to confront the two contradictory statements concerning Japan’s sur-render and the necessity of the atomic bomb. Instead, he simplyprovided Eastman with a restatement of the presidential directivesthat established the Survey. It is unclear why D’Olier did not try toresolve the apparent contradiction between Stimson’s and the Sur-vey’s explanation for J