;the petroleum industry; submarine bases; construction and repair fa-cilities; transportation systems; the aircraft industry; the coke, iron,and steel industry; and the electric power system. 46crankshaft rec- ognized that most of the above war-making elements were located inlarge Soviet urban areas. Thus the preponderance of American attackswould be directed against Soviet cities. Like war plan broiler, crankshaft considered the possibility of directly attacking morale by killing people in Soviet urban areas. Interestingly, at one point,crankshaft acknowledged that “it may become advisable to aban- don the concept of destruction of the enemy’s physical means to wagewar in favor of a concept involving destruction of his will through [a]massive attack [against the Soviet] people.” But the planners with-drew from this divergent concept by stating that a more thorougha-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 145 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 157 --- understanding was needed of the link between directly attacking the Soviet people and the possible breakdown of Soviet will to resist.47 The planners realized that strategic bombing against Soviet cities would kill millions of Soviet noncombatants. Their conception ofmodern warfare, tied to a deep-rooted understanding of a modernindustrialized society, however, caused them to view the applicationof strategic air power in a war with the Soviets as a method of de-stroying the Soviet Union’s war-making capacity. The plannersthemselves summed this concept up best in crankshaft when ex- plaining the probable effects of strategic air attacks against Sovietindustrial areas: cran