rrectly, that the atomic bomb-ings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had militarily defeated Japan. Thisled them to the erroneous belief that a future war with the SovietUnion could be decided quickly and decisively with atomicweapons. 95To deny the absolute nature of atomic weapons, to de- mystify them, and to assign them a proper military role, Blackettanalyzed strategic bombing in World War II to establish his theorieson military strategy. In arguing for the indecisiveness of atomic weapons and strategic air power, Blackett relied heavily on many of the Survey’s conclu-sions, including especially the European Economic Division’s re-a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 162 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 174 --- port, The Effects of Strategic Bombing on the German War Econ- omy. It argued that most German war production increased up to mid-1944 in the face of Allied bombing attacks. After the June 1944 Normandy invasion, according to the Survey, strategic bomb- ing did cause considerable damage to German industry, but it was the cumulative effect of the ground offensive that moved rapidlyinto the heart of Germany as well as strategic bombing that pro-duced Germany’s collapse. 96In light of this Survey conclusion, Blackett argued that even after acknowledging “the great develop-ments of air power, it is clear that Germany’s defeat in the secondworld war, as in the first, was brought about primarily by her hugeloss in man-power and material incurred in the land battles. . . . Airpower played, of course, a decisively important role in all the greatland battles.” 97In Blackett’s judgment, strategic bombing had pro- duced