t [targets] forstrategic air operations.” 38 The pincher plans and supporting intelligence estimates as- sumed that the Soviet Union did not pose an immediate militarythreat to Western Europe. According to these early postwar studies,the Soviet Union had a considerable conventional advantage overAmerican, British, and French forces in Europe. But the studies alsocontended that the Soviets, for several years, would try to avoid amajor conflict with the United States. Only a “miscalculation” of“the risks involved” on the part of the Soviets would lead to a “warbetween the USSR on one side and the United States and the BritishEmpire on the other.” The plans and intelligence estimates positedthat once war began it would be “total” and fought to the fullestability of America’s industrial might. 39 In November 1947 the Joint Chiefs approved war plan broiler . In certain ways broiler was similar to pincher. Both plans relieda-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 143 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 155 --- heavily on an early strategic air campaign against the Soviet Union employing atomic bombs. Both saw the need for advanced bases tolaunch this air offensive. But whereas the pincher series assumed that the massive American force requirements to carry out the planwould be met, broiler was premised on the current American forces available for war in 1948. 40 broiler did acknowledge that atomic attacks directed at Soviet industry located in major urban areas would at the same time killlarge numbers of civilians and destroy political control centers. Tar-get areas, as the plan pointed out, “should be selected so that thema