ultimately preparing the way for asuccessful American land invasion of fortress Japan. The JTG did agree, though, with the high priority the Survey plan placed on attacking Japanese transportation. In fact the groupcalled for an “overwhelming attack upon rail transportation andcoastwise shipping to disintegrate the Japanese home islands indus-trially; as an economic entity; and as a final defense line.” 62The Survey’s alternate plan asserted that, given time, a properly de-signed strategic bombing campaign eliminating Japanese trans-portation could be “decisive on enemy military capabilities.” 63Im- plicit in the Survey’s plan was that somehow, once the decisive at-tacks against transportation had broken Japan’s capacity to resist,the war would end without a land invasion. Yet Nitze’s alternatestrategic bombing plan never explicitly promised that Japan wouldsurrender unconditionally. It is also worthwhile to note that neither the Survey’s alternate strategic bombardment plan nor the conferences held between theSurvey and the JTG in June 1945 ever mentioned specific numbers of casualties for the planned invasion of Japan. Nitze recalled in a1994 interview that he “thought the 500,000 U.S. casualties” grossly underestimated the number of troops that would have beenkilled or injured in the planned invasion of the Japanese home is-lands. 64However, prior to Hiroshima, Nitze never addressed thethe survey presents its findings 100 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 112 --- issue of American casualties in any of his work with the Survey con- cerning the strategic bombardment of Japan.65 General Spaatz had the strategic bombardme