d from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 175 --- Baldwin used the often-cited conclusion from the Summary Report that, owing primarily to conventional strategic bombing, Japan would have surrendered very probably by 1 November and cer- tainly by 31 December 1945 even if the United States had not dropped the atomic bomb. He cited this conclusion together withanother from a Pacific Survey report, The Effects of StrategicBombing on Japan’s War Economy, to demonstrate that the anti-shipping campaign had effectively undermined the Japanese wareconomy before the atomic bombings of 6and 9August 1945. 99 Among the first to use the Survey’s findings to defend Truman’s decision to drop the bomb was former secretary of war Henry L.Stimson. In a widely read 1947 article in Harper’s Magazine (actu- ally authored by his young aide, McGeorge Bundy, whose role wasnot revealed at the time), Stimson cited the Survey report Japan’s Struggle to End the War and concluded: “All the evidence I have seen indicates that the controlling factor in the final Japanese deci-sion to accept our terms of surrender was the atomic bomb.” 100 Stimson’s statement is an early example of how conclusions drawn from the narrative portion of Japan’s Struggle to End the War could be much different from the ending portion of the report, which stated verbatim (from the Summary Report) Nitze’s early- surrender counterfactual .But for Stimson, the narrative in Japan’s Struggle to End the War, by itself, indicated that the Japanese cabi-net was deadlocked over whether to accept the Potsdam terms orcontinue the war in August 1945, and thus the atom bomb made the decisive difference. Unlike the Survey, Stimson concluded fromthe narrative that the United States had to drop the bomb to end thewar quickly and save American lives. Stimson, though, did not explicitly seek to rebut the Survey’s “of- ficial” explanat