[ sic].” Captain Anderson then recommended to Ofstie, because the report was of the most “perni-cious” nature, that it be “withdrawn from circulation and discipli-nary action taken. . . .” 95 Secretary of the Navy Forrestal was equally upset. In early Sep- tember 1947, he sent a letter (prepared for him by Ofstie) tostrategic bombing against japan 128 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 140 --- D’Olier with copies furnished to Secretary of War Kenneth Royall and Paul Nitze. Forrestal stressed to D’Olier the crucial objection tothe publication of Air Campaigns: it was “published by the Govern- ment Printing Office without prior reference to any representativeof the Navy Department,” thus violating the Survey’s establishedprocedures for approving reports for publication. Forrestal believedthe report to be “highly objectionable” and “replete with maliciousimplication and biased opinion.” He found it “decidedly deroga-tory to the wartime leadership of the Naval high command.” Heclosed the letter with a strong request that D’Olier take immediateaction not only “to suppress the publication but to disavow it dueto errors of fact, interpretation, and conclusion.” 96 Paul Nitze soon learned how Air Campaigns came to be pub- lished as an official Survey report. Nitze told the deputy chief ofnaval operations, Admiral Forrest Sherman, that he had had noidea that Air Campaigns was being published under the auspices of the Survey until it had been released by the Government PrintingOffice and subsequently brought to his attention. Nitze, at thatpoint, telephoned D’Olier for an explanation. D’Olier informedNitze that he himself had rever