ce strategic bombers had destroyed these “vital elements,” Fair-child and other airmen believed that the enemy’s will to resist wouldsubsequently collapse. Air power theorist Guilio Douhet noted al-most twenty years before Fairchild taught classes at ACTS that de-termining which “vital elements” to bomb would become theessence of air power strategy. But it was the civilian industrialistsand economists, not the airmen, who were really the experts at airpower strategy because the civilians better understood the workingsof a modern industrialized economy. The American conceptual ap-proach to strategic bombing, therefore, created a need to have civil-ian experts conduct target selection and evaluation—the essence ofair power strategy. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey wasan outgrowth of this requirement. During World War II, when the AAF was using strategic air power over the present battlefield, they were also preparing for afuture fight. But that future fight would not involve airplanes drop-ping bombs on targets in enemy cities. Instead, it would be a post-war crusade for an independent air force. The airmen knew that acivilian-led evaluation of the effects of strategic bombing againstGermany could be very helpful in their upcoming postwar fight forindependence. 8Such an evaluation could provide the evidentiary base for proving the effectiveness of American strategic air power inWorld War II. As a result, the airmen took deliberate steps to shape the questions that the Survey would ask concerning the effectivenessof American air power against Germany. The evaluation methodology that Survey directors like John Ken- neth Galbraith devised, and the published reports produced by theEuropean portion of the Survey, reflected the American emphasis onintroduction 6 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/