nsideration should be givento the selection of the head of this committee.” According toSpaatz, the AAF should try to find “a well-known American pub-lisher, jurist, or university president” for the post. 9A civilian-led, impartial study became the leitmotif of the AAF because its conclu-sions would ostensibly have an air of objectivity that could be usedto support the postwar crusade for an independent air force. In the main, the Survey would accomplish three goals for the AAF: first, it would serve as the AAF’s primary historical recordthat would help it establish postwar independence and lay the foun-dations for future air policy and theory; second, it would determinethe effects of strategic bombing on Germany’s war-making capacity;and last, it would yield lessons that could be applied to the strategicair campaign against Japan. General Arnold proposed to the Joint Chiefs of Staff that the Sur- vey ought to determine the facts and lessons learned from German ex-perience so that they “may be applied without delay to the strategicbombardment of Japan. . . .” 10Because the air campaign against thethe united states strategic bombing survey 36 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 48 --- Japanese home islands was still in its early stages in mid-1944, any rel- evant lessons learned from the European theater could prove helpfulin the war against Japan. 11But the AAF had other evaluation agencies like the COA to conduct those types of studies, many of whichdemonstrated that there were differences between the industrial struc-tures of Germany and Japan. There would be limits, therefore, to theusefulness of the German experience f