on” the war for the United States. 9While the Linebacker I and II campaigns stopped the North Vietnamese conventional at-tack and brought them back to the diplomatic bargaining table, it iswrong to suggest that a similar approach would have ended the warin 1969 or even in 1965, as some airmen have suggested. The Line- backer campaigns were relatively successful because they attackedcertain North Vietnamese capabilities in 1972 that were vulnerable to air power. During the years of Rolling Thunder, conversely, sincethe communist forces in the South did not rely substantially on thewar-making capability of the North, air power’s effectiveness waslimited. 10However, these realities often went unnoticed by airmen in the years following Vietnam. Thus with the myth of the Line-backer campaigns firmly placed in their minds, the airmen movedon to prepare again to fight the Soviet Union in a nuclear air war,just as they did after Korea. And as with Korea, since their experi-ence in Vietnam was inconclusive and not adaptable to textbookexplanations, 11an extensive civilian-led evaluation of air power after the Vietnam War was not conducted.a comparison of surveys 169 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 181 --- I Uncertainties about the use of American air power in the Korean and Vietnam Wars changed to certainty within the Air Force aboutthe effectiveness of air power in the Persian Gulf War. Indeed, inearly January 1991, shortly before the United States initiated its aerial assault on Iraq and Kuwait, Colonel John A. Warden III, airforce deputy director for war-fighting concepts in the Pentagon, be-lieved that another World War II-