y’s Military Analysis Division director, Major General Orvil Arson Anderson of the AAF saw in the Survey morethan just discovery and excitement. Anderson appreciated the op-portunity that the Survey provided for laying the groundwork for“the proper development of the future of the Army Air Force,” inwhich he had an “abiding faith” and for which he felt a “consum-ing ambition.” 57Perera and D’Olier had determined that a high- ranking military officer would be able not only to evaluate the oper-ational aspects of the AAF but to provide instruction to Surveymembers on the theory and practice of strategic bombing. 58Ander- son had set an altitude record in a balloon in the 1930s, served on the air planning staff with Haywood Hansell in 1941, and flown combat missions as a command pilot over Germany in 1943. Ap- pointed a Survey director in November 1944, Anderson would make a name for himself not so much for his division’s published re-port as for the strong and at times “heavy-handed” influence hewould exert on Survey conclusions. The Survey, declared Anderson,should produce not a bunch of “historical examples,” but ratherconclusions based on an “impartial” study of the facts and lookingtoward the future of the air force rather than the past. 59 For the other Survey divisions, Perera and D’Olier selected promi- nent American industrialists and specialists. Professor Harry F. Bow-man of the Drexel Institute of Philadelphia would lead the PhysicalDamage Division. Psychologist Rensis Likert of the Department ofAgriculture would head the Morale Division. An active participant incivil defense issues, Colonel Frank McNamee, Jr., was selected to headthe Civil Defense Division. The director of the Aircraft Divisionthe united states strategic bombing survey 49 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?doc