ets forthe AAF. Survey directors and JTG members had an opportunity to discuss their differences during a series of meetings in June 1945. On a trip back to Washington, D.C., in late May, Franklin D’Olier was sum-moned by General Arnold to report on the Survey’s findings. Imme-diately following the meeting with Arnold on 6June, D’Olier got on the phone with his directors in Europe. He informed Henry Alexan-der that General Arnold wanted the Survey to present its findings tothe JTG and other military leaders in Washington and ultimately touse the Survey’s findings “to make a very important contribution tothe situation in Japan.” D’Olier instructed Alexander, Nitze, Ball,and General Anderson to leave as soon as possible, and he guaran-teed them that once they arrived in Washington they would “have avery, very interesting time.” 26the survey presents its findings 88 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 100 --- On 9June, they held their first meeting with members of the Joint Target Group. Representing the JTG was its director, Briga- dier General Samford. Also attending the conference was MajorGeneral Lauris Norstad, the assistant chief of air staff, and ColonelGeorge Brownell, who was Robert A. Lovett’s (the assistant secre-tary of war for air) military executive. The purpose of the meeting,stated Norstad at the beginning of the conference, was “to find outin general terms what [the Survey had] found in Europe” and toprovide General Arnold (who had just departed for a visit with theoperating commands in the Pacific) with “some broad statementsand conclusions that you people have reached.” Setting the tone ofthe conference, D’