on theuse of air power. According to airmen, Rolling Thunder did notallow the air force to apply overwhelming air power on a strategiclevel quickly and decisively against North Vietnam. 7 In 1972 American airmen began to use strategic air power the way they believed it should be used. The Linebacker I air campaigna comparison of surveys 168 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 180 --- (May–October 1972) halted North Vietnamese conventional at- tacks into South Vietnam by air interdiction and close air support. In December 1972 (the so-called Christmas Bombings), President Nixon ordered the air force to conduct Linebacker II: a large-scaleair power attack against strategic targets centered in Hanoi andHaiphong to compel the North Vietnamese leadership to accept acease-fire and thus allow American forces to withdraw from SouthVietnam. Since the North Vietnamese government accepted cease- fire terms shortly after Linebacker II, many airmen believed that itwas American strategic air power that finally got the United Statesout of the Vietnam War. Former president Richard Nixon com-mented on the television show Meet the Press sixteen years later that had the United States bombed North Vietnam in 1969 as it did during the Linebacker campaigns, “we would have ended the war in1969 rather than in 1973.” 8 Within the air force since the end of the Vietnam War, an “un- healthy” myth has emerged that posits that the Linebacker cam-paigns “won” the war for the United States. 9While the Linebacker I and II campaigns stopped the North Vietnamese conventional at-tack and brought them back to the diplomatic bargaining table, it iswrong to su