resents its findings 80 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 92 --- plan for the defeat of Japan. Paul Nitze completed the plan in July 1945. General Spaatz, the newly designated commander of theUnited States Army Strategic Air Forces and a devout advocate ofprecision bombing, took that plan to the Pacific with him in lateJuly. He intended to implement it. I The COA had submitted an initial report back in the fall of 1943 on the most effective method for American strategic bombers to dam-age Japanese war production. 3That preliminary study recom- mended that the AAF bomb Japanese merchant shipping and cokeproduction. Because the Japanese economy was different from Ger-many’s in that Japan’s represented “an island industrial core whichderive[d] its material largely from overseas,” an attack against ship-ping and coke for steel production would have a powerful effect on“the entire structure of Japanese industry.” 4This early COA report did not recommend using incendiary attacks against Japanese citiesto destroy war industry. But the vulnerability of Japanese cities, constructed largely out of wood, to ﬁre was widely understood. As early as 1939, the Air Corps Tactical School had informed its students about the combustible na- ture of Japan’s major industrial cities. In February 1942, GeneralArnold had his staff prepare target analyses that highlighted the vul-nerability of Japanese cities to ﬁre. Always looking for new ways touse strategic bombers, General Arnold considered the possibility ofﬁre raids to destroy Japanese industry. 5As a result of the general’s in- terest, the military chairman of the COA, Brigadier General By