gainst a hated enemy. In one of their final reports to General Arnold, the COA submit- ted in October 1944 an air plan to defeat Japan by “aerial and naval blockade and bombardment from present and future bases.”The COA based its recommendations on the assumption that Japancould be defeated without a land invasion. The plan listed aircraftproduction, urban industrial areas, and Japanese shipping as thethe survey presents its findings 83 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 95 --- most promising targets. Japanese “urban areas,” argued the com- mittee, should be bombed for “overall economic results.” A sup-porting study to the committee’s report pointed out that “area in-cendiary raids” would “produce great economic loss, measured inman months of industrial labor. . . . The direct loss they impose onwar production is not inconsiderable.” Once the attacks on urbanindustrial areas had been completed, the committee suggested thatthe AAF consider “comprehensive attacks designed to reduce foodsupplies” as a means “of weakening the Japanese will to resist.” 12 The COA ended its work as a target selection and evaluation agency in October 1944. The AAF had established operations ana-lyst sections in the major American bomber commands in Europe,and the final air strategy for Europe had been set, which meant thatthe services of the COA were no longer required. 13But the Joint Chiefs of Staff determined that they needed another target agencyfor the air campaign in the Pacific. The problem for the Chiefs wasthat were at least six agencies that made contributions to targetanalysis, with no centralized control. The result was a lack of coo