tions ofKonoye to Japan’s decisions in 1941 to go to war against the Unitedstrategic bombing against japan 116 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 128 --- States. Paul Baran, who had become a senior member of the Pacific Survey’s Economic Division, was concerned with Japan’s wartimeeconomy, and the “greater Asia co-prosperity sphere.” Captain T. J.Hedding, a member of Ofstie’s Naval Analysis Division, askedKonoye questions about the military’s role in Japan’s political andeconomic structure during the war. 53 Nitze’s 12March “Very Preliminary Draft” of the Summary Re- port contained the early-surrender counterfactual as it would ap- pear (except for some slight grammatical modifications) in the 1 July published report. The only important change was the locationof the counterfactual within the overall report. The March drafts ofthe Summary Report placed the early-surrender counterfactual at the end of the report in the concluding remarks. But in April, a sub-sequent draft placed it at the end of a short narrative on “Japan’sStruggle to End the War,” which preceded the report’s conclusionsand recommendations. 54Nitze most likely moved the counterfac- tual because it fit better with the narrative on Japan’s attempts toend the war than with the report’s future-looking conclusions andrecommendations. 55 Nitze’s use of the counterfactual in the Summary Report drew no criticism from other Survey analysts. The Survey’s chronicler, MajorJames Beveridge, noted that there was “serious controversy” amongSurvey analysts over some of the Survey’s conclusions. But these bit-ter disagreements were caused by the “Military Analysis and Nava