ert A.Doughty, head of the USMA History Department, provided mewith important advice and criticism along the way and with a se-mester off from teaching to research and write. Many others deserve mention. Colonel Judith A. Luckett is a role model for me in scholarship and leadership. Colonel Charles F.Brower IV helped me to be a better teacher and historian. From myfirst days as a graduate student at Stanford through three years ofteaching history at West Point, Colonel Gary J. Tocchet has been amentor and friend. Gordon H. Chang of Stanford University forcedme to think about the book as a whole and how to better tie thechapters together. A number of discussions with Dennis Showalterof Colorado College about bombing in World War II refined myoverall argument in the book. Major Christopher Kolenda, MajorPeter Huggins, and Major Edward Rowe provided valuable com-ments on all or portions of the book. Major Ian Hope of PrincessPatricia’s Canadian Light Infantry gave me an especially helpful vii Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 9 --- reading of chapter 7 and the introduction. Steven Ross of the Naval War College critiqued an earlier version of chapter 6. Elizabeth Kopelman Borgwardt helped with some key passages in the book. Robert Newman of the University of Iowa (and World War II com-bat veteran) gave me very thoughtful readings of the chapters. Nor-ris Hundley, former editor of the Pacific Historical Review , showed me how to sharpen prose that I already thought was sharp. MajorFrank Huber solved many word-processing problems for me. Mygraduate cohort at Stanford, colleagues at the USMA History De-partment, and seminars at