sts for this meeting. It is possible, though, that they talked about the necessity of usingthe atomic bombs to force Japan to surrender. In a May letter to thepresident, D’Olier asked him to recall from their recent 29March meeting that “one of the Survey’s important studies reconstruct[ed]the discussions and negotiations in Japan which led to its uncondi-tional surrender. . . .” D’Olier then requested that the presidentgrant him permission to have access to “ultra information” (the se-cret Japanese diplomatic messages that American intelligence hadintercepted during the war) so that the Survey could “establishmore factually and clearly the factors affecting” the Japanese deci-sion to surrender, “especially the period from April through August1945. . . .” 66It is possible that President Truman questioned thestrategic bombing against japan 119 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 131 --- early-surrender counterfactual in the late-March meeting with Nitze and D’Olier, which may have pushed them into asking for“ultra information” to provide implicit support for the Summary Report’s claim that Japan would have surrendered even if the United States had not dropped the atomic bomb. A few days laterthe president granted D’Olier permission to use Ultra intelligence“to complete the Survey’s important study of the factors surround-ing the unconditional surrender decision of the Japanese.” 67But in the 1July published version of the Summary Report, the early-sur- render counterfactual, stating the atomic bomb was unnecessary inforcing Japan to surrender, remained unchanged. IV There is no question that Japan was a defeated nation by v