uspicious types, and necessary installations afloat andashore can be prepared without any particular show. . . . It would ap-pear to me that the selection of ‘D’ Day would, in some measure ata-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 155 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 167 --- least, be guided by casting a balance between our atomic readiness (stockpile of bombs, planes able to penetrate, and bases withinrange) and the growing war capability of the USSR. 74 This passage demonstrates Ofstie’s belief in the soundness of a strategic bombing campaign against the Soviets, as long as themethods used in that strategic bombing campaign involved thenavy’s carrier-based aircraft. It also shows that a senior, influentialmilitary officer like Ofstie was willing to call for, in a classifiedmemorandum, a surprise atomic attack against the Soviet Union inorder to prevent the Soviets from attacking the United States first.And Ofstie’s memorandum referred to “educating the public” to ac-cept the “true position,” which meant America needed to have thepolitical will to launch a “preventive war” against the Soviet Union. Ofstie made the same argument to the Joint Chiefs of Staff when he served as a board member for the evaluation of the July 1946 Bikini Island atomic tests. The “Operation Crossroads” evaluation teamwas headed by Massachusetts Institute of Technology President KarlT. Compton and also included General J. W. Stilwell, General Albert Wedemeyer, and Admiral D. S. Parsons as special advisors. 75The eval- uation team that Ofstie served on released its ﬁnal report to the JointChiefs on 29 December 1947. The report concluded tha