ortable alterna-tive to the firebombing of Japanese cities. Paul Nitze was given the mission of fulfilling Stimson’s desire for an “alternate strategy for the air attack on Japan.” 55It is unclear why Nitze got the job over the other Survey directors. Nitze’sdemonstrated analytical acumen in the June meetings with the JTGmust have helped. Certainly Alexander and Ball, and for that mat-ter Galbraith, were all qualified, based on their European experi-ence, to write an alternate plan for the strategic bombardment ofJapan. Galbraith did not mention in his memoirs the Survey’s alter-nate bombardment plan. But he did provide a glimpse of the per-sonality of Paul Nitze and a possible explanation as to why Nitzewas given the job. Galbraith recalled that Nitze was a “self pos-sessed man, [who] devoted the rest of his life to studying the theoryand practice of aerial destruction, emerging in the end as a devoutpractitioner of the art.” 56 Nitze recalled in his memoirs that he wrote the alternate plan over the Fourth of July weekend while vacationing at a Long Islandbeach with family and friends. He claimed that since Japan was iso-lated owing to the American naval blockade around the home is-lands, “the only means of transportation were the rail network andintercoastal shipping. . . .” Nitze reasoned, therefore, that a “con-centrated air attack on the essential lines of transportation and . . .the Kammon tunnels would isolate the Japanese home islands fromone another and fragment the enemy’s base of operations.” Nitzesaid that he believed the “interdiction of the lines of transportationthe survey presents its findings 98 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- genti