?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 160 --- sound bomber capable of delivering the atomic bomb with decisive results. Ruminating over the proper course for the defense estab-lishment to take, committee member Dewey Short wondered why“this government . . . should be spending billions of dollars in arm-ing the countries of western Europe? Should we not, perhaps, putmore emphasis on building and improving the B- 36s here, because we can get them out and get them back without relying on anyoneelse?” 54General LeMay’s response to the congressman was shrewd and bureaucratically astute. By agreeing with Short, General LeMaywould have confirmed the allegations of many naval officers thatthe air force was relying too heavily on atomic weapons for the na-tion’s defense. Instead, General LeMay argued that the bomberswould get through, but would not necessarily “win the war.” Forthat would require, according to the general, a balanced mix offorces. Yet LeMay’s testimony, coupled with that of other air forceofficers, confirmed in the minds of many congressman, and manyAmericans, that the atomic bomb, delivered by air force bombers,was the decisive weapon in modern combat. 55 Curiously, the reports of the Strategic Bombing Survey provided little help to air force officers during the B- 36hearings. The most significant use of Survey reports was in a negative way by Air ForceChief of Staff General Hoyt S. Vandenberg. He told committeemembers that there “had been many attempts to discredit the valueof strategic bombing by quoting [out of context] excerpts from theStrategic Bombing Survey.” 56This type of critique would become quite common with air force proponents when attacking the credi-bility of Survey “abusers.” According to air proponents, the “con-sensus” conclusions of the Survey were to be found in the chair-man’s Summary Reports, not in the ma