✦✦✦✦ ✦ The Evaluation of Strategic Bombing against Japan We have the facts and there just can’t be much argument about that. It is when we get to the conclusions that the trouble arises. paul nitze, April 1946 After spending three months in Japan from October to December 1945 evaluating the effects of strategic bombing on Japan’s wartime economy and its political de- cision to surrender, Paul Nitze briefed members of the Senate Com-mittee on Atomic Energy about the Survey’s findings from the Pa-cific. He told the senators that by the closing months of the Pacificwar, “Japan was already defeated by air power, and that the majorinfluence of the atomic bomb was that it made an invasion unneces-sary.” But this was not the conclusion that Nitze would publish sixmonths later in the Pacific Survey’s Summary Report. Anticipating what would become the Pacific Survey’s early-surrender counterfac-tual, Nitze revised the conclusion he had presented to the senators.Japan, argued Nitze, “would have surrendered prior to November 1 in any case; the atomic bomb merely accelerated the date at whichJapan surrendered.” 1This striking remark made by Nitze, positing that the combat use of the atomic bomb was unnecessary in forcingJapan to surrender unconditionally, raised no questions or re-sponses from the members of the committee. The Pacific phase of the Strategic Bombing Survey was more complicated than its European phase. When conducting their evalu- 104 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 116 --- ation in Europe, Survey analysts followed closely behind the ad- vancing Allied armies into Germany. Many European Survey con-clusions about the