erred to were Orvil An-derson and Admiral Ralph A. Ofstie, the director of the Pacific Sur-vey’s Naval Analysis Division. Back in November 1925, about one month before the American senior military leadership court-martialed General William Mitchellfor behavior that they believed violated good order and discipline(Mitchell’s public advocacy of an independent air force and hisstatements that the navy was irrelevant for national defense), Lieu-tenant Ralph Ofstie told a presidential board that “air power doesnot exist absolutely; that it exists only in conjunction with otherforces which can cooperate with or which can transport it.” 18Army Lieutenant Orvil Anderson, then a flier, had disagreed. In fact hetestified in December 1925, during the Mitchell court-martial, 19strategic bombing against japan 108 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 120 --- that Mitchell’s call for an independent air force was correct. The navy, according to young Orvil Anderson, because it viewed airpower as a supporting arm of the fleet, had a flawed conception ofair power for the national defense. The interwar years and the combat experience of World War II only reaffirmed for Anderson and Ofstie their ideas on the properrole of air power. To Anderson, World War II had demonstratedthat air power “played such an outstanding role in this war that itwill never again be thought of as subsidiary to ground or naval war-fare. . . .” 20Admiral Ofstie, however, held a different view. In Sep- tember 1945, he stressed to members of his Naval Analysis Division that their mission was to provide a thorough study of all air opera-tions in the Pacific that brought t