uld subsumeall naval land-based aviation. 11The navy’s budget for 1947 con- cerned Secretary Symington because of the navy’s demand for “landbased planes to protect their ships. . . .” Symington reminded Presi-dent Truman that the navy’s request was “millions of dollars morethan the Air Force’s [for] the purchase of airplanes.” Land-basedair, according to Symington, was the responsibility of the airforce. 12Many airmen came to believe that the navy’s effort to main- tain its land-based airplanes indicated a desire on the navy’s part totake away the strategic bombing mission from the air force. GeneralIra Eaker noted to Symington in April 1946 that the navy was offer- ing air force B- 29pilots regular commissions in the navy, proving to Eaker “the Navy’s intention to build up strategic bombing.” 13 In the summer of 1946, President Truman caused great concern among navy ofﬁcers by sending to the secretaries of war and navy amemorandum arguing that naval reconnaissance and antisubmarinewarfare should be performed by airmen. They sensed that the presi-dent’s memorandum was an indication of “just the initial step in acontinuing campaign by the Army Air Force people to absorb allNaval aviation.” 14Navy ofﬁcers believed that the navy had to main- tain its land-based airplanes to accomplish part of their wartime mis-sion of naval reconnaissance and antisubmarine warfare. About a year later, in June 1947, the House Committee on Ex- penditures in the Executive Department heard closing arguments byservice leaders on the unification of the armed services. The navymaintained its position that there should not be an independent airforce, and naturally air officers argued the opposite. Echoing thesame statements that Generals Spaatz and Doolittle had made atearlier hearings, Major General Lauris Norstad told the committeethat owing to the decisive results produced by strategic bombing ina-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 135 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic B