e Yugoslavia air campaign firmly believed that if the United States used air power correctly—with overwhelm-ing force and applied quickly throughout the depth of the enemyhomeland—it would force a decision and end the war sooner onNATO’s terms. Too, airmen at the start of World War II believedthat if left unrestricted and unfettered by other requirements, strate-gic bombing might very well end the war without the use of groundforces. Following World War II and into the cold war, the lament ofmany airmen looking back on Korea and Vietnam was that airpower never got its proper chance to “win” both wars. Testifying toCongress in October 1999, just four months after the end of the Yu- goslavia air campaign, Lieutenant General Michael C. Short, com-mander of NATO air forces flying in the campaign, argued that if ithad been left up to him he would have severed “the head of thesnake on the first night” by bombing strategic targets in Belgrade.Such an approach, according to General Short, would have stoppedSerbian ethnic cleansing in Kosovo by putting “a dagger in theheart” of the Serbian leadership. 2 However, General Short and other contemporary airmen have the same problem that General H. H. Arnold had in World War IIand even Colonel John A. Warden had in the Gulf War: the problemof proving strategic bombing’s effectiveness. One can make bom-bastic, metaphor-laden claims that inflate the expectations of whatair power could have accomplished. But the fundamental problemafterword 192 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 204 --- of determining the effects of strategic bombing has not gone away. Indeed, the Yugoslavia air campaign s