r study group brought together by the AAF back in Wash- ington, D.C., was the Committee of Historians (COH). In late 1943,the origins of the american conceptual approach 25 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 37 --- General Arnold asked the committee to evaluate the effects of allied bombings on German war potential and morale and to determinewhether or not Germany “could be bombed out of the war during theﬁrst three months of 1944.” General Arnold desired the committee’s report to be a “completely objective study, from a civilian and not amilitary point of view.” 53What made this study signiﬁcant was not so much the instructions, which followed along the same lines as thosegiven to the COA for its evaluations, as the historians who made upthe committee and the conclusions that they produced. They includedsome of America’s leading historians in the ﬁelds of American and Eu-ropean history: Carl L. Becker, professor of European history at Cor-nell University; Henry S. Commager, professor of American and Eu-ropean history at Columbia University; Edward Mead Earle, memberof the COA, special AAF advisor, and scholar at the Institute for Ad-vanced Studies at Princeton University; Louis Gottschalk andBernadotte Schmitt, professors of history at the University of Chicago;and Dumas Malone of Harvard University. 54 Their report, “Germany’s War Potential, December 1943: An Appraisal,” was different in its analytical approach and assump-tions from those written by groups like the COA that preceded itand the Strategic Bombing Survey that would follow. In his directiveto the committee, General Arnold wanted the historians to examinesecr