ttp://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 151 --- Simply put, conventional strategic bombing required many, many very heavy bombers that justified the air force’s seventy-group pro- gram. Heavy reliance on the atomic bomb would have logicallycalled into question the great number of airplanes that the airmenwere asking Congress to buy. General Spaatz acknowledged that“200plane loads” of conventional bombs would “accomplish the same result” as one atomic bomb attack. 27For the airmen and their seventy-group program, the nemesis was in the arithmetic. A second nemesis was the conception put forward by military strategist Bernard Brodie that the atomic bomb had become the “ab-solute weapon.” The air force’s seventy-group program was basedlargely on the World War II experience of the Army Air Forces. YetBrodie argued that the atomic bomb seemed to have erased the WorldWar II pattern of strategic bombing because of the new weapon’s huge destructive capacity. Brodie believed that World War II had proven thedecisiveness of strategic bombing, but the atomic bomb had changedthe way strategic bombing would be conducted in a future war. Prob-ably Brodie’s most challenging argument was this: “Thus far the chiefpurpose of our military establishment has been to win wars. Fromnow on its chief purpose must be to avert them. It can have no otheruseful purpose.” 28Yet the seventy-group program that Generals Spaatz and Vandenberg presented to the Air Policy Board was not aprogram fundamentally based on the ability of the air force to deter awar with the Soviets. Instead, the mission of the proposed seventy-group air force would ultimately be to ﬁght and win a war against theSoviet Union by relying heavily on conventional strategic bombing.Symington told the congressmen of the Air Policy Board: “The morea