f both surveys,the purported desire to produce “objective” and “truthful” evalua-tions of air power permeates the dialogue. In early 1944, when they were forming the USSBS, Generals Arnold and Spaatz recognizedthat the USSBS must produce reports that would be perceived as“unbiased and completely impartial” if they were to be received fa-vorably. General Arnold himself understood how a report writtenby civilian experts could provide the “objective” historical recordneeded by the airmen in their future fight for independence. 27Al- though by 1991 the independence of the American air force was no longer in doubt as it was for General Arnold in 1944, the “future”was still dependent on an “objective” and “truthful” rendering ofthe air force’s performance in the Gulf War. Secretary Rice evidentlyunderstood this imperative and thus formed the civilian-led GulfWar Air Power Survey. When the GWAPS began its work in August 1991, director Eliot Cohen provided his team of analysts with a set of “guiding con-cepts” for their studies. The approach outlined by Cohen was “atall costs” to maintain a strong sense of “objectivity, honesty, [and]integrity.” Cohen drew on the “lineage” of the USSBS by emphasiz-ing what he saw as its “integrity” and presentation of work in“clear English.” Early on Cohen recognized the “symbolic ties” ofthe USSBS to the GWAPS. 28 Making the rhetorical connection from the GWAPS to the USSBS was much more than just symbolism. Throughout the early days ofthe GWAPS, and up through the writing of its final reports, refer-ences were often made to the need to be like the USSBS, especiallyin terms of “objectivity.” In April 1992, as the task forces were heavily engaged with the writing of their final reports, Eliot Cohentold Secretary Rice that he was using the USSBS as a model “interms of precision, pungency, and clarity.” 29In the foreword of eacha comparison of surveys 175 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War I