eventually supply many of the Survey’sdirectors. Before the war Nitze had been a member of the New Yorkinvestment firm of Dillon, Read and Company, responsible forsome of the company’s investments in American electrical power in-dustries. Prior to joining that company, Nitze had worked as aneconomist for an investment firm in Chicago. Anticipating the workhe would later do for the Survey, Nitze in 1929 wrote a report for the firm analyzing the problems with the German economy. By1944, Nitze had served in various governmental agencies that ad-dressed economic problems created by the war. In October, he ac-cepted the post as director of the Survey’s Equipment and UtilitiesDivision. 54 Perera and D’Olier wanted a talented economist to head the divi- sion that would assess the overall effects of strategic bombing onthe united states strategic bombing survey 48 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 60 --- the German economy. After considering a number of names during November and December, on a recommendation from Paul Nitzethey decided on economist John Kenneth Galbraith. 55Prior to join- ing the Survey in February 1945, Galbraith had served as an eco-nomic advisor to the National Defense Advisory Commission andas a director for the Price Division of the Office of Price Adminis-tration. Like his fellow directors, Galbraith would bring to his workwith the Survey in Europe a “sense of discovery and excitement.” 56 Serving as the Survey’s Military Analysis Division director, Major General Orvil Arson Anderson of the AAF saw in the Survey morethan just discovery and excitement. Anderson appreciated the op-portunity that the Survey p