agreed and noted that the GWAPS needed “tobe more forthright than [the] USSBS on holes in our data.” 53 The primary authors of the GWAPS volume Effects and Effec- tiveness, Thomas Keaney and Barry Watts, argued that their ownstudy, “because of its focus on operational-strategic effectiveness,ended up being closer in content and intent to USSBS volumes . . .than any other GWAPS reports.” Watts and Keaney also admittedthat there were some important differences “between the two, par-ticularly regarding data and sources.” They pointed out that themost critical “hole” in evidence was the fact that without access toIraqi leaders and prewar plans, their volume was limited in its abil-ity to discern Iraqi “intentions, before and during the Gulf War.”However, the Effects volume argued that since the aim of the air campaign was not to overwhelmingly attack the Iraqi economic in-frastructure, extensive evidence of the Iraqi war effort was not nec-essary. Moreover, modern technologies such as satellite imagery ofbomb damage used during the Gulf War provided GWAPS analystswith a good deal of evidence on effects. 54Too, reports from inside Iraq after the war by groups like United Nations inspections teamsinvestigating Iraqi nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons pro-duction facilities provided Effects volume analysts with helpful in- formation. Still, the authors of the volume understood the problemthey had with evidence. As a result, they used the USSBS as a “base-line” to “mitigate” the problem.a comparison of surveys 184 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 196 --- In a June 1992 GWAPS review session on the Effects and Effec- tiven