ad been released by the Government PrintingOffice and subsequently brought to his attention. Nitze, at thatpoint, telephoned D’Olier for an explanation. D’Olier informedNitze that he himself had reversed Nitze’s decision in the spring notto publish Air Campaigns. D’Olier said he had informed Nitze ofhis decision to allow the publication of Air Campaigns, because of D’Olier’s “desire to save [Nitze] embarrassment.” 97 VI Franklin D’Olier was an advocate for building the postwar defenseestablishment around air power and an independent air force. As aformer national commander of the American Legion, D’Olier sentcopies of the European and Pacific Summary Reports to all of the forty-eight state commanders of the Legion. He agreed with Har-vard law professor and erstwhile COA member W. Barton Leachthat the Survey was the most “persuasive” argument made yet “ofthe national requirement for air power” and that it should be givenstrategic bombing against japan 129 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 141 --- the widest distribution possible.98He also understood the influence the Survey was having, and would continue to have, on the reorgan- ization of the defense establishment. In late July 1947, as the Gov- ernment Printing Office was releasing copies of Air Campaigns, D’Olier boasted to Nitze how Secretary of War Robert Pattersonhad told him of the important role the Survey reports had played inthe unification of the armed services. “He [Patterson] said that re-peatedly after many hearings our Report had been mentioned, withparticular reference to our insistence upon unification.” 99 The Survey’s call for unification of the armed s