endence of the air force. The Survey’s numerous pub-lished studies turned out to be very malleable sources, especiallyfor airmen and navy officers arguing their respective cases beforecongressional committees. But the disagreements between the airforce and the navy during the hearings were not over the sound-ness of the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing.Rather, the navy and the air force disagreed over the most effectivemethods for carrying out a strategic bombing campaign in a po-tential war against the Soviet Union. Because the Strategic Bomb-ing Survey had its evaluation shaped by the American conception,and because both the navy and the air force believed in the cor-rectness of that conception, the Strategic Bombing Survey provedto be a source of truth for both services when advocating theirpostwar parochial interests. The clear perception of the soundness of strategic bombing in World War II, as manifested in the USSBS reports, became muddled in the limited wars of Korea and Vietnam. American airmen inthose wars chafed at the restrictions placed on them by their politi-cal leaders. If the correct approach to strategic air power was to at-tack the war-making capacity of the enemy, in Korea and Vietnamthat approach proved difficult to carry out. Since the use of airpower in Korea and Vietnam did not fit the airmen’s conception ofstrategic bombing, an extensive evaluation along the lines of theWorld War II USSBS was not conducted. It was not until the Ameri- can Air Force perceived great success after the Persian Gulf War inintroduction 8 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 20 --- 1991 that a USSBS-like a