rafts written between 12March and 1 July when the final Summary Report was published. 27Some of the changes contained in these drafts were striking in their emphasis on the AAF’s role inthe war against Japan and in their advocacy of an independent airarm. Nitze’s 12March preliminary draft pointed out that high-level bombing conducted by the AAF against Japanese shipping was notproductive. The draft argued that “the accuracy of high level bomb-ing against maneuvering ships was so low as to give disappointingresults with the limited forces available.” Although acknowledgingthat the AAF was able to apply only “limited forces,” the draft stillemphasized that high-level bombing was ineffective. 28The 1Julystrategic bombing against japan 110 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 122 --- published version of the Summary Report omitted this criticism of the AAF. The published Summary Report also deleted some favorable statements made in earlier drafts about the importance of American carrier-based aircraft. A March outline of the report argued that theUnited States had “underestimated the ability of carrier-based air toneutralize Japanese land based air.” 29The published Summary Re- port acknowledged that the loss of the “antiquated battleships at Pearl Harbor had little effect on the [American] Navy’s combat ca-pabilities,” but it did not give credit to the navy for destroyingJapan’s land-based air force, as the earlier draft had done. 30 Another draft written in March emphasized that prompt passage of a bill by Congress to reorganize and unify America’s military es-tablishment was in the “national interest.” According to the draft