big bombsthey couldn’t have rebuilt in less than two or three years the equip-ment necessary to put them back into operation.” 34 If one could remove the titles of rank of conference participants like General Anderson and General Samford, and if one could re-move the explicit references to strategic bombing in the discourse,the discussions between the JTG and the Survey would seem likean economic conference about Germany’s gross national output.Guilio Douhet emphasized in 1921 that the essence of air strategy was selecting the appropriate targets for strategic bombers. And asthe American conceptual approach to strategic bombing developedin the 1930s, those targets became essentially economic in nature.Therefore, the most qualified individuals to formulate air powerstrategy (as opposed to tactics and operations) were civilian indus-trial and economic experts, not airmen. 35 But General Anderson, during the conference, tried to place what was essentially an economic analysis by the JTG and Survey direc-tors into a military context, with Anderson himself being the fore-most expert. At one point George Ball, Paul Nitze, and Robert Rus-sell (Survey director of the Oil Division) were explaining to GeneralNorstad the importance of oil for Germany’s war economy. Nitzestated that the AAF was most successful when it went after criticalindustries “like oil.” Ball agreed and told Nitze that he was “ab-solutely right.” Anderson then referred to the AAF’s early attackson oil and other targets in 1942 and 1943. He posited that “they were largely a mistake, and from a point of view of the economicsystem the dividends were quite low.” 36From a military standpoint,the survey presents its findings 91 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright ©