24-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 56 --- General Arnold’s proposed memorandum encapsulates the dilemma that senior airmen faced when they were establishing the Survey:How do you create a truly impartial study of strategic bombingwhen you are taking deliberate steps to shape the conclusions thatthe Survey would reach? Framing the questions that the Survey would answer and then setting up an organizational structure designed to answer thosequestions would indeed influence its conclusions. (Consider themarkedly different approach that General Arnold took when he al-lowed the Committee of Historians to evaluate the effects of strate-gic bombing without an established organization for its analysis.)But as General Arnold acknowledged in his memorandum to thepresident, the future of the AAF was bound up in the Survey’s re-sults, and therefore it had to have a strong aura of impartiality. Anaura was enough, however: the airmen never wanted the Survey toquestion the relevance of strategic bombing to military strategy. Survey director George Ball, in his memoirs, confirmed that the Survey’s “frame of reference” was limited to studying the effect ofthe American “air offensive on the Germany economy.” 38Paul Nitze would later point out that his and the Survey’s task in regardto strategic bombing “was to measure precisely the physical effectsand other effects as well, to put calipers on it. . . . I was trying to putquantitative numbers on something that was considered immeasur-able.” 39The Survey would be able to make imponderables ponder- able by limiting its analysis to the effectiveness of strategic bombingagainst German war-making capacity, exactly what the airmenwanted. President Roosevelt sent a letter to Secretary Stimson on 9Sep- tember 1944 formally requesting that he organize a study of the Combined Bomber Offensive; its value, according to the president,“depends on the quality