“strong air forces can be exploited better against broadobjectives than against narrow ones regardless of their calculated sig-niﬁcance.” For the JTG “broad objectives” meant “urban concentra-tions” of factories that produced war material. And by June of 1945,the survey presents its findings 87 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 99 --- based on the results of the XXI Bomber Command’s ﬁre raids against Japanese cities, the JTG believed that an effective method against“urban concentrations” of industry was area attacks. The groupnoted that certain targets were “nominated for high level attack; oth-ers for low level attack.” 25In the vernacular of the AAF in the closing months of World War II in the Paciﬁc, low-level attacks came to meanarea or ﬁre raids against “urban concentrations” of industries, whilehigh-level attacks meant precision bombing of speciﬁc industries. Butboth were methods, according to the JTG, to attack the ability ofJapan to resist an American land invasion. II The directors of the Strategic Bombing Survey agreed that both areaand precision attacks were methods to destroy the enemy’s war-making capacity. But based on their findings in Europe, Survey di-rectors concluded that the decisive targets were basic industries likeoil, electric power, and transportation. The JTG, however, believedthat the final goods produced by the war-making capacity—ammu-nition, aircraft, naval ships, etc.—should be the primary targets forthe AAF. Survey directors and JTG members had an opportunity to discuss their differences during a series of meetings in June 1945. On a trip back to Washington, D.C., in late May, Franklin D’O