sharpen prose that I already thought was sharp. MajorFrank Huber solved many word-processing problems for me. Mygraduate cohort at Stanford, colleagues at the USMA History De-partment, and seminars at the Command and General Staff Collegeand the School of Advanced Military Studies (SAMS) provided en-gaging intellectual environments. Colonel Robin Swan, ColonelKim Summers, Robert Berlin, and the rest of the faculty at SAMSset the standard for me as progressive-minded defense intellectuals.Many lively and stimulating discussions with Roger Spiller of theCombat Studies Institute informed my thinking on history, culture,and theory. E-mail correspondence with Eliot Cohen, Emery M. Ki-raly, Mark Mandeles, and Barry Watts, all former members of theGulf War Air Power Survey, provided me with valuable criticism ofchapter 7. Electronic and phone conversations with Barry Watts were especially helpful on air power history. Special thanks to theNYU anonymous reviewer for thoughtful ways to improve thebook. Niko Pfund, director of the New York University Press, haspushed me toward precision and excellence. I received help at numerous archival collections across the coun- try: Dave Giardano and Wil Mahoney at the National Archives; thestaff at the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.; Joseph Caverand the staff of the Air Force Historical Research Agency (AFHRA)at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama; the Seely G. Mudd Library atPrinceton University; the Naval Historical Center in Washington,D.C.; and the USMA Special Collections Department. Dennis Bilgerof the Truman Presidential Library was the perfect “finding aide”;he somehow intuitively knew the documents that I needed to read.Grants from the Dean of USMA, the AFHRA, and the Truman Pres-idential Library helped to pay for a number of research trips.acknowledgments viii Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://