era-tional boldness that led to his decision in March 1945 to switch from precision attacks on specific Japanese industries to firebomb-ing Japanese cities. This shift was not a result of pressure placed onLeMay from Arnold in Washington, D.C. Instead, LeMay made thechange on his own owing to a number of factors that made it diffi-cult to fly high-altitude precision bombing during the day againstthe fortress of Japan, as Hansell had unsuccessfully tried to do. 20 LeMay’s first major area attack using incendiary bombs occurredon the night of 9March 1945 against Tokyo. The attack killed at least seventy thousand civilians and burned major portions ofTokyo’s industrial and residential sectors. Using the results of LeMay’s fire raids and intelligence on Japan- ese industry, the JTG put together “target information sheets” thatcontained data on concentrated industrial areas located in thelargest Japanese cities. A late-March JTG summary listing the majorJapanese industrial cities noted that the city of Nagasaki contained“industry including both plants of the Mitsubishi Steel and ArmsWorks, the Akunoura Engine Works, Mitsubishi Electric, severalthe survey presents its findings 86 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 98 --- other small factories and most of the ports storage and trans-ship- ment facilities.”21The Nagasaki target sheet pointed out that a “successful area attack against Nagasaki will damage or destroyfactories and a large proportion of the housing in the city.” 22Nei- ther the city summary nor the Nagasaki target sheet listed themorale of the civilian population as an objective for strategicbombers. The JTG knew tha