s perplex-ing to the congressman because of all the published statements hehad read touting the exceptional power of atomic weapons as com-pared with conventional bombs. Congressman Hinshaw noted thatsome of the figures that he had in mind placed one atomic bomb ashaving “270 times the capacity of one B 29” that would drop only conventional bombs. Since General Vandenberg had not mentionedthe great power of atomic bombs during his briefing, CongressmanHinshaw wondered “how the use of that weapon affects the plan.”General Spaatz responded by emphasizing the secrecy surroundingthe bomb and the airmen’s inability, due to security requirements,to discuss it with the congressmen: “When you talk about theatomic weapon, you get right into the atomic security act and thequestion is rather difficult to answer right off.” 25 Without getting into actual numbers and technical information relating to the bomb, Vandenberg was still able to explain to thecongressmen the airmen’s (nonpublic) belief that the atomic bombshould be an ancillary weapon to the seventy-group air force’s mis-sion of carrying out a conventional bombing attack against the So-viet Union. Even after five or six years of further development andproduction of atomic weapons, according to Vandenberg, there was“only the bare possibility of winning the war [against the Soviets]by forcing capitulation” if the United States relied heavily onatomic weapons. The airmen therefore looked at the atomic bomb“from the standpoint of an additional weapon” to support a con-ventional bombing campaign against the Soviet Union. 26a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 139 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gent