loyment of air power.” 30Civilian experts would come to play a crucial role in formulating air strategy, andtheir evaluations would assist the airmen in their postwar crusadefor an independent air force. The fledgling Air Intelligence Section of the AAF was one of the first agencies that brought in civilian experts to work on strategictarget selection and evaluation. After leaving the Tactical School in1940, Haywood Hansell joined the section and was placed incharge of determining the critical links in the German and Japaneseindustrial systems. With the growing threat of Nazi Germany andthe availability of a more robust AAF budget, Hansell was able tobring a number of prominent civilian experts into the Air Intelli-gence Section. One was Malcolm Moss, who held a Ph.D. in indus-trial engineering. Moss produced an analysis of Germany’s electri-cal power system that, according to Hansell, provided the informa-tion needed to put together an extensive target plan for attackingGerman electrical power. 31Hansell and other air force officersthe origins of the american conceptual approach 19 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 31 --- would draw heavily on analyses like Moss’s as war with Germany became a reality. A year later in 1941, responding to a request from President Roo- sevelt to the service secretaries, General Arnold directed Hansell alongwith Lieutenant Colonels Harold George, Kenneth Walker, and Lau-rence Kuter to write the AAF’s portion of “the overall production re-quirements required to defeat our potential enemies.” 32In order to determine production requirements the AAF needed to develop an airstrategic concept. Th