antly of strategic bombers could avoid costly naval andground engagements by attacking the “vital centers” of enemycities, thereby creating terror among the civilian population. The re-sult, according to Douhet, would be a quick, decisive victory for thenation equipped with an independent strategic air force. A casualglance at the title of Douhet’s book, The Command of the Air, leads one to think that gaining superiority in the air—the ability to fly atwill over enemy territory—was the most important objective. Butfor the Italian, this was only the first, albeit essential, part of a the-ory of air warfare that ultimately envisioned using airplanes tobomb enemy cities. 4Within those cities, Douhet argued, were pri- marily two types of objectives to bomb: the morale of the peopleand their material resistance. Munitions factories, transportationnetworks, and electric power plants, for example, made up materialresistance—what commonly became know as the enemy’s war-mak-ing capacity. But Douhet made clear that while it might be impor-tant to attack the enemy’s industrial capacity to resist, the enemy’smorale would ultimately have to be attacked. The way to break themorale—the will to resist—of the enemy was to bomb cities, killinglarge numbers of civilians. 5 American airmen were aware of Douhet’s theory. As early as 1923 a translation of The Command of the Air was being circulated at the Air Service Headquarters. In 1933 the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) at Maxwell Field, Alabama, maintained copies of Douhet’swork. 6Historians have debated how much direct inﬂuence Douhet had on the development of American air power strategy in the 1930s.the origins of the american conceptual approach 11 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyrig