of studies, many of whichdemonstrated that there were differences between the industrial struc-tures of Germany and Japan. There would be limits, therefore, to theusefulness of the German experience for ﬁghting Japan. 12 But the need for applying the lessons learned in Germany against Japan did, however, give the Survey a sense of wartime urgency. Gen-eral Spaatz agreed with General Arnold in June that the airmen should“stress the time factor and the operational requirements of the waragainst Japan, leaving until later the detailed evaluations and siftingof evidence that will be necessary for the formulation of future AirForce doctrine.” In this way, General Kuter noted to Spaatz, the air-men could avoid “lengthy debate along abstract lines.” 13 By setting aside the “issue” of postwar air force doctrine, and the desire to avoid debate along “abstract lines,” Kuter, Arnold, andSpaatz implicitly recognized the potential for controversy over theapplication of Survey results. They knew that if the AAF presentedthe Survey primarily as a way to establish the need for postwar in-dependence, it could lose its urgency. The Army, and especially thenavy, would criticize the AAF for being more concerned with the fu-ture of the air force than with victory. Other airmen also understood that the controlling reason for cre- ating the Survey would be to use its results for the future of the airforce. General Anderson told General Spaatz that the Survey’s re-sults “might well prove to be the foundation of our future doctrineon the employment of air power.” Spaatz, using the same languageas Anderson, told Arnold that the Survey would have a profoundinfluence on the “future employment of air power.” Arnold agreedwith Spaatz, and by June had recognized the “ever increasing im-portance” of the Survey. 14Airmen below Spaatz and Arnold appre- ciated the Survey’s potential for establishing the theoretical base fora future independent air force. The assistant chief of staff for per-sonnel, C