h the Soviet Union, BrigadierGeneral Vernon E. Megee, a Marine Corps aviator, based his argu-ment on Survey findings on the role that tactical aviation played indestroying transportation networks in Germany and Japan duringWorld War II. 67Admiral W. H. P. Blandy, commander in chief of the Atlantic Fleet, embellished a point that Admiral Radford had madea few days earlier that an all-out atomic attack on Soviet citieswould not break the Soviet people’s will to resist. Admiral Blandy’sreading of the Survey showed that strategic bombing “in the latterpart of the war, had a very great effect on Germany’s oil and steelindustries and her transportation, plus a marked effect upon hergeneral economy, and the morale of her people.” But Blandy addedthat strategic bombing operations in World War II that killed largenumbers of civilians did not lead to “an actual breakdown of thewill of the people to resist.” The lessons from the past that shouldbe applied to present and future defense strategy was that there wasno such thing as an “atomic Blitz.” Instead, wars would continue tobe fought with the army and navy destroying the enemy’s capacityto resist, stated Blandy. 68 Erstwhile USSBS director Admiral Ralph A. Ofstie, appearing again before the committee, pointed out what naval officers saw asthe air force’s misconception of the past and its flawed vision for fu-ture defense strategy. He began his testimony, like other naval anda-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 152 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 164 --- marine officers before him, by citing Survey findings that demon- strated the impact strategic bombing had had on Ger