aid in which you set yourself to doa maximum of physical damage of all sorts . . . an area raid is designedto destroy general enemy resources to the maximum extent, and it isfor this reason that the center part [of the city] chosen is somewherewhere ﬁre will take hold and burn of itself.” Another lecturer arguedthat “the main physical effect of area bombing is the destruction ofdwellings, but there is also an economic effect because the workers inthese dwellings will be kept away from work in factories because theyhave to settle somewhere else.” 69 Believing in the American approach toward strategic bombing and prepared to carry out their evaluation within that conceptualframework, Survey analysts were ready to begin the work thatwould lay the theoretical groundwork for air power. From Marchto November 1944, the AAF had played an important part in estab- lishing the parameters within which the Survey would conduct itsevaluation. The AAF had taken great steps to insure that the Sur-vey’s conclusions would be “sound and substantiated” and supportthe future independence of the air service. 70the united states strategic bombing survey 53 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 65 --- chapter 3 ✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦ ✦ The Evaluation of Strategic Bombing against Germany Hamburg had put the fear of God in me. albert speer, 1970 That is why I stress and will continue to stress in this Survey that you have got to know what you are looking for, then seek to confirm it. orvil arson anderson, 1945 At a Survey directors’ meeting on 1April 1945, Franklin D’Olier expressed his amazement that the “Air Corps should have given us this job with no qualific