acy of airpower through a civilian-led, scientiﬁc evaluation of the Americanstrategic bombing effort against Germany. Civilian experts would beable to tackle the complex problems of strategic target analysis thatthe airmen were unable to grasp while at the same time providing anaura of objectivity in their evaluation. But the conclusions of an eval-uation of such importance would have to vindicate, not discredit, theuse of American strategic air power in World War II, if the airmenwere to use it to justify a postwar policy that embraced an independ-ent air force. In November 1944, Secretary of War Henry Stimson made an 33 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 45 --- official request to Franklin D’Olier, the president of Prudential Life Insurance, to become the chairman of the United States StrategicBombing Survey, a large organization that would conduct a “scien-tific investigation of all the evidence” of strategic bombing in theEuropean theater and help to evaluate “the importance and poten-tialities of air power as an instrument of military strategy, for plan-ning the future development of the U.S. Air Forces, and for deter-mining future economic policies with respect to the national de-fense.” 1Secretary Stimson, in his letter to D’Olier, wanted the Survey to evaluate the fundamental relevance of strategic bombingin warfare and national defense policy. But during the course of itslengthy evaluation of American strategic bombing in Europe, theSurvey did not question the relevance of air power but only assessedthe degree of strategic bombing’s effectiveness. 2 From March to November 1944, AAF officers shaped the ques- tions