a on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 85 --- factories until shortly after the Normandy invasion and then made German transportation and oil production their primary strategictargets. Galbraith’s analysis (based on other division findings) im-plicitly emphasized that the AAF had the most success attackingtargets that Perera and the COA did not recommend. 87 Ironically, Galbraith’s Economic Division report vindicated the airmen’s theory of air power. Even though Galbraith argued thatAAF attacks against targets like capital equipment and ball-bearingplants were largely ineffective, his report noted that aerial attacksagainst German transportation were decisive. By early 1945, “in co- operation with other causes,” they led to the complete breakdownof the German war economy, Galbraith’s report argued. 88Back in 1939 at ACTS, Muir Fairchild believed that for strategic bombing to be decisive, air leaders would have to determine the correct“vital” targets to bomb in the enemy’s war economy. By acknowl-edging that there were “vital” target systems in Germany, and thatthose “vitals” were vulnerable to strategic air attack, Galbraith sub-tly, but profoundly, vindicated the American conceptual approachto strategic bombing. This subtle endorsement was no salve toGuido Perera, however. In his memoirs, Perera repeatedly argued that the failures and suc- cesses of strategic bombing during World War II should be interpretedin light of the AAF’s objective in the European theater: to prepare the way for a ground invasion of the continent, and not to destroy Ger-man industry. With this premise, Perera then discredited Galbraith’sconclusions and resurrected the validity of his COA targeting recom-mendations for the AAF. Since, according to Perera, German frontlinemilitary strength—not the destruction of German industry—was theobjective for the AAF, the attacks on ball-bearing and airframe pr