e formulation of Survey conclusions. Nitzereasoned that without Speer’s “help it never would have been possi-ble to secure the complete and well documented picture which wehave now obtained.” 21 One historian has argued that there was a fundamental difference in methodology between the European and Pacific portions of theSurvey. Because there was a dearth of production records in Japan(as compared with Germany), Survey analysts in the Pacific had torely heavily on interrogations of Japanese officials for their evi-dence, according to this historian. 22Yet the record shows that inter- rogations of important government officials were nearly as impor-tant for the European Survey. Relying on interrogations and con-structing counterfactuals, therefore, were a part of Surveymethodology in Europe and would remain so once the Survey beganits evaluation in the Pacific. II Albert Speer, during his weeklong interrogation with the Survey,told Directors Ball, Galbraith, and Nitze that the RAF’s area raidson the German city of Hamburg in the summer of 1943 had a pow- erful effect on the morale of the city’s population. According toBall’s translation of Speer’s remarks, “the losses in Hamburg werestrategic bombing against germany 59 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 71 --- great, the greatest we had suffered in any raid, particularly from burning houses. And the depression among the population was ex-traordinary.” Speer stated to Ball that shortly after the raid he in-formed Hitler that if Germany “underwent 6–8more such raids on big cities,” they would produce “a huge shock” on armament pro-duction and, more important, on the morale o