oviet Union’s war-making capacity. The plannersthemselves summed this concept up best in crankshaft when ex- plaining the probable effects of strategic air attacks against Sovietindustrial areas: crankshaft pointed out that such attacks would critically impair the Soviet ability to make war by decimating “themajor portion of the skilled labor, technicians, and scientific work-ers available to the Soviets, the loss of which would reduce their in-dustrial capabilities greatly.” 48 There was a marked similarity between crankshaft’s treatment of killing “skilled labor” and the Strategic Bombing Survey’s Euro-pean and Pacific reports on the effects of strategic bombing on themorale of the industrial labor force. The crankshaft planners and the Survey analysts who wrote the reports on morale shared thesame conception of strategic bombing: to view the killing and injur-ing of civilians by strategic bombing in terms primarily of war pro-duction, not morale. An industrial labor force that was killed ormaimed by strategic bombers could not go to the factories and pro-duce industrial goods that fueled the enemy’s “war machine.” In May 1949, the Joint Chiefs released the Harmon Report, which analyzed the probable effects of a strategic air campaign thatused atomic bombs against seventy Soviet cities. The report wasnamed after its head, Lieutenant General Hubert Harmon, and wasstaffed by a number of army, navy, and air force officers. The reportconcluded that the United States could launch a successful strategicair offensive against Soviet cities (General Harmon’s committee as-sumed that all the planes would get through to their targets). Butthe report also pointed out that while it would destroy 30to 40per- cent of Soviet industrial capacity, the air offensive would not affecta-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 146 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central