ntile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 101 --- Alexander followed by succinctly summing up the Survey’s posi- tion: “The indications are that the bombing of a number of end-products was far less effective than the bombing of the more basicitems or basic services.” 30 Disagreement between Survey directors and JTG members during the conference over strategic bombing objectives produced differ-ences over the most effective bombing methods. General Norstadread a question posed by the JTG: “What aspects of the [European]bombing program had little, if any, military consequences, andwhat was their other value, if any?” 31Drawing on the testimony of Albert Speer, Alexander pointed out that “Speer and his colleaguesexpressed the view that the area bombing had no military effect.” 32 Norstad asked whether or not it was better for strategic bombersto attack “narrow” or “broad” segments of the enemy’s “produc-tive capabilities.” General Samford insisted that it was the JTG’s be-lief that if the AAF used precision attacks against a “narrow seg-ment” like ball bearings, the enemy “could probably escape andsurvive. . . .” But using strategic bombers to attack a wide area ofthe enemy’s war capacity like “ball-bearings, transportation, oil,end-products, basic equipment, basic processing industries, and rawmaterials” would give the enemy “no possibility of escape.” Nitzethen restated the Survey’s position by pointing out to Samford thatthe testimony of Speer and the other German officials was in “directopposition” to the JTG’s “principle.” 33For Nitze and his fellow Survey directors, the decisive method and objective for strategicbombers were pr