eld a different view. In Sep- tember 1945, he stressed to members of his Naval Analysis Division that their mission was to provide a thorough study of all air opera-tions in the Pacific that brought the United States within “strikingrange of the Japanese homeland, and without which there wouldhave been no successful conclusion of the war. . . .” In Ofstie’s con-ception, the crucial events that led to the defeat of Japan were thenavy’s campaigns in the Pacific that relied heavily on carrier-basedair power. Anticipating the influence that the Pacific Survey’s pub-lished reports would have on future defense organization and pol-icy, Ofstie stated that the “Survey’s effort . . . may well be the basisfor the major decisions respecting our post-war national security.” 21 In the months immediately following the end of World War II in the Pacific, American military leaders did their best to point outthat victory over Japan was a team effort and that no single servicehad “won the war.” Lieutenant General James A. Doolittle, whohad commanded the Eighth Air Force in Europe and during theclosing weeks of the war in the Pacific, told members of his com-mand that World War II in the Pacific was “won by teamwork be-tween Land, Sea and Air. . . . No single individual, arm, [or] servicewon the war. It was won by the greatest civil and military team thathistory has ever known.” 22Yet that was the past, and the future meant something different to the general. Looking ahead, he envi-sioned the defense organization of the United States consisting of a“modern air-arm composed of long range bombers, long rangefighters, and long range air transports backed by an adequate Navystrategic bombing against japan 109 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyri