strategic bombingconcept, the most effective way to break the enemy’s will to resiststrategic bombing against germany 55 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 67 --- was not to attack morale directly by killing people but instead to break the enemy’s capacity to resist by damaging the “basic indus-tries” of its war economy. The Survey’s analysis flowed from thelogic of that conception. The apparent contradictions and compet-ing conclusions of the Survey’s published reports thus fade awaywhen framed by the American concept. Strong disagreements between members of the European Survey did occur concerning the degree of effectiveness with which certaintarget systems were bombed. But those disagreements never chal-lenged the relevance of American air power. I The first task that Survey analysts faced when they began their eval-uation was to collect the evidence on the effects of strategic bomb-ing. Small Survey “field teams” inspected locations in the Europeantheater that had been subjected to Allied bombing. At the inspec-tion site, the teams assessed the level of physical destruction of thetarget, collected production records and other related data, and in-terrogated, when possible, plant managers, workers, and other indi-viduals with knowledge about the bombed target. After each in-spection, the teams wrote up a standardized “form and contentplant report” that consolidated the information they had gathered. 7 The division directors took their field teams’ data, analyzed them, and wrote reports that attempted to answer the questionsgiven to them by the AAF. The Equipment Division, for example,conducted “a study of the total pro