uary, after more than a month of continuous bombing, the United States and coali-tion forces launched a ground campaign to achieve the goals thatair power may or may not have been able to accomplish if left on itsown. 15Relying heavily on the conditions created by the air cam- paign, the ground offensive took a mere four days to defeat theIraqi forces in Kuwait and compelled the Iraqi leadership to accepta cease-fire on coalition terms. Like the airmen at the end of World War II, air officers after the Gulf War perceived great success in their application of air power toachieve American objectives. 16And there was a similar desirea comparison of surveys 171 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 183 --- among at least a few airmen to prove success through a civilian-led, independent survey of air power’s effectiveness in the Gulf War. On 25July 1991, Secretary of the Air Force Donald B. Rice made a phone call to Eliot A. Cohen, a professor of strategic studies at thePaul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at JohnsHopkins University, inviting him to serve as the editor-in-chief (ordirector) of what became known as the Gulf War Air Power Survey.Secretary Rice, in a follow-up memorandum, pointed out to Cohenthat the GWAPS would “form conclusions on the implications forfuture Air Force organization, training and force structure.” How-ever, for the GWAPS to be accepted as a credible source of analysison air power in the Gulf, it needed to “conduct its study accordingto the highest standards of professional and intellectual integrityand objectivity.” Cohen accepted the secretary’s invitation to headthe GWAPS, agreein