o-randums, and proposals between senior AAF leaders and the JointChiefs for a scientific evaluation of the effects of strategic bombingagainst Germany that would culminate in the official establishmentin November 1944 of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey.the united states strategic bombing survey 35 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 47 --- The documentary record of the roots of the Survey can be traced back to the memos of Ames and Colbert, but its intellectual origins go back much further. The Survey’s chronicler, Major James Bev-eridge, argued (most likely based on contemporaneous interviewswith air force officers) that discussions had been occurring infor-mally at AAF headquarters in England and on the European conti-nent prior to the first two memorandums. 7The notion of an expert evaluation of strategic bombing was nothing new for the AAF. Itwas not a radical departure and it did not surprise anyone. Airmenhad been using civilian experts to make strategic target recommen-dations and evaluate AAF operations prior to and during the war.The Strategic Bombing Survey was a logical and natural continua-tion of this concept. 8 Airmen like Hap Arnold and Carl Spaatz put forward the idea that having a civilian in charge would insure that the Survey’s re-port would “be received as an unbiased and completely impartialstudy based solely on fact and not on opinion.” Because of its greatimportance, Spaatz argued, “careful consideration should be givento the selection of the head of this committee.” According toSpaatz, the AAF should try to find “a well-known American pub-lisher, jurist, or university president” for the p