rved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 116 --- ation in Europe, Survey analysts followed closely behind the ad- vancing Allied armies into Germany. Many European Survey con-clusions about the effects of strategic bombing were shaped whilethe war was still being fought. In the Pacific, in contrast, the Sur-vey’s entire evaluation was conducted after the war had ended. Andin the Pacific, unlike Europe, surrender occurred without a land in-vasion. Therefore, in many of the Pacific Survey’s published reports,analysts like Paul Nitze felt compelled to explain the role of strate-gic bombing in bringing this about. President Truman further complicated matters for the Survey when he instructed them to evaluate “all types of air attack” againstJapan and to submit the reports directly to the secretary of war andthe secretary of the navy. 2In Europe the Survey was fundamentally an AAF-inspired evaluation, with the published reports going onlyto the secretary of war. By requiring the Survey to evaluate not onlythe Army Air Forces’ use of air power against Japan, but also thenavy’s, President Truman opened the door for an intense interser-vice rivalry between the AAF’s representative on the Survey, GeneralOrvil Anderson, and the navy’s Rear Admiral Ralph Ofstie. 3It was a rivalry fueled by postwar budgets and defense policy, and it men-tally tired out the Survey’s vice-chairman, Paul Nitze, when hewrote the Pacific Survey’s Summary Report . I Many of the key directors from the European Survey decided not togo to the Paciﬁc to evaluate the effects of strategic bombing againstJapan. Shortly after explaining to the press in October 1945 the Sur- vey’s results from Europe, Henry Alexander returned to his previousposition with J. P. Morgan and Company. Although Alexander wouldcontinue to advise the Survey during the Paciﬁc phase, the de factovice-chairman for the Paciﬁc Survey became Paul Nitze. 4George Ball took on a new job with the government as the general counsel of the