shment, the report also argued that theatomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were indecisive inforcing Japan to surrender. 42Nitze, according to his biographer Strobe Talbott, wanted to demystify the power of the bomb andstrategic bombing against japan 114 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 126 --- force America to view it not as the “absolute weapon” but as a sim- ply more powerful weapon of war.43 Paul Nitze recalled in his memoirs that he believed in July 1945 that Japan would surrender “even without the atomic bomb.”44While in Japan, Nitze and his Survey analysts conducted hundreds of interro-gations of Japanese military and civilian ofﬁcials, which made up thepreponderance of evidence for the early-surrender counterfactual.However, the bulk of those interrogations provided only very tenuoussupport to the counterfactual conclusion that Japan “certainly”would have surrendered before 31 December 1945, “and in all prob- ability prior to 1 November 1945,” without the atomic bombs or Russian war declaration. It was natural for Nitze to begin his analy-sis with a hypothesis concerning the effects of the atomic bombs onending the war with Japan. 45Yet Nitze remained committed to that notion even when the evidence—the interrogations of Japanese ofﬁ-cials—did not reasonably support his conclusions. And Nitze’s boldstatement that his conclusions on why Japan surrendered were basedon “all the facts,” after a mere three months of evidence gathering,stretches the limits of believability. 46 It is important to remember that Nitze and his fellow Survey ana- lysts were part of a much larger American occupation of the Japan-ese ho