ail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 105 --- The European Survey did not evaluate the effects of strategic bombing on Germany’s political decisions during the war. Instead, Survey members directed their analysis toward the effects of strate-gic bombing on the German war economy. They believed that astrategic bombing campaign directed against the “basic industries”of the enemy’s war-making capacity could be decisive, but only interms of that war-making capacity, not the civilian population’smorale or the political will to resist. The European Survey’s Summary Report argued that “Allied air power was decisive in the war in Western Europe. Hindsight in-evitably suggests that it might have been employed differently orbetter in some respects. Nevertheless, it was decisive.” 43But that published report never defined the word decisive . Implicit in the Survey’s use of the word decisive , of course, was the notion that something was decided. But who were the agents of that decision?The European Summary Report did not argue that strategic bomb- ing forced Adolph Hitler to “decide” to end the war. What the re-port did argue was that Allied strategic bombing broke Germany’scapacity to resist, and in this sense, according to the Survey, it “wasdecisive.” Survey members themselves disagreed on how and why strategic bombing was “decisive” and indeed often on what they meant.During the 9June meeting with the Joint Target Group, Henry Alexander told Norstad he thought that “the oil system was deci-sive. I think the decisiveness was aided and speeded by the attack ontransportation as well.” Then Ball interjected: “I think the trans-portation would have been decisive without the oil.” Seeking clari-fication, General Norstad inquired if “the enemy’s capacity to resistwould have been weakened by oil alone or transportation or by thecombination of