t.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 173 --- The Survey’s numerous reports on the successes and failures of bombing various targets in World War II did, however, emphasize to Brodie the crucial importance of choosing the right targets beforean atomic war began with the Soviet Union. 92The main lesson Brodie drew from strategic bombing in World War II was thatproper target selection depended on an analysis of the enemy na-tion’s political economy and social structure. Brodie stressed thatplanning for a potential nuclear war had to be based on a thorough,contemporary analysis of all relevant factors for a particular enemy.In 1952, while serving as a special air force advisor, Brodie criti- cized the Air Targets Division for basing postwar target selection inthe Soviet Union on a USSBS conclusion that German electricalpower facilities were vulnerable to bombing and that if they hadbeen attacked, it would have had a crippling effect on theeconomy. 93While electrical facilities might have been the right tar- gets in the war against Germany, he questioned whether they werenecessarily the correct targets for a nuclear war with the Soviets. 94 Perhaps the antithesis of Brodie when it came to defining and ap- plying the lessons of World War II was P. M. S. Blackett, a NobelPrize-winning physicist, a creator of operations research, and amember of Britain’s Advisory Committee on Atomic Energy. Black-ett’s 1948 book Military and Political Consequences of Atomic En- ergy Weapons critiqued postwar American perceptions about the absolute nature of atomic weapons. According to Blackett, theAmerican people had concluded, incorrectly, that the atomic bomb-ings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had militarily defeated Japan. Thisled them to the erroneous belief that a future war with the SovietUnion could be decided quickly and dec