vance. To analyze the target and its importance, therefore, wassomething that the ground officer was trained to do. The groundcommander could determine success or failure by the amount ofground gained and the level of destruction of the enemy and hisown forces. For American airmen, target selection and evaluation were a much more complicated and ambiguous task. Unlike the ground of-ficer, airmen were generally not attacking targets similar to theirown men and equipment. 10Hence the uncertainties of target selec- tion and evaluation, which were embedded in the American concep-tual approach to strategic bombing, created a need for civilian ex-the origins of the american conceptual approach 12 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 24 --- perts to change “imponderables” to ponderables. Organizations like the Committee of Operations Analysts, the Committee of His-torians, and the United States Strategic Bombing Survey were anoutgrowth of this need. I The biggest problem for American air officers during the years fol-lowing the end of World War I, however, was not so much target se-lection (that problem would present itself more fully in the 1930s when they began to develop a strategic bombing concept) as achiev-ing a coequal status with the army and navy. The leading proponentin the 1920s for an independent air arm was Army General WilliamMitchell. 11Conventional thinking concerning air power during that decade saw it mainly as an adjunct, or supporting arm, of groundand naval operations. Since air power, according to this line ofthinking, could not win a war, it did not require independent status.Mitchell, conversely, argued tha