orJames Beveridge, noted that there was “serious controversy” amongSurvey analysts over some of the Survey’s conclusions. But these bit-ter disagreements were caused by the “Military Analysis and NavalAnalysis Divisions . . . over the respective contributions of the Navyand the Air Forces to the ending of the war against Japan,” and notthe early-surrender counterfactual. Beveridge went on to note that theSurvey’s recommendations concerning the postwar defense establish-ment brought about the ﬁercest debates among Survey analysts. 56 In fact, Survey members seemed to have formed a consensus around Nitze’s early-surrender counterfactual. As early as October1945, when Survey members were still collecting evidence (but be-fore Nitze had drafted his counterfactual), a special envoy to Presi-dent Truman, Edwin Locke, noted that some Americans in Japanhad already decided the atomic bombs “speeded surrender by onlystrategic bombing against japan 117 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 129 --- a few days.”57Americans like Admiral Ofstie could accept the early-surrender counterfactual because it allowed them to claim that the decisive factor in producing victory in the Pacific was thenavy’s blockade around the Japanese home islands. The AAF, con-versely, by citing the counterfactual, could claim that LeMay’s fire-bombing of Japanese cities ultimately brought about unconditionalsurrender, not the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, orthe Russian declaration of war. For the hundreds of other Surveyanalysts, both civilian and military, Nitze’s counterfactual fit neatlyinto their conceptual understanding of strategic bombing. They