d the conclusions of individu-als attached to the Survey who, because of their previous work withthe Air Force, had a vested interest in the vindication of certain as-pects of the air offensive.” 92The “individuals” with “vested” inter- ests, according to Ball, were, among others, Guido Perera who wasdefending his work with the COA. Air power champion General Orvil Arson Anderson wanted the Survey chairman’s report to endorse the future of air power as anindependent military force. 93In an interview conducted by the United States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF) historical section on 22 August 1945, just a few weeks before the controversy over the chairman’s report, General Anderson emphasized the Survey’s rolein shaping the future of the air force. When asked by the inter-viewer about using Survey studies to determine whether or not theAAF should have switched from day to night attacks in the Euro-pean war, and the implications for the future, Anderson responded:“You can never solve a war by past historic examples.” The generalbelieved that the traditional use of “historical examples” by thearmy and navy to plan and fight present and future wars had keptair power from achieving its full, independent potential. The Surveyshould prevent the other services from pulling air power as a “threedimensional force back into a two-dimensional employment, . . .making it an ancillary weapon to surface forces, restricting its free-dom to fight a three-dimensional war.” Such an arrangement wasstrategic bombing against germany 75 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 87 --- “hinged to our past thinking.” The Survey should write its reports, b