yfor the air campaign in the Pacific. The problem for the Chiefs wasthat were at least six agencies that made contributions to targetanalysis, with no centralized control. The result was a lack of coor-dination between these agencies over Far Eastern target selection. The Joint Target Group (JTG) was established by the Joint Chiefs in the fall of 1944. The JTG relieved other agencies like the COA “of target analysis functions as it absorbe[d] personnel from them.” TheJTG would be responsible for target analysis in the Paciﬁc theater andwould also provide information to the operating commands. TheChiefs instructed the JTG to use the “European experience” in strate-gic bombing to revise the bombing strategy for the Paciﬁc, emphasiz-ing “the development of new techniques of air attack.” 14 As a target analysis agency directly responsible to the Joint Chiefs, it was natural for the JTG to support the Chiefs’ plan forAmerican air power to attack the war-making capacity of Japan inorder to make possible a successful land invasion. 15In their first es- timate on air power in the Pacific war, the JTG pointed out that“the strategic air mission can only be the rapid elimination ofJapanese capacity to defend the homeland against invasion.” Writ-ten by the group’s director, Brigadier General John A. Samford, thethe survey presents its findings 84 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 96 --- estimate considered it essential that the AAF use strategic bombing operations to limit “replacements in certain weapons and materialsof war essential to the defense of the Japanese homeland.” GeneralSamford noted that the “dispersal of small industr