e approach toward studying the effects of strategic bombing. Inthe captured mail and interviews, division analysts would look forkey words or phrases that demonstrated direct or indirect “sponta-neous expression[s] of lowered morale.” For example, if a civilianexplicitly mentioned the word “bombing” with regard to loweredmorale, that would weigh more heavily in their assessment than animplicit statement. It was significant, according to the division, that14percent of captured German civilian mail contained “direct ex- pressions of lowered morale.” 35Being able to quantify strategic bombing’s effect on German morale fit comfortably with the notionthat the Survey was a “scientific” study. The Morale Division’s field teams followed closely behind the ad- vancing Allied armies into Germany, interviewing civilians who hadexperienced firsthand the effects of strategic bombing. In order todraw out as much information as possible, division analysts useddrugs to relax their interviewees. By 1944, it had become common practice in the army’s medical service to treat soldiers with “battlefatigue” or “exhaustion” with sedatives like pentathol or morphineto dampen their painful combat memories, thereby allowing themto talk about their experiences with a psychiatrist. 36Some of the Morale Division’s medical officers were naturally drawn from thearmy medical service. According to one Survey medical officer, thedivision initially used “morphine” to “render people comatose,”but the morphine had the disadvantage of being insoluble in “cock-tails.” Apparently desiring a drug that the civilian intervieweeswould not notice in the “cocktails,” the division made a request toa physician in the United States to send them a “a quick acting seda-tive which [was] readily soluble in alcohol.” 37 One reason for focusing their analysis on the morale of the indi- vidual German rather than on the collective will to resist of the Ger-man people was the belief of Survey analysts and the AAF that theNa