stry located in major urban areas would at the same time killlarge numbers of civilians and destroy political control centers. Tar-get areas, as the plan pointed out, “should be selected so that themaximum effect, both of physical destruction of war-making poten-tial and destruction of the will to continue to resist, is attained.” 41 Yet the actual target lists for broiler still emphasized a strategic air campaign using atomic bombs to attack industrial systems liketransportation, petroleum, and armament and munitions factories.Although the Soviet population in these proposed attacks wouldsuffer greatly, this was seen as a bonus effect, the primary missionstill being the destruction of the Soviet war-making capacity. 42 As war planning evolved during the first five years following the end of World War II, a number of factors helped to shape the plans’overall approach to fighting a war with the Soviet Union. There wasa political need to maintain unity among friendly European nationsagainst perceived Soviet aggression. War planners, therefore, movedaway from the earlier concept in the pincher series of withdrawing completely from Europe and adopted a new approach by 1948, one that saw American and British forces conducting a fighting retreatin Europe that would hold the Soviets at the Rhine River. The mas-sive American ground invasion of the Soviet Union envisioned inthe pincher series became an unrealistic concept based on the force structure of the American army in the late 1940s. Finally, the Soviet explosion of its first atomic device in 1949 had an impact on war planning. In their plans, the Joint Chiefs became increasinglyconcerned with “retarding” and “blunting” Russia’s ability to oc-cupy Western Europe and attack the United States with atomicweapons. 43a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 144 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, htt