tablished laws of war. Whendiscussing with committee members the appropriate targets if theUnited States had to fight the Soviet Union, Admiral Blandy statedthat “no sane man would derive any satisfaction from killingwomen and children” because it constituted the “slaughter of inno-cent people.” 71 Yet some troubling contradictions emerge out of these 1949 hearings that are worth considering. If the issue of morality was soimportant to naval officers, why did it not emerge before the 1949 supercarrier cancellation and defense budget reductions? By the late1950s, the navy was developing a strategic nuclear-tipped missilelaunched from submarines that would be predominantly used as anarea weapon against enemy cities. What happened to the moralityissue? Taking the longer view strongly suggests that the navy’s 1949 moral critique of the air force was only a tactic in the navy’s inter-service “war” to claim a larger share of the defense budget. 72 VI Admiral Ofstie, for example, about a year prior to the 1949 hear- ings, had no problem with “knock[ing] hell out of Moscow witha-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 154 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 166 --- atomic bombs.” The United States should also use atomic bombs, according to the admiral, on the other “major urban and industrialareas” in the Soviet Union. In a classified memorandum to thenavy’s General Board (a group of high-ranking naval officers whoadvised the secretary of the navy), Ofstie noted that the UnitedStates would “hesitate to use bacteriological warfare involving themass destruction of persons until after the enemy had shown goodevidence they had inte