f strategic bombing remain clouded with ambiguity. Third,because it is difficult to assess the effectiveness of strategic bomb-ing, a need remains for experts—civilian experts—to conduct evalu-ations along the lines of the USSBS and GWAPS. Finally, appreciat-ing the importance of such studies, advocates of air power will tryto shape conclusions about the effectiveness of air power; depend-ing on the independence of the evaluation, objectivity may be thevictim. Consider the continuity between the concept of strategic bombing developed by Haywood Hansell and his fellow ACTS theorists in thelate 1930s and the conceptual underpinnings to the Yugoslavia air 191 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 203 --- campaign. In World War II, American airmen sought to destroy the war-making capacity of Germany and Japan by bombing critical eco-nomic systems such as transportation and electrical power. By theclosing days of air operations over Yugoslavia and Kosovo, Americanairmen were bombing electrical power and transportation facilitieswith the intent of destroying, or at least reducing, Serbian capacity toconduct military operations. 1And like American airmen in World War II who believed that strategic air power should not be used against military forces in the ﬁeld, airmen in 1999 wanted to concen- trate on strategic targets in Serbia rather than “plinking” tactical tar-gets like tanks and artillery pieces in Kosovo. Also, airmen during the Yugoslavia air campaign firmly believed that if the United States used air power correctly—with overwhelm-ing force and applied quickly throughout the depth of the enemyhomeland—it would force a dec