udgets, and the dilemma of defense 144 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 156 --- Yet the core concept in almost every war plan and study during these years was a quick and devastating strategic air attack, relying heavily on atomic bombs, to destroy the industrial structure of theSoviet Union. No external threat, international event, domesticissue, or interservice wrangling over budgets would change thisconceptual approach to fighting modern wars. Consider the May 1948 war plan crankshaft that followed broiler. Although in crankshaft the Chiefs made some impor- tant modifications from earlier plans concerning America’s desire todefend Western Europe, the war-fighting approach in crankshaft showed remarkable continuity with that of both the broiler and pincher series. crankshaft’s mission statement read: “To impose the National War Objectives of the United States on the USSR.” 44In order to force the Soviet Union to accept American objectives,crankshaft called for creating “conditions within the USSR which will insure the abandonment of Soviet political and military aggres-sion.” The way to do this, as crankshaft pointed out, was to “ini- tiate an air-offensive against vital strategic elements of the Sovietwar-making capacity.” 45 The targeting approach in crankshaft focused on using strategic bombers to attack eight critical war-making elements of the SovietUnion: key government and control facilities; urban industrial areas;the petroleum industry; submarine bases; construction and repair fa-cilities; transportation systems; the aircraft industry; the coke, iron,and steel industry; and the electric power system. 46cranks