r, December 1944 Remember that quote from the chairman of the Strategic BombingSurvey of World War II: “We wanted to burn into everybody’s soulthe fact that the [USSBS’s] responsibility was . . . to seek truth. . . .”Nothing, but nothing, is more important than the integrity of our[Gulf War Air Power Survey] product. eliot cohen, March 1992 Air power has been one of the most controversial issues for American defense policy since it first came into being as a military force in the early part of the twentiethcentury. Moreover, a certain component of American air power—strategic bombing—has been especially controversial. Pundits haverailed against its perceived ineffectiveness, advocates have praised its apparent effectiveness, and zealots have been seduced by its pro- fessed cheaper cost in national blood and treasure. Over time strate-gic bombing’s contested nature has endured. Although not the onlytype of American air power, strategic bombing has provided the his-torical identity for airmen and their air force. Other major forms of military power have not been so problem- atic, so contested in American defense policy. Why? Perhaps be-cause for many people strategic bombing continues to be an am-biguous and even unproven military force in war and conflict. 1 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 13 --- Strategic bombing has evolved over the years. American airmen like Haywood Hansell and Muir Fairchild laid the conceptual groundwork for strategic bombing during the 1930s. The first cru- cible for the airmen and their strategic bombing concept was WorldWar II, when high-flying bombers were used to attack the war-mak- ing capac