06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 87 --- “hinged to our past thinking.” The Survey should write its reports, believed Anderson, with a clear eye to the future, not the past.94 Anderson was much less worried than Perera about certain Sur- vey conclusions concerning AAF targeting choices that would maketheir way into the chairman’s final report. In fact Anderson side-stepped the Survey’s critique of the bombing of airframe productionby arguing that the AAF still achieved its objective of gaining com-mand of the air by defeating the German Luftwaffe in aerial battle.This, according to Anderson in classic Douhet fashion, allowed theAAF “to exploit that air freedom for further attacks against theover-all enemy war machine.” 95 Anderson confirmed that destroying Germany’s war-making ca- pacity was the primary objective of the AAF. That “war machine,”argued Anderson, represents the entire enemy nation, its overall economy. It is rather fallacious for us to reason that the economy divides itself into a wareconomy and a sustaining civil economy, because in a three-dimen-sional war that is not sound. It is all war economy. . . . Therefore youattack the enemy war machine when you attack any of its structure,because it is all military. The general’s interviewer then posited that certain attacks were more effective than others in damaging Germany’s war economy and askedwhat conclusions the Survey had reached in that regard. Anderson ex-plained that when attacking a “worthy” opponent’s war-making ca-pacity, “you go as far back toward his basic industries as your capa-bilities will carry you to get to the big heavy, meaty, war targets.” Cau-tioning against relying on historical examples too much, Andersonsaid that there was no set pattern to follow when attacking theenemy’s basic industries. But the Survey had concluded correctly, ac-cording to the general, “that the attack of basic industrie