ary Report states that “Allied air power was decisive in the war in west- ern Europe.” 7General Spaatz quoted this passage to committeea-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 133 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 145 --- members when explaining the crucial role the AAF played in produc- ing victory in the war in Europe. But unlike Admiral Ramsey, whodwelled extensively on wartime accomplishments, General Spaatzquickly moved the discussion toward the future role of air power: The plain fact is that coasts and seas no longer have their old signifi- cance for defense. Distance has been telescoped. . . . In the air powerage the Air Force is vitally concerned with the development of jetpropulsion, supersonic speeds, guided missiles; not to speak of thepotentials of harnessed atomic energy. The Air Force should be freefrom control by interests which may be influenced more by things ofthe past or present than by ideas for, and of, the future. 8 General James H. Doolittle echoed these same air force senti- ments when appearing before the committee. He referenced an un- named “study” by the Survey that analyzed the effects of strategicbombing on Japanese cities (perhaps the findings from the PacificSurvey’s Urban Areas Division). General Doolittle stressed the levelof destruction in over forty Japanese cities wrought by B- 29attacks and the strategic bomber’s decisive role in the war with Japan: “TheNavy had the transport to make the invasion of Japan possible; theGround Forces had the power to make it successful and the B- 29 made it unnecessary.” The essence of General Doolittle’s argumentwas that strategic air power had c