uting author to theGWAPS Planning volume, wrote an important book in 1989, The Limits of Air Power: The American Bombing of North Vietnam . In the book, Clodfelter argued that Clausewitz’s famous dictum that warwas “a continuation of political activity by other means” was the only“true measure for evaluating air power’s effectiveness” against Northa comparison of surveys 180 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 192 --- Vietnam. Barry Watts authored a short study that analyzed future war using the Clausewitzian construct of “friction.”43Moreover, the fore- word of each GWAPS volume pointed out that its analysis concen- trated on the “operational level of war in the belief that this level ofwarfare is at once one of the most difﬁcult to characterize and one ofthe most important to understand.” 44 It would be wrong, however, to think that being connected to the defense establishment and focusing their analysis of air power in theGulf War at the operational level forced GWAPS members into adoctrinaire approach to their work. Political scientist John Mer-sheimer has argued that the best tool available for lessening the pos-sibility that flawed ideas will affect defense policy and strategy is“intellectual pluralism. A healthy national policy depends on inde-pendent-minded defense intellectuals challenging the governmentand one another.” 45Comparing the intellectual environment of the USSBS with that of the GWAPS can bring Mersheimer’s point outmore clearly. David MacIsaac lamented in his 1976 book Strategic Bombing in World War Two that the USSBS needed historians to provide a bal- anced interpretation of evidence. MacIsaac ackno