hemselves. After thenegative experience General Arnold had with the report produced bythe Committee of Historians in early 1944, he determined that an- other civilian-led evaluation of air power’s effects against Germanya comparison of surveys 173 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 185 --- would be necessary, although not manned by historians. Likewise, even before the United States started bombing Iraq in January 1991, air ofﬁcers like Colonel John Warden began exploring the idea of acivilian-run evaluation of air power in the Gulf War. Yet while there was general consensus among airmen to conduct a civilian-led evaluation after World War II, after the Gulf Warmany senior airmen sought to keep air force-sponsored evaluationsunder their own institutional control. From January to July 1991, the recommended approach by senior airmen would be to havethree different types of evaluations, or “lessons learned,” managedby the vice-chief of staff of the air force. The Office of Air ForceHistory, according to this line of thinking, would document “objec-tively the results of all deployment and combat operations muchlike the historical analyses performed following WWII, Korea, andVietnam.” 23Another study would be contracted out to various “think tanks” such as RAND. Tactical Air Command (TAC) wouldwrite the third evaluation providing a “combat Lessons Learned”analysis from an “operational perspective.” 24 Major General Robert M. Alexander, air force director of plans, presented the air force’s approach to Secretary Rice in a briefing on24July 1991. It appeared, however, that the air force’s “owner- ship” of the evaluations being w