06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 34 --- Prepare and submit to me a report analyzing the rate of progressive deterioration that should be anticipated in the German war effort asa result of the increasing air operations we are prepared to employagainst its sustaining sources. This study should result in as accuratean estimate as can be arrived at as to the date when this deteriorationwill have progressed to a point to permit a successful invasion ofWestern Europe. 43 Contained in this directive was the explicit desire on the part of General Arnold to have the committee come up with a prediction asto when the progressive destruction of the “German war effort” dueto strategic bombardment would allow for a successful land inva-sion of the European continent. In order to predict when this futureevent might occur, the committee would necessarily have to under-take a detailed, systematic evaluation of German war-making ca-pacity. Predicting decisive events brought about by strategic bomb-ing would come to be part of most AAF directives for analyses andevaluations of the German and Japanese war efforts during WorldWar II. The imperative for predicting decisive events would also set the precedent for the Strategic Bombing Survey’s historical counter-factual speculation about events that did not occur in the past. COA members never questioned the American conceptual ap- proach to strategic bombing. Their evaluation of the effects of AAFstrategic bombing attacks on Germany, their target recommenda-tions, and their predictions were grounded in the American concep-tion. The committee’s preliminary report argued that it was betterto use strategic bombers to attack a “few really essential industriesor services” rather than cause a minor amount of destruction tomany industries. According to this early report, critical targets,once selected, should be attacked with “relentless determination,”wh