pen at one end of thenorth-south runway at the Washington National Airport, with nomore protection than the clothes you now have on, and have anatom bomb explode at the other end of the runway without seriousinjury to you.” 59Committee Chairman Vinson pressed Tatom for substantiation of this remarkable assertion. Tatom then read ex-cerpts from the Pacific Survey report, The Effects of Atomic Bombs on Health and Medical Services in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. He pointed to data collected by the Survey showing how the effects ofradiation and flash burns greatly diminished beyond 6,500 feet from ground zero. 60But quoting this statistic from the above report downplays the destructive power of the atomic bombs that anotherreport from the Pacific Survey, Effects of the Atomic Bombs on Hi-roshima and Nagasaki, makes abundantly clear. 61 Appearing shortly after Commander Tatom, Stuart Symington echoed General Vandenberg’s earlier concern that certain individu-als were using excerpts from the Survey to discredit strategic bomb-ing. Symington criticized an “anonymous” article, “The StrategicBombing Myth,” that was appearing in various forms in manynewspapers across the country and that had made it into the handsof key congressmen of the House Armed Services Committee. Thedocument was written to thoroughly discredit the capabilities of theB-36 bomber and the air force’s method of strategic bombing. 62 The anonymous author of “The Strategic Bombing Myth” useda-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 150 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 162 --- selected passages from Survey reports to show how the AAF’s meth- ods of strategic bombin