l speculation thatNitze had taken many years earlier. The Effects volume argued that even after accepting the fact that the air campaign had destroyed“large amounts of Iraqi equipment . . . whether or for how long theIraqi troops could have held on even without a ground attack canbe no more than matters of speculation.” 66One can clearly see the authors’ desire to avoid a counterfactual statement arguing thata comparison of surveys 187 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 199 --- Iraq would have surrendered soon owing to crippling air attacks even if coalition forces had never conducted a ground invasion. The Effects volume, therefore, did not make exorbitant claims about the effectiveness of air power against Iraq. In fact the princi-pal authors, Watts and Keaney, concluded the volume by cautioningagainst the view held by many airmen that the application of Amer-ican air power in the Gulf War indicated a revolutionary change inthe nature of war, especially regarding the use of radar-evadingstealth bombers and precision guided bombs. The two authors ar-gued that instead of demonstrating inconsistency with past wars,the Gulf War demonstrated the “limits to strategic air attack en-countered at least as far back as World War II.” 67 There are, however, still those willing to go the distance and champion the cause of air power in future debates over defensepolicy and organization. The United States Air Force historian,Richard P. Hallion, argued in his 1992 book Storm over Iraq: Air Power in the Gulf War that the ground war against Iraq “could not be decisive in the way that earlier ground wars had been.” Hallionthen professed t