e told Likert and other Survey directors that it would be “necessary for the Economic and the Morale Divi-sions to work together, as closely as possible.” 32Nitze’s guidance to the Survey directors revealed the importance the Survey placed on thelink between morale and the entire war economy. For Survey analysts,morale was an important factor to study mainly as it affected the Ger-man worker’s willingness and ability to support war production. TheMorale Division stated: “The crucial spot in which to examine the ef-fects of lowered morale upon the German war effort lies in war pro-duction.” The division then followed this statement with a questionthat got at their fundamental reason for studying the effects of strate-gic bombing on enemy morale: “Did depression in general, and de-featism and disaffection from the Nazi regime in particular, showthemselves in lowered industrial production?” 33 The Morale Division’s methodology for evaluation was some- what different from that of the rest of the Survey. Because the focusof the division’s study was on the morale of the German civilian, thedata they collected were made up of interviews, German wartimestrategic bombing against germany 61 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 73 --- documents concerning morale, and civilian mail captured during the war.34Still, in evaluating these sources, the Morale Division re- flected the Survey’s reliance on statistical evidence and its quantita-tive approach toward studying the effects of strategic bombing. Inthe captured mail and interviews, division analysts would look forkey words or phrases that demonstrated direct or indirect “sponta-neous