lating within AAFheadquarters since April 1944, trying to bring together the most im- portant ones that supported the organizational structure they de-vised. Upton had prepared an extensive review of the proposedquestions and objectives for Koenig. According to Upton, the pri-mary purpose of the Survey would be to study the “overall effects ofstrategic bombing in the industrial, economic, political, and mili-tary fields, with a view towards evaluating the relative importanceof strategic bombing in the sphere of military operations as awhole.” Secondary objectives would include the more detailed eval-uations of the effectiveness of precision versus area bombing in de-stroying the German capacity to wage war and the correctness ofthe united states strategic bombing survey 43 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 55 --- target selection and damage assessment methodology. But without the aim of evaluating the relevance of strategic bombing to militarystrategy, it would be unrealistic, according to Upton, to get the pres-ident to appoint “a well known, impartial, public figure to head thesurvey committee and write the report. Any lesser objective thanthis would fail to give proper weight to both the historical impor-tance of such a survey and its importance in the long term formula-tion of Air Force policy.” 34 Downplaying Upton’s emphasis on the Survey’s overarching goal and demonstrating a shrewd understanding of what his AAF leaderswanted, Koenig argued that the Survey, once it began its evaluation,should not pursue the broader question of the relevance of airpower to military strategy. Instead, the Survey should confine itsel