t of their evaluation owing to the American occu-pation of the Japanese home islands. Nitze was so impressed withthe Survey’s work in Japan that he called it “the fastest moving,hardest-hitting post-war organization on record.” 12 Franklin D’Olier was delighted, and perhaps smug, over the way the press and senior military leaders had praised the Survey’s re-ports from the European theater. He listened to Survey DirectorFrank McNamee, who had just arrived in Tokyo from Washington,D.C., boast about how well the American press had received theSurvey’s European reports. McNamee told D’Olier and the otherSurvey directors that the reception of the Survey’s reports had“been so tremendous that 8000 additional copies of the summary [report] and 3500 additional copies of the overall report have been published.” 13D’Olier and Nitze were certainly hoping that the pub- lished reports produced by the Pacific Survey would draw the samekind of favorable response. By late November 1945, most of the division analysts believed they had accumulated enough evidence to begin writing preliminaryreports. Vice-Chairman Nitze wanted the divisions to have the pre-liminary drafts completed prior to departing for the United Stateson 1December. 14He probably wanted the drafts in early so that he could get a head start on reviewing them for the writing of his ownchairman’s summary report. 15 II Since the collection of data had gone so much faster in the Pacificphase of the Survey, one would also have expected the writing ofthe Pacific Survey’s published reports to take less time than for Eu-rope. During the European phase, Survey directors like John Ken-neth Galbraith began writing their final reports in July 1945 and forstrategic bombing against japan 107 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from