andthe huge mass of data that the field teams collected. In simple termstheir methodology was to take the data collected by the field teamson selected targets—for example, the ball-bearing plants at Schwe-infurt, Germany, that the AAF bombed heavily in 1943—and deter- mine what impact strategic bombing had on those plants. Theywould then use the discrete findings from the Schweinfurt plants toevaluate the effects of strategic bombing on the entire German ball-bearing industry and then on the whole war economy. It was impor-tant for all Survey analysts to understand how their own discretefield of study related to the general work of the Survey. Accordingto an Economic Division analyst, it made little sense “to study in-dustries one by one without considering their relations to eachother and the total war economy.” Survey analysts needed to appre-ciate, therefore, “the interdependence of industry” so that they didnot overlook “important data” in the course of their work. 12 Because of the complexity of their economic-based evaluation, counterfactual speculation became an important part of Survey an-alysts’ methodology. To determine the effects of strategic bombingon a given industry, or the overall economy for that matter, they es-timated what the production level of that industry would have beenif strategic bombing attacks had not taken place. 13The difference between estimated production and actual production would givethem a good idea of the effectiveness of strategic bombing. The chairman’s office made this point clearly in late Januarystrategic bombing against germany 57 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 69 --- 1945 a