junct, or supporting arm, of groundand naval operations. Since air power, according to this line ofthinking, could not win a war, it did not require independent status.Mitchell, conversely, argued that an independent air force couldwin by itself. He also posited that the United States should rely onan independent air force, not the navy, for its first line of defense. 12 For publicly criticizing his superiors and their respective services,Mitchell was court-martialed in 1925 and convicted of “conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline.” 13After the con- viction Mitchell resigned from the service but continued his airpower crusade with greater zeal. Throughout the court-martial ordeal Mitchell had the strong sup- port of his fellow air ofﬁcers. For example, Lieutenant Orvil Ander-son, who later became a major general and served as a director on theStrategic Bombing Survey, testiﬁed on behalf of Mitchell’s ideas for anindependent air arm. One year prior to Mitchell’s court-martial, theHouse of Representatives created a committee led by RepresentativeFlorian Lampert to determine air power’s role in the national defense.The committee received testimony from many air ofﬁcers who arguedthat the air corps should have an independent role in defending thethe origins of the american conceptual approach 13 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 25 --- continental United States from naval and air attack. The navy also presented its case to the committee. Lieutenant Ralph A. Ofstie testi-ﬁed that the nation’s defense was in good hands with the navy andtherefore an independent air force was not needed. 14Ofstie, like Orvil A