s took their field teams’ data, analyzed them, and wrote reports that attempted to answer the questionsgiven to them by the AAF. The Equipment Division, for example,conducted “a study of the total production loss to the enemy” incertain manufacturing industries and the “effects of that loss on theoutput of finished munitions.” Galbraith’s Economic Division made“a study of the total economic effects of strategic bombing on Ger-many.” The Area Studies Division, under the directorship of GeorgeBall, wrote a final report that evaluated the “specific economic con-sequences of area bombing in Germany.” 8Concerned about the po- tential for disparities among the division studies, Henry Alexanderstrategic bombing against germany 56 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 68 --- issued a standard outline for the divisions to follow when they crafted their final reports.9 The divisions submitted their completed studies to the Survey chairman.10The chairman based his Over-all Report on the analysis provided by the individual divisions. One of the primary objectivesfor the chairman’s office was to synthesize the division studies intoa concise and literate report that could be understood, as D’Olieremphasized, by “the man in the street,” with some clearly “definedprinciples to adopt in respect to the use of bombers.” 11 But the most significant challenge faced by Survey directors was to devise a method of evaluation that enabled them to understandthe huge mass of data that the field teams collected. In simple termstheir methodology was to take the data collected by the field teamson selected targets—for example, the ball-bearing plants at S