ialServices (OSS) in Europe. In late 1942, during the early days of the American strategic bombing campaign against Germany, the EOUbegan to develop detailed intelligence on critical elements of theenemy’s war economy. As the bombing campaign progressed, so didthe work of the EOU in assisting the Eighth Air Force, and later, theUnited States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF) in target selection foroperations over France and Germany. 50 The EOU also took part in the debate over the best employment of air power to support the upcoming D-Day landings in Nor-mandy. USSTAF Commander General Carl Spaatz believed that theoptimal approach would be to use his strategic air forces to bomboil facilities in Germany, which, as he believed, would provide airsuperiority over the Normandy beach landings by grounding theGerman air force. Others, however, wanted Spaatz’s bombers to at-tack German tactical targets that could quickly interdict the Alliedlandings. General Dwight D. Eisenhower decided in favor of usingUSSTAF bombers to hit tactical targets; this decision went againstthe recommendation of EOU members, who argued that the role ofthe strategic bomber was to attack the vital centers of “German mil-itary strength.” 51 EOU analysts were thus in line with the AAF’s approach to strategic bombing. One such analyst, Major Walt W. Rostow, ar-gued that “in strategic bombing the enemy consists of the vaststructure of economic and civil life which supports the military ef-fort.” The way to attack the “enemy structure” was to hit small seg-ments of the “vital elements” in great detail. Indeed, Rostow notedthat the “weighing of alternative target systems was the essence ofthe problem of air planning.” Rostow and other EOU personnelwould later help the AAF organize and train the USSBS. 52 Another study group brought together by the AAF back in Wash- ington, D.C., was the Committee of Historians (COH). In late 1943,the origins of the american conceptual approach 25 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effec