y of Death, [was] where at least some ofthese poltroons received their just desserts at the hand of coalitionair forces.” Cohen responded that this type of “overblown rheto-ric” was “unacceptable for the Survey,” and was not in line withwhat he considered to be the GWAPS “analytical and level-headed”approach. 35 A few months later at another review session one of the serving military officers on the GWAPS argued that the American air force’sfocus on strategic attacks during the Gulf War was reminiscent ofDouhet’s idea of using air power to “obviate the use of groundforces.” According to this officer Desert Storm was a “return to de-cisive battle,” but unlike past wars it was the “air rather thanground” that produced victory for the coalition. Cohen and BarryWatts seemed concerned with the parochial nature of the officer’s comments. Watts pointed out that it was important for the GWAPSnot to fixate on American air operations in the Gulf but rather toconsider the other American services and the Allied contributions aswell. Eliot Cohen got more to the point of the problem when hetold the group that he sensed in the officer’s response the “smell” ofdoctrine. 36 By late 1992 the GWAPS task forces were completing the ﬁnal drafts of their volumes. Cohen wanted to ensure that their work notbe made public—to the press or to interested airmen and civilian an-alysts outside of the GWAPS—until all the revisions had been madeand the volumes reviewed by the review committee and SecretaryRice. He noted to GWAPS members that they owed it to SecretaryRice to share their “conclusions with him ﬁrst.” Cohen forcefully tolda comparison of surveys 177 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved