d its case to the committee. Lieutenant Ralph A. Ofstie testi-ﬁed that the nation’s defense was in good hands with the navy andtherefore an independent air force was not needed. 14Ofstie, like Orvil Anderson, became a director of the Strategic Bombing Survey at theend of World War II. His testimony in 1924 anticipated the bitter in- terservice rivalry between himself and Anderson over air power issuesin the post–World War II uniﬁcation debates. During the Depression years of the 1930s, airmen had to show caution when advocating their conceptual approach to strategicbombing. Mitchell and other American airmen believed that strate-gic bombers were fundamentally offensive weapons designed tostrike quickly, violently, and preferably with surprise at key targets in enemy territory. 15In the logic of air power theory that Douhet, Mitchell, and other airmen of the time understood, there was a needto strike first at the enemy’s homeland to destroy its aircraft andproduction facilities before they could be brought to bear against the United States. Defense of the continental United States, how-ever, was the ostensible justification that airmen used when callingfor an independent air force. Continental defense fit comfortablywith isolationist American attitudes. It would have been unpalat-able for air officers to advocate air power in an offensive role afterthe American experience with German aggression in the Great Warand the nominal support for the Kellogg-Briand Pact of 1929 that purportedly outlawed war. The Depression years focused Americanattention on internal domestic problems. Arguing for a fleet oflong-range strategic bombers designed to attack the homeland of aforeign nation obviously smacked of direct American military in-volvement in foreign affairs. Air officers, therefore, had to couchtheir crusade for an independent air force (an air force that they un-derstood fundamentally as an offensive weapon) in the rhetoric ofdefensive military policy that coincided with