.69But two reports—the Economic Di- vision’s The Effects of Strategic Bombing on Japan’s War Economy and the Transportation Division’s The War against Japanese Trans- portation —subtly differed from the Summary Report ’s argument. In the view of these two division studies, the antishipping campaign had virtually destroyed Japan’s economy prior to the main weightof the AAF’s bombing campaign, and therefore these two publica-tions, unlike the Summary Report , stress the decisive role of anti- shipping in Japan’s ultimate defeat. 70 The fact that Japan’s economy was for the most part destroyed prior to the AAF’s heavy bombing attacks led the authors of thesetwo reports to conclusions that were different in degree from thoseof the Summary Report. The differences concern the relative impor- tance of conventional bombing of the Japanese home islands andthe antishipping campaign in Japan’s decision to surrender. Thesetwo applications of military power were equally important in theEconomic Division’s judgment: “While the outcome of the war wasdecided in the waters of the Pacific . . . well in advance of the strate-gic bomber offensive against Japan’s home islands, the air offensiveagainst Japan proper was the major factor determining the timingof Japan’s surrender.” 71In this conclusion, the naval war against Japanese merchant shipping and the resulting loss of raw materialwere not merely one of the cumulative causes that defeated Japanbut actually “decided” the outcome of the war in the Pacific. The Pacific Survey’s analysis of urban area attacks had to wrestle with the fact that in the Pacific, unlike the European theater, areaattacks constituted 70percent of the AAF’s campaign. The Effects of Air Attack on Japanese Urban Economy credited the AAF’s area attacks for causing great damage to the urban workforce and socialstructure. According to the report, absenteeism of workers, directlycaused by air raids, turned an already critical situation into one ofcomplete desperatio