ng seriousness of the war permitted him to break the in-ertia of Germany’s governmental and industrial bureaucracy and toinduce it to accept procedures which hitherto were sternly rejected. 82 This passage does not claim that strategic bombing assisted Ger- many after the full weight of the air campaign began in the monthsleading to D-Day. Nor does it suggest that bombing improved themorale of the German civilian population. But, certainly, the con-tention that the AAF’s limited bombing campaign indirectly helped,rather than weakened, the German economy was difficult for Per-era, Cabot, and Anderson to accept. 83 Guido Perera’s concern was clearly with the emphasis that Gal- braith’s report placed on the effective use of American strategicbombers to attack German transportation and electric power. 84 Equally troubling to Perera was the conclusion that strategic bomb-ing attacks against German airframe and ball-bearing productionwere ineffective in seriously damaging the German war economy. 85 As an original member of the COA, Perera was heavily involvedwith the selection of strategic targets for the AAF’s air campaignagainst Germany. Although AWPD/1 had placed German trans- portation as a primary target for American bombers, Perera and hisfellow COA analysts removed it in early 1944 from their primary target list. Instead, the COA recommended to the AAF that Germanairframe and ball-bearing production be the primary targets forstrategic bombers. 86The AAF bombed airframe and ball-bearingstrategic bombing against germany 73 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 85 --- factories until shortly after the Normandy invasion and the