nce of 1938 and Hitler’s subsequent march into Czechoslovakia created a more conducive atmosphere for airofficers forthrightly to advocate their conceptual approach tostrategic bombing. 21Air Corps Tactical School officer Lieutenant Colonel Donald Wilson pointed out to other members of the schoolthat the United States needed to develop a long-range bombardmentforce that could threaten an enemy nation’s “home territory.” Al-though he did not explicitly mention Germany as the “home terri-tory” that the United States should be able to threaten, the thrust ofhis argument made clear that Germany was the nation he had inmind. Wilson asked what would be the result if this “upstart dicta-tor” (presumably Adolph Hitler) could threaten America’s hometerritory with strategic bombardment. According to Wilson theUnited States had the greatest “ability to secure, manufacture, andorganize the men and materials required for war.” Why then, in-quired Wilson, should the United States itself be “vulnerable tosuch a new theory as air attack?” He answered: “Simply because anindustrial nation is composed of interrelated and entirely interde-pendent elements. The normal every day life of the great mass of thepopulation is basically dependent upon the continuous flow and un-interrupted organization of services, materials, and food.” Wilsonthen brought out a clear example of why American air officersthought that attacking “vital links” in the enemy’s industrial struc-ture with strategic bombers would destroy their capacity to resist: The industrial nation has grown and prospered in proportion to the excellence of its industrial system, but, and here is the irony of thesituation, the better this industrial organization for peacetime effi-ciency the more vulnerable it is to wartime collapse caused by thecutting of one or more of its essential arteries. How this is accom-plished is the essence of air strategy in modern warfare. 22 Since the individual was so closely linked to the industrialize