evelop an evaluation methodology to gauge the impact of strategic bombing on Germanwar-making capacity. If the Survey’s mandate had been only to as-sess the amount of physical destruction caused by strategic bomb-ing, the task would have been straightforward and relatively easy. 3 But they needed a method that would enable them to explore the re-lationship between discrete industries and the entire war economy,and the effects of strategic bombing thereon. If the selection ofstrategic bombing targets was a complex affair, the evaluation ofstrategic bombing would be equally as demanding. The more than two hundred published reports and studies from the European Survey, completed by late 1945, attest to the stagger- ing amount of research and statistical data that Survey memberscollected and analyzed. 4The published reports seem to contain col- lectively, and at times individually, competing conclusions and con-tradictions. Yet the discursive nature of the Survey’s published re-ports conforms to a logical pattern when understood within theframework of the American conceptual approach to strategicbombing. For example, The European Survey’s Morale Division and Area Studies Division concluded that strategic bombing did not lowerGerman morale enough to force Germany to surrender, and thatRAF area attacks against German cities were largely ineffective inreducing German war production. 5But the chairman’s Over-all Re- port, which summarized the findings of the division studies, argued that air power, when applied against appropriate target systems,was “decisive in the war in Western Europe.” 6How could strategic bombing on one hand be indecisive against German morale andGerman cities, yet on the other still claim to be decisive in the waragainst Germany? Considering the American strategic bombingconcept, the most effective way to break the enemy’s will to resiststrategic bombing against germany 55 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from Wo