ctive.pdf --- Page 137 --- shows that the services’ representatives on the Survey, General An- derson and Admiral Ofstie, were not “evenly matched.”81Instead, the AAF clearly had the upper hand because of the conceptual ap-proach of directors like Nitze and, more important, the partiality ofFranklin D’Olier. Historian David MacIsaac, in his 1976 book on the Survey, Strate- gic Bombing in World War Two: The Story of the United States Strate-gic Bombing Survey, called the bitter disagreement between Ofstieand Anderson “The Great Anderson Navy War.” MacIsaac’s mistakewas to portray the Survey, and especially Franklin D’Olier, as theimpartial mediator between Ofstie and Anderson. D’Olier, accordingto MacIsaac, did his best to be “fair.” 82But the record strongly sug- gests that D’Olier deliberately sided with Anderson and allowed Air Campaigns to be published in the face of objections by Ofstie and Paul Nitze. In early 1946, Ofstie’s division wrote a report, “The Air Effort against Japan” (a different study from Campaigns of the PacificWar discussed above), that described and evaluated the part played by air power in the Pacific war. Yet when Ofstie submitted the gal-leys of this report for review, Nitze considered it not to be “an im-partial or accurate account of the air effort against Japan.” The Sur-vey, said Nitze, “would not approve of its publication in its presentform which incorrectly associates the Survey with it.” 83Ofstie’s re- port argued that U.S. naval action in World War II in the Pacific“played the principal as well as the deciding part.” The report con-cluded that “too much has been said of late of the peculiar and dis-tinctive nature of airpower, and too little of its necessary interrela-tion with land and sea forces for whose benefit it exists .” 84Major General Lauris Norstad, who had probably been briefed about theNaval Analysis Division’s report by Anderson, was worried that thereport claimed to be an analysis of the overall air effort againstJapa