s point outmore clearly. David MacIsaac lamented in his 1976 book Strategic Bombing in World War Two that the USSBS needed historians to provide a bal- anced interpretation of evidence. MacIsaac acknowledged that de-bate over findings did occur among USSBS analysts, but the USSBSwas “ruled” by “an insurance man (D’Olier) and two investmentbankers (Alexander and Nitze),” who firmly held “the reins of au-thority.” 46The majority of GWAPS task force chiefs, including the director, had Ph.D.’s in either political science or history and hadspent many collective years in academe. This is not to say that anacademic background necessarily guarantees objectivity. Yet a“scholarly” approach did instill in the GWAPS greater intellectualrigor and independence. Cohen noted that the GWAPS, “unlikemany studies, [was] leaving an audit trail, in the form of footnotes,bibliographic essays, and open statements of where large uncertain-ties remain.” 47The USSBS members certainly challenged each other over evidence and conclusions. They were probably less effective,though, than the GWAPS in establishing an intellectual climate thatwould lead to a more independent and impartial study.a comparison of surveys 181 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 193 --- V One thing that the GWAPS had to help it ensure impartiality and in- dependence that the USSBS did not was the GWAPS review commit-tee. 48The purpose of the review committee was to bring together a group of distinguished scholars, statesmen, and senior military lead-ers to act as a corporate body to review the GWAPS work, provid-ing it with the “credibility and prestige necessary to support the