r months prior to his press conference in Octo- ber, Alexander was involved in another conference on the effects ofstrategic bombing against Germany, but this time with members ofthe Joint Target Group (JTG), the agency formed by the Joint Chiefsof Staff to provide centralized target planning for the Pacific bomb-ing campaign. In fact during the month of June, Alexander, alongwith D’Olier, Ball, Nitze, and other Survey directors, held a series ofmeetings in Washington, D.C., with key political and military lead-ers. 2Planning for the land invasion of Japan fostered an interest among American leaders and agencies like the JTG in hearing theSurvey’s findings for possible application in the Pacific. The JTG, and its predecessor, the Committee of Operations Ana- lysts (COA), had been analyzing the vulnerability of Japanese citiesto strategic bombing as early as the fall of 1943. Both agencies had refined their thinking on the most effective bombing methods andobjectives for the AAF in its strategic air campaign against Japan.Survey directors, too, based on their findings from Europe, believedthat they had determined the proper methods and objectives forstrategic bombers. There were competing beliefs, therefore, aboutthe best methods for using air power against Japan. The question ofwhether or not American strategic bombing combined with a navalblockade could force Japan to surrender without a land invasionshaped these competing visions. During their visit to Washington, D.C., in June, the Survey direc- tors demonstrated to senior military and political leaders a sophisti-cated understanding of the effects of strategic bombing on Ger-many, and, in general, of air power theory and practice. As a result,the Survey was directed to write its own alternate bombardmentthe survey presents its findings 80 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentra