ns on the effects of strategic bombing. 17The directors had come to realize that to analyze the data and produce conclu-sions the Survey could not only rely on statistical evidence. 18Inter- rogations of key German officials, therefore, became a crucial ele-ment in the European Survey’s methodology. Undoubtedly, the most important German official interrogated during the European Survey was Albert Speer, Hitler’s wartime eco-nomic minister. The Survey questioned him at Flensburg, Germany,at the end of May, shortly after the collapse of the Doenitz govern-ment. George Ball recalled that Speer gave the Survey “detailed in-strategic bombing against germany 58 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 70 --- formation for which our field teams had been searching and which our analysts had been painfully trying to piece together out of bitsand pieces of fact, gossip, and rumor.” After the Survey had spentmonths sifting through production records and other related docu-ments, Speer’s testimony, according to Ball, “was like stumbling onthe page of answers after one had worked on a puzzle formonths.” 19Following the six-day interrogation of Speer in late May, Galbraith drafted a précis of his Economic Division’s findings.The evidence that Galbraith drew on for his conclusions reliedheavily, as he put it, “on the judgment of German officials” like Al-bert Speer. 20Paul Nitze also emphasized the crucial role that Speer’s testimony played in the formulation of Survey conclusions. Nitzereasoned that without Speer’s “help it never would have been possi-ble to secure the complete and well documented picture which wehave now obtained.” 21 One h