ions from those written by groups like the COA that preceded itand the Strategic Bombing Survey that would follow. In his directiveto the committee, General Arnold wanted the historians to examinesecret and confidential intelligence material to evaluate the “effectof Allied bombings . . . on Germany and German morale and at-tempt to appraise future developments under continuation of Alliedmilitary and economic pressure.” 55But in the transmittal letter that accompanied the historians’ completed report to General Arnold,they stated forthrightly that their conclusions were based primarily upon the information and opinions to which they had access. The committee was acutely awareof various inadequacies and gaps in the information the memberswould greatly like to have had. The members recognize that there areintangibles and imponderables in war which cannot be assessed butwhich may be more nearly decisive than any of the purely military,economic, or psychological factors now apparent. Not all the truththe origins of the american conceptual approach 26 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 38 --- can be discerned in even the best intelligence reports, since we always operate through the “fog of war.”56 Here the historians were distinguishing themselves from the indus- trial experts that predominantly made up the other target selectionand evaluation agencies. Historians, by nature, usually allow forcomplexity and uncertainty in their analysis: When can the histo-rian ever collect “all” the evidence on a given historical problem?Physical scientists, conversely, operate differently in that “all” thefacts—or at least all the necessar