that there was “something of more immediatevalue and greater value, whether that be 5 % of [Germany’s] re- maining production or 7% would have to be determined, but we all approach a law of diminishing returns that drives us from a target.The last 10% might be vital.” 45Anderson’s rambling language, laden with economic jargon, hid a deeper ambivalence about the de-cisiveness of strategic air power. Like Alexander, Anderson couldcomfortably state that a properly planned and executed strategicbombing campaign directed at basic industries would break anenemy’s capacity to resist, and in this sense, be decisive. But to takethe next step and argue, in the case of Germany, that it made “all ofthe rest” unnecessary was more than he or Alexander was willing toclaim. Such a step would have required a counterfactual argumentstating that the land invasion of Europe was unnecessary to defeatGermany. III The JTG considered the information that the Survey had presentedto them, yet because the JTG was committed to planning for the usethe survey presents its findings 95 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 107 --- of air power to support a successful ground invasion of Japan, they did not place top priority on attacking “basic industries” like trans-portation with precision bombing methods, as the Survey’s Euro-pean analysis suggested. Instead the JTG recommended the XXIBomber Command continue its fire raids on Japanese urban areas,with some modifications, to destroy large quantities of war materialthat the Japanese would use to resist the American ground invasionof the home islands. 46 In one of its ﬁnal air estimates of the Paciﬁc war, “