ar II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 121 --- and Ground Force. . . .”23Naval officers, however, did not want to take a “backseat” to the airmen and their concept for the American postwar military establishment.24 Paul Nitze, after he arrived in Washington, D.C., from Japan in December 1945 to begin writing the Pacific Survey’s Summary Re- port, was, in a sense, caught in the middle of the postwar rivalry be-tween the navy and the AAF over the role of air power in the na-tional defense, and more important whether or not the AAF shouldbe granted independence. General Anderson and Admiral Ofstieboth knew that the Survey’s explanation of the role the AAF and thenavy played in “winning” the war in the Pacific would have a sub-stantial impact on future defense organization and strategy. 25Both officers, therefore, did their very best to shape the arguments theSurvey would produce. Ofstie and Anderson sought to shape the central arguments in the chairman’s Summary Report. From December 1945 to June 1946 at Langley Field, Virginia (the Washington, D.C., headquarters of thePaciﬁc Survey), Nitze complained that he “had to write every word ofthe damn document, and [he got] the full brunt of the pressure fromall sides.” 26Yet as hard as Nitze may have tried to maintain a balance between the two services, the interests of the AAF won out over thenavy in the Paciﬁc Survey’s Summary Report. Nitze appears to have written his first preliminary draft of the Summary Report on 12March 1946. There were probably five sub- sequent drafts written between 12March and 1 July when the final Summary Report was published. 27Some of the changes contained in these drafts were striking in their emphasis on the AAF’s role inthe war agains