All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 94 --- “sustaining sources of Japanese military strength” could best be damaged by strategic bombing operations against aircraft produc-tion, coke factories, petroleum, radios and radar, ball bearings, and“urban industrial areas.” The report argued that “urban industrialareas” as an objective were vulnerable to the area bombing “tech-nique” and night attack. 10 The COA often drew on the expertise of individuals outside the War Department. For example, upon request, Horatio Bond, the chief engineer of the National Fire Protection Association (Interna-tional), enthusiastically offered technical assistance to Guido Pereraand other members of the COA. Bond sent a letter to Perera inMarch 1944 explaining his analysis of the susceptibility of certain American industries to fire, with possible application to Japan. Theletter presents a fascinating glimpse at the contradictions of a totalwar that brought together civilian experts and the military. Bond’sletter is written on the National Fire Protection Association’s offi-cial stationary. At the very top of the letter appears the association’sstatement of purpose: To promote the science and improve the methods of fire protection and prevention: to obtain and circulate information on those subjects and to secure the co-operation of its members in establishing propersafeguards against loss of life and property by fire. 11 In the ensuing text of the letter, Bond, the civilian expert on fire protection, was of course recommending to the COA not methodsto save lives and property in Japan, but methods to destroy build-ings and kill people. It is doubtful whether Bond, Perera, or othermembers of the COA ever noticed this striking juxtaposition inwhat was judged a just war against a hated enemy. In one of their final reports to General Arnold, the COA submit- ted in October 1944 an air plan to defeat Japan by “aerial and naval blockade and bombardment from present and fu