al shortages and qualitative deterioration ofconsumer goods—the result both of a rigid war economy and ofdevastating air attacks.” Even though Allied air attacks had greatlydamaged the German consumer economy, the report argued thatthe deterioration did not “extend to essential war materials; at nopoint has direct war production suffered a crippling blow.” Even so,the German military and civilian economy had “reached and passedits peak.” But because “the German people are totally mobilized fortotal war and therefore possess an element of strength which hasnot yet been achieved,” as they put it, strategic bombing attackshad yet to produce conditions in Germany that would allow for anearly termination of the war. 62 When considering the impact of strategic bombing on Nazi polit- ical control over the German people, the historians asked whetheror not the Nazi government was “likely to collapse from internalthe origins of the american conceptual approach 28 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 40 --- weakness.” The committee members acknowledged two relevant facts. The first was that there was “no widespread desire in Ger-many to get rid of the Nazi Government.” Second, argued the histo-rians, even if such a desire existed, “no organized power except theArmy could get rid of it.” They thus concluded that “there is noconclusive evidence that British and American bombings of Germancities have effectively weakened the general hold of the Nazi Gov-ernment on the German people.” 63 If the committee downplayed the decisive effects of strategic bombing on the German economy and political situation, it viewedattacks on morale with much