er of 1918 afforded “no real analogy with the present military situation” of Germany. 70 In his cover memorandum to President Roosevelt that went along with the historians’ report, General Arnold made a subtle but im-portant change to their conclusion. General Arnold in fact tried tosalvage from the report the notion that there was still a possibilityof forcing German surrender without a land invasion, a possibilitythat the historians thoroughly argued against. General Arnoldagreed with the committee’s conclusion that Germany could “notbe bombed out of the war in the next three months” but added that surrender will come when, through lack of adequate air defense, Ger- many finds herself unable to maintain resistance to ground opera-tions or prevent destruction by aerial bombardment of her industries,cities, and communications. . . . I believe the report tends to confirmour essential theses of the use and effect of air power and our ownfindings as to the results of operations to date. 71 By stating that surrender would come about either when Germany was unable to resist ground operations (a land invasion of Ger- many) orwhen it could no longer stop destruction of its “cities, in- dustry, and communications” by strategic bombardment, GeneralArnold subtly, but profoundly, changed the conclusion of the histo-rians. They argued conversely that the land invasion was a neces-sary condition for Germany’s surrender. Strategic bombing, accord-ing to the historians, had to be coupled with a land invasion of theEuropean continent to force German capitulation. Strategic bomb-ing was not, therefore, a discrete option along with a land invasion,the origins of the american conceptual approach 31 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2