r II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 83 --- secretariat, Judge Charles Cabot, had prepared an “unsatisfactory” draft of the chairman’s Over-all Report that gave unwarranted praise to the AAF’s wartime accomplishments while dismissing itsfailures. 74The directors had understood from the beginning that the chairman’s office would produce a final report that summarized thefindings of their respective divisions. 75Since Cabot’s draft would be published as the chairman’s Over-all Report, Galbraith decided thatit must represent accurately the Survey’s findings. He and Ball rec-ommended to Alexander that Cabot’s draft report be rewritten. Aheated debate followed over the draft report, with Galbraith andBall on one side and Cabot, Colonel Guido Perera, and GeneralOrvil Anderson on the other. 76 Lurking beneath the dispute over Cabot’s draft were the conclu- sions that Galbraith’s influential Economic Division had reached onthe overall effects of strategic bombing on the German war econ-omy. 77The division’s findings demonstrated that the German war economy was not stretched to the limit, as was popularly believed,but in fact had a “substantial cushion of potential production, sothat in the later stages of the war the economy was able to be ex-panded substantially.” 78Drawing on the findings from the other di- visions, Galbraith argued that the most effective strategic bombingattacks were those directed against transportation and electricpower. The AAF’s attacks on airframe and ball-bearing production,argued Galbraith’s division, proved to be “disappointing.” 79 The division’s published report, The Effects of Strategic Bombing on the German War Economy, made the same basic arguments as the earlier précis. Galbraith,