oponents when attacking the credi-bility of Survey “abusers.” According to air proponents, the “con-sensus” conclusions of the Survey were to be found in the chair-man’s Summary Reports, not in the many other division studies. In- deed, when air force officers referred to the Survey duringunification hearings, it was usually to either the Pacific or the Euro-pean Summary Report proclaiming the decisiveness of air power in World War II. When detractors of air power deviated from those re- ports into the murkiness of the other supporting studies, air propo-nents would often claim Survey “abuse.” 57a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 149 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 161 --- There were extreme cases, however, when detractors of the air force’s method of strategic bombing clearly made outlandish argu- ments based on Survey reports. The B- 36hearings ended in late Au- gust 1949, but Committee Chairman Carl Vinson, responding to complaints from naval officers that they did not get a chance topresent their side of the story, reopened the hearings on 5October to hear navy testimony on strategic air power and naval aviation. 58 One of the more junior naval officers to testify was CommanderEugene Tatom, head of the navy’s aviation ordnance branch. On 10 October, Commander Tatom made an unbelievable assertion aboutthe destructive qualities of the atom bomb. Tatom told the commit-tee that an individual “could stand in the open at one end of thenorth-south runway at the Washington National Airport, with nomore protection than the clothes you now have on, and have anatom bomb explode at the other end of the runway without