eakened by oil alone or transportation or by the combination of both to apoint where he had to quit? Mr. Alexander: Of course when you say “have to quit[,]” decisive doesn’t mean that completely. There were still men standing inbushes with rifles that had to be disposed of. . . . It does notnecessarily mean that every soldier would have to put down hisgun and go home. Conference between Members of the Joint Target Group (JTG) andthe Strategic Bombing Survey,9June 1945 Following the publication of the chairman’s European Summary Report and Overall Report, Henry Alexander held a press conference at the Pentagon on 24 October 1945 to pass out copies of both studies and to answer questions from newspaper reporters about the Survey. During the conference Alexander fielded a question on the “relative effectiveness of satu-ration; i.e. area bombing as against more accurate [precision]bombing.” Alexander, restating the Survey’s conclusions concerning 79 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 91 --- area attacks against German cities, responded that the most effec- tive method for destroying the productive capacity of Germany wasthe effort directed “toward the industry rather than toward thecommunity.” Most of the industry, as he put it, was located on theperimeter of German cities. Area attacks, argued Alexander, whichhad as their aiming point the center of the city, were ineffective indamaging the city’s war economy. 1 In June 1945, four months prior to his press conference in Octo- ber, Alexander was involved in another conference on the effects ofstrategic bombing against Germany, but this time with members ofthe Joint Target Grou