ral Arnold (who had just departed for a visit with theoperating commands in the Pacific) with “some broad statementsand conclusions that you people have reached.” Setting the tone ofthe conference, D’Olier noted that he “was already impressed withwhat bombing had done to the economy of Germany in completelybreaking their capacity to resist.” The conference began in themorning and did not conclude until late in the afternoon. 27 The Joint Target Group had prepared a list of questions for the Survey to answer and for discussion among the conference atten-dees. The questions reflected the emphasis that the JTG placed onthe need for the AAF to destroy the end products of Japanese warindustry. The first question to the Survey was whether “the produc-tive capacity of a modern enemy is the factor which is most likely tobe decisive in avoiding defeat.” General Samford of the JTG quali-fied the question further: “We do refer in this question to the ex-ploitation, that is the productive capacity that is being exploited,and then we treat with sustained war action rather than to bring usback to a specific battle.” 28Here Samford was cryptically hinting at the JTG’s belief that the most effective way to prepare for a land in-vasion of Japan was to destroy its finished war products and not toattack the basic industries of its war economy. General Anderson ofthe Survey countered by arguing that their findings in Europe had showed that “cutting the pipeline or productive resources is the mosteffective way of insuring defeat of that nation or that force. . . .” 29 Anticipating the same remarks he would make to an AAF inter-viewer in August, Anderson’s “pipeline or productive resources”were the basic industries like electric power and transportation.the survey presents its findings 89 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbi