uly 1946. Ofstie remembered asking Anderson on numerous occasions if his division would have a general summaryof Army Air Forces activities in the Pacific. According to Ofstie, An-derson often replied that he would have such a report to Ofstie “atthe next meeting,” or “in a few weeks.” 89 It was not until late 1946 (about four months after the Survey had officially finished its work, but when it still maintained a smallstaff under Lieutenant Colonel G. L. McMurrin to oversee remain-ing administrative matters) that Orvil Anderson submitted a report,“Over-All Air Effort in the War against Japan,” to Nitze, who hadrecently taken a position in the State Department. 90On Christmas Eve Nitze fired off a brisk reply to McMurrin telling him not topublish Anderson’s report. The Survey, according to Nitze, hadpromised the Naval Analysis Division that it would not publish theMilitary Analysis Division’s overall report because it had denied thenavy’s request to publish their overall report. 91D’Olier, who had re- cently returned to the position of president of Prudential Life Insur-ance, agreed “100%” with Nitze’s decision. 92 Anderson’s eagerness for the Survey to publish a report that would laud the accomplishments of the AAF in the Pacific war andstrategic bombing against japan 127 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 139 --- state explicitly air power’s role in the postwar defense establishment produced another report, The Air Campaigns of the Pacific War, in early 1947. Once Ofstie read Anderson’s draft of Air Campaigns, he immediately told Nitze that the report was anything but “an objec-tive study of the war.” Ofstie found Air C