ntinue to advise the Survey during the Paciﬁc phase, the de factovice-chairman for the Paciﬁc Survey became Paul Nitze. 4George Ball took on a new job with the government as the general counsel of theFrench Supply Council. John Kenneth Galbraith spent the month ofstrategic bombing against japan 105 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 117 --- October with the Survey in Japan and attended a number of impor- tant interrogations of Japanese ofﬁcials. But in early November he re-turned to the United States to work for the State Department, and,like Alexander, was more of an advisor than division director. 5Milton Gilbert, chief of the National Income Unit of the Department ofCommerce, took over as director of the Overall Economic Effects Di-vision. 6Paul Nitze lamented to his mother that the “best men” like Alexander and Galbraith “had to leave” the Survey, making his workas vice-chairman more difﬁcult. 7As in Europe, Franklin D’Olier re- mained the titular chairman of the Survey. Drawing on the European experience, the Survey relied mostly on interrogations of key Japanese military and government offi-cials. 8Unlike the Germans, the Japanese leadership kept very few industrial records (many were destroyed by the Japanese prior tothe American occupation of the home islands). The Urban Areas Di-vision, for example, had to rely on the responses to questions dis-tributed to over eight thousand Japanese industrial and civic leadersbetween October and November 1945. The division’s experts used the statements on the completed questionnaires as their primarysource of evidence for their conclusions concerning the effects ofstrategic bo