rswanted, Koenig argued that the Survey, once it began its evaluation,should not pursue the broader question of the relevance of airpower to military strategy. Instead, the Survey should confine itselfto “an intensive survey of bombing effects,” and not a “lengthystudy of the war, and the part of the AAF in it.” 35 A formal, written request to authorize the Strategic Bombing Sur- vey may have reached President Roosevelt in the form of a memo-randum, written by General Spaatz, for General Arnold’s signatureon 20April 1944, recommending “an intensive survey, in Germany and German occupied countries, of the results achieved by theCombined Bomber Offensive.” 36General Arnold on one hand ad- mitted that the “air forces will be dependent on the results of theproposed study.” But on the other hand he proclaimed: I do not propose in any way to attempt to influence the conclusions of the [Survey] and I believe they should be strong enough to resistany partisan influence, that may be brought to bear upon them.What I want is to get at the facts, and if mistakes have been made inthe past, I want to know about them, so that we can be even more ef-fective in the future. . . . In order to guarantee that the report of the[Survey] will be received as an unbiased and completely impartialstudy based solely on fact and not opinion, I am most anxious tohave as the head of the [Survey] some outstanding American civilian,whose reputation for impartiality and good judgment is beyondquestion. 37the united states strategic bombing survey 44 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 56 --- General Arnold’s proposed memorandum encapsulates the dilemma that