ations.63Still, many analysts who have read the economists’ post-Survey writings have tended to allow them to neg- atively color Galbraith’s USSBS report.64It should be remembered, however, that in 1945, when Galbraith was a USSBS director, he was highly respected for his judgment, balanced approach, and ana-lytical acumen. Air power champion and USSBS director GeneralOrvil Anderson thought Galbraith to be “one of the most valuablemen on the Survey, if not the most valuable.” 65 Yet in comparison with what Paul Nitze did when he drew con- clusions about why Japan had surrendered at the end of World WarII, the use of Galbraith’s economic report by the GWAPS Effects volume was only a minor foible. Indeed, for the analysts of the Pa-cific portion of the USSBS there was clearly competing evidence(based largely on interviews with Japanese leaders) as to why thewar ended. Yet Nitze seems to have been less concerned with ac-knowledging contradictions than with proving his argument aboutthe decisiveness of conventional strategic air power and the indeci-siveness of the Soviet war declaration and atomic bomb. The resultwas the well-known counterfactual stating that Japan would havesurrendered “certainly prior to 31December 1945, and in all prob- ability prior to 1November 1945 . . . even if the atomic bombs had not been dropped, even if Russia had not entered the war, and evenif no invasion had been planned or contemplated.” Prudence calledfor such a bold statement to be followed with a discussion on evi-dence, but none was forthcoming. GWAPS analysts writing on airpower’s effects almost forty years later would be more forthrightthan the USSBS about problems with evidence. Understanding the limits of evidence kept GWAPS authors from taking the same step toward bold counterfactual speculation thatNitze had taken many years earlier. The Effects volume argued that even after accepting the fact that the air campaign had destroyed“large amounts of Iraqi equipment . . . whether or