d by thecutting of one or more of its essential arteries. How this is accom-plished is the essence of air strategy in modern warfare. 22 Since the individual was so closely linked to the industrialized state, airmen believed that by attacking the key components of thatthe origins of the american conceptual approach 16 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 28 --- industrial state, the enemy’s will to resist would almost certainly collapse. This became axiomatic among American airmen. But air-men offered only a loose explanation of the link between strategicbombing attacks on industrial capacity and the purported break-down of the enemy’s will to resist. Instead they focused more clearlyon objectives, or targets, that were tangible and easy to quantify:the “vital links” of the enemy’s war-making capacity. Determiningthese “vital links” became the “essence” of air strategy. Wilson,quoting Douhet, stated: “The art of air strategy consists mainly inchoosing the objectives.” 23 ACTS instructor Major Muir Fairchild, who later became the chief of plans for the Army Air Forces (AAF) in World War II, hadrefined the American conception of air power in classes to officersat the Air Corps Tactical School. In a 1939 lecture to ACTS stu- dents titled “National Economic Structure,” Fairchild argued thatthere were two types of objectives to attack with strategic airpower:the morale of the people and the “national economic structure.”Fairchild acknowledged at the beginning of the lecture that “it maywell be possible for air attack directly on the civilian populace todestroy morale—provided of course that the air force can strikesoon enough an