rize their findings. Survey analysts hadhoned in on two basic industries or target systems that, accordingto them, either would have been decisive or were decisive in the waragainst Germany.strategic bombing against germany 69 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 81 --- The Combined Bomber Offensive had removed electric power as a priority target for strategic bombers. The airmen believed that the German electric power system was too decentralized and could eas-ily recover from strategic bombing attacks. 66Yet analysts from the Survey’s Utilities Division argued that based on their interrogationsof “German power plant and systems operators . . . the bombing ofpower plants and primary sub-stations would have been the quick-est and most effective way to have destroyed Germany’s war econ-omy.” 67Even though German electric power was not directly tar- geted by the AAF, the cumulative effect of ground operations andstrategic bombing attacks on other basic industries placed a seriousstrain on electric power. The division’s published study, German Electric Utilities Industry Report , argued that had the AAF made power plants “primary targets as soon as they could have beenbrought within the range of Allied strategic bombing attacks, all ev-idence indicates that the destruction of such installations wouldhave had a catastrophic effect on Germany’s war economy.” 68 If the AAF did not direct its strategic bombing campaign against German electric power, it did, by the closing months of the war inEurope, heavily attack German transportation and oil production.General Spaatz, on orders from Supreme Allied Commander Gen-eral Dwight D. Ei