of containing (notrolling back) the Soviet Union and terrified the majority of theAmerican people. 86Simply put, Anderson crossed the line by stating in public what he and many others believed about strategic airpower and the Soviet Union.a-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 159 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 171 --- VII Anderson’s Survey report, Air Campaigns, and his outspoken rhetoric on preventive war contradicted Paul Nitze’s conclusions concerning air power and national security in the Paciﬁc Survey Summary Report.Nitze admitted in the Summary Report that it would be impossible to completely protect the United States from an enemy’s strategicbombers and guided missiles. It therefore behooved the United States,according to Nitze, “to accept the possibility that at least a small num-ber of enemy planes or guided missiles may be able to evade all ourdefenses and to attack any objective within range.” The defense of theUnited States would come from “the threat of immediate retaliationwith a striking force of our own,” which “should deter any aggressorfrom attacking.” 87For Nitze, America’s defense should come from the threat of immediate retaliation. For Orvil Anderson, America’s de-fense should come from offensive action that would destroy theenemy’s war-making capability before it could be brought to bearagainst the United States. The contradiction between the Survey reports of Anderson and Nitze over retaliation versus preventive war manifested thedilemma that strategic air power posed for the military’s defense ofthe United States. In the logic of air power theory, if the enemy’sforces could be destroyed