ight © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 162 --- selected passages from Survey reports to show how the AAF’s meth- ods of strategic bombing in World War II had been a “total failure.”According to “The Strategic Bombing Myth,” the AAF’s reliance onarea bombing in World War II was immoral because it killed inno-cent civilians and ineffective because it did not destroy the war-making capacity of either Germany or Japan. But the article con-cluded that certain methods of bombing during World War II werequite effective. Bombing German transportation during World WarII, according to “The Strategic Bombing Myth,” proved to be a “de-cisive factor in the collapse of the Germany Army.” 63 Symington correctly pointed out in his testimony to the congress- men that “The Strategic Bombing Myth” rested in large part onhighly selected portions of the Strategic Bombing Survey. He pre-sented to the committee a letter written by former Survey chairmanFranklin D’Olier that argued that “The Strategic Bombing Myth”grossly misstated the major conclusions of the Survey. 64Explicitly, the secretary sought to attack the credibility of the article, but hehad ulterior motives as well. The naval officers who appeared priorto Secretary Symington had relied largely on the Survey to attack airforce methods of strategic air warfare. By attacking the use of theSurvey in extreme form (“The Strategic Bombing Myth” and theTatom testimony), Secretary Symington hoped to place doubt in the minds of committee members about the navy’s use of the Survey inpreceding and subsequent testimony. But navy officers, during the hearings, were able to make shrewd use of the Survey to discredit what they saw as the air force’s flawedmethod of strategic bombing. Admiral Arthur W. Radford, Com-mander in Chief, Pacific Fleet, was called back to Washington byAdmiral Denfield to organize and present the navy’s case to the con-gressional committee. 65He testified