sity Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 164 --- marine officers before him, by citing Survey findings that demon- strated the impact strategic bombing had had on German andJapanese “military targets,” such as oil and transportation. Withthis historical foundation laid, Admiral Ofstie then explained thenavy’s method for using strategic bombing in a potential war withthe Soviets. Since, as Ofstie believed, atomic attacks on Soviet citieswould be ineffective based on World War II experience, the first So-viet targets that should be hit in the initial stages of a war were theones that had proved most decisive in World War II, oil and trans-portation. The navy, according to Admiral Ofstie, because of itsunique ability to control sea lanes and project air power, wouldhave the primary role “in such offensive actions.” For Ofstie, les-sons from the past only proved the incorrectness of the air force’smethods and the correctness of the navy’s. He asked: Must the Italian Douhet continue as our prophet because certain zealots grasped the false doctrines many years ago and refuse to re-linquish this discredited theory in the face of vast costly experience?Must we translate the historical mistake of World War II into a per-manent concept merely to avoid clouding the prestige of those wholed us down the wrong road in the past? . . . [We must] build thearmed forces of this country on the basis of experience rather thanhope, hard fact rather than wishful prophecy, balanced power ratherthan the single-shot philosophy. 69 Note the resemblance in this passage to Orvil Anderson’s Survey re- port, Air Campaigns of the Pacific War . In that report, it was the “established organizations” (like the navy) who were preventing theair force from realizing its future vision for the security of theUnited States. Admiral Ofstie, however, turned this argument on itshead and labeled air proponents “zealots” for pulling the nation’sdefense into the future with a fl