e [Patterson] said that re-peatedly after many hearings our Report had been mentioned, withparticular reference to our insistence upon unification.” 99 The Survey’s call for unification of the armed services included a call for a separate “third establishment” that became, as a result ofthe National Security Act of 1947, the United States Air Force. The airmen’s dreams had been fulfilled.strategic bombing against japan 130 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 142 --- chapter 6 ✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦✦ ✦ A-Bombs, Budgets, and the Dilemma of Defense Symington— Do you realize that in accepting our new jobs and in the event of war with Russia, we will be hanged as war criminals if we lose? There had better be some real honest to God thinking about what we need to avoid being on the losing side. The U.S. has already set the pace for the atomic bomb, strategic bombing, and hanging war criminals. This is no time to temporize very long with old established prerog- atives of the Services, nor to tolerate inter-Service rivalry, friction, jealousy. Whoever does not cooperate should be obliterated. general carl spaatz, 1947 Anticipating his “new job” as chief of staff of the United States Air Force, General Carl A. Spaatz forcefully emphasized to the about-to-be-named secretary of the airforce, W. Stuart Symington, that they must “obliterate” any opposi-tion to the air force’s plans for the postwar defense establishment. 1 The opposition that Spaatz was referring to was neither the SovietUnion nor any other external enemy to the United States. Instead, itwas the United States Navy in its resistance to the unification of thearmed services (that would