on. But if the enemy refused to listen to the United States,argued the general, then “we will hit them.” 82 In 1947, as commandant of the Air War College, Anderson per- ceptively understood the dilemma that strategic air power posed forthe concepts of defense and offense. Anderson argued in a lecture tostudents that an enemy’s strategic bombing attack against theUnited States would mostly “get through to their targets.” Eventhough the United States would try to defend against such an attackby trying to shoot down the enemy’s aircraft, “a well planned massattack, well might be decisive” against the United States. Andersonthen posited that the only way to “defend” successfully against suchan attack would be to take the “offensive” by destroying theenemy’s war-making capacity that produced its strategic airpower. 83Thus, in Anderson’s conception, what appeared to be an offensive attack against an enemy nation was in fact defensive be-cause it prevented that enemy from attacking the United States first. This line of thinking allowed Anderson in September 1950 toa-bombs, budgets, and the dilemma of defense 158 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 170 --- recommend publicly a preventive war against the Soviets. Anderson stated in an interview to an Alabama newspaper reporter: Give me the order to do it, and I can break up Russia’s ﬁve A-bomb nests in a week! And when I went to Christ, I think I could explain toHim why I wanted to do it now before it’s too late. I think I could ex-plain to Him that I had saved civilization. . . . This doctrine of waitinguntil you’re hit ﬁrst—even when you know the ﬁrst blow will kill you,is queer.