ary raids, would be more effective in reducing Japan’s critical warindustries than incendiary raids. 7 But other COA studies emphasized the potential of incendiary raids on Japanese cities. The COA analyzed the effects of the RAF’sarea raids against German cities to use in their planning for Japan.One such study, “The Economic Effect of Attacks in Force on Ger-man Urban Areas,” admitted that “a straight incendiary attackagainst congested residential areas in Japanese cities is the method most frequently considered for the Far East.” But for the attacks tobe successful, according to the committee, they would ultimatelyhave to “demoralize war production.” According to the COA, in-cendiary attacks needed to do more than just attack civilian morale“to be successful,” they had to ultimately affect war production tobe of value as a method of strategic bombing. 8 The great fire caused by the Tokyo earthquake of 1923 provided the COA with information on the flammable nature of Japanesecities. The COA noted that the “frame-built cities of Japan arehighly combustible and can be more readily destroyed than the mas-sive-built cities of Germany.” The committee’s only question was“how much more readily” they could be destroyed. Their answerwas to choose the most effective bombs and “modes” of deliveringthose bombs. 9Another analysis by the committee provided further information on the potential of fire raids by emphasizing that thethe survey presents its findings 82 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 94 --- “sustaining sources of Japanese military strength” could best be damaged by strategic bombing operations against aircraft produc-t