rough the ideas of its civilian and military analysts, theUnited States Strategic Bombing Survey reflected the American con-ceptual approach to strategic bombing. Two fundamental tenetsformed the American conception: strategic air power should beused not to attack ground forces in battle directly but instead to at-tack the vital elements of the enemy’s war-making capacity; and theair force must be independent of and coequal with the army and thenavy. My study seeks to show how that conception informed andshaped the Strategic Bombing Survey’s evaluation of American airpower in World War II. Since the Survey accepted the Americanconceptual approach to strategic bombing and made it a frameworkfor analysis, a truly impartial evaluation was never really a possibil-ity. My study also explores the subtle interplay of advocacy and as-sessment throughout the Survey’s formal evaluation from January1945 to June 1946 and the use of the Survey’s published reports inintroduction 5 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 17 --- the postwar years. To bring into relief my analysis of the USSBS, I end with a chapter that compares the World War II USSBS and the1993 Gulf War Air Power Survey. By 1939, Major Muir Fairchild, an instructor at the Army Air Forces’ (AAF) influential Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS), had re-fined a conception of air power that sought to use strategic bombersagainst the “vital elements” of the enemy’s war-making capacity.Once strategic bombers had destroyed these “vital elements,” Fair-child and other airmen believed that the enemy’s will to resist wouldsubsequently collapse. Air power theorist Guilio Douhet noted al-mo