al aspects of American airpower in the Persian Gulf War. The GWAPS did produce a volumeon the effects of the air campaign against Iraq; however, unlike theWorld War II USSBS, which had access to evidence in Germany and Japan, the GWAPS could not enter Iraq once the war ended. Accessto Germany and Japan was important for the USSBS because its an-alysts could collect evidence on the effects of strategic bombing andinterview key enemy wartime leaders. Air power was used in the Persian Gulf War not as an end in it- self but to bring about specific effects upon the enemy. Arguably,then, the GWAPS volume, Effects and Effectiveness, was cruciala comparison of surveys 183 Gentile, Gian P.. How Effective Is Strategic Bombing? : Lessons Learned from World War II to Kosovo, New York University Press, 2000. ProQuest Ebook Central, http://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/columbia/detail.action?docID=866162. Created from columbia on 2024-06-17 19:47:37. Copyright © 2000. New York University Press. All rights reserved.  File: --- gentile_effective.pdf --- Page 195 --- because it would explore the raison d’être for the air campaign against Iraq: to produce effects on the enemy in support of Ameri-can and coalition objectives. Cohen and other GWAPS analystswere aware of their problems with evidence, especially regardingthe effects of the bombing. Cohen did not want the GWAPS to cometo definitive conclusions if it did not have the requisite evidence.And he knew well of the problems that the USSBS had had with theinterpretation of evidence. At a meeting in late August 1991 with the faculty of the Air University at Maxwell Air Force Base, Cohendiscussed with Mark Clodfelter the issue of evidence. Clodfeltertold him that the biggest issue for the GWAPS was the lack of “ac-cess to Iraq.” Cohen agreed and noted that the GWAPS needed “tobe more forthright than [the] USSBS on holes in our data.” 53 The primary authors of the GWAPS volume Effects and Effec- tiveness, Thomas Keaney and Barry Wat