an destinations, preferably before dark since they /hen the men  Since the early hours of August 17, long before the Regensburg task were unfamiliar with the bases at which they hoped to land yarachutes as  force got off the ground, tension had been mounting at the 8th Air So Anderson had sent the LeMay force on its way at9:35 4.M.,but he aluminum  Force Bomber Command headquarters (code-named Pinetree) near in doing so he had complicated his problem. Since the entire First | catwalk be-  High Wycombe. Through the night the fog had continued to deepen Bombardment Wing was still on the ground, hehad therefore lostthe / produced a  all over eastern England, threatening cancellation of this most ambi- advantage of sending it directly after the Fourth Bombardment Wing, _in their big, tious and carefully planned American operation to date and now he had to decide, even if the First Wing did get airborne,  At Pinetree, the heaviest pressure bore down upon thirty-eight- whether to send it to Schweinfurt at all. A gap of two or three hours instruments, year-old Brig. Gen. Fred Anderson, who had arrived in England only between the two task forces would give the German fighters plentyof so confining six months earlier and had been in charge of Bomber Command for time, after attacking the Fourth, to land, reload, and go up againstthe  ustrophobia. only two months. Anderson was an amiable, efficient West Point First small spaces, graduate who had taken flight training and won his pilot’s wings at The commander of the First Bombardment Wing, Brig. Gen. _r-and-sheep- Kelly Field, San Antonio, in the same 1929 class as Curtis LeMay Robert B. Williams, was standing by at the Bassingbourn base of the _stery of intri- Later Anderson had contracted tuberculosis after a plane he was 91st Bomb Group, with which he intended to fly. A self-disciplined 2cause of the flying lost its engine and crashed into the cold waters of San Francis- man, not easily perturbed, he remained surprisingly c