on the Spitfire. The British had agreed to give him 1 ,500 of these tanks by mid-July. But an extra 110 gallons would hardly be enough fuel to make the P-47 a long-range fighter.  At the same time, Robert Lovett, in response to requests made when he was in England, promised to send some new American belly tanks with pumps that would make them work even above 30,000 feet.2 But these were 75-gallon and 150-gallon tanks. If and when they arrived, they would also be too small. For the immediate future, if the Flying Fortresses were to continue going very deep into Ger- many, they would have to go alone. Since German fighter strength in northwest Europe had grown from 270 to more than 500 in the three months between April and July,} the big American bombers would be in for some very rough afternoons. It was quite possible that, before the end of summer, the losses could become prohibitive.  Eaker, realizing now how vulnerable unescorted B-17s could be against mass attacks by Germany’s best fighter squadrons, knew that  234  had looked up from his instruments toward the airfield target ahead. Suddenly he felt the lift that accompanies a bomb release, and when he looked down, he saw his bombs falling. Then he saw the bombs of his whole group, also falling.  “*I was panic stricken,’’ he said. ‘It was like a bad dream, but I could not wake up. I wanted to die. It’s still a bad dream and I still can’t wake up.””  When General Williams arose from his chair he said, ‘‘Gentlemen, you are all aware of the seriousness of what has happened.’’ He reminded them of how often they had been cautioned against drop- ping bombs on friendly people in occupied cities. He pointed out that the principals in this case were liable and courts-martial appeared warranted. He also pointed out that he himself felt some responsibili- ty because he had directed the task force to avoid flak by flying over the city. But that did not make the matter less serious. It was so serious, he said, that it had be