It occurred to me that the only chance we had to get the Prime Minister to change his view was to have you come down and see him. I’ve heard him mention you favorably. If you can’t convince him that we should continue daylight bombing, I think we’re finished with it. I’m going to try to arrange a meeting for you tomorrow.”’  Though Churchill had not specifically asked Roosevelt for a moratorium on daylight bombing until the previous day (January 15), Arnold had learned of his intentions shortly after arriving in Casa- blanca on the 13th. Perhaps Portal or Slessor, who arrived with Churchill a half-hour later, gave Arnold a strong hint of what he could  184  expect. He has said he had advance knowledge that he was in for a fight on the issue. ‘‘I knew the British had taken the matter up with the Prime Minister and were determined that the Americans should not do daylight bombing.’’ He had also learned that the President and the Prime Minister had already exchanged some preliminary ideas on the subject. The ‘‘British’’ whom Arnold blamed for influenc- ing Churchill were his R.A.F. colleagues, Portal, and possibly Slessor.  It was ironic that Arnold should be holding them responsible after all their recent efforts, in their secret memoranda, to defend the Americans against Churchill. Arnold never learned about these memoranda. He made his assumptions from his knowledge of earlier statements, by Portal in particular, who had freely criticized the Americans until Churchill began taking him too seriously. Arnold, assuming he was still up against the entire British establishment on the issue, had summoned Eaker as the man closest to it and therefore best informed about it  Arnold may also have been influenced by Eaker’s well-known ability as a special pleader. During Eaker’s military career, he had taken time out to study both law (at Columbia University) and journalism (at the University of Southern California). He had de- veloped a knack for condensing arguments, and mor