on of more fighters from England to Africa. Eisenhower had requested additional fighters, and the tone of  263  Arnold’s cable suggests that he may have agreed, before leaving Washington, to send them. After talking with Eaker and Devers in London, he decided it wasn’t such a good idea:  Believe it would be a great mistake to divert P-38s from U.K. to North Africa at this time. The battle for complete destruction of German Air Force is approaching most critical stage. 8th Air Force must be built up rapidly—more rapidly than planned—to adminis- ter a knockout blow while they are groping for any respite they can get.  All information here indicates that the North African Air Force has a greater numerical strength than the entire German Air Force. The N.A.A.F. is at least five times as strong as the German Air Force which opposes them. I realize the desire of Eisenhower to get as many airplanes as possible but strongly recommend that the answer to his request for P-38s be ‘‘No,”’ repeat ‘‘no.””  Devers and Eaker concur.  Eisenhower needed as many aircraft as he could get because on September 3 his forces invaded Italy. Eaker questioned the military usefulness of the Italian campaign, which he saw as another diversion from the primary task of invading the continent from England, and he said so to Arnold as well as others in his efforts to get more planes for his 8th Air Force. This attitude was not likely to increase Eaker’s popularity with Eisenhower, but the vigor and persistence with which he expressed it did influence Arnold during the first three days of his visit. One of Eaker’s problems with Arnold was distance. When he had him at hand, he could quickly convince him of his needs and difficulties. But he couldn’t be certain what the Air Force Chief might do when he was again three thousand miles away in Washington, under the equally persuasive influence of other commanders with needs as urgent as Eaker’s. Arnold spent nine days in England and left with the impress