any more fire bombs. Those of his men who had been in service and had seen action were not noticeably frightened by the bombardment, which soon filled the air around them. Some of the other men, however, began to tremble and shake. One bomb, exploding nearby, picked up a huge metal rail and flung it toward the gun emplacement. All but one of his  311  men were able to get out of the way. The rail hit this man on the upper leg, injuring him so severely that within twenty-four hours he would be dead from loss of blood.  In the VKF Plant II shelter, the young woman sitting next to Heinrich Weichsel leaped into his arms when the first bomb fell. She clutched him so tightly he couldn’t move. Another bomb exploded moments later and ‘‘a terrible detonation took everyone’s breath away.’’ The top of the bunker had suffered a direct hit. As the chamber filled with dust, people panicked and began to scream. Finally the dust settled and it became evident that the walls had held. But the ceiling had cracked and the concussion had been strong enough to kill six workers.  More bombs were falling on the factories than in August and fewer on the city, but there was a concentration of explosions near the central market and several apartment buildings were soon aflame. Some of the people rushed out of the shelters and back to their homes to remove furniture or other valuables. When new waves of bombers approached, these gamblers would drop what they were carrying and scurry for cover. Some of them found safety; others did not. As the bombs continued to explode, several people fell wounded or dead in the streets. Firemen tried to prevent the spread of flames from building to building. Soldiers and teenaged Hitler Youth members helped them. But as wave after wave of Flying Fortresses passed over, dropping their bombs despite the German fighters that harassed them, Schweinfurt’s smoke and fire increased. The damage grew.  312  In the 94th Group toward the rear of the Third Division, Sgt.