uring the last week of July. Whatever the Americans might be planning now, it must be stopped.  As the concentration of air traffic over England increased, and the German radar sets began to indicate just how large this second force must be, activity intensified at the several German combat control centers. Teletypes chattered. Phones rang. Messengers ran from desk to desk, distributing dispatches. Girls in uniform tried to keep track of current aircraft locations on vast grid maps. Generals and colonels at hurried staff meetings discussed possibilities and issued orders. An- other American raid as damaging as the one at Regensburg, and on the same day, would be intolerable. The situation called for extraor- dinary measures.  Gen. Adolf Galland, commander of Germany’s day fighters, had tried to meet the growing American bombing threat by having several ME-109 and FW-190 groups returned from the Russian front and the Mediterranean, but even with almost three hundred planes operation- al, he still did not think he had enough. '6 So he had arranged, in recent days, to use some night fighters—larger, slower, twin-engine ME- 110s—against the Flying Fortresses. Until today, these reserves had not been called into action. Now, however, the decision was made to alert some of the night-fighting groups. Among them was 2 Gruppe Nachtjagdgeschwader 5 (Group 2, Night-fighter Wing 5) stationed at Stendal, sixty miles west of Berlin. It’s crews had been informed three or four days earlier that they might be called upon for daylight action  36  ball-bearing factories—but which depended for execution upon his getting about 950 heavy bombers by July and about 1,200 by Oc- tober.'* He believed that with enough planes he could knock out nine-tenths of Germany’s submarine construction, for instance, and three-fourths of its ball-bearing production. But because of demands for aircraft in other American theaters of operation, Eaker had re- ceived in mid-August fewer than 800 B-17s. He had