m almost faster than they could absorb them. The 301st Group, with twenty planes, had flown the northern ferry route across the Atlantic (Newfoundland- Greenland-Scotland) to settle into the base at Chelveston in early August, and the 92nd Group, with twenty-three of the newest model B-17Fs, had arrived a short time later to take residence at Bovingdon, but the end of the month came without either group’s even approach- ing operational status  General Spaatz, possibly expecting General Arnold to get after him for their tardiness, decided to get after General Eaker about it. He pointedly asked Eaker at an 8th Air Force headquarters meeting August 29! why these groups weren’t yet flying missions and why the 97th Group was putting an average of only twelve planes in the air per mission. As it happened, the 97th and 92nd had just traded airplanes because Eaker had decided the 92nd would not be needing its brand-  148  During its short span of action, the B-17 had now flown more than one hundred sorties against the continent. It had not yet faced full- scale German defenses. While it had attacked German-occupied territory, it hadn’t yet penetrated the skies over Germany itself. Yet in the course of some very accurate daylight bombing, it had managed to knock down several of Germany’s best fighter planes, the FW- 190s. To an increasing number of people, the Flying Fortress was beginning to look like the miracle weapon for which everyone on the Allied side was waiting and hoping.  147  If the men of the 8th Bomber Command believed their early  success presaged a smooth, triumphant future, they were soon disil- lusioned. Difficulties of all kinds arose quickly. The first was perhaps a welcome one—growing pains. After waiting six months for their janes, they now began to get them almost faster than they could absorb them. The 301st Group, with twenty planes, had flow  first airp!  the nort  Greenland-Scotland) to settle into the base at CI August, and the 92nd Group, with tw