he operation was so small increased the possibility of failure. Daylight bombing strategy was based on plans to send out large formations of bombers with so many guns defending one another that fighter planes would court quick destruction by coming close to them. Since a twelve-plane formation could hardly be called large, and since none of the men in these twelve planes, including Eaker, had ever before faced combat, it was quite possible that today the German fighters would be able to come as close as they pleased.  There was little danger that the Germans would appear immediate- ly. At the English coast, four squadrons of British Spitfires fell in beside the B-17s to escort them as far as the coast of France.’ For the round trip from there to the target, in the little town of Sotteville, three miles north of Rouen, the big bombers would be alone. About halfway across the Channel, in sunny skies, Eaker saw ahead of him  142  On the 14th, General Spaatz received an impatient cable from General Arnold. Why were Eaker’s bombers still on the ground? There was pressure in Washington for the 8th Air Force to get going. It would be easier for him to win appropriations from Congress, easier to gain acceptance for Air Force policies if Spaatz and Eaker would hurry up and begin successful operations.  While Arnold fretted in Washington and Eaker anxiously watched for a change in the weather, Sir Charles Portal in London was quite calm about the coming American air offensive. The brilliantly analyt- ical but ascetic and undemonstrative R.A.F. Chief of Air Staff wrote an internal policy memorandum (August 13) in which he said about the coordination between Harris and Eaker:  Fortunately they are located close together and are firm friends and I do not think there will be the slightest difficulty in fitting in their programmes. Spaatz may tend to interfere with Eaker to start with but I think he will soon discover that it is unprofitable to do so and Eaker will then be left wi