not for the Americans but for the  178  box formation, which was soon adopted by the entire 8th Bomber ids binky bGngl AY. Amd to suggest that American factories convert Command. Because his formation demanded for the sake of accuracy iain Tcinoumae Ht} Its to Mustangs would be to court an even longer a straight bomb run without any evasive action to avoid flak or sihttane de eb tolein wife 4 create an uproar within an already harried American bullets, it suffered a costly debut when he tried it out on the first at, yw pt hin) sil it er -Y- The Thunderbolt was undoubtedly a good airplane. mission of 1943—January 3 against St. Nazaire.? Gale-force head- tiem ied, © Welcomed it despite its short range. He had antici- winds prolonged the bomb run that day for more than nine minutes. i yal s@ problem the previous October when he asked the So many planes were hit that nine of them fell before reaching home. ybrit| ty of Aircraft Production about manufacturing aux- LeMay’s ideas, however, were not blamed for these heavy losses. iB pup hte bh mad _S for the P-47. He now renewed this inquiry and asked His formation was such an obvious improvement over the old one that idan frm wurnedei COUld be made in England.’ He did not receive an the only question about it was not whether to continue it but how to fll sie idly ee WET - refine it. x i fi Crm, Ba Se nifD, 28S friendly with the people at the Ministry of Aircraft General Spaatz had gone to Africa with Eisenhower, and General y lb ca ey. nev waist an he was with most of his British associates. In a Eaker had taken over as 8th Air Force commander. His replacement | eyhdmchictunia 942, letter to Arnold, he had complained that M.A.P. as bomber commander, Brig. Gen. Newton Longfellow, soon found ihehetnsdhatidued, 3 had made disparaging remarks about U.S. airplanes an unfortunate situation developing in the 306th Group at Thurleigh. smerican manufacturers visiting London.’ One of these The very popular commander of this unit, Co