al sergeant who was a tail gunner developed a horror of flying as a result of an experience before he was introduced to combat. Shortly after arriving in England, his crew was ona practice mission at 26,000 feet when one man passed out from lack of oxygen. The pilot, anxious about the man, impulsively dived to a safer altitude, but when he tried to pull the rapidly accelerating bomber out of the dive, its control cables snapped, its right wing fell off, and the fuselage caught fire. One of the bomb-bay doors broke away, flew rearward and sliced off the entire tail section. The tail gunner,  248  Norway. . to bomb tt the plane: attacked, ; come in fr this attack had to hok death. Or another b] tank and s all this mi his nerves again. Th he would The prc who had ¢ he had be« job inaso flier and transition combat. F lost his en alarm inci Force did had just < England a On his formation he didn’t i B-17 just ; be bombe so violent The pil resuming patiently « combat. 7 soon as th drinking ¢ sober eno  uninjured but stuck in the tail section, plunged earthward with it, end over end.  Unable to smash his way through the rear plexiglass bubble, he attacked the metal fuselage skin with his feet. He finally managed to get his body through but his shoulders became wedged. Then in some way that he could never explain, he broke free, opened his parachute just before reaching the ground, and landed without injury in the middle of a British antiaircraft installation  The plane had crashed only a hundred yards away, and when he reached it, he could see his fellow crew members (presumably all dead except one other man who had parachuted) burning inside. With the help of British soldiers, the tail gunner tried to pull out one of the bodies, but they were forced back by a new burst of flame  That night in a British barracks the tail gunner lay sweating, shaking, and sleepless. Next morning, when his commanding officer arrived and they inspected the wreckage, he saw the charred remains