ling quite hopeless about their chances of survival.””  After about ten missions, most men, aware now that they could deal with their fears, passed into a third phase, which was likely to continue to the end of their combat duty. They were now “effective, careful fighting men, quiet and cool on the ground and in the air.”” But they were paying a heavy emotional price: ‘“They were drained of most feelings other than those having to do with combat. No values existed other than those meaningful in combat.””  Among the majority of men, the greatest tension occurred between briefing and takeoff, especially if the weather was bad and they had to. await a decision about whether the mission was on or off. Surprising- ly, while the men were sweating out these decisions, most of them preferred to go rather than stay. They would rather face the German guns than return to their barracks with nothing accomplished. This  245  observation by the psychiatrists confirmed a belief held by General Eaker that canceled missions were more damaging to morale than difficult missions. Canceled missions delayed the completion of a man’s tour of duty and his return to the States.  After takeoff and the entry to enemy territory, tensions usually decreased and many men were almost relaxed during actual combat, perhaps because they were too busy to think about what they were doing. These same men might suffer violently from ‘‘the shakes’’ after the mission, when they began to think about things that almost happened to them. There were also a few men, a very few, who were never conscious of fear. Such men, psychiatrists decided, were not without fear but were able to convert it into aggression.  A small minority tended to freeze at the height of combat, forget- ting their assignments and giving way to nausea, tremors, or diarrhea. One copilot, after seeing his pilot killed, put his arms over his eyes and ignored the controls. A gunner, on the wing of a plane ditched in the Channel, leaped into wa