spewed oil onto the wing, and the mechanics couldn’t figure out what was wrong. No one had flown it to Schweinfurt. The group was just able to supply the quota without it.  “*That’s the plane you've got,’’ Hatcher said to Smith. *‘We don’t have another.””  As Captain Smith was walking back from base headquarters to round up his crew and pack his bag, he saw film star Clark Gable, at that time a captain assigned to the 351st Group as a ground officer, pedaling toward him on a bicycle. Smith had gotten to know Gable and liked him. A plain and friendly man, the famous actor was popular with everyone in the outfit. When he saw Smith, he said, ‘‘I hear you’re going to Africa.”’  “‘How did you know that?’’  Gable smiled. ‘‘The word’s gotten around. I'd love to go with you I’ve never been in Africa.”’  Smith thought that sounded like a good idea. Though Gable was not a flier, he had taken the trouble to qualify as a gunner so he could go on missions. He would fit well into the crew. But after giving the idea serious consideration for a moment, Smith decided he’d better forget it. This was not a junket. It was a secret mission. What would the commanding general say if he showed up for the flight with a movie star along just for the ride. Reluctantly, Smith shook his head at Gable and went looking for his regular crew.  Three hours later, Smith and his men, in the despised B-17 called Spare-ball, landed at Bovingdon, which was the 8th Air Force head-  85  quarters field even though it was almost an hour’s  quarters, It was mid-afternoon before General Eaker arrived wit  rive from head- he  two men he had chosen to accompany him—Brig. Gen. James  lodges, commander of the Second Bombardmer wing that had not flown the previous day), and lughes, a target-selection specialist on Eaker’s s ands with every member of Smith’s crew, then sai Due to the German fighters that patrolled the Atl of France, their route would not be direct. Like lanes at that stage of the war, Spare-ball had