paatz had warned Eaker that he would have difficul- ties with the British, but there had been no reason to suppose he would have difficulties with Chaney. They had known each other for many years. Chaney was several years older and militarily more conservative than Eaker, who was then forty-six and full of new ideas about the role of air power in the war. But Eaker considered Chaney a friend, even though the two had never been closely associated. Eaker would have to be carefully diplomatic in the days and weeks to come if he wanted that friendship to endure. Fortunately, he had a natural gift for diplomacy. It was one reason Arnold had put him in charge of what was expected to be the first full-scale American military cooper- ation with England—the aerial bombardment of Hitler’s Europe. Eaker neither embraced nor rejected the opportunity to place himself under Chaney’s wing. As quickly as possible, he changed the subject.  Next morning, Sunday, February 22, Eaker met the R.A.F.’snew bomber commander, Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris, and walked to church with him. By coincidence, the two men were both becoming bomber commanders at exactly the same time. Harris had just been appointed as part of the shakeup that also saw the reorgani- zation of Winston Churchill’s war cabinet. Churchill was not satis- fied with the R.A.F. bomber offensive against Germany as it had so far developed. He wanted to see Hitler’s cities treated the same way London and other British cities had been treated by German bombers during the Battle of Britain, and in Harris he had a man who com- pletely agreed with him.  Harris, the son of a civil servant in India who had always wanted to be a soldier, was born in England in 1892 while his parents were home on leave. Though deafness had deprived the elder Harris of his cherished military career, he could see no reason why his growing son should not become the soldier he himself had wantedsto be, except that the boy was stubbornly unwilling. You