d the briefing for that day’s mission. When Colonel Nazzaro was informed of the man’s precarious condition, he had a talk with him. The captain agreed to go on that day’s mission. The weather inter- vened, however; the mission was scrubbed. Nazzaro, determined to save the man from a personal failure that could affect his self-image for the rest of his life, took him as his own copilot on the next two missions he flew. On each of them, the captain performed satisfactor- ily. It began to look as if he might gradually come to terms with his fears, like most of the other men of the 38 1st.  In the 384th Group at Grafton-Underwood, many men after return- ing from Schweinfurt, where they lost five planes, had made clear that it was one place they never again wanted to see. But as time passed, they seemed to mellow somewhat. Colonel Peaslee, the 384th commander until September 6 when he became a deputy wing commander, assumed after the August mission that they would have to go back.!0 He had noticed that the 8th Air Force always went back to important targets. It was, however, an observation he didn’t emphasize among his men.  During the September doldrums, the crewmen seemed to recover their spirits. In the barracks, they filled the hours writing letters, teasing the rookies, or singing songs. The veterans would check out the shoe sizes of the new men and tell them to keep their spare pairs shined because no one would want to inherit them if they were scuffed. They sang a song about something of which they weren’t  269  getting much around the tny town of Grafton Underwood, It was a  parody on one ofthe top tunes in the Lord and Pass the Ammunition”  Praise the Lord, she gave me  943 Hit Parade, “Praise the  permission,  Praise the Lord, now look at her condition Praise the Lord, I knew the right position  And she fell for me  They also sang a self-deprecating parody ofthe Ai Force anthem, “Into the Ait, Amy Airmen,” based ona popula children's radio  program  Into the ai