He asked only that Eaker’s bomber operation be continued until the last possible moment. Arnold knew that Eisenhower’s decisions came from George Marshall, with whom  gainst any  Arnold had once said he would cc  To Eaker, who had repeated North African invasion an unfort of attacking Germany directly,  onsider himself wrong to disagree  y declared that he considered the unate diversion from the main task Arnold’s less-than-defiant cable to  Eisenhower looked like an open surrender of the 8th. The fact that it might be a reluctant or even necessary surrender by Arnold was no consolation. Eaker talked heatedly to Spaatz about the matter, but Spaatz was at a disadvantage. He had just been chosen as Eisenhow- er’s air commander in Africa. While Spaatz agreed with Eaker that it would be tragic to dissipate the bomber effort against Germany just  151  {ew  ‘ME  nhl  thi  We cite th yao thivalh oth mill ise  ora rh  nate wy  wf  i)  bore vit  oa Vit  fern etl  patient. There were, he told Sinclair, six American heavy-bomber squadrons (B-17s) operational. (The British squadron was roughly equivalent to the American group. Actually seven U.S. groups were now in England, but only three had seen combat.) Some of these groups, Slessor pointed out, were being prepared for what he called *‘a certain operation’ that severely restricted their use. This ‘‘certain operation’ was the planned North African invasion, still so secret he didn’t want to mention it on paper. He was very understanding, however, about the problems it had already created for the 8th Air Force  General Spaatz has suffered a setback by having to set aside his first units operational for the certain operation. He has now to start again at the beginning breaking in new units as they arrive. He is wisely doing this gradually His crews arrive without ade- quate operational training, and in particular his gunners need more firing. We are now going into the difficult but important problem of getting them adequate ran