ecision strategy, but they were not yet convinced that the 8th Air Force could profitably attack important targets deep inside Germany. Eaker still needed dramatic proof that his B-17s could seriously damage Germany’s war machine, and today he hoped to get such proof. But unfortunately, the weather had already compromised the basic strategy. Unless the 230 planes of the Schweinfurt force were to  11  get off the ground very soon, they would be too late for any possible benefit LeMay’s force might provide them by diverting German fighters.  As Eaker waited for reports, his impatience at the weather was compounded by frustration at having been forbidden to lead the Schweinfurt mission. He had planned to do so until Lt. Gen. Jacob L. Devers, the American Theater commander in Europe, learned of his intentions. If he went to Schweinfurt, Devers warned him, then his next airplane trip would be back to the United States. General Arnold had made it clear that he didn’t want his 8th Air Force commander killed or captured.  While this solicitude on Arnold’s part might save Eaker’s life, he did not appreciate it. He wanted to go on the Schweinfurt mission even though he believed it would be more perilous than any the 8th had yet experienced. This eagerness did not mean he was indifferent to danger or impervious to fear. He expected the members of his staff to fly missions, and he himself had flown the very first one because, as he explained in a directive on the subject, he felt that the men in command should be ‘‘cognizant of the problems facing combat crews and sympathetic with their effort.””!!  Fear was one of those problems. And Eaker, though his whole career had disciplined him never to show it, was well acquainted with it. But the fear he dreaded most was not the physical fear of being killed on a mission. During twenty-five years as a flier, he had often come close to death, and such crises had simply spurred him to action. He might afterward feel shaken momentarily an