ombing program against German industrial and military targets, independent of the R.A.F. night bombing program against German cities. In January, less than a month earlier, he had been in Washington talking to Armold about the general strategies of the R.A.F. and the 8th Air Force and about a British proposal that the first 250 Flying Fortresses to reach England be used for coastal patrol.  Arnold had vehemently, perhaps even angrily, rejected this British proposal and had reiterated the American determination to bomb German targets in the daytime. Arnold had also given Harris a fascinating insight into the American Air Forces’s problems with the American Navy. And he had emphasized the possibility that the British might damage themselves if they insisted on diverting B-17s to coastal patrol.? Harris’s conversation with Arnold prompted an extraordinary cable, marked ‘‘MOST SECRET,”’ which Harris sent January 29, to R.A.F. Chief of Air Staff Portal in London:  Arnold asks me to tell you that so far as he can judge at present, he aims to get up to 20 heavy bomber groups into U.K. this year. He hopes to achieve at least 16 but this is likely to be adversely affected by certain tendencies now growing in force e.g. in spite of lip service to the agreed grand strategy [the U.S.-British overall war plan], the Far East looms ever larger and more insistently in the thoughts of the highest ones in the land. Added to this, the Navy has now realized the limitations of the flying boat and covets the heavy bomber in quantity. Recent successes against Jap. ships lend weight to their case and in any event they have always opposed the bomber plan by fair means or foul. They are con-  102  Marshal Harris, acting upon the earlier conversation with Eaker, had already set aside for them not only a temporary office within his own headquarters but also a nearby house large enough to accommodate all of them until they could make permanent arrangements. It was a well-appointed house, probab