t critical situation they had ever faced They hadn’t even penetrated as far as Frankfurt and their planes were falling in such numbers that they had left a trail of wreckage across western Europe. On some previous missions they had taken severe losses but never at this rate. Most important, never had the German fighters and antiaircraft guns been able to turn them back short of the target. Never before, however, had they attacked so ferociously. With the battle continuing at this intensity, the B-17 crews could no longer ignore the possibility of total annihilation  The lead group, the 91st, had suffered only a few rocket attacks, but it was bearing the brunt of the mass attacks by ME-109s and FW-190s. They approached in line astern, sometimes twenty-five strong, from twelve o’clock high or level, while smaller packs of three to eight kept pecking from the rear or from below  One plane in the 91st, Eagle’s Wrath, piloted by Lt. Anthony Arcaro of Brooklyn, had been under constant attack from Antwerp to Frankfurt. As soon as the bomber showed signs of damage, ME-109s singled it out and besieged it four at a time from such close range that on one occasion Arcaro expected a collision. An exceptionally daring German pilot went into a roll after emptying his guns and crossed the nose of the B-17 upside down, so close that Arcaro could stare into his face  50  to go off either o succession—pom side of the plan unscathed.  The 384th, int fighters coming a an engine catch fi The plane’s pilot, away from the fo: in case he explo squadrons so that up by propellers inexperienced pil followed. Algar, radio to get back i his own throttles position. When th in on Algar’s wit suddenly found h  Despite the cai Ironically, it was Preston and his 3° this wing were all their luck to hold. on his right; too this composite hig not possibly give high group was n in tighter, but he cluded six planes such heavy losses was determined t planes go downn high group remai  Preston’s fears high s