any chance to reach England, he would have to plot a very careful course, avoiding German fighter quadrants and skirting cities, where antiaircraft guns were waiting. As Captain Knox banked the big plane around, Warsaw began studying his maps. After about five minutes of calculation, he looked up and found to his surprise and consternation that the ship was still at 15,000 feet.  Over the intercom he shouted to the pilot, **What the hell are you doing up here?”’  Neither Knox nor the copilot answered. The plane was flying straight and level. Warsaw had the eerie feeling that nobody was at the controls, that the plane was flying on automatic pilot.  Moments later, a gunner yelled over the intercom: *‘A whole squadron coming up at six o’clock!”’  When Warsaw looked out the side windows, both left and right, he saw a strange mixture of German planes, twelve or thirteen of them, ME-109s, ME-110s, FW-190s, Junkers 88s, and other types. All were sliding in close, with throttles back, as if they intended to fly formation with the B-17.  Never before had the men in Knox’s crew enjoyed such a splendid opportunity. Everyone who could get close to a gun, including Warsaw, opened fire. One after another of the German planes began falling away in flames. It seemed to Warsaw that at least nine of them went down. He was certain that he, personally, had shot down three. He watched them go into the ground.  As he looked out the window he also noticed, but only vaguely, that for some reason the bomber’s wheels were down. In the excite- ment of the moment, however, he gave no thought to the significance of this condition. (It was understood internationally that an airplane crew could signify surrender by lowering the landing gear. This would explain why all those German fighters had felt safe in ap- proaching the Fortress.)  The surviving fighters slid quickly out of range. When they closed  15  in again it was not to fly formation. The stricken B-17 now took salvo after salvo of cann