, Henry VIII's first wife, spent the last two years of her life. It was now occupied by the Kimbolton Boys’ School. When the newly arrived “*Yanks’’ began coming down the hill from the air base to look at the town, they soon found that their British hosts were happy to see them Especially the girls, many of whom had lost their British boyfriends to the war, but not only the girls. A history teacher at the school, Mr Kyffin Owen, recalled later his own reaction to the first sight of U.S airmen in town: “‘I shall never forget, I stood by the pub, the Jones, and I looked around the corner and saw the first Americans walking down the street. And wasn’t I glad. We were all alone here until the Americans came.’’*  These first Americans to arrive were not destined to stay very long Having ruined their runways, they needed another base; when their commanding officer, Col. Stanley Wray, appealed to 8th Bomber  159  Command to find one for them, he was told to fly to Bassingbourn, nine miles southwest of Cambridge, and inspect the base there. As soon as he saw it, he decided to look no further. Built as an R.A.F. base with permanent buildings, it was one of the more attractive airdromes in England. Wray was so eager to grab it before some other group arrived to take it that he hurried back to Kimbolton, gathered his airplanes, and, in deliberate haste, led them to their new home October 10, not even waiting for his ground echelon, which arrived four days later  Colonel LeMay and the thirty-five brand-new B-17s of his 305th Group were still in Syracuse at this time, waiting for some changes to be made in the planes’ ball-turret guns.5 Meanwhile he was conduct- ing navigational training flights, taking care of last-minute details, and even scrounging winter equipment for his men, who had just come with him from Tucson, Arizona, and were still wearing sum- mer uniforms.  While LeMay was in Syracuse, he received a visit from Fred Anderson, then a colonel in General Amold’s office