tland May 11 'y truck to Framlingham er, more direct lesson in t first night at Framling- ody who didn’t know d run outside to find the aan bomb that hit a mess :n huts. No one was hurt. hey could find, the boys ‘itish Spitfires went after  2t Col. Maurice Preston remained for a month of then to their permanent one of the group’s four first opportunity to visit its had emigrated from  doughnuts, Coke, a hot shower, and sometimes a warm-hearted girl. The aggressiveness of many Americans, plus the gauche remarks they often made about the British way of life, created a lot of awkward moments. And the friendliness of British girls toward the free-spending Yanks produced resentment among the ill-paid British men, many of whom repeated the currently popular remark: ‘The only thing wrong with the Yanks is that they’re overpaid, oversexed, and over here.’’ But even this male British complaint was usually good-humored. There was amazingly little quarreling or fighting.  British forebearance deserved credit for much of the amiability. However naive, uninformed, and rude they might consider the Americans, they were delighted to have them as allies against the Germans. And beneath whatever resentment the British might feel about Yankee brashness, there was also a family sentiment, an unvoiced assumption that Americans were still to some small degree British, that they were unruly colonial relatives, returning when they were most needed, to help protect the mother country whence they had sprung.! At the same time, most of the Americans were on good behavior, and their leaders exercised a degree of tact that was some- times amusing. For example, when the 92nd Group at Bovingdon established prophylactic stations in Chesham and Hemel Hempstead, they called them ‘‘First Aid Stations’’ in deference to British sen- sibilities about what was happening between their girls and the Yankee boys.? The fact that such stations were needed, however, was a measure of how quickly British-America