officers had arrived in England only eleven months before, with nothing but their suitcases. All their men, planes, and equipment then had to be brought from three thousand miles away. The logistic accomplishment alone was worthy of commendation.  Although Harris, operating under similar circumstances, under- stood the 8th Air Force’s problems, General Arnold in Washington was not so easily convinced that Eaker was moving ahead fast enough. In response to Arnold’s queries, Eaker had to submit two reports, one entitled ‘‘Why There Have Been so Few Missions,”’ and the other, ‘“‘Why There Have Been so Many Abortive Sorties.”’ In both reports he mentioned the loss of facilities to TORCH and the inclemency of British weather. Ninety percent of the 8th’s mainte- nance capability including the Air Service Command, he pointed out, had been engaged in setting up planes for the African operation, with the result that equipment failures had sharply increased on the re- maining planes. And in one mission, 46 percent of the planes had aborted because of paralyzing weather. These planes, after taking off in rain, had to fly through rain more than halfway to their target. By the time they came out of the rain at 22,000 feet, where the tempera- ture was about thirty degrees below zero, their bomb-bay doors were frozen shut and their machine-gun turrets were frozen in fixed posi- tions. They had to abort because they could neither defend them- selves nor drop their loads. (This was the February 4 raid aimed at Hamm but redirected at Emden. Of the eighty-six bombers that took off and flew through the rain to Germany that day, only thirty-nine were able to drop their bombs on Emden.)  Eaker concluded his report on the paucity of missions by recalling Arnold’s original instructions never to operate so recklessly as to sustain a loss rate that would eliminate or deplete his force. By reassuring Arnold he would never do such a thing, Eaker was remind- ing him subtly that, since TORCH, th