t Group was virtually unmolested, and for Smith, that last mission was *‘a piece of cake.”” The next day he reported to Eaker’s headquarters  The men of the “‘Bloody 100th’’ Group, so named because of its atrocious loss rate, had little cause for laughter, especially after the August 17 mission in which they lost nine planes. Life looked so unpromising that many of them began to treat it as a joke. If they took it seriously, it became unbearable. When the ragged remnants of the 100th reached Africa from Regensburg August 17, the survivors were so badly shot up only a few could fly the return mission against Bordeaux. Most flew instead across North Africa and out over the Atlantic to reach England. One pilot, Lt. Owen D. ‘‘Cowboy”’ Roane, had ‘‘requisitioned’’ a donkey in Africa and brought it home on his plane. Entering the traffic pattern at Thorpe Abbots, he radioed to the tower: ‘‘Stand by, I’m coming in with a frozen ass.””  Col. Neil Harding, the 100th Group commander, was a former football star and a convivial man who kept in shape at the officers’ club bar. He liked to give the impression that he didn’t take anything seriously. One night at the club he laughingly strummed a base fiddle while his men engaged in a brawl with some uninvited visitors from the neighboring 95th Group at Horham. A favorite pastime at the club when the officers weren’t drinking or brawling, and sometimes when  273  they were, was indoor bicycle racing around the lounge. In the barracks, the men tried to relieve their combat pressure by pulling outrageous gags on each other and composing songs with titles like “‘Your Rear is like a Stovepipe, Nellie Darling’’ and ‘‘I’m in the Nude for Love.” The latter gave rise to another: ‘‘I’m not in the Nude for Love, I’m Selling This Thing for Money.’’!4  A sergeant named Walter Grenier became famous in the 100th although he belonged to it for only a few hours. Arriving as a replacement the morning of September 6, he was at table in the mess hall