me fear. He simply never consciously experi- enced it. Being killed, or even shot down, was something that might happen, but he didn’t really believe it would happen to him. So he gave it very little thought. In fact, he found the war exciting and rather enjoyed it.  When the Phartzac crew began to plead with Cleven for permission to bail out, he talked to them on the intercom and tried to calm them. The airplane, as he pointed out, was still flying despite its sorry  19  condition. And the fire in the dead No. 3 engine seemed to be burning itself out. On the three good engines, it looked as if they might even manage to keep up with the rest of the formation. Why should they abandon a ship that hadn’t yet failed them?  The copilot was not convinced. In the flooded, shattered cockpit, he and Cleven continued the argument about bailing out. It was inconceivable to the copilot that this plane could carry them to the target and then all the way to Africa. It might disintegrate at any moment, and then the whole crew could be killed. Cleven tried to reassure him, but in vain.  Finally, Major Cleven lost his patience. ‘Listen, you son of a bitch,’’ he said. ‘*You’re gonna sit there and take it.’”  Though he may not have realized it, the key was open on the interplane radio. The whole crew heard his words, and so did some of the men in other planes, including Colonel Lay, just a short distance above.  The effect on Cleven’s crew was immediate. They meekly settled down to their jobs. Sergeant Smith, whose bleeding could not be stopped, soon died. But the shell-riddled Phartzac continued precari- ously toward the target  By the time LeMay’s task force reached the Initial Point from which to begin the bombing run on the Messerschmitt fighter assem- bly plant in Regensburg, 15 of his Flying Fortresses had fallen to the German guns.!7 But the surviving 131 still held ranks in their forma- tions, the rearward planes moving forward to fill the gap each time one of their companions