he lead group was req maximum defensive firepower becau: had been concentrating on frontal ati As the division began its final circle, to fire a signal flare every twenty secc errant 30Sth, but even as he gave the c he could see in the distance the two ot he could not see any single groups. A the order to his pilot, Capt..James K. the continent. “‘Maybe they’re waitir said hopefully.  At the English coastline the cloud: blue Channel waters below and the da loose B-17 group searching for its quickly what to do. On the radio he ci Lt. Col. Theodore Milton in the hig  “I’m short one group,’’ Peaslee lead. I'll fly high on you, and I'll position.’*!2  While Peaslee’s 40th Combat Bon a slow 360-degree turn to let Milt Peaslee at last located his missing 30£ 1st CBW as the low group.  The 305th had taken off six mint assembly over Chelveston, had bee: groups of the 40th CBW, the 92nd mand, the 305th leader, had led his then to Spalding without finding the r failed to contact Peaslee by radio. He CBW, and by this time was so desper its low position, which was open becz caught up to it. This meant that when  289  no further than the Aachen area, which was exactly where the B-17s had lost their escorts on the August 17 mission,  At General Eaker’s 8th Ait Force headquarters in Bushy Park, he could do nothing but st stewing in his office as his bombers invaded Germany. '5 Once again he had found himself sending them out on a dangerous mission, this time probably the most dangerous of the war, with inadequate fighter support. He was getting tired of it. For a whole year he had been trying to get auxiliary tanks that would significantly lengthen the range of hs fighters, but he stil didn't have atank that was both large enough and properly designed. Washington ‘was partly responsible. The American tanks he had received were unsatisfactory, and too litle effort had been applied to develop better ones. At the same time, Baker also blamed the British, Theit Ministry of Aircraft Pr