f he were to couldn’t hope to get to England alone. T fighters. On his own, he would have twe glanced at his copilot, Lt. Richard V. Wol no choice but to continue.  The British Spitfires, weaving around tt to sort out the German fighters from the managed to engage several enemy plane Antwerp, their short operating range forc Before departing, they claimed victories o or five FW-190s, without suffering any 1  The 92nd Bomb Group led by Maj. Jam to encounter the German rockets. Short] the 92nd encountered seven FW-190s fi cannons. When they were 750 yards behi: ron, ‘‘a very large flash emanated from aircraft, obliterating it from view.’’ Whe into view they were diving beneath the bi fliers scarcely gave them a second glance.  43  that seemed certain, But moment, then minutes passed, and noth  appened Ther plane, Oklahoma Okie  annon shell lodged in its fuel tank he arma’ air commande, General  composure bu inner reteaness.§ Thou appening nthe rea, he was well aware formations and increasingly frst  wmmander cold do, He could, of cou around and retreat, but hat notion didn't  ther formations. They would dso, then  of constant atack and gradually loose  Asthe battle intensified, Williams lst art int. He decided he had to get into it ead. Finding the bombardie's machin  he controls, continued smoothly to lead the armada despite  bout one hundred feet away, observed the bate with outwar  ther losses, Once the action began nan abate, there waslitlea  could and did goon the air ocasioally tt  warning each othe of new German arias  , With Colonel Wurabach at  1 Willams, in another plane  gh he couldnt see what wa ofthe mounting losses inthe ed at his inability to prevent  se, order bis planes to turn even occu to Williams, He  is pilots to tighten y begin ttre under the strain Up agin, whereupon he  Wwould have to pick up is microphone and chew them out once more, jut to harangue them too frequently would produce a diminishing  effect, Besides, the air waves were already cl