blood coming out of his mouth was only a fraction of  ie (3S losing. His lungs were gradually filling up with it, and so " nside of his leather flight suit as the wounds in his back | to bleed  $84th’s lead plane, Major Beckett turned control over to the er, Lt. Joseph W. Baggs, when the group reached the Initial They were strangely unmolested by fighters now, but flak  were exploding uncomfortably close. As they started down  run, Baggs could distinguish the general target area ahead ing smoke clouds. He could see, however, that it would be o pinpoint the factories for which he was aiming. ‘‘I picked  I thought was the target and synchronized on it,’’ he said  was the only thing I could see that resembled the target as ’’ When the group was almost over the target area, Baggs, own through the smoke and flame, could see enough to  , him unhappily that he was to the left of the factory complex, | if he continued on this course he would probably bomb an  1, thus wasting all the effort spent in getting here. With only stance in which to correct his course, he made a maximum it to the right. But was it too late? As his plane brought him int of decision, it seemed to him he was ‘‘not completely target’’ and ‘‘probably would not hit it.’’ He hesitated a of a second, then dropped his bombs. He did not see them  _ i explode. Because of the thick smoke, he could see neither  nor the city just beyond. If any of his bombs had hit the zy would have had to hit the northeast edge of it, where the ng factories met the rest of the city. But he wasn’t sure. And ‘tainty was disturbing because the entire group had bombed znal. the Third and Fourth Combat Wings, under the command of  ward M. ‘‘Slim’’ Turner, arrived over Schweinfurt, the | ‘a was a mass of smoke and fire. The bombs of the Third  i by Maj. William S. Raper and his 306th Group, added so re smoke and flames to the scene that when Col. Maurice trived with his Fourth (and last) Combat Wing, what he saw ce the bed of a gigant