est bomber, the B-17, which would have to be the mainstay of the 8th Air Force.® He also knew Harris was skeptical of the possibilities of daylight precision bombing. Eaker was therefore ready to defend the American position in arguments about these important mat- ters.  But today no arguments developed. Harris was the very model of British cordiality as they walked to church together. Did Eaker need any help in selecting a site for his headquarters or in procuring necessary equipment? Indeed he did. His little staff of six had arrived without so much as a typewriter. Harris would gladly take care of all that. Would Eaker like to inspect the R.A.F. Bomber Command setup and attend operational conferences? He would be welcome anytime. Would he need some office help until his own personnel began to arrive? Harris was shorthanded himself, but he would loan Eaker as many people as he could spare. By the time the two men reached church, Eaker was much more confident about the fulfill-  97  iment of his mission and more relaxed abou his relations witht  Brits,  The itony ofthese two generals walking to church asthe dis- Germans probaly di not ocut to ether man, The moral justification for Word War I had already been defined so clearly by 1942, and aoceped so universally outside Germany, that people ook tfor rane. nth minds of most of the Brith and Americans, whether military or civilian, Ai Hitler had reed the ethical considerations of terms, It might be argued that Germany had been ete foo harshly  cussed plans to drop bombs on thou  by the Versailles Treaty after Work  mitigate the ghastly captivity and b imposing upon al of Europe, The  rw  bad enslaved, and the sous ofthe other milion be had ei im by any possible means, The  were crying ou fr someone ol only morality the Allies coud now aff imperative of eliminating the evils  Some posible methods might be cities did not se  struction of German cites and in Hitler's ability to make war, that se enough, especially since