ce  more single- and twin-engined fighters? And what can we shut down for that purpose? Otherwise, we may as well be holding the final  meeting of Central Planning.’  Three days later, Speer told Hitler essentially the same thing. If six  79  more cities were attacked as severely as Hamburg, he warned, it would bring German armament production to a total halt.  Hitler, who had refused even to go and look at Hamburg, to comfort the survivors there, showed remarkably little concern at the possibility of other German cities suffering the same fate. In answer to Speer’s prediction he had said simply, ‘‘You’ll straighten all that out again.””  Speer was not the only high German official alarmed by the Hamburg catastrophe. At a conference in Speer’s office July 27, Field Marshal Erhard Milch, the German Air Force armaments chief, said pessimistically, ‘“We are no longer on the offensive. For the last one and a half or two years we have been on the defensive. . . . For the last three months I have been asking for one month’s fighter production to be assigned to home defense.’”  That very evening, Goering answered Milch’s plea by ordering, with Hitler’s approval, that home defense be given top priority in the Luftwaffe. This did not stop Hitler and the High Command from insisting on the continued manufacture of heavy bombers with which they hoped to retaliate against England and even the United States, but it did stimulate some increase in fighter production. And more immediately, it brought back to Germany some front-line fighter groups. The result was that the American bombers on August 17 faced many more fighters than they would have faced a month earlier  While Speer was awaiting more information about the Schweinfurt attack, Hitler, by early evening, had already heard enough about it to fill him full of wrath. If that many American bombers had been able to fly all the way across Germany to attack a city in Bavaria, there must be something wrong with his fighters. It di