began asking them questions he had never before thought to ask. They were glad to describe for him what it was like to fly a really tough mission. They told him all about the first Schweinfurt raid. And Sergeant Rand was suddenly struck by the realization that today he would be gambling not just for money but for his life.  Col. Budd Peaslee, now deputy commander of the 40th Combat Bombardment Wing and air commander of the First Division today, almost missed the briefing of the 92nd Group, with which he was to fly, because his driver became dismally lost in the fog on the way to Podington, fifty miles north of London, where the 92nd was now based.!° But Peaslee did arrive in time for the group rollcall and the unveiling of the map.  “It’s Schweinfurt,”’ said the briefing officer, a neatly uniformed major.  As a buzz of excited chatter filled the room, one voice rose above the others: ‘‘Sonofabitch! And this is my last mission.”’  Peaslee thought to himself, it might well be.  286  drab pants and shirts—beneath their flying suits. They decided they did not want to be captured or killed in the nondescript fatigue clothing they wore on most missions.  Maj. William E. ‘‘Pop’’ Dolan, the 384th Group intelligence officer who conducted the briefing at Grafton-Underwood, began by telling the men: ‘‘You’re in the big league now. You're not in the bush leagues any more.”’ After describing the ball-bearing factories and referring to the August attack against them, he concluded, “*You’re going to have to get them this time or you’ll go back again.””  Capt. Philip Algar, who had flown the first Schweinfurt mission and would be piloting the 384th’s lead plane today (with Maj. George W. Harris, the group leader, as copilot), decided he was ‘‘in for a really bad time.’ What bothered him most was his realization that the P-47s could escort them for only a pitifully short distance  Capt. Edwin Millson of the 379th Group, a veteran of twelve missions, had been awakened about 3:30 A.M.