gan to wonder if the 8th Air Force losses had been even worse than Eaker had admitted. Why was nothing happening? Was the 8th reduced to impotence? Dispatches from England blamed continuing bad weath- er for the inactivity, but not everyone was convinced. Finally on October 20 the B-17s attacked the metal factories at Diiren, just east of Aachen within P-47 escort range. Were they now afraid to go any deeper into Germany without an escort? The American public and many powerful people in Washington began raising questions. Had the daylight-bombing concept failed? Which side had been the real winner October 14? If, as Arnold suggested, a security leak had enabled the Germans to predict and counter an 8th Air Force opera- tion, what was being done about it? And how did anyone know for certain that the B-17s had done as much damage at Schweinfurt as Eaker had claimed? Unfortunately for Eaker, there was no absolute proof. Subsequent reconnaissance photos had confirmed the great damage to the factory buildings, but pictures taken from high altitude could not show how much vital machinery had been destroyed, how much the German war effort had been hurt. Only the Germans knew.  On October 23, at a German airbase near Deelen, Holland, Her-  336  of it that contributes to the enemy’s ability to wage war against us  When that part of it was a heap of twisted girders, smoking ruin and pulverized machinery, we handed it back, completely useless, to the Germans. Ball bearings cannot now pour from this ruin, and no moving machinery will operate without ball bearings.  It was a politically motivated statement. Arnold’s political in- stincts were usually very sharp. To some of his associates it seemed that he was as skillful a politician as he was a general. One reason he had been so successful in building the Air Force was that he never lost sight of the fact that the money came from the American people. To those who worked under him he might be irascible at times, but to the peopl