ere found. In the daytime, the ME-110s would have to maintain tight formations, to which they were unaccustomed. And if they wanted their rockets to be at all effective, they would have to come closer to the B-17s than eight hundred yards. Bringmann had never had to face the combined firepower of a B-17 formation, but he had heard a lot about it. Like most of his comrades, he was not happy at the prospect.  Galland also had at his disposal, in addition to the regular divisions stationed within the daylight defense corridor, several ‘‘schwarmes’”’ (four-plane units of ME-109s or FW-190s) piloted by instructors at Luftwaffe flying schools and several industrial ‘‘schwarmes’’ of aircraft-company test pilots.!9 But such pilots had little combat ex- perience. Their casualty rate was high, and their successes were unimpressive. More reliable reserves for an emergency like today’s were the fighter groups stationed in southern Germany, outside the limits of what might be considered the American bombing theater. One such group was 2 Gruppe Jagdgeschwader 51 (Group 2, Fighter Wing 51), stationed in Neubiberg, forty miles northwest of Munich.  Lt. Hans Langer was a veteran pilot in this group. Though his career in fighters had spanned only a year and a half, he had already  37  shot down forty-five enemy planes and had been shot down six times himself, each time without sustaining any personal injuries.2° Like all fighter pilots who managed to survive a year or more of action, he knew when to leave a stricken plane. German pilots were instructed to jump the moment a plane developed serious problems, especially if they were over their own territory. It took longer to replace a trained man than a machine. If, as in Langer’s case, a man flew an ME-109, it was dangerous to wait very long before jumping because once the damaged plane went into a dive, it soon built up so much speed that bailing out was impossible.  Langer had learned all this quickly in an aviation career that bega