ided he was trying to make general in one jump. The accommodations were primitive, and the food was so atrocious that many of the men developed diarrhea. When one man was late for a class because he didn’t dare leave the latrine with the others, the commander punished him severely to make an example of him.  Within a day or so, Colonel Peaslee, hearing about the incident, flew up to Snettisham to look into it, and in front of the captain had the punished gunner explain why he had been late for class.  When the gunner finished, the captain said, ‘“That’s no excuse.”’  ‘*That’s excuse enough for me,’’ Colonel Peaslee said, whereupon he earned the gratitude of his men forever by loading them into their planes and leading them back to their base.  On one of Peaslee’s first trips to London he encountered his first air raid. He was absorbing the wonders of the blackout—the dim silhouettes of people in the gloom, the speed of the taxis with only slits of light to guide them—when he heard the mournful sound of sirens, saw the searchlights crossing the sky, and was startled by the first bomb blast. Glancing around him, he was amazed to see that none of the shadowy figures on the street seemed in any hurry to escape. People were walking calmly into Underground entrances or simply taking shelter beneath sidewalk overhangs to avoid being hit by the falling shrapnel from their own antiaircraft guns. When taxis stopped, passengers nonchalantly took time to pay their fares before  214  London to Seattle, where his father was a ba wakigiovdstler. Vuctng these Loninest grandmother still lived in Hammersmith, but  letcheralaniagsnebing import abutte chances to see her because Preston put his planes it [[teyouldbethisalninteficelfinghnbs, missions as soon as they reached Bovingdon and k fyn/ovlshiotik hood var them nse after day, until his men were exhausted. He wa tra tayo! Mw IML  igh, Pea Bish peopl then ierhad even dig  immediately about the complications of flying i Goer fae'seie