omb Group, with which he intended to fly. A self-disciplined 2cause of the flying lost its engine and crashed into the cold waters of San Francis- man, not easily perturbed, he remained surprisingly calm duringthe thick gloves co Bay. For a time he was in danger of being separated from the long wait, giving no evidence that he was worried about the timelag. +s and guns service, but after a remarkable recovery, he continued his career and He conferred only a few times with General Anderson.? They had ze. The waist became a specialist in aerial bombing. talked often enough in recent days; they both knew what they wanted > swing their  Anderson, like many other American generals at this stage of the to do and what it would take to be able to do it ough to track  war, had never held an important combat command. He had, how- 24  23  To Williams it was simply a matter of hoping the fog would lift enough for him to see the fence at the end of the runway. His ability to do so would be only slightly diminished by the fact that he had lost one eye while serving as an American observer during the German blitz against London. With his one good eye Williams still saw well enough to fly an airplane. A man of serious purpose and penetrating expression, he was famous among his men for his insistence on military discipline. But they also thought of him, perhaps more fondly, for his courage in overcoming his handicap and for his individual style. He wore a mustache and carried a swagger stick. An Albany, Texas, native and graduate of Texas A. & M., he had won his wings and commission in 1923 when the Air Force was still called the Army Air Service Corps. No one knew more than he about the B-17 bomber. In 1936, at Langley Field, Virginia, he had been the operations officer of the first group to fly it  The B-17 had grown directly out of the American concept of strategic daylight precision bombing. By the early thirties, Army Air Corps planners realized that, to make such a concept wor