6 letter to Arnold he said: ‘‘I believe there is no question that our bomber losses will be greatly reduced when our fighters are ready to accompany us. . . . The early receipt of any adequate quantity of long-range tanks will give us the needed range for these P-47s in general support of our bombers all the way to and from the targets.’”  On April 5, however, after two types of auxiliary tanks had been tried, the 8th was still without any long-range fighting capability. Ina letter to Arnold, Eaker said the P-47 situation had so far proven “‘most disappointing.’’ He and Brig. Gen. Frank O’D. Hunter, who was in charge of Fighter Command, had expected to have two groups in action by this time, but none had yet seen combat:  As you know, technical difficulties with the radio and the engine prevented this. . . . [I] believe the P-47 will be all right when these technical difficulties are corrected. I know by your cable which came this morning that you are doing everything possible to expedite the changes in the engine, the correction of the radio difficulty, and the supply of an auxiliary fuel tank which will function at high altitude. These are the three critical factors with this plane.  The radio and engine problems of the P-47 were destined to be corrected quickly enough, but Eaker had a lot of trouble ahead in his effort to develop a long-range fighter by finding a satisfactory aux- iliary tank. The tanks tested so far were too difficult to attach and so heavy they limited the P-47’s ceiling. Without workable drop tanks, the 8th Air Force would have difficulty achieving the Combined Bomber Offensive’s requirement of air superiority over Germany through the defeat of the German fighters.  When the C.B.O. Plan, or the Eaker Plan, was ready for presenta- tion to the American Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington (which body, it was hoped, would present it to the Combined Chiefs of Staff), Arnold decided that since Eaker had argued so effectively with Churchill in Casabl