sh exceedingly helpful. The Ministry of Economic Warfare had worked out detailed studies of potential German targets and was delighted to pass its information on to the Americans because Harris wasn’t interested in it. He had argued with some logic that since his planes could bomb only at night, and since until recently they had found it difficult even to locate large cities in the dark, it was silly to hope they would be able to pick out specific military and industrial targets. The M.E.W.., finding him unreceptive to their data, passed it on to the 8th Air Force, which accepted it gladly and, after digesting it, chose the likeliest targets for R.A.F. reconnaissance planes to photograph.  By the beginning of 1943, Eaker knew fairly well what he wanted to do as soon as he was able to do it. He had a program in mind. It was clear to the men around him and it was clear to Arnold. There was no need to put it in documentary form until Arnold came up with his scheme. But Arnold hadn’t spent forty years in the Army without learning about the power of documents and the uses to which they could be put. The right kind of document, he decided, would give him a heavy weapon in the Battle of Washington, which he seemed, at the moment, to be losing to the Navy. A simple report from Eaker about the needs of the 8th Air Force would not be strong enough to have the required impact in the battle for daylight bombing. He had gone into many a skirmish against Admiral King armed with such reports, and they hadn’t even dented King’s naval armor. He would have to have a document stately in style, carefully researched, with vivid promises, persuasive arguments, precise statistics, and an im- pressive title. Better still, it should have international sanction. For this purpose he decided to enlist the British and their prestige in his design. Arnold’s March 24 letter to Portal was his opening move. He gave it for hand delivery to a well-instructed member of his staff, Col. C. P. Cabell, wh