. But he discovered how highly they regarded his  integrity and discretion when he received a visit from an ficer named Group Capt. Frederick W. Winterbotham. He  ad come at the behest of the Prime Minister, Winterbotham said, to make Eaker privy to the most closely guarded secret of the war—the  ret. British cryptographers had broken Germany’s most ial communications codes, enabling them to intercept and  ead all ¢  e messages between Hitler and his top commanders. The  Prime Minister, aware that information gained by Ultra would be  180  not yet know 7 in daylight.”’ > fronts around Air Force had t vicissitudes. of themselves atient and op-  chance that the > Germany in defences, they sibly heavy in than by night, duld be doubly »en tried—and vrong to try it crews inade-  refer to learn tted defects— f a high order,  they are con- except by their  nce a man as is angry. In a conclusion:  nt by *‘Given 3 quite a mean- ached to it. By len again, take s been tried— il. Even when xperiment few  valuable to the 8th Air Force, had decided Eaker should be briefed on the secret, and Winterbotham was here to explain it to him.  Even this early in the war, Ultra had already been immensely valuable to the British. It had helped them evacuate their troops from Dunkirk by keeping them informed of the movements of German units pursuing them. It had guided the R.A.F. in disposing its fighter forces during the Battle of Britain. And it had facilitated the recent landings in North Africa by ascertaining where the least resistance would be found. Eaker knew very little about it, but he had received one warning about it. Spaatz, in a message from Africa, had told him, “Don’t let them read you in on it.’’ Spaatz had learned in Africa that because he knew the Ultra details, he was not permitted to go on missions or even go near the front lines for fear he might be captured and compromised. Eaker, not wishing to lose this option, thanked Winterbotham for the Prime Minister’s kind offer