eirs, that, when you can hit him as hard by day as we can at night, the en this I am very pleased indeed to know that you are taking this action. day of reckoning will set on Hitler’s Germany. ig to let The whole of our experience in the last war as well as in this one to him goes to show that one of the greatest factors in sustaining the The British air marshal’s strong sentiments about the need to bomb ome. morale of fighting units is the prompt replacement of their losses. Germany into complete submission were now so well known that ck and Losses which are insignificant in relation to a single operation people were beginning to call him ‘‘Bomber’’ Harris, but he didn’t 13) toa assume a very different aspect when four or five operations are mind. He hated Hitler and the Nazi cause so passionately that he felt were in added together and then no replacements are received. fully justified in bombing the people who had made Hitler their ish and leader. He was not the least bit self-conscious about it. One day in h each It is not difficult to envision Eaker and Portal on the phone saying 1942, when he was hurrying from the Air Ministry in London to his scribed to each other, ‘‘I’ll write such-and-such to you so you can quote it to headquarters at High Wycombe, he had been stopped for speeding. ther. so-and-so, and you write such-and-such to me so I can quote it to Though he had a ‘‘priority’’ sticker on his car, it was attached to the 2 kisses so-and-so. Then we'll both write to a few other people and enclose front bumper and the pursuing policeman didn’t see it. When the our messages to each other so they can quote us to whomever.”’ policeman realized whom he had stopped, he decided not to issue a ome in Eaker’s next communication, the same day (March 3), was to Harris, citation, but he did say, “I hope you will be careful, Sir. You might e said, who was also solidly on their side in the matter. After going to more kill somebody.”’ To this, Harris replied, ‘‘My dear m