er expected much fiercer resistance to his bombers in the near future. In a letter to Maj. Gen. Oliver P. Echols at Matériel Command in Washington (also May 13), he wrote about improvements then being made in the engines and radios of the P-47 fighter plane, which had so far been less than satisfactory in combat. Despite the plane’s problems, Eaker wanted as many of them as he could get.!0  **It seems to me the P-47 situation has worked out all right with one exception,’’ he told Echols. Then he referred once more to a need that was almost as great as his need for the fighters themselves. ‘‘That [exception] concerns the early supply of auxiliary fuel tanks to extend the range of our fighters sufficiently to accompany our bombers to their targets and on their return. . . . I still think the picture is not too gloomy with respect to [the P-47]. I would appreciate it, however, if you would figure out how to get us the auxiliary fuel tanks which will maintain pressure at altitude, and get them here in quantity to extend the range.”’  Another experiment that acknowledged the vulnerability of the B-17 to German fighters was now at the testing phase. Vega Aircraft Corporation, a Lockheed subsidiary, had been busy since the previ- ous August converting thirteen Flying Fortresses into flying battle- ships called YB-40s. These planes, equipped with heavy armor plate, fourteen machine guns, and a mechanized chin turret, were designed to carry twice as much ammunition as other B-17s but no bombs. Their function would be to accompany the bomber formations and protect them from German fighters.  The concept of the YB-40 had sounded good. But when Eaker put his thirteen ‘‘battleships’’ into action, he found that their developers had forgotten to do some basic thinking. Because of their added weight, they were too slow to keep pace with the bombers they were  216  walking toward shelter. Watching these Londoners that night, Peas- lee felt he was learning something important about t