he United States:  My American friends are despondent  They foresee the success of efforts by the U.S. Army, and particularly the U.S. Navy, to get them off bombing France and, thereafter, keep them off bombing Germany. . . .  I am informed, and I know this to be true, that there is now a great and growing weight of high public and official opinion in the United States in support of the bomber plan. . . . But the U.S Navy and, toa lesser extent, the U.S. Army are almost frantically engaged in doing all they can to scotch this plan.  To that end [they are] pressing that the whole U.S. Bomber resources now in this country should be switched toward the Atlantic war and the protection of the convoys  It is, moreover, alleged that you personally are in favor of this  Armed with so formidable a stick wherewith to beat the dog, the U.S. military authorities on this side are alleged to be quoting—or rather misquoting—you in regard to the futility of continuing to bomb French targets, and as to your leaning towards employing all the U.S. Bombers on the Atlantic war rather than on bombing Germany  You will please excuse frankness in this matter. My information is that . . . unless you come down personally and most emphatical- ly on the side of throwing every bomb against Germany, subject only to minimum essential diversions elsewhere, the Bomber Plan,  170  intended to prepare for night bombing, wrote a minute to Churchill  October 23, 1942, in which he sounded almost like an advocate of  American daylight bombing:  American opinion is divided; some want to concentrate on the Pacific; others against Germany; some want an Air Force which would be mainly ancillary to the Army, equipped with Army support aircraft; . . . others want to build up a big bomber force to attack the centre of German power. It is in your power to crystallise American opinion and to unite it behind those schools of thought which want to attack Germany and want to do it by building up an overwhelming forc