toms of impending German air collapse. . . . Can you add any substantiated evidence of collapse?’*  In light of the performance of the German Air Force on the previous day, this cable looked like nothing more than a frantic plea from Arnold for Eaker to send him all possible ammunition with which to counter expected attacks in the Battle of Washington. The message could hardly surprise Eaker. It was obvious that there would be a strong reaction any time he lost sixty planes in one day, and it was equally obvious that he had no time to waste before justifying this loss. On the morning of the 15th, he sent both a radiogram and a letter to Arnold.  **Yesterday the Hun sprang his trap,’’ Eaker said in the radiogram. “‘He fully revealed his countermeasure to our daylight bombing.” After describing the great air battle and its outcome, the aircraft  332  losses on both sides as well as the apparent damage to the factories, he was careful to reassure Arnold that ‘this does not represent disas- ter.’’ The 8th Air Force was ready to answer the enemy’s challenge But there were three things Arnold could do to help. He could rush the replacement bombers and crews. He could send large supplies of 110-gallon and 150-gallon drop tanks. And as soon as possible he could send more fighters, especially long-range P-38s and Mustangs “We must show the enemy we can replace our losses,’’ Eaker concluded. ‘‘He knows he cannot replace his. We must continue the battle with unrelenting fury. This we shall do. There is no discourage- ment here. We are convinced that when the totals are struck, yester- day’s losses will be far outweighed by the value of the enemy matériel destroyed.”’  The very fact that Eaker felt obliged to say there was ‘‘no discour- agement here’’ seemed to indicate he thought there might be some in Washington. He was sensitive to the importance of arming Arnold against it. The letter with which he immediately followed his radio- gram had the obvious purpose of shoring up A