ortable life as an instructor, spending much of his free time with a college girlfriend who was now a medical student in Berlin and whom he eventually married. But he was not content as an instructor. Every six months he had petitioned for transfer to one of the fighting units. Every six months he had been refused until the summer of 1943, when a general who was a relative interceded for him. Three days later he was sent to a fighters’ training center, and he now found himself the youngest second lieutenant in the Molders Wing, but still without a taste of battle  Before taking off today, Stedtfeld packed a small bag with tooth brush, cigarets, a clean shirt, and so on, supposing he would fly to Weisbaden, spend the night there, and fly back to Neubiberg in the morning. Flying on the right wing of Capt. Gunther Rubell, comman- der of his Fifth Squadron, he took off from Neubiberg with thoughts of a pleasant evening in Weisbaden. Wing Commander Major Karl Rammelt led the three squadrons (thirty-three planes) of the Second Group out of the cloudy weather around Munich into the bright sunshine farther north, and the pilots had already dropped their wheels to land at Erbenheim when the tower there radioed an urgent message to Rammelt.  “Do not land! Do not land! Group Leader, assemble your squad- rons and proceed toward Koblenz. Fortresses have just crossed the border at 23,000 feet.”  The possibility that he might at last see action hit Stedtfeld ‘‘like an electric shock,’’ and his excitement grew as he and his comrades pushed their throttles forward to gain altitude. Were they actually going to meet the Americans at last? Several times during the previ- ous month or so they had taken off to chase the Fortresses, but not since August 17, before Stedtfeld joined his group, had the big bombers come far enough east for Munich-based fighters to catch them. Something different was happening today, however. The  301  irtinlia » day’s battle with some knowledge of what to exp