veloped Norden bomb-sight that under ideal condi- tions, and without harassment, made it possible to lay a bomb precisely on target from 30,000 feet. It also carried the most ad- vanced radar equipment available in 1943. Its fuel tanks were self- sealing, and the gun turrets above and below the fuselage were automatically operated. It was the most powerful, best armed and most formidable fighting machine in the air. In addition, it was one of the most beautiful airplanes ever built and, in the opinion of most of its pilots, one of the easiest to fly. As stable with a full load as it was empty, it would often continue to fly with controls damaged or with great holes in its wings, fuselage, or tail  Although the plane was large by the standards of the early 1940s, the B-17’s ten-man crew did not find it roomy. Designed for max- imum speed, it was more slender than an airliner of comparable length. There was, in fact, practically no similarity between it and an airliner. It had no passenger seats and no upholstery. When the men were not busy, they sprawled out on the floor with their parachutes as pillows. Its interior was unfinished, the ribs and skin of the aluminum fuselage exposed. Most of the floor surfaces, and the catwalk be- tween the open bomb-bays, were also aluminum, they produced a dull, metallic sound when the men moved over them in their big, rubber-soled flying boots The plane’s various compartments, crowded with instruments,  wires, cables, oxygen bottles, and machine guns, were so confining that prospective crew members had to be tested for claustrophobia. To live and work for six or eight hours at a time in such small spaces, while further restricted by heavy, cumbersome, leather-and-sheep- wool flying suits, required economy of movement, mastery of intri- cate procedures, and high tolerance for discomfort. Because of the bitter cold at upper altitudes, the men had to wear their thick gloves even while operating the B-17’s complicated machines and gun