where he had refueled and rearmed, he attached himself to the first unit he could find in the air since his own unit was scattered. With two other planes he made two passes at the returning Fortresses. He may have scored some hits, but he did not manage to bring any of them down.3  Some of his comrades were enjoying greater success. Between Bonn and Aachen, at 4:30 p.m., the 381st Group lost its tenth plane. When this Fortress dropped out of formation, it was surrounded by fighters. It was the seventh to fall since leaving Schweinfurt.  Help for the Americans was on the way. Fifteen miles east of Eupen, forty-six P-47s of the U.S. 56th Fighter Group, led by Col. Hubert Zemke, made contact with the homecoming bombers,¢ but the arrival of the escort was ironically disastrous for one Fortress in the  64  concentrated assault, Sargent’s plane caught fire, then quickly ex- ploded. Only three parachutes opened among the fragments falling to earth.!  As the 91st Group approached the Frankfurt area under sustained attack, one of its pilots, Lt. James D. Judy, who was on his fourth mission, saw a German fighter coming at him “‘level on the nose.”’ Despite Judy’s attempts at evasion, the enemy pilot held his course and in a remarkable display of accuracy, landed at least three 20-mm. shells in the B-17’s nose section near the root of the left wing.? A large hole opened in the wing, and when Judy tested the controls he found them sluggish. Even more seriously, the shells hit and ignited the plane’s batteries, starting a fire just below the pilot’s compart- ment. In moments, the cockpit was full of flames, sparks, and smoke. The plane went into a dive and fell seven thousand feet before Judy and his copilot, Lt. Roger W. Layn, could level it out. Five German fighters that had pursued the bomber in its dive, now proceeded to pump hundreds of machine-gun bullets into it, starting more fires But the dive had apparently extinguished the worst of the cockpit flames, enabling Judy to