awing room and in the company of several smiling women, while Hitler’s armies and air forces were pointed ominously at them only a hundred miles away across the narrow English Chan- nel. What kind of a war was this?  Once more, the arguments Eaker expected between Harris and himself did not materialize. But the next day, in Harris’s office, the two men got down to the most important issues in both of their minds. When they began discussing the twenty heavy-bomber groups that General Arnold hoped to send to England in 1942, Eaker wanted to know what stations they would occupy and what facilities would be available. An enormous logistic problem was at hand involving a  101  quarter of a million men, shipping, harbors, railroads, water sup- plies, communications systems, housing, mess halls, warehouses, operational structures, and runways. For the runways alone, hun- dreds of thousands of tons of concrete would have to be poured.  Harris had anticipated all these problems, and he had in mind for Eaker’s possible use several R.A.F. satellite bases already built at such places as Polebrook, Molesworth, Chelveston, Thurleigh, and Kimbolton. But specific solutions to the problems depended on the exact use of the American heavy bombers when they arrived. Harris was keenly aware of the American desire to launch a daylight preci- sion bombing program against German industrial and military targets, independent of the R.A.F. night bombing program against German cities. In January, less than a month earlier, he had been in Washington talking to Arnold about the general strategies of the R.A.F. and the 8th Air Force and about a British proposal that the first 250 Flying Fortresses to reach England be used for coastal patrol.  Arnold had vehemently, perhaps even angrily, rejected this British proposal and had reiterated the American determination to bomb German targets in the daytime. Arnold had also given Harris a fascinating insight into the American Air Forces’s problems with t