t failed them? was not convinced. In the flooded, shattered cockpit, continued the argument about bailing out. It was to the copilot that this plane could carry them to the . all the way to Africa. It might disintegrate at any hen the whole crew could be killed. Cleven tried to dut in vain. jor Cleven lost his patience. ‘‘Listen, you son of a |. **You’re gonna sit there and take it.”’ may not have realized it, the key was open on the ). The whole crew heard his words, and so did some of 2t planes, including Colonel Lay, just a short distance  n Cleven’s crew was immediate. They meekly settled jobs. Sergeant Smith, whose bleeding could not be lied. But the shell-riddled Phartzac continued precari- ne target  LeMay’s task force reached the Initial Point from the bombing run on the Messerschmitt fighter assem-  ih gensburg, 15 of his Flying Fortresses had fallen to the  7 But the surviving 131 still held ranks in their forma-  i vard planes moving forward to fill the gap each time  mpanions fell out. LeMay’s own First Combat Wing intact, having lost so far just two of its 62 planes. The  , ’s had largely left it alone, concentrating their fury on  cond and Third Combat Wings. Many planes in the and almost all in the Third were now damaged. The had simply been ventilated by bullet and shrapnel were flying on two or three engines. Some suffered ig as doors. Others had leaking fuel or hydraulic lines, llers, battered oxygen or electrical systems, inopera-  self, at the head of the fifteen-mile-long column of ot realize the extent of the carnage behind him. His job  d these planes to the target, and he had done it. The sky  20  The third shell hit the right wing, continued into the fuselage and broke the hydraulic system, releasing a flood of fluid into the cockpit. The fourth crashed through the roof and cut rudder cables. The fifth hit the No. 3 engine, which immediately died, then burst into flames.  The crew of the Phartzac needed no more convincing. They were almost u