n, but it wasn’t easy. Never on any previous mission had he experienced so many and such determined assaults.  Up ahead, the leading 91st was still sustaining vicious attacks on its bomb run. Just seven miles from Schweinfurt, cannon shells from a fighter silenced one engine in a Fortress piloted by Lt. Harold R. Christensen. When copilot Lt. Stuart Mendelsohn tried to feather the dead propeller, nothing happened. It continued to windmill with its blades fighting the air currents, creating drag and drastically slowing the aircraft. Christensen pushed the throttles full forward on the three other engines. He was determined to stay with the formation at least until he could drop his bombs. But he knew that unless he could get that propeller feathered, he would soon have to fall behind and face the fury of the German fighters alone.  By the time the 91st reached Schweinfurt at 2:39 p.m., flak was filling the sky around it and smoke was rising from some of the pots below, but nothing obscured the ball-bearing factories, which— despite their rapid reconstruction—still showed signs of damage from the August raid. As Lt. Samuel Slayton, the lead bombardier, released his bombs, everyone in the crew tried to follow their down- ward path, and when they exploded, a cheer filled the plane. They were right on target. But no one in the crew was in the mood for a lot of cheering. They were soon occupied once more by the fighters around them and the problem of getting home. Colonel Milton, for one, didn’t think they would make it if the attacks continued, but he kept his fears to himself.  The three remaining planes in the 305th Group, still under attack by fighters, followed grimly behind the 91st, but as they approached the target, Lt. John Pellegrini, the lead bombardier, expressed dis- satisfaction with their position. Convinced they were slightly off target, he suggested they go around and make a new approach. Normand, aware that if they took time to do so they would be separa