ned the momentary hope that they might be from one of the two P-47 groups he had expected but hadn’t yet seen. Before he could take much comfort from this hope, the two planes sped through the Second Combat Wing ahead (composed of Col. Elliott Vandevanter’s 385th and Col. Frederick Castle’s 94th Groups) and nicked two B-17s. Even at the 500-mile-per-hour clo- sure rate between these planes and his, Lay could identify them as Focke-Wulf 190s, the best fighters in the Luftwaffe, the German air force. One of them now had smoke emerging from its nose and bits of metal flying off near its wing root. Smoke was also trailing from the wings of the two stricken B-17s ahead, but they were still in formation.  By this time, the P-47s of the 353rd Fighter Group had climbed to 27,000 feet.5 At their new altitude, the P-47 pilots were able to see twelve FW-190s diving toward the bombers, but at such a speed and distance they could not be intercepted. After watching one of these German planes go down in smoke (possibly the same one Colonel Lay had seen), Major McCollom checked the fuel consumption of his P-47s and decided, five miles southeast of Diest, just when the bombers were beginning to need help, that he must reluctantly turn and lead his fighters back toward England. Two or three minutes later, flying west away from the bombers, McCollom did catch one stray ME-109, and he personally sent it down in flames. But this victory was small considering the need.  The 56th Fighter Group, forty more Thunderbolts under the com- mand of Col. Hubert Zemke, had now arrived to relieve McCollom’s group, but they would be able to escort the bombers only another fifty miles, as far as Eupen, near the German border city of Aachen, before they, too, would have to turn back. Both the 56th and 353rd Groups were carrying extra fuel in belly tanks. (The 56th dropped its tanks in the estuary off Woensdrecht before climbing to 26,000 feet and overtaking the Third Combat Wing ten miles north of Antw