ws, then, as the sounds grew louder, all of them would look that way out of the corners of their eyes. Finally, though they might still pretend they were listening to Owen’s history lecture he would notice that he had lost all of them.  One day, when the planes were in the traffic pattern approaching their base up the hill from Kimbolton, Owen had decided it was pointless to try to compete. ‘Get up and go to the windows,” he said to his students. ‘Why should we be talking about history down here when they’re making it up there.””  The long-planned Schweinfurt mission, now scheduled for August 10, was threatened once more at the end of July when Amold informed Eaker of a plan to take away four more of his heavy-bomb groups.?! Gen. Douglas MacArthur was preparing anew offensive in New Guinea, for which his air commander, Gen. George Kenney, was urgently demanding more Flying Fortresses. The groups in England were the only ones that could be sent on short notice Besides being needed for the New Guinea offensive, four experi- enced groups from the big league in Europe, where they had been facing the Germans, would significantly elevate the quality of the MacArthur air force. So it was said, anyway, perhaps to soothe Eaker by flattering him about the skill of his men. But this new development did not put him in a mood to be soothed.  In distress again at the prospect of being stripped of his planes just as he launched an offensive, he called upon his British friends for help once more. Portal immediately wired a protest to Washington and at the same time sent a letter to General Devers, for circulation, praising the work of the 8th Air Force during “Blitz Week.”’22 A few days later, Portal flew to Washington for a Combined Chiefs of Staff meeting, at which time Eaker and Anderson stimulated a wire to him from Harris on that old familiar theme, the horrors of diversion  [am certain that given average weather and concentration on the main job we can push Germany over by bo