wo antiaircraft bursts, both ineffective. The 96th’s lead bombardier, Lt. Dunstan T. Abel, with- out any opposition to distract him, dropped his load of American high explosives and British incendiaries directly on the factory buildings The rest of the B-17s in his group, dropping on his cue, were equally accurate. The time was 11:45 A.M  During the next twenty-two minutes, succeeding groups in LeMay’s task force released 303 tons of bombs on the Messerschmitt plant in one of the most accurate bombardments of the war to date. As aerial photos later confirmed,!9 virtually all the bombs fell either on factory buildings or on the adjacent airfield. Nine main workshops were at least partly destroyed. One hangar was ‘‘more than half destroyed,’’ while another main store and workshop was ‘‘three- fourths destroyed.’’ Nearly every building was damaged.  Despite their severe losses and despite the most savage opposition any of them had yet encountered, the men of Colonel LeMay’s Fourth Bombardment Wing were convinced, when they looked down on the flaming rubble at Regensburg, that they had completely fulfilled their mission. But they had little or no time to enjoy this satisfaction. Fifteen German fighters—ME-110s and JU-88s—had arrived to harass the 385th and 94th Groups directly over the target, and these planes continued their attacks as the big bombers flew south toward the Brenner Pass. Within a few miles, LeMay had lost three more B-17s, raising the total so far to a staggering eighteen, with North Africa still far away. Many of the Fortresses were already so badly damaged or so short of fuel that their crews had little expectation of making it. But as they reached the Alps, these surviving men of the Fourth Bombardment Wing had at least one reason to be thankful. The German fighters had finally turned back, leaving them un- molested for the first time since they had crossed the Belgian coast- line. The worst of the day’s ordeal had apparently ended. They had  21  flo