usly impressed’’ by the Theater commander's ‘‘keenness for air operations and his evident interest in our personnel.’’ Eisenhower said he wanted to be notified when the planes would be returning from their first mission so he could be at the airdrome to meet them.  Spaatz and Eaker then asked his authorization for each of them to go on missions. Three days earlier, Spaatz had spoiled Eaker’s dream of flying the first mission by announcing that he himself wished to do so. He did agree that as far as he was concerned, Eaker could go on the second one and also on certain R.A.F. missions that promised to be instructive. But this arrangement needed Eisenhower’s ratification  Eisenhower approved, though he stipulated that they could not go out together. He then asked Spaatz who should succeed him if anything should happen to him. Spaatz immediately named Eaker. When Eisenhower asked Eaker the same question, he named Col. Newton Longfellow, who had arrived in England only nine days earlier to become his chief of staff. Eaker had known Longfellow since his two years in the Philippines (1919-21), where they had served together. At the end of that tour of duty, the two had taken leaves and spent five months together, coming home the long way around the world, stopping wherever they could find airplanes to fly. In Saigon they flew with the French Air Force, and in Cairo with the British.  When British senior officers learned that Spaatz and Eaker in- tended to fly missions, they expressed strong disapproval. They said in effect, we’ve gone to a lot of trouble to help you chaps prepare for your roles. We’ve given you all the secret information we have. If you go out and get killed, we'll have to start over again with some- body else.  Harris was particularly critical. He once told Eaker, ‘‘It has taken me many years to get to know the things I should know to be bomber commander. Portal and the Secretary for Air [Sir Archibald Sinclair] would relieve me if they knew I contemplat