e on only six days they frequently have to wait for ten  ake a sortie. Everyone must admit this What ought we to do?  ie American air effort and its potential e 8th Air Force. If he were to write to to Portal in that November 2 letter, the dly escape the conclusion that the 8th United Kingdom since the Prime  Minister felt it was ‘‘playing very was no way in which Eaker might  ttle part in the war.” And there  ‘ounteract Churchill's attitude,  because he didn’t even know about it. He was completely without knowledge of the extensive secret correspondence between Chur-  chill, Sinclair, Portal, and Slessor a prospects.  While Eaker remained ignorant 0 problem with the British, he was awa  out the 8th Air Force and its  this aspect of his continuing re of enough other problems to  keep him busy. The 8th’s only experienced bomb group, the 97th,  would be leaving for Africa in anotl invasion was to begin November 8.  er week. (The North African ) Shortly thereafter, two more  groups would follow, leaving him not  ing but four groups of rookies.  And he was beginning to wonder how long these groups would have  to wait before getting their chance to  ecome veterans. The weather  had kept his entire force on the ground since October 21. In two  months, since September 7, his bom! three missions. (By this time Churchil  bers had been able to fly only must have begun to think that  even his six-missions-a-month prediction was too optimistic.) Final-  ly, on November 7, Eaker was permi  174  ted by the weather to send his  ather clear enough 7s went down in an he 20th, two were ‘ee went down on 3. One of these was aut of formation a which followed te® ig dramatically the  1942, the 8th had thrusts) with a loss )» aircraft), which mately 4 percent,! its bombs within  iy, had now flown iditional one-level the bombers. On n of the multilevel  planes out again. But even then, at the insistence of Churchill and Eisenhower, he was allowed only to bounce his bombs harmlessly off the