t the Germans would appear immediate- ly. At the English coast, four squadrons of British Spitfires fell in beside the B-17s to escort them as far as the coast of France. For the round trip from there to the target, in the little town of Sotteville, three miles north of Rouen, the big bombers would be alone. About halfway across the Channel, in sunny skies, Eaker saw ahead of him  142  first combat entioned the he crews, he ess, he was idn’t think it xtreme crew credit to the hool’’ could  early in our nitely make cessive loss- iew that the  »gnizance of Doodle, sent odle certain- feather in his  ‘ormation of ipitfires, at- f the costly sain returned k with Eaker  ling yard at ortresses got yus with the 1 a flight of th one B-17 3 returned to 297th Group rom German  t the lessons 1g, which he ertness and, ighters,’’ he  the coast of France. As they crossed the coast and lost their short- range fighter escort, he was pleased at the good order of this rookie group’s formation although he felt it could be even tighter. Having taken special training to qualify as a gunner (one of his directives ordered that no one could go on a mission unless he could fire a machine gun), he took his turn at the radio operator’s topside em- placement, but no German fighters had yet appeared.  When the bomb-bay doors opened as the B-17s approached the target, Eaker went to the bomb compartment where he found out what it was like to ride in the body of a B-17 under combat conditions. With the big square waist-gunners’ windows open on both sides as well as the bomb-bay doors and the radio operator’s top gun hole, and with the air temperature around thirty-five degrees below zero, it felt as if ‘ta howling gale’’ were rushing through the plane.  From the bomb-bay opening he looked down to see a bend in the Seine and then the village of Sotteville. The Americans had still seen no fighters, and no flak had come up to greet them. Directly over the rail yards, Eaker watched the B-17’s five 600-