eady for their first trip to Germany. But since mid-December, Germany had been cloudy every day. On the few occasions the Fortresses could get off the ground, they had no choice but to head south for the submarine ports, where there was at least a chance of a break in the clouds.  These raids, frustrating as they were, gave the American crews significant experience against German fighters. The information Eaker’s men brought back from encounters with FW-190s and ME- 109s heightened in his mind a concern he had felt for some time about the range of the American fighter planes now being sent to his Fighter Command. The P-47 Thunderbolts arriving in January had an ex- pected operating range of only 175 miles, which meant they would be able to escort the bombers no farther than the Spitfires were now going. While Eaker still felt the B-17s could take care of themselves, it was obvious that fighter escorts would make their job easier and cut their losses.  Having been a fighter pilot and commander for most of his career, Eaker placed a high value on fighter protection. In the fall of 1941, he had flown the first P-47 to come off the Republic Aviation Company assembly line on Long Island, New York. And shortly thereafter, when he was repositioning fighter squadrons in California for the Pacific Coast defense, he happened to be at Mines Field, San Diego, the day the first P-51 Mustang came off the North American Aviation Company assembly line there. He took advantage of the opportunity to fly that plane also. He found the Mustang ‘‘the best fighter plane I had flown.’’ Though he believed it was ‘‘somewhat underpowered,”’ he assumed that weakness could be corrected by the installation of one of the larger aircraft engines then under development.*  The Mustang had been created, not for the Americans but for the  178  box formation, which was soon adopted by the entire 8th Bomber ids binky bGngl AY. Amd to suggest that American factories convert Command. Because his formation