htest difficulty in fitting in their programmes. Spaatz may tend to interfere with Eaker to start with but I think he will soon discover that it is unprofitable to do so and Eaker will then be left with the same freedom as Harris already enjoys.  In this same memo, however, Portal made it plain that he still had little faith in daylight bombing when he referred to “‘those night operations which they [the Americans] will undertake with their medium bombers, and possibly later with their heavies if they find that day bombing is too expensive.””  Harris still firmly believed that day bombing would be too expen- sive, but he had virtually given up arguing with Eaker about it. He told one of his aides, Group Capt. Dudley Saward, that he thought the Americans were about to suffer some bad casualties, but that they might as well try it because they knew more about day bombing than they would be able to learn about night bombing in several years.”  At 11:00 A.M. on the morning of August 17, with the weather clearing rapidly, Brigadier General Eaker began his first operations conference and ordered the 8th Air Force Bomber Command’s first combat mission that afternoon. The operations conference didn’t take long. The mission would be against the railroad marshaling yards at Rouen, France, sixty-five miles northwest of Paris and thirty-five miles inland from the English Channel. Eaker and staff had planned it so minutely and had discussed it so many times during the last week  141  while waiting for the weather to clear that there wasn’t much to say now except, ‘‘Do it.”  After the conference, Eaker himself flew to Polebrook where twelve crews of the 97th Bomb Group had been on alert for a week. Their morale, according to the 8th Bomber Command diary for the day, was ‘‘wearing thin from repeated ‘dry runs,’ bad weather and impatience to get at the Hun.’’ Eaker, however, was impressed by “the nonchalance of the crews”’ when he arrived in early afternoon and announced that he wo