nder everyone’s nose.’ And this they did because they had no respect for the German fighters.  “‘On that day,’’ he declared, ‘‘it was almost impossible for me to endure the scorn of the enemy [and the fact] that he flew so imperti- nently all the way across Germany . . . without having been destroyed.”’  Even taking Goering’s histrionic tendencies into account, the severity of this scolding indicated that he was now deeply disturbed at the Schweinfurt result. No doubt he was unfair in blaming the fighter pilots. According to their commander, General Galland, they had flown 800 sorties that day. They had not destroyed the 139 American  337  aircraft the German press claimed, but they had shot down more four-engine bombers than had ever before been destroyed in a single engagement. (Galland also said that only 35 German fighters had been lost, a figure much smaller than the Americans had claimed, and surprisingly small in light of the Neubiberg controller’s disclosure to Lt. Gunther Stedtfeld that only one of the 60 planes which flew from there had returned undamaged. Even after the war it was impossible to determine any official count of German fighters lost that day. Some Americans who took part in the battle still believe an accurate count would be closer to 100 than to 35. General Eaker in a recent conversation asked pointedly why there were no German planes left to resist the Normandy invasion if the habitually small German loss claims were accurate.)  Goering’s criticism of his fighter pilots, despite their unquestion- able courage and resourcefulness, probably grew out of his own frustration at being unable to stop the daylight bombing. He had assured Hitler a year earlier that German industry had little to fear from American daylight attacks. This prophecy embarrassed him now. The Americans were not only bombing important factories; they were doing so with increasing accuracy. Field Marshal Milch, after the October 9 Marienburg attack, had said to Goering: ‘Th