se about the stunted growth of the 8th Air Force, and he was at work on an elaborate documentary scheme to do something about it. On March 24 he wrote  203  to Portal through Andrews and Eaker a letter that included a report by his operations analysts about strategic targets in Europe. This report, from three thousand miles away, probably contained nothing that Portal hadn't already learned from a British Cabinet agency called the Ministry of Economic Warfare, which had been compiling informa- tion about German targets since the war began; but the American report, of itself, was not important. Arnold simply used it as an introduction to what he was about to propose. After commending the report’s data to Portal, he wrote:  In view of the new facts we now have, I believe we should review the bombing priorities set out in paragraph 2 CCS/1/D, approved by the Combined Chiefs of Staff at Casablanca  Our efforts in the past to build up a large bomber force in the United Kingdom have been disappointing. Bombers for that Thea- ter have too often been regarded as a reservoir from which the demands of other Theaters could be met. As I see it, a definite program of operations from the United Kingdom must be initiated without delay. This is the best answer to a plea for diversions.  The Casablanca Directive, to which Arnold referred, had been  helpful in establishing the respectability of daylight bombing, and it had implied some kind of day-night cooperation between the R.A.F. and the A.A.F. It had not, however, stipulated specific programs or methods of cooperation between the British and the Americans, nor did it list specific targets, how or in what order they should be attacked, or by whom. The vagueness of the Casablanca document didn’t bother the British because Harris, at Bomber Command, already knew exactly what he wanted to do; he was already doing it—attacking German industry by bombing its workers in their homes at night. What this meant was the destruction of Germa