Portugal to England.  Sorly after the U.S. entered the war, Gen, Carl Spaatz had been The fact that the new 8th Air Force Bomber Commander and staff  appointed commander ofthe new 8th Air Force, When Genera had to reach England by way of Pan American Clipper to Portugal, Arnold called Eaker int is Washington office January 18,1942, to then a Dutch airliner to London, was a measure of the U.S. Air announce that be was to organize the Sh Bomber Command in Force’s shortage of equipment in early 1942. Eaker could have flown ingland, Ealer was astonished because he was ot a bomberman, himself to England, but there wasn’t an airplane to spare. During a “Teen in fighters all my fe,” he reinded Aro two-day layover in neutral Lisbon while awaiting their KLM flight,  “That's why Tchose you,” Ammold sai. “I want you to put the Eaker and his men had to get accustomed to the strange experience of  ihr spt in or boner fo." rubbing elbows with Germans, their enemies, in the Metropole Hotel Amol asohad some advice for ake hat day abou electing lobby and restaurant. The night before they left Lisbon, their baggage  sf Because the Air Force was sl small a month er Pea had been ransacked, convincing them that the Germans knew who ror, and because th ar was lage, Aroha vey few fist they were. This realization added suspense to the flight. Adolf Hitler  Clas ce cero spr He sugested hat ker ek ou some might not hesitate to have a Dutch airliner shot down if he knew that cians who were wing (jon the Ai Fre the newly appointed American bomber commander and staff were  an easily take smart civilian and make him into a smart aboard cfficer,” Amold observed, “but you can’t take a dumb officer and The Dutch plane, a Douglas DC-3, had been airborne about a  make him a smart office, So you tind youl some smart cvs half-hour when Eaker noticed that it was turning in acircle. Surprised  and commision them ft at this maneuver, he walked forward to the cockpit where the pilot February 20, 1942—eleve