, the recovery rate was fairly high.  The prospects were not so bright for a second lieutenant copilot who had grown up as a typical all-American boy. Raised in Illinois, he had been a high-school football player who liked people and took a job in a soda fountain so he *‘could talk to everyone.’’ He was a good flier and during his training liked to fly until, toward the end of transition school, he became acutely aware that he was on his way to combat. Having heard rumors about high casualty rates, he rapidly lost his enthusiasm for the glamorous life of an Air Force pilot. As his alarm increased, he requested transfer to noncombat flying. The Air Force did not look sympathetically upon such requests from men it had just spent $50,000 to train as combat pilots. He was sent to England as a frightened copilot who was destined to become more so  On his first mission he was appalled when he saw how tight the formations were. He had never flown that close to another plane, and he didn’t intend to do so. Looking up at the open bomb-bay doors of a B-17 just above and just ahead, he became convinced he was about to be bombed. He grabbed the control away from the pilot and swerved so violently that their plane fell out of formation  The pilot was amazingly cool about this erratic behavior. After resuming control and attaching the plane to another group, he patiently explained how important it was to fly tight formations in combat. The copilot’s reaction to that opinion was to get drunk as soon as they returned home and stay drunk as long as possible. But drinking didn’t help. Ten days later, on his second mission, he was sober enough to observe that the fools around him were still flying too  247  close together. He made such a scene about this that his pilot again had trouble managing the aircraft. When the copilot announced after this mission that he didn’t want to fly any more of them, none of his fellow crew members tried to talk him into it. Neither did the flight surge