ounced and hit the ground again. He was just beginning to lose speed when a dike loomed up ahead of him. Unable to avoid it, he sped straight into it, bracing himself to await the worst. After a crunching crash there was silence. He looked around and discovered he was still alive. Unfastening the seat belt, he leaped out of the plane and examined himself. He was undamaged except for a cut on his right arm. As for the plane, nothing was left intact except the tail wheel  When the Third Division approached the Aachen area, where it was supposed to rendezvous with its homeward fighter escort, there were no P-47s in sight. They had all been grounded by more bad weather in England—an unhappy omen for the returning bombers. Instead of American fighters, more barrages of German flak greeted the lead plane of Colonel Old. Having been hit twice by flak today, his plane was not likely to be hit again. The odds against being hit even once by flak were fairly heavy. German fighters accounted for the great majority of B-17 casualties. To take three serious flak bursts on the same mission would almost indicate some kind of fatal attrac- tion for it. Yet this was what awaited Old and his crew as they neared Aachen. A heavy barrage knocked out two of their engines (No. 2 and No. 3) at the same time. The plane dropped out of formation and lost two hundred feet in a matter of moments, before Maj. Tom Kenny,  318  waved goodbye to his companions. Ten chutes appeare utes later a Fortress from the 96A Group dived earthwa  aged to crash land with FW-190s still firing at it. Three 1‘  that, another from the 96th went down a few miles sot burg. At the same time, the 390th Group, which had not now lost its first. And also at the same time, 3:24 P.M.,  division.  About twenty-five miles ahead of the Third Division, enjoying a relatively calm flight toward France with fighters pestering it. These fighters did bring down one  Group Fortress, however, within the German border abc | | miles east