safe in ap- proaching the Fortress.)  The surviving fighters slid quickly out of range. When they closed  15  in again it was not to fly formation. The stricken B-17 now took salvo after salvo of cannon shells. In less than a minute it was so hopelessly riddled that someone rang the bail-out bell. Warsaw did not know who had rung it. Through all the action, he hadn’t heard another word from the pilot or copilot. Perhaps they were both dead  Giving bombardier Edwin Tobin a bang on the shoulder to make sure he had heard the bell, Warsaw crawled along a little catwalk that led to an escape hatch under the pilot’s compartment. He was wearing a small parachute in a chest harness. With a reflex action, he opened the hatch and fell out. As he floated to earth, the plane from which he had escaped was shattered by explosions, yet three more men emerged in parachutes before it plunged toward the ground. Tobin, who was one of them, had been thrown out of the plane by an explosion  Warsaw, hanging from his parachute, felt a draft from the rear and became aware not only that the seat of his flying suit had been blown away but also that his buttocks were beginning to sting, apparently from shrapnel wounds. He didn’t think the wounds could be very serious if it had taken this long to notice them. Anyhow, they didn’t constitute his most immediate concern. On the roads below him he could see crowds of Germans, probably angry at the bombing of their cities, awaiting his arrival. Two weeks earlier he himself had dropped a loose bomb on Aachen, not far from here. He hoped no one had dropped any bombs in this area today.  Because Warsaw's parachute was so small, making his descent too rapid for safety, his concern about a possible lynching ended the moment he hit the ground. The hard impact knocked him out. When he regained consciousness a few minutes later, he was surrounded by uniformed Gestapo men. They had kept the angry mob at bay, but when he realized they were members of Hitler’s