the machinery looked as if it much of the lost production could be restored unless the Americans could be repaired. He returned to Schafer and said so. kept renewing their attacks. That was the most important question Polebrook, about At this heartening assessment, Schafer suddenly shook off his would the Americans hit Schweinfurt again? If so, when and how mith and his crew, depression and became once more the dynamic German entrepreneur often? One consideration comforted Speer. He believed the Ameri- t the previous day, who had made Kugelfischer the large company it was. Leaping to his cans had made a grave mistake in dividing their forces, sending only 2y had no reason to feet he said, *‘Well then, let’s do it!”’ slightly more than half their planes to Schweinfurt while the othershit »r the entire 351st There was still a question of exactly what to do. Even if they were the Messerschmitt plant at Regensburg. This plan indicated tohima the group’s planes to restore the whole factory completely, it might be bombed again, flaw in American strategic thinking. If the Americans had attacked day, even though and more disastrously the next time. The entire plant could not be only Schweinfurt, he would have been much more concerned be- own B-17, perfo- moved, but certain critical elements, like the ball machines, should cause it would have indicated that they really knew what they were 1nately, neither he be elsewhere. Schafer was already building a branch facility near the doing. But while he understood their desire to knock out German town of Eltmann, thirty miles east of Schweinfurt. As many of the fighter production, it seemed to him that if they had realized the full_<s when a sergeant ball machines as possible should be taken there. When? Right now importance of ball bearings, they would have concentrated their aptain, you’ve got Schafer was not willing to wait even until morning. He ordered the entire force upon Schweinfurt. Since they apparently hadn't consid- Orm