perhaps fifty FW-190s, had been lost. Thereupon, life had become easier for Castle at Bury St. Edmunds. He had won a lot of respect, and the 94th Group records were steadily improving.  Lt. Ted Winslow, the 91st Group bombardier who had been shot down in Belgium August 17 and had broken his leg parachuting into a beet field, was still at large in early October, protected by members of the Belgian underground.!7? The day after he landed, a doctor had come to the farm where he was hidden and had set his leg. Whenever the farmer heard motorcycle sounds, indicating the German police might be coming, his two daughters jumped into bed with Winslow, one on each side, tenting up the covers to make it look as if they were the only ones in the bed.  After three days Winslow had been taken to another house, then another in the town of Flobecque. The man there, fearing Winslow might be a German posing as an American, asked him where he was from in the United States. Winslow said Springfield, Massachusetts. What was the population there? Winslow wasn’t sure, but he had better come close because the man was looking it up in an atlas. Winslow said, ‘‘About 100,000.”’ It was close enough to satisfy the man. (He must have had an old atlas. The 1940 population of Springfield was actually 148,000.)  Eventually Winslow was moved to a house in Wannebecq, where he still remained. His leg was healed now. He could move if he wished, but where would he go? Belgium was full of German secret police, looking for downed American fliers and the people who were hiding them.  Winslow’s old buddies in the 91st Group at Bassingbourn, who had led the August 17 mission against Schweinfurt and had lost ten planes including Winslow’s in the process, were very much aware of  278  the possibility that they might have to go back there, and they didn’t like the idea. Schweinfurt still stood out as the supreme symbol of horror in the entire 8th Air Force. Even new men who had arrived since August shuddered a