hat they were in danger of colliding, not only with the B-17s but also with each other. The twin-engine ME-110s and ME-210s lobbed rockets into the formation, emptying their entire arsenals before retiring. The Stukas climbed safely above the Fortresses and dropped time-fused bombs among them. The ME-109s and FW-190s sped in from front and rear, firing 20-mm cannons, rockets, and machine guns  294  planes around them that they looked as if they were on a milk-run mission. But one person on the ground below could tell this was not so. Lt. Ted Winslow, still at large since Aug. 17 and still being hidden by the Belgian Resistance in a house at Wannebecgq, heard the unmistakable drone of B-17 engines from the northwest and looked out the dining-room window at the approaching armada. '!8 Where was it going? Though he didn’t know, he could tell by its size that it was on a major mission. Was it returning to Schweinfurt? This was the route to Schweinfurt, but it was also the route to several other important German targets. The B-17s, to keep the Germans in sus- pense as long as possible, almost always took an indirect route to their destination. Winslow couldn’t even guess where they might be going today. He knew only that if they continued on their present route, they were in for trouble. He had traveled that way himself, and he sympathized with the men in the planes. Many of them would not come back. Yet as he watched those Fortresses, a shiver of thrills went through him. They were a beautiful sight, moving through the clear sky in solid formations, with P-47s cruising above them and long white vapor trails spreading out behind them  293  Tt was shorty after 1:00 P, when the P-47s, now lowon uel, had to, abandon the B-17s ofthe First Division between Aachen and Dien Moments later the German fighters moved in like snarling beats  relesed from their cages, The sky around th bombers filed up fs  ME-109s, FW190s, ME-110s, ME-210s,JU-88s, and even Stuka dive bombers. They ha