lings other than those having to do with combat. No values existed other than those meaningful in combat.*’  Among the majority of men, the greatest tension occurred between briefing and takeoff, especially if the weather was bad and they had to await a decision about whether the mission was on or off. Surprising- ly, while the men were sweating out these decisions, most of them preferred to go rather than stay. They would rather face the German guns than return to their barracks with nothing accomplished. This  245  observation by the psychiatrists confirmed a belief held by General Eaker that canceled missions were more damaging to morale than difficult missions. Canceled missions delayed the completion of a man’s tour of duty and his return to the States.  After takeoff and the entry to enemy territory, tensions usually decreased and many men were almost relaxed during actual combat, perhaps because they were too busy to think about what they were doing. These same men might suffer violently from ‘‘the shakes’’ after the mission, when they began to think about things that almost happened to them. There were also a few men, a very few, who were never conscious of fear. Such men, psychiatrists decided, were not without fear but were able to convert it into aggression.  A small minority tended to freeze at the height of combat, forget- ting their assignments and giving way to nausea, tremors, or diarrhea. One copilot, after seeing his pilot killed, put his arms over his eyes and ignored the controls. A gunner, on the wing of a plane ditched in the Channel, leaped into water covered with flaming gasoline when he could have scrambled over to the other side of the fuselage where there was no fire on the water. But the kind of man who experienced his emotional breakdown in action was rare. Most of the breakdowns came gradually, after an accumulation of difficult experiences or a period of brooding apprehension.  One first lieutenant, a pilot who ‘‘broke down’’ during “‘