d impossible of fulfillment, especially if the 8th Air Force was to receive the planes it would need. Churchill’s apparent approval of Marshall’s 1942 (or 1943 at the latest) second-front plans gave Arnold an opportunity to slide out with a modicum of grace from a commitment he was physically unable to keep. Every possible plane would now have to be saved in preparation for the invasion. Arnold’s April 16 letter to Portal, regretting that the British would have to “carry most of the fight to the enemy until the fall,’’ was a prepara- tion for this bad news and a hint of more to come  On May 26, Arnold himself arrived in London (accompanied by Rear Adm. John H. Towers, the U.S. Navy air chief, and Maj. Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, newly appointed chief of the U.S. Army operations section) to acquaint the British with the aircraft allocation quotas they would have to accept. The fact that Arnold’s nickname was ‘‘Hap’’ or ‘‘Happy”’ and that almost all of his photographs showed him with a wonderously open, pleasant smile on his face did  125  not mean he was an easy man to get around or even an easy man with whom to get along. Undeniably engaging aswell as intelligent, he offen used a combination of personal magnetism and warm perua- sion to get what he Wanted, And his powers of persuasion had been proven by the fact hat sinc assuming direction ofthe Army Air Corps in 1989, he had raised its status to thal of Army Air Forces, with vital independence fom the rst ofthe Ari. He had alo managed in that time to wheedle billions of dlls in Air Force appropriations ftom Congress, Under his command, the slow moving, impoverished, eihten-housand-man peacetime Air Corps wasithe process of becoming the largest airforce the world had ever Seen,  But Armold hadn't accomplished all of ths merely by using his persuasive charm. Despite a condition that resulted in high blood pressure and required him to hold down his rate of heartbeat by use of 4 special medicine, he was energetic, restl