vy bombers with which they hoped to retaliate against England and even the United States, but it did stimulate some increase in fighter production. And more immediately, it brought back to Germany some front-line fighter groups. The result was that the American bombers on August 17 faced many more fighters than they would have faced a month earlier  While Speer was awaiting more information about the Schweinfurt attack, Hitler, by early evening, had already heard enough about it to fill him full of wrath. If that many American bombers had been able to fly all the way across Germany to attack a city in Bavaria, there must be something wrong with his fighters. It didn’t matter how many B-17s had been shot down. The important fact was that almost two hundred of them had survived to drop their bombs. Four days earlier, when the Americans bombed the Focke-Wulf fighter factory at Wiener Neustadt, Hitler had severely scolded the Luftwaffe chief of staff, Gen. Hans Jeschonnek. Now he summoned Jeschonnek once more and intensified his castigation. Though Jeschonnek may have felt that Goering, the Luftwaffe commander in chief, was the man to whom Hitler should be talking, he nevertheless accepted the abuse.  That night, the British struck another heavy blow against Germany and the Luftwaffe in a successful attack against the highly secret  80.  ball-bearing shortage was threatened. Ever since he had assumed the enormous responsibilities of his present job eighteen months before, he had been worried about the ball-bearing situation. It seemed to him that ball-bearing production was one of four or five areas of endeavor in which the German war effort was crucially vulnerable. The others were oil production, synthetic rubber, chemicals, and communica- tions. If the allied air attacks were to be concentrated on any one of these industrial sectors, Germany’s ability to make war might be  decisively curtailed.  The ball-bearing industry was even more vulnerable than the others becau