he Schweinfurt mission, this long journey to Africa where he had never before been, the added responsibility of piloting the 8th Air Force commanding general, and the fact that it was now almost twenty-four hours since he had slept had brought him almost to exhaustion. But it seemed obvious that Eaker was ina hurry. Smith asked the mechanics to check his bad engine. Unable to find anything organically wrong with it, they simply filled it with oil and wished him luck. Less than three hours after landing at Marrakesh, Spare- ball took off again, east across the top of the Sahara  Several times as the plane droned through the sunny sky, Smith felt himself on the verge of falling asleep at the controls. The desert air was so warm, especially for men accustomed to England’s chilly climate, that Eaker opened the waist-gun windows to catch the breeze. When they landed near Tunis, at the end of another eight- hour flight, Elliott Roosevelt, the President’s son, who had become a brigadier general in command of a reconnaissance unit, was on hand to meet them. In two staff cars, Roosevelt took Eaker and his aides to the headquarters of General Spaatz, Eaker’s old friend and one-time 8th Air Force superior, with whom he now wanted to confer. At last, it looked as if Smith and his crew would have time to eat and sleep. But the mess hall at this desert base was closed. A sympathetic sergeant finally took them to a tent where they found a gallon can of marmalade, several loaves of bread, and some fruit juice.  They were still spreading marmalade on big chunks of bread when someone drove up from the flight line and shouted, *‘Hey, you guys, get back to your plane. They want you to take them to Telergma.””  It was well into dusk when Smith and his crew returned to their plane to find General Eaker awaiting them with a sizable party. In addition to his own aides, he had with him General Spaatz, General James Doolittle (commander of the Twelfth Air Force), General Roosevelt, and Colon