ll more, in the rear, came up from slightly below. The sky was crisscrossed with orange tracer bullets from the B-17 machine guns and dotted with 20-mm.-cannon puffs from German fighters, which  %  sometimes came as close as fifty yards to their bomber targets before peeling off to avoid collisions. Sometimes they turned too late and the air would be filled momentarily with the debris of shattered bombers, fighters, and men.  At 10:41, about ten minutes after the departure of the fighter escort, one squadron of twelve ME-109s and another of eleven FW-190s approached the rear combat wing from six o’clock low, pulled ahead, and then after a 180-degree climbing turn, attacked head-on. As these fighters ripped through the bombers, a few Ger- man planes were hit by B-17 machine-gun bullets, but four of the bombers—one in the 95th Group and three in the 100th, the entire second element of Major Gale *‘Buck’’ Cleven’s 350th Squadron— broke into flames and fell out of formation.  The copilot in one of these planes, apparently dazed by a shell explosion, climbed onto the right wing through a gaping hole the shell had torn in the side of the fuselage. He was not wearing his parachute. As if he were just now realizing this lack, he reached back into the plane, but it was too late. The slip stream swept him off the wing and dashed him against the tail. No one else emerged from the plane, which nosed upward two hundred feet into a stall, then exploded into thousands of scraps of metal and flesh.  Colonel Lay, sitting helplessly in his copilot seat (beside the Piccadilly Lily pilot, Lt. Thomas E. Murphy), was unable to do anything but watch as the great battle continued across the skies of western Germany. He was benumbed by the sight of airplanes plum- meting to earth, followed more slowly by clusters of parachutes, German yellow mingled with the American white. He became aware of all the uncomfortable things happening to him. His mouth was going dry; his stomach seemed to be fr