ady, would it not be sensible to send over every available plane immediately and let the British crews fly them?  This was a difficult plea to ignore because at the Washington Conference in December, right after the American entry into the war, General Arnold had agreed with Portal that the R.A.F. should receive ten thousand American airplanes (of all types) in 1942. But that quota, because of the alarming Japanese advances in the Pacific, now seemed impossible of fulfillment, especially if the 8th Air Force was to receive the planes it would need. Churchill’s apparent approval of Marshall’s 1942 (or 1943 at the latest) second-front plans gave Arnold an opportunity to slide out with a modicum of grace from a commitment he was physically unable to keep. Every possible plane would now have to be saved in preparation for the invasion. Arnold’s April 16 letter to Portal, regretting that the British would have to “carry most of the fight to the enemy until the fall,”’ was a prepara- tion for this bad news and a hint of more to come  On May 26, Arnold himself arrived in London (accompanied by Rear Adm. John H. Towers, the U.S. Navy air chief, and Maj. Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, newly appointed chief of the U.S. Army operations section) to acquaint the British with the aircraft allocation quotas they would have to accept. The fact that Arnold’s nickname was ‘‘Hap’’ or ‘‘Happy’’ and that almost all of his photographs showed him with a wonderously open, pleasant smile on his face did  125  not mean he was an easy man to get around or even an easy man with whom to get along. Undeniably engaging as well as intelligent, he often used a combination of personal magnetism and warm persua- sion to get what he wanted. And his powers of persuasion had been proven by the fact that since assuming direction of the Army Air Corps in 1939, he had raised its status to that of Army Air Forces, with virtual independence from the rest of the Army. He had also managed in that time to wheedle b