e Command base in Berkshire. Every American fighter pilot was now aware of what the Merlin-Mustang could do, and everyone wanted to fly the plane. Did the sudden appearance of this one mean that others were coming to replace the P-47s?  On November 4, a new fighter group, the 354th, which had been bound for the Mediterranean but was detached to the 8th as a result of Arnold’s decision, arrived at Greenham Common. Most of these men, fresh out of training, had never flown anything ‘‘hotter’’ than the Bell P-39, a pretty little fighter that was used for training because it had proved inadequate for front-line duty. The young pilots of the 354th expected to be put into P-47s when they arrived in England. It was with happy astonishment that they learned that they were  341  going to fly the P-S1B. The 354th would soon make its debut as the first Mustang group in the European theater. After a month of transition training, it would begin the ‘‘primary task’? Eaker had already assigned it: ‘‘to accompany and protect our bombers.”*  While these 8th Air Force rookies were learning to handle their new planes, an 8th Air Force veteran, who had been at large in German-held Europe since he was shot down October 14, was mak- ing his way slowly toward Spain. S. Sgt. Peter Seniawsky of the 384th Bomb Group, having parachuted into Germany sixty-five miles east of Metz, was now in France.’ He had traveled south through Dijon, Lyons, and Avignon to Narbonne, sometimes walk- ing, sometimes taking trains, helped along by knowing Frenchmen or by conscripted Polish farmworkers, whose language he had learned from his own parents in New York  At Narbonne, a French conductor helped him catch a train for Perpignan, about thirty miles above the Spanish border. Arriving at Perpignan about midnight, he slept in the station until dawn, then walked south into the Pyrenees, trying to avoid German patrols. At dusk he reached the crest of a ridge and saw a town far across a valley From a hermit with w