onths of next year for us to send a thousand bombers over Hamburg one night, for the Americans to follow up with 500 or 600 bombers the following day and, if the weather is kind, for us to follow up witha large force of heavy bombers the next night—and then to go on bombing one city after another in Germany on that scale Ifit fails, it will at least do a lot of damage to the German fighter force in the process. . . .  The American Air Force in this country are determined to try out this theory. They are not irresolute; they are being hampered by diversions of their best trained crews to ‘“Torch’’ and by the slow arrival of their bomber squadrons. Already, however, they have got as far as Lorient outside the shelter of our fighter cover, and bombed their target with astonishing accuracy. . . . Itis their firm intention to drop bombs on Germany in daylight next month. It would be a tragedy if we were to frustrate them on the eve of this great experiment.  To ally ourselves with the American Navy against General  169  Spaatz and General Eaker and the United States Air Force in this country, and to force them into diverting their highly trained crews to scaring U-boats instead of to the bombing of Germany would be disastrous. It would weaken and alienate the very forces in the United States on which we depend for support in a European as distinct from a Pacific strategy.  Air Chief Marshal Harris, possibly alerted by Sinclair, Portal, or both, wrote a letter to Churchill the same day on the same subject. The bomber commander, a man who had never been afraid to speak up to anyone, virtually belabored the Prime Minister for some of the things he was ‘‘alleged’’ to have said recently. Like Sinclair, Harris began with some instruction about the military/political situation in the United States:  My American friends are despondent  They foresee the success of efforts by the U.S. Army, and particularly the U.S. Navy, to get them off bombing France and, thereafter, keep them o