aff to fly missions, and he himself had flown the very first one because, as he explained in a directive on the subject, he felt that the men in command should be ‘‘cognizant of the problems facing combat crews and sympathetic with their effort.’”!!  Fear was one of those problems. And Eaker, though his whole career had disciplined him never to show it, was well acquainted with it. But the fear he dreaded most was not the physical fear of being killed on a mission. During twenty-five years as a flier, he had often come close to death, and such crises had simply spurred him to action. He might afterward feel shaken momentarily and perhaps even suffer nightmares for a brief period, but the results of physical fear never lasted very long, and the fact that he could take action against its cause was helpful in overcoming it.  What Eaker detested more intensely was a kind of fear against which no physical action would avail, a mental fear arising from awesome responsibility.!2 He was aware of two kinds of mental fear a general had to keep under control. While he had come to terms with a commander’s grim necessity to make decisions that would cost men’s lives, he had not yet overcome the fear of making a decision that would squander lives. Nor had he overcome the fear of doing some- thing that would contribute to the failure of an important operation. Such fears could keep him awake at night, thinking of alternatives. Had he left anything unlearned or undone that would improve the  12  perienced Americans that they should discard their perilous daylight ambitions and join the R.A.F. in its night raids.  It was now more than a year since B-17 groups began arriving in England to start operations. Today in fact was the anniversary of the 8th Air Force’s first mission of the war—a mission on which Eaker himself had flown. But the early missions had been against German targets in France and the Low Countries, not into Germany itself. And while British authorities had been tact