y wrote to their wives and sweethearts were often sexier. Fantasy was rampant in the G.I. mind. Almost all of them had pictures in their wallets of girls back home, but on their walls they had pictures of Rita Hayworth, Betty Grable, or Jane Russell. On the noses of their B-17s they had drawings or paintings of imaginary girls, as naked as their commanders would allow, with  27  names like ‘‘Miss Behavin’,’’ ‘‘Ima Vailable,’’ or ‘‘Any-Time Annie.””  Some twenty-three hundred of these young American fliers were waiting at the nine First Bombardment Wing bases as the morning of August 17 dragged on and the fog hung low. Clad in their heavy, sheep-lined leather suits, they sat in their planes or sprawled on grass nearby, smoking, joking, or griping—about the war, about the Air Force, about the British weather. Some were eating—chocolate bars from the Post Exchange or fruits or doughnuts from the mess hall. But appetites were not high on a morning like this. Some crew members went off by themselves for a few minutes to vomit away their breakfasts and at least a bit of their nervousness. If and when the weather lifted and the planes began to take off, some other airmen would wet their pants in fear, but these men, too, would be on the planes when they left the ground. An already bemedaled bombardier in the 91st was known throughout the group for his inability to control his bladder just before a mission; he was equally well known for being one of the calmest and bravest men in the air when the fighting began  One young man at Bassingbourn, twenty-two-year-old Lt. David Williams (not related to the general), spent the waiting hours careful- ly studying aeronautical charts and aerial photographs of the Schweinfurt area.4 He was to be the navigator on the task force’s lead ship, the man responsible for directing the whole formation precisely to its target, deep within Germany, four hundred miles away. Born in Chicago, Illinois, and raised in Valparaiso, Indiana, Williams ha