d be able to find the place after the Americans set it afire. But Harris was still not interested. His mind was on another very important target—the German secret-weapon research laboratory and factory at Peenemiinde on the Baltic. He said later, ‘‘I knew very well that the Germans were preparing all sorts of secret weapons against England, and that these would give us a very bad time indeed unless we could get the enemy down first and destroy his industries.’’8  Among these destroyable industries, Harris did not include the ball-bearing factories at Schweinfurt. He referred to most of the so-called ‘‘bottleneck’’ industries as ‘‘panacea targets’’ and spoke contemptuously of the hope that the destruction of any one industry, however essential, would paralyze Germany. He didn’t believe in attacking ‘‘panacea targets’’ because he didn’t believe there were such things. He was convinced the Germans had stockpiled indis- pensable supplies and that the target experts had gone ‘‘completely mad’’ in their enthusiasm for bombing the ball-bearing plants at Schweinfurt. But while he expressed this feeling to the men around him, he did not dwell on it with General Eaker. Harris knew that Eaker was irrevocably committed to bombing just such targets as Schweinfurt.  The planning for Schweinfurt was in progress when Eaker realized that a more immediate necessity had arisen. The German aircraft industry had expanded its capacity and was turning out so many fighter planes that it posed an almost prohibitive threat to his bomb- ers. The B-17s would have little hope of success against targets like Schweinfurt unless they first managed to pinch off the supply of the fighters that were giving them so much trouble.  Intelligence reports indicated that two factories were then produc- ing 48 percent of all Germany’s fighters—the Messerschmitt assem- bly plant at Regensburg and the Focke-Wulf plant at Wiener Neustadt in Austria, thirty miles south of Vienna. Unfortunately, both of these pla