hutes appeared. Ten min- utes later a Fortress from the 96A Group dived earthward and man- aged to crash land with FW-190s still firing at it. Three minutes after that, another from the 96th went down a few miles south of Wiirz- burg. At the same time, the 390th Group, which had not lost a plane, now lost its first. And also at the same time, 3:24 p.M., the 94th lost another. During this one minute, three B-17s had fallen out of the division.  About twenty-five miles ahead of the Third Division, the First was enjoying a relatively calm flight toward France with only a few fighters pestering it. These fighters did bring down one more 384th Group Fortress, however, within the German border about sixty-five miles east of Metz. S. Sgt. Peter Seniawsky, a waist gunner on this plane, landed by parachute in a field, and when five German farmers came looking for him with shotguns, he managed to hide from them in a ditch. German soldiers then arrived to look for him. He managed, by crawling through weeds and high grass, to avoid them also. But for how long could he do so? And what was the point of even trying? Weren’t they certain to catch him eventually? Seniawsky didn’t think so. The 384th Group Intelligence officer, Maj. William E. ‘‘Pop’’ Dolan, himself a flier in the Lafayette Escadrille during World War I, had told the crew members that if they were shot down and had a chance to escape, it was their duty to do so. Though Dolan might not think that a predicament like Seniawsky’s present one offered much of a ‘‘chance to escape,’’ Seniawsky had taken him seriously and did not intend to surrender. At nightfall, he would figure out the most direct route to France and start walking.  At the German airbase near Bonn, Lt. Heinz Knoke was still chafing because his plane had been damaged in an engagement with the Fortresses on their way to Schweinfurt. Now that they were on their way back, he decided that despite the broken spar in the left wing of his ME-109, he would go up an