rotracted periods of combat and would therefore succumb finally to the neces- sity of urinating where they sat, sometimes returned to England with frozen backs, buttocks, and thighs.  The heavy, leather sheep-lined flying suits were cumbersome and not warm enough to keep crewmen comfortable. But no more than two or three key men in each crew could wear electric suits. En- gineers had determined that the plane’s generators couldn’t safely handle a heavier load. And those who wore electric suits wished they hadn’t when the wires burned out (sometimes through lack of proper  243  care) after a few missions. The electric gloves that many gunners wore were especially annoying. They were hooked to electric boots by a single wire, and if one glove or boot went dead, so did the whole assembly. When a doctor asked one man why his right hand was frozen, he said it was because ‘‘my Goddam left boot burned out.’” When a gun jammed in such low temperatures, the gunner would have to remove his heavy gloves to work on it. Then he would have to work fast because the metal, even if overheated from firing, soon became cold enough to freeze his fingers on touch.  Shortage of oxygen, besides being a menace in itself, also made a man more susceptible to frostbite. In one B-17, a flak fragment shattered the plexiglass nose and perforated the oxygen mask of the navigator without, however, injuring him. Unaware of his danger, he soon lost consciousness, a fact that was not discovered until an hour or so later when the plane reached home base. Six weeks later, this man’s hands, feet, ears, and nose had to be amputated, and his frozen eyeballs had fallen out of their sockets. Flight surgeons had become accustomed to seeing men come in with hands and feet that were white at first, ‘‘became red and swollen in a few hours, purple and macerated in a few days, then black and dry.’’ One man who suffered a head wound on a mission, was saved from death by a quick-thinking buddy who gave him rapid fi