the 95th in‘combat maintenance requirements, and the few pilots still in the 92nd flew as instructors on the 95th’s practice missions. They found the inexperienced rookies so cocky that the hardest thing to teach them was respect for their German enemies. Each new group arriving from America seemed to be imbued with the notion that the war would soon be under control now that they were on the scene. This was undoubtedly a healthier attitude than shivering fear, but it was an attitude the Germans would soon take out of them. When these youngsters began to realize what kind of war they were entering, they would indeed be sorry.  The ground echelon of the 95th, which arrived in Scotland May 11 on the Queen Elizabeth and went directly by truck to Framlingham (another temporary base), absorbed a quicker, more direct lesson in the kind of war they were entering. On their first night at Framling- ham the sirens wailed at midnight. Anybody who didn’t know enough to jump out of bed immediately and run outside to find the nearest ditch was soon rousted out by a German bomb that hit a mess hall and blew open the doors of several Nissen huts. No one was hurt. From the safety of whatever muddy ditches they could find, the boys of the 95th watched their first dogfight as British Spitfires went after the German bombers.3  The air echelon of the 379th Group under Col. Maurice Preston arrived April 24 at Bovingdon, where they remained for a month of training before transferring to Chelveston, then to their permanent base at Kimbolton. For Lt. Edwin Millson, one of the group’s four original squadron bombardiers, this was the first opportunity to visit his grandmother.* Both of Millson’s parents had emigrated from  212  dough The a they « awkw free-s men, only t and o good-  Brit Howe Ameri Germ: about unvoi: Britis! were had sf behav times establ they ¢ sibilit Yanke a me develc  Ear Hunti After 92nd the in devise most cours¢ side t enthu: groun Frano  London to Seattle, where his fa