there might be some in Washington. He was sensitive to the importance of arming Arnold against it. The letter with which he immediately followed his radio- gram had the obvious purpose of shoring up Arnold’s support and staving off criticism:  I have, within the past half-hour, seen the first strike photos of yesterday’s attack on Schweinfurt, and I shall be surprised if it is not classed as one of the best bombing efforts yet. Unless the strike photos are very deceiving, we shall find that the three ball-bearing factories at Schweinfurt are out of business for a long, long time  I received an hour ago your personal cable to me regarding the German Air Force. I see exactly what is in your mind. I feel there is much evidence pointing in the direction you are inquiring. Yester- day’s effort was not, as might at first appear, contrary thereto. I class it pretty much as the last final struggles of a monster in his death throes. There is not the slightest question but that we now have our teeth in the Hun Air Force’s neck.  Before concluding, he again pleaded with Arnold to help him put more bite into those teeth. ‘‘Nothing is more critical to our big battle here than the early arrival of P-38s and P-5S1s, and particularly the earliest possible delivery of three to five thousand 100- and 150-  333  gallon auxiliary droppable tanks for fighters.’’ Eaker’s plea to lengthen the range of his fighters in one way or another had been a recurring feature of his correspondence with Amold for several months. Now it had become a desperate prayer.  In Washington on the 15th, President Roosevelt replied to a press conference question about the staggering losses at Schweinfurt with his usual political delicacy but without his usual clarity. He said the 8th Air Force could not afford to lose sixty bombers every day; then hastened to add it was not losing that many. He noted that Germany's apparent loss of one hundred fighters did not involve as great a crew loss as when sixty bombers w