hich they seemed to accept most of he development of his unit.7 But the next It meeting with Chaney’s quartermaster, h plan of feeding standard English rations \ousing them in tents without heat. Eaker itish quartermasters should make such a ‘ished that Chaney’s staff had accepted it bitter, with snow and ice on the ground aircrews spent their first wet, frigid night ip to find that they had to eat British food, ig him instead of the Germans. The ques- tions, he said, should be held in abeyance 1 field inspection. Chaney’s quartermaster ts agreed  10w it, he was destined to get help in this R.A.F. Commander Air Chief Marshal Sir ed himself to this very subject on January \orandum: ‘‘I am sure that the American \ conditions in the U.S.A. to the wartime will feel the difference very sharply, and visable to put at their disposal the best and stations that we can manage to give them. . accustomed to living in very high temp- very real hardship to put them into stations and inadequate heating.’’®  andum was felt at operational levels, the 3 was settled. The British were ready to n the same Nissen huts with pot-bellied ed their own airmen.  ir first visit to British Bomber Command ow brick buildings and underground shel- ar High Wycombe) on the afternoon of -asantly surprised to learn that Air Chief  100  passed block after block of disorderly brick piles, sheared-off walls, and twisted, broken roofs of what had once been houses. Pieces of charred furniture, soot-marked toilets, and still-standing brick fire- places arose out of the pitiable debris to demand attention. London- ers, long-since accustomed to the devastation, seemed hardly to notice it as they walked through these streets. Their famous **bob- bies’’ were wearing steel helmets, and every few blocks Eaker’s party would see middle-aged men in fire-warden’s uniforms  The London into which these American officers had arrived was suffering all the rigors of a city under siege. The war was felt not only in these va