e conclusion that the American contribution to it was likely to be almost worthless. In a letter to Portal (November 2, 1942), he bluntly said so, citing some of Portal’s earlier words to strengthen his points:  The number of American Air Force personnel [in England] has risen to about fifty-five thousand So far the results have been pitifully small. . . . Far from dropping bombs on Germany, the daylight bombers have not ventured beyond Lille. Twenty-one bombing raids have been carried out on France and two on Hol- land, and in almost every case they have required very strong British Fighter escort. . . . The claims of the Fortresses are prob- ably exaggerated three fold (see minute from C.A.S. [Portal] attached). A reasonable estimate is that they have actually shot down twenty-eight enemy aircraft for the loss of eight Fortresses and one Liberator. Not a bomb has been dropped on Germany  Meanwhile the American public has been led to believe that a teally serious contribution has been made by the American Air Force. It is not for us to undeceive them, but there can be no doubt that they will find out for themselves before very long. . . . Con- sidering the American professional interests and high reputations which are engaged in this scheme, and the shock it would be to the American people and to the Administration if the policy proved a glaring failure, we must expect most obstinate perseverance in this method. . . . [That] leaves us in the position that for many months ahead large numbers of American Air personnel will be here  173  playing very little part in the war and, what is much graver, American Air production will be cast ever more deeply into an unprofitable groove.  The difficulties which confront the American planes are most serious. The first is the danger of running out of ammunition and thus becoming easy prey. . . . What would happen if the Fortress ran out of ammunition would be a massacre. The accuracy of their bombing depends upon their not bein