ounded by flak, these clusters of bombs would have fallen two or three minutes earlier, upon factories rather than houses.  As the last American planes turned west for home, explosions rocked the entire Schweinfurt area and fires were spreading in all directions. Despite the fierce and heroic resistance of 300 German fighters, General Williams’s armada had reached its target and 182 Fortresses had dropped about 420 tons of bombs—235 1,000-pound and 719 500-pound high explosives plus more than 1,000 British- made 250-pound incendiaries. An umbrella of smoke covered the city  A half-hour earlier, Schweinfurt had been one of Germany’s most comfortable, peaceful, and attractive towns, an admirable example of how an age-old community, steeped in medieval tradition, could be modernized and industrialized without losing its beauty, style, or architectural integrity. At least eleven centuries old, it had been a free and independent city from the 13th to the 19th century, when it was incorporated into Bavaria. Its town hall had been built in 1570; several buildings around it dated from the 17th and 18th centuries. In 1883, a Schweinfurt mechanic named Friedrich Fischer invented the bal nder, a machine that facilitated for the first time the mass production of ball bearings, previously made only by hand. Fischer founded a company that was bought a few years later by another ball-bearing manufacturer, Georg Schafer, who merged it with his own firm to create Kugelfischer & Co. The growth of this company, now Germany’s largest ball-bearing producer, had encouraged three competitors to settle in Schweinfurt, making it Europe’s most impor- tant ball-bearing center. One company, a Swedish-owned firm named Vereingte Kugellager Fabrik (VKF), had two factories here, one just east of Kugelfischer, the other just south of it. Adjoining the south VKF Werke, near the railway yards, were the Fichtel & Sachs Werke and the Deutsche Star Kugelhalter Werke  Kugelfischer and VKF each employed a