chweinfurt was under attack.25 Because the railway station and yards had been demolished, his train stopped about a mile north of the city. He ran from there to his large, elegant home in the northern suburbs. After finding his family still in their shelter and making certain they were safe, he hurried to his factory, expecting the worst. Schafer had feared for some time that his and the other ball-bearing plants would be attacked. One evening early in the war, he and his family were listening to the radio when German newscaster Hans Fritsche said, ‘‘Last night our planes bombed the British ball-bearing center at Chelmsford.’’ Leaping to his feet, Schafer had shouted to the radio, ‘‘Shut up, you fool! Don’t talk about it!’’ He had feared the British would get ideas from the Chelmsford raid. His fears had been well grounded. Apparently the British or the Americans or both had remembered Chelmsford all too well.  When Schafer reached his bombed factory, he took one short tour of inspection. It looked even worse than he had expected. Going into the bomb shelter below his battered office, he sat down in utter dejection. He was convinced that all his sensitive machinery had been ruined, that his plant was just a pile of rubble, that the company his father had begun and he himself had built into a huge industry was beyond redemption.  61  All but three of the B-17s in Gen. Robert Williams’s Schweinfurt fleet enjoyed a short respite after turning for home. These three succumbed to flak wounds inflicted over the target, bringing the armada’s casualties so far to a horrendous total of twenty-five. For the others, the skies ahead looked clear, and some of the more hopeful crew members were beginning to wonder if the German fighters had finally exhausted themselves. They soon found out.  At 3:15 p.M., the first task force under Colonel Gross circled over Meiningen to reassemble and tighten its formations before heading westward. Ten minutes later the second task force under Co