n deference to British sen- sibilities about what was happening between their girls and the Yankee boys.? The fact that such stations were needed, however, was a measure of how quickly British-American solidarity was developing.  Early in January, the 92nd had been transferred to Alconbury near Huntingdon, where boredom soon became an exasperating enemy. After being cannibalized as a replacement pool for other groups, the 92nd had only a few B-17s left and little prospect of combat within the immediate future. To keep the men busy, training courses were devised in such subjects as chemical warfare and camouflage, but most of the men had already endured the heavy tedium of such courses before leaving the States. Whenever possible, they got out- side to play baseball, football, or volleyball, but seldom with much enthusiasm because if, as occasionally happened, the sun shone, the ground was usually muddy. U.S.O. entertainers like Bob Hope, Frances Langford, and Adolphe Menjou came once or twice to cheer  211  them up, but only for a few hours. Despite all attempts to bolster morale, disciplinary problems and courts-martial in the 92nd in- creased month by month.  The group’s outlook began to improve in late April, when the four new groups arrived from the States and the air echelon of one of them, the 95th was sent to Alconbury for combat training. Compared to these rookies, the men of the 92nd felt like veterans, as indeed some of them were. Small contingents from their group had flown several missions. Even the men who hadn’t seen combat had been in England long enough to learn something about it, and they could at least get a bit of fun out of shouting ‘‘ You'll be sorry,’’ a traditional Air Force welcome to new boys. The crews of the 92nd helped indoctrinate those of the 95th in‘combat maintenance requirements, and the few pilots still in the 92nd flew as instructors on the 95th’s practice missions. They found the inexperienced rookies so cocky that the hardest th