osses had been relatively low, and partly because of the leadership of Col. Archie Old, who was the group’s commander until September 6, when he became a wing commander. Old was the kind of commander who ate with the enlisted men almost as often as he did with the officers. He kept a fighter plane on the base that he flew as an observer when the group practiced formations. He would cruise above a formation and if it began to straggle, dive right down through it, *‘chewing ass’’ on his radio until the bombers tightened up again. When Old went to wing, Col. Robert L. Travis took over a well-disciplined group.  The 96th, like other groups, was receiving a slow but steady stream of replacements. One replacement crew that arrived in September was headed by Lt. Robert H. Bolick, pilot, and Lt. Edward F. Downs, copilot. Bolick was a flier with such natural skills that Downs had developed a strong admiration for him even before they left the States. It seemed to Downs that Bolick handled a plane as if it were his right arm.'6 When they flew across the Atlantic and reached Scotland, they found it completely covered by clouds. They were able to contact the Prestwick tower by radio, but they couldn’t understand what the Scottish traffic controller was saying. Bolick decided to go down through the clouds and make a blind instrument approach. Though he didn’t come out of the overcast until he was under five hundred feet, he found the runway and landed easily. Then he learned what the man in the tower had been saying: ‘‘Go elsewhere. The field is closed.’’  While Bolick and Downs were still at the Bovingdon Replacement Depot, before being assigned to the 96th, they and their bombardier, Lt. Harold Edelstein, got some free time and went to London. It was a rainy, blacked-out night, and they were standing in almost total darkness under a Piccadilly awning when Downs felt a hand on his shoulder. Was he about to be robbed? He turned but could see absolutely nothing behind him. Then h