adually His crews arrive without ade- quate operational training, and in particular his gunners need more firing. We are now going into the difficult but important problem of getting them adequate range facilities.  Slessor still held out hope of an enormous U.S. air effort in Europe, but he could lend no comfort to Sinclair’s hope that the 8th Air Force would eventually convert to night bombing:  They intend to do precision bombing of Germany by daylight.  . They believe that with their good defensive armament they can do it when they get sufficient numbers. Their early operations lend some support to this belief —the B-17 has shown that it can defend itself and take an enormous amount of punishment. It has yet to be proved whether it is possible to carry the war deep into Germany by day. But they believe they will, and I personally am inclined to agree with them once they get really adequate numbers. . . . No, they have not yet bombed outside our fighter cover because they have not yet passed through Phase 1. But they have had several notable fights without fighter escort, in which they have given a good account of themselves. . . . Their bombing has been ex- tremely accurate as a rule. And I think we have seen enough of their performance in this and other theaters to be sure that their air crews are fine material. . . . General Spaatz intends to get into  154  support was convenient to his purpose. At the moment his purpose was to make certain that large numbers of American planes would keep coming to England. After the planes arrived he could get back to his debate with the Americans on how they should be used.  Among Churchill’s top air advisers, that debate was sharpening. What could be done with the Americans to make them see their errors, to persuade them to redirect and refocus their contribution to the bomber offensive against Germany? Sir Archibald Sinclair, the Liberal Party leader who had been Churchill’s second in command with the Royal Scots Fusiliers