y’s ball and roller bearings.  When Air Marshal Harris and his Bomber Command associates belittled this idea, insisting that their bombers at night wouldn't be able even to locate a town of fifty thousand people deep in Bavaria, the M.E.W. planners had turned eagerly to the day-bombing Ameri- cans, among whom they had found all the enthusiasm lacking at Harris’s headquarters. From then on, Eaker and his target-selection specialist, Col. Richard D. Hughes (a British-born American citizen) had been eagerly awaiting the day when a Schweinfurt mission would be practicable.  In Washington, General Arnold became almost euphoric about the possibilities. In a March 25, 1943, letter to Harry Hopkins at the White House, Arnold said, ‘*. . . it is considered that a stoppage, or a marked curtailment, of the production of ball bearings would prob- ably wreck all German industry.’ Arnold was getting his enthusiasm not only from Eaker directly but from his own Operations Analysts’ group, which had also been indoctrinated by the M.E.W.  The M.E.W. had prepared, in 1942, a ‘‘Bombers’ Baedeker,”’ which contained all the information available about every potential target in Germany and the whole of occupied Europe. Through intelligence sources as well as aerial reconnaissance photography, they kept their status files up to date on all the important targets, placing special emphasis on what they called ‘‘bottlenecks’’— industries upon which all other industries depended. Oil was one of these and communcations was another, but both of these industries were diffuse. And in the case of oil, the principal facilities were in southeastern Europe, far beyond the range of airplanes based in England. Of all the ‘‘bottleneck’’ industries, the ball bearing was considered the best target for destruction because the bulk of it was concentrated in one place, Schweinfurt, where the techniques of mass-producing balls and bearings had been invented  The status of Schweinfurt as a potential target was t