ated November 1 which listed the faults the British had found in these early-model Fortresses.  The plane was so ‘‘dependent on suitable weather conditions,’’ this memo stated, that there was a ‘‘severe limit’’ on the frequency with which it could operate. ‘‘Even when clear conditions exist, the formation of condensation trails [from its engines] still further limits the occasions when the aircraft can penetrate to their targets without risk of interception.’” The bomb load was ‘‘uneconomical in relation to the crew and technical maintenance required.’’ The armor was inadequate. ‘‘An armoured bulkhead is now being fitted but the additional weight will tend still further to reduce the operational height.”’ To fire the plane’s heavy waist guns ‘‘the large blisters must  111  be openet  order of minus 50 degrees centigrade.”” The plane admittedly had “‘a ceiling considerably in excess of any other bomber in service," but, the memo contended, “prolonged flights at heights above 30,000 feet impose very considerable physical and mental strain on the crew, with the result that they are incapable of making the fullest use oftheir equipment.”  Since Saundby was now Harris's chief deputy at Bomber mand, the air marshal knew all these arguments and could supply a  few other  escorts,  be “very n ad machine  add so much weight that the pay load wor  The bom  aris factors,  would be  B-17’s hand-held guns would not do in combat, The plane woul have to be equipped with turrets, and it would also need fighter  the bombs the Americans planned to drop.  cd, with the result that internal temperatures lower to the  =  Com-  1s. He had told General Amold in Washington that the  Even then, he had insisted, daylight bombing with it woul sticky.” ition, the plane carried too small a bomb load. The ten  guns plus ammunition needed for daytime combat woul ld be limited to about a ton -bay doors were too small, Harris told Eaker, and so were.  was even more emphatic in warning Eaker about cl