good in Northern Ireland where they could be assigned to submarine patrol, asked their chief representative in Washington, Air Marshal Douglas C.S. Evill, to try out the idea on Arnold and associates. Evill reported in a May 12 cable that the idea had not got off the ground:  You are up against a very strong determination on the part of Arnold, Spaatz, and others to concentrate the training and employ- ment of their forces in the U.K. entirely upon proving that the daylight bombing offensive can be made a success. . . . Under these circumstances Americans are inclined to regard any sugges- tion that they should use their pursuits [fighters] for air defence purposes or be located in Northern Ireland as something that deliberately or otherwise will have the effect of diverting them from their main purpose. . . . They will not easily be turned from their determination to use their pursuits primarily as escorts to their bombers.  Not yet discouraged, the British, at the same time, were at work on another approach to American intractability, which they naturally perceived as a critical problem in view of their own very limited resources and Hitler’s growing strength. What they most fervently wanted the Americans to do was to build Lancaster bombers instead of Flying Fortresses. They considered the Lancaster the world’s best bomber because it could carry the heaviest load. (In a modified version, it was eventually able to carry a six-ton bomb.) Equally important, the American adoption of the Lancaster would be the  124  then laid out a softball diamond. Eaker took for himself a ground- floor office that had belonged to the headmistress and also her two-room living suite on the floor above. To protect the school’s paintings, its library, and its paneled walls during the American stay, the work rooms had been lined with false walls of beaver-board. During the first evening of the occupation, the main dormitory’s electric-bell system rang constantly. The cause was soon obvio