rews seemed to be completely shocked. He also noticed that as the briefing continued, nothing was said about the number of fighters they were likely to encounter. After the  282  briefing, the doctor went from crew to crew, checking equipment, making sure everyone had sandwiches and coffee. Most of the men didn’t seem to care about such small matters. They were deeply frightened, and to the doctor it was ‘‘obvious that many doubted they would return.”’  When he asked one briefing officer why nothing had been said about fighters, he was told that the omission was intentional. There was little point in reminding the men that the entire German fighter force in the west was stationed within eighty-five miles of their course. Most of the crewmen already knew it. If not, they would find out soon enough.  One fairly prominent member of the 381st Group would not be going today. The captain who had tried to resign from flying as a result of his experiences on the first Schweinfurt mission had now finally managed to do so.2 Though Colonel Nazzaro, the 381st commander, had talked the fear-stricken officer into flying two more missions since then, the captain had reported once more to the medical section just the day before, October 13, and had reiterated his announcement that he had ‘‘no desire to continue flying.’’ This time he was sent to the Central Medical Board for reclassification. Anyone familiar with his case could hardly help wondering if he was clair- voyant. How did he know yesterday that the group would be going back to Schweinfurt today?  At the briefing of the 96th Group in Snetterton Heath, Col. Archie Old felt a special determination as he listened to the intelligence officers outline the mission plans, describe the route, and estimate the opposition.3 The fact that Old’s plane had been forced to abort on the August 17 mission increased his resolve to see Schweinfurt today The August mission was the only one on which he had ever aborted.  If this background had