Gripping his gun, he resumed firing. He’d have plenty of time later to worry about being court-martialed.  At the front of the Third Division, the lead plane of the 45th CBW, carrying Col. Archie Old, the task-force commander, was now on its bomb run. Looking straight ahead, Old could easily see the target, which was “‘pretty well smoked up’’ from previous bombings. The last of the First Division planes had just finished their runs and were banking to the right away from Schweinfurt.  The Germans were now throwing up flak in barrages, which, as Old had long since discovered, ‘scared hell out of you,’’ though it was *‘supposedly not too dangerous.”’ At 23,000 feet, the altitude his B-17 was flying, few planes were ever hit by flak, but today, his became one of those few. Just as the plane was approaching the target, under the control of the bombardier, Capt. James L. Latham, an antiaircraft shell exploded against the nose of the plane, driving a piece of shrapnel into Latham’s belly and knocking him off his stool.  Maj. Robert Hodson, one of two navigators with Old today, was standing next to Latham when he was hit. A tough campaigner who didn’t believe the group’s bombs should be wasted just because a bombardier had been wounded, Hodson picked Latham up off the floor and put him back on his stool. After a quick pat on the back he said to the bewildered bombardier, *‘Now hit that target, you son of a bitch.”’  Latham, probably in shock and not yet fully aware of his wound, bent over his bomb-sight and took aim. When his bombs fell it was obvious that he was not quite as accurate as usual. Of his ten 500-pounders, half landed on the factories, the other half on the adjacent railway yards.  With part of its nose blown off and its bombardier wounded, Old’s Fortress turned away from the target into the path of 160 FW-190s and ME-109s, which attacked the lead group in waves of 10 and 20. Only one of the planes in Old’s 96A formation had gone down so far,  314  In the 94th