der command of Major Normand though twelve of its fifteen planes had already fallen and only three remained in formation. After looking at this pitiful remnant, Milton picked up his microphone and asked Normand if the 305th would like to pull in and make its bomb run with the 91st.  Normand answered proudly, ‘‘No, sir. The 305th will make its own bomb run.”’  On Milton’s right wing, the combined 351st and 381st formation was in ‘‘excellent’’ condition. Though most of its planes were full of holes, only one or two had fallen. Milton’s own 91st Group, despite the drubbing it had taken, was still intact though only seven planes strong.  Colonel Peaslee’s 40th CBW had been badly hurt by the time it turned onto the bomb run. During this turn he made a hasty count of the planes behind him and found only eight left in his 92nd Group plus six in the 306th. Over the radio he invited those six planes to close in on the 92nd. Captain Schoolfield didn’t answer, but his pathetic remnant soon sidled up to Peaslee’s pathetic remnant  The 41st CBW on Peaslee’s left was, up to now at least, in better condition than either of the two other combat bombardment wings. Only a few holes were noticeable in its formations. When the leading 379th reached the Initial Point at 2:37 p.m., Colonel Rohr, the group  305  leader, turned over the controls to Lieutenant Millson, the bombar- dier, who began immediately to look ahead for his aiming points. He found that the target area was identical to the photos of it he had studied. After opening the bomb-bay doors and checking his switches “‘for the umpteenth time,”’ Millson bent over his Norden bomb-sight and began to check the drift for which he would have to compensate. He tried to put from his mind the fighters that were still harassing the formation, but it wasn’t easy. Never on any previous mission had he experienced so many and such determined assaults.  Up ahead, the leading 91st was still sustaining vicious attacks on its bomb run. Just sev