ived and they inspected the wreckage, he saw the charred rer \ittali tai to buy when he arrived at a base was a bicycle. Except for those who  of his crew. Thereafter, he slept poorly and dreamed of plane cra iiclbkiutdst knew how to wangle jeeps or trucks, the bike was the most depend- He had to force himself to get into an airplane. Whistling and wh vilifuisintilhtiyioon able transportation available. But bikes were in such demand they noises reminded him of the sound of the tail section hurtling te (iho hity buslitlitten weren’t always available. Rodwell had a shop where he not only sold the ground. Enclosed spaces heightened his anxiety. Yet in sp whvetavghkiclty icin! bicycles; he also repaired them.'4 And since most of the Americans all this, he embarked with another crew on his tour of mission lif inkiletaha didn’t take good care of their bikes, his services were in great didn’t want to be considered ‘‘yellow’’ or a ‘‘quitter.’’ LH Sf i kt ani demand. He soon found such favor with the men of the 95th that they On one mission, his plane was badly battered by flak. It Thiuidatemycinhitilit would sneak him onto the base and into the line at the mess hall.  home from another on two engines with holes in one wing an piaubtyitubiqdtnwn One night Rodwell had a momentary scare. While he was eating fuselage. On this mission, which he flew as a waist gunner, iniintlalitte fit with his new friends in the mess hall, some officers came in to make a control wires broke loose and wound around his neck, while ct edsentalimalganentigls surprise inspection. The men around Rodwell quickly locked him in of canvas covered his head and got into his mouth. He had a sv ullitieltaientsnbiisieal the ice-cream refrigerator. When the inspection was finished and they urge to bail out but overcame it and stayed at his post. On anc tobimuitanrhebhinudt hurried to the refrigerator to let him out before he began to freeze, flying again as a tail gunner, he saw his tracer bullets explod esmpu