ni most crucial day in his twenty-five-year military career. He hoped \iliwxttgrit't today he could prove conclusively to the critics of American cuan'ASktule vy Air Force strategy the feasibility of the concept upon which the M ,; Force had been developed: daylight precision bombing  wth among these critics were some very important people. Here in whit land they included Prime Minister Winston Churchill, Air Minis- iit Sir Archibald Sinclair, Chief of the Royal Air Force Staff Air (itv; 2f Marshal Sir Charles Portal, and R.A.F. Bomber Commander citalieh ttteltie Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris. Back home in Washington, etal rat cs of the Air Force included almost the entire U.S. Naval Staff, kattittugysyt 2cially the Commander of the Fleet and Chief of Naval Opera-  pain  s, Admiral Ernest J. King, who believed that the national pro- thu tit?atom tive energy spent in building a large strategic-bombing force  wiihaibiiiis ht better be spent building planes for the Navy. Also opposed to cvaltHarilt Air Force strategic-bombing policy were many U.S. Army acrhartitheht and-force generals who believed that this same productive capaci- ariwdikikewt night better be spent building tactical-support aircraft for their Kein = mtry and artillery units  nuiitkew2t a Washington, Gen. Henry H. Arnold, the Air Force Chief of ‘nilint iui: ‘f, fought a continuous campaign against other members of the ‘aietkmdzitie at Chiefs of Staff who wanted to limit if not eliminate the slowly Higes Wing mass of B-17s operating from English bases. And while  vichidah yin Old held off the critics at home, Eaker had to contend with the ‘nd-diitnchan cs in London, at least until he could prove to them the efficacy of it daylight precision strategy  uth ‘he British did not support the American admirals and generals ihviativat ) Opposed the concept of strategic bombing. On the contrary, the { ish were strong advocates of the concept. For more than two years ik: / had been sending fleets of R.A.F. bombe