flew to Gdynia missed their target completely Twenty-eight heavy bombers were lost on the 9th.  Miinster was the target of 274 Fortresses on the 10th. Despite heavy flak and attacks by an estimated 200 fighters, the B-17s dropped their bombs on the city. However, 30 of them went down. The 8th had lost 88 bombers in three days, but not without hurting the German fighter force. B-17 gunners claimed 177 enemy fighters at Minster. Though this figure was undoubtedly too optimistic, it did indicate that the fighter toll was heavy. Perhaps the German defenses had been softened sufficiently. The time had come to look toward Schweinfurt once more.  A prompting in that direction came from Washington on the 11th, in a congratulatory cable from Arnold to Eaker:  The employment of larger bombing forces on successive days is encouraging proof that you are putting an increasing proportion of  280  the possibility that they might have to go back there, and they di. jrpjituluten ini like the idea. Schweinfurt still stood out as the supreme syMb¢ ng fexinnipisthuly  horror in the entire 8th Air Force. Even new men who had arr: since August shuddered at the thought of it once they heard , stories. Lt. Bruce D. Moore, a navigator, had joined the 91st a  bce iain  days after Schweinfurt to learn that several good friends from trait jp) rslivialnluil dh  days had died that day. Another friend who had survived it, , Charles Hudson, a bombardier, had described the mission to Moy making him wonder if there weren’t some way he could get another business. Ichi After Moore’s first four missions, between late August and e, October, he was even less enthusiastic about the occupation he chosen. On each mission, at least one man in his plane had t, wounded and at least one engine had been shot out. The plane been on fire once, and Moore had once blacked out from 1ac jy je  if  Schweinfurt.  But the B-17s couldn’t spend the rest of the war hitting Emden. Eypigjq\" man in his right mind knew they wo