ted. In the minds of most of the British and Americans, whether military or civilian, Adolf Hitler had reduced the ethical considerations of the war to simple terms. It might be argued that Germany had been treated too harshly by the Versailles Treaty after World War I. But all the privations visited upon Germany, even if totally unjustified, could not excuse or mitigate the ghastly captivity and brutality Hitler’s men were now imposing upon all of Europe. The two hundred million people Hitler had enslaved, and the souls of the other millions he had eliminated, were crying out for someone to stop him by any possible means. The only morality the Allies could now afford to recognize was the ethical imperative of eliminating the evils Hitler represented.  Some possible methods might be too extreme, but the bombing of cities did not seem so after Germany instituted the practice on a vast scale in Poland, Belgium, Holland, Russia, and England. If the destruction of German cities and industrial centers could foreclose Hitler’s ability to make war, that seemed to constitute justification enough, especially since it was evident that Hitler himself recognized no moral restraint in his methods. What would the enslaved people of Europe say if anyone told them they would have to accept their enslavement because it would be inhuman to bomb Germans?  The desperate need to defeat the Nazi machine was accepted by almost everyone in Great Britain and America and by all British and American leaders, including both Eaker and Harris. They were passionately dedicated to the defeat of Hitler, and bombing Germany was the only means at their disposal. For two years to come, bombing would be the only direct offensive action the Allies could launch against Germany proper.  That afternoon, Eaker and his small group took a two-hour drive through London’s bombed-out areas, mostly in the East End around the dock and factory districts but also around St. Paul’s Cathedral, where scarcely a buildin