ght raids, Harris wondered, at least temporarily, until it was strong enough to launch its own day raids?  Eaker had anticipated this proposal also, and he was wary of it. He  104  tic  dared not settle his bombers on R.A.F. bases and send them out at night with the R.A.F. Once that was done, it would never be undone. It was his mission to see that the 8th Air Force operated as a unit, and in the daytime against German military and industrial targets. In short, it would have to have its own airdromes, communications system, weather network, and everything else such an organization might need.  Surprisingly, the argument between these two men was not only polite; it was also friendly. They had liked each other from the start, and each understood the national military policies that governed the other. But while they were more than cordial, they were both intense. When they finished, neither had been swayed from his position. Harris was too gracious, however, to leave the matter at an impasse. He gave Eaker the list of eight satellite air bases he had in mind for possible 8th Air Force use and invited him to inspect them. He also reiterated his eagerness to help his American colleague in every possible way despite their differences.  In the days to come, the friendship between Eaker and Harris quickly deepened. Almost every morning, Eaker attended Harris’s operations conferences at Bomber Command, where he heard in detail the results of the previous night’s R.A.F. raid and the plans for the following night. Both he and his staff were treated by Harris’s aides to quick cram courses in everything the R.A.F. Bomber Com- mand had learned during more than two years of war against Ger- many. Eaker inspected the eight air bases Harris had suggested to him and found them potentially satisfactory. Harris visited General Chaney in London to support Eaker’s point of view in selecting several other airdrome sites, which Eaker contended should be as far south and as near the east c