ed Eaker to his office to meet his fledgling staff. Eaker was delighted to spend this time with him because, like many American military men, he considered Marshall the nation’s greatest living general and prob- ably one of the greatest of all time. General Arnold, for instance, had such respect for the Army Chief of Staff that he had once said to Eaker, ‘‘If George Marshall ever took a position contrary to mine, I  120  most be required to conduct a major action once or twice in the whole course of the war, and an army commander is engaged in one battle say once in six months or, in exceptional circumstances, as often as once a month, the commander of a bomber force has to commit the whole of it every twenty-four hours; even on those occasions when the weather forces him to cancel a projected operation, he has to lay on the whole plan for committing the force. . . . Our climate being what it is, I should have been able to justify myself completely if I had left the whole force on the ground, if I had done nothing whatever, on nine occasions out of ten. But this would have led to the defeat of Britain in the air It is best to leave to the imagination what such a daily strain amounts to when continued over a period of years.?  When Harris took charge of Bomber Command, it had only 378 serviceable planes, and only 69 of these were heavy bombers. It was not surprising that he continued his attempts to convert Eaker to his night-bombing gospel. The bomber offensive, he pointed out, was the only allied operation that was helping the desperate Russians, who had already lost nearly half their country to the German army, and who might quickly lose the rest of it if the coming summer’s German drive were not stopped. The nightly threat of British bomb- ers was at least forcing Hitler to keep his fighters and most of his antiaircraft artillery at home, where they couldn’t add to the Russian burden. But even more important than helping the Russians, the bomber offensive, by dis