thirty miles east of Schweinfurt. As many of the ball machines as possible should be taken there. When? Right now Schafer was not willing to wait even until morning. He ordered the night shift to begin immediately removing the repairable machines by truck to Eltmann.  Albert Speer hadn’t yet received all the Schweinfurt details when he learned about the Peenemiinde attack. During the night he flew to Peenemiinde and talked to his friend, Gen. Walter Dornberger, the  81  rocket base commander. From there he flew directly to Schweinfurt on the morning of the 18th to inspect the damaged factories, gather photographs of them, and talk to the managers. The following day he flew over Regensburg to look at the bombing results there, then on to a meeting with Hitler who was at his East Prussian headquarters near Rastenburg.?4  When Speer was ushered into Hitler’s presence, he did not minimize the seriousness of the ball-bearing situation. The American attack would cause an enormous loss of production. (Though he couldn’t yet cite any figures, the Short Statistical Report on War Production, January 1945, indicated the August 17 raid had caused an immediate drop of 34 percent in ball-bearing output.) He showed Hitler the photos of the damaged plants and pointed out that in most of them (Kugelfischer excluded) fires had been disastrous because great quantities of oil were used in the manufacture of ball bearings. It flowed through the machines and drenched the floors around them. When the oil ignited, the machines, delicately calibrated, were dam- aged beyond salvation.  Much of the other damage to the factories could be overcome, and much of the lost production could be restored unless the Americans kept renewing their attacks. That was the most important question would the Americans hit Schweinfurt again? If so, when and how often? One consideration comforted Speer. He believed the Ameri- cans had made a grave mistake in dividing their forces, sending only slightly more than