ch a pitifully small contin- as Schweinfurt, Bomber Command sent  the B-24s on a diversion raid up the North Sea to the Frisian Islands.  ailures were diminishing the two B-17  forces so that when it was time to fly eastward toward the Channel,  janes in the air, and the Third Division, these planes were where they belonged.  he 381st Group, which was supposed to take the low position in the First Division’s 1st Combat Bombardment Wing, had suffered an  ly because its planes did not break out of  the overcast above Ridgewel  and led them to the wing assei  | until they reached 10,000 feet. When  their group leader, Maj. George Shackley, finally got them together  mbly point, he found the 92nd and 306th  Groups there, but he was looking for the 91st and 351st. Shackley  contacted the 91st Group  leader and arranged a rendezvous over  Orfordness. His planes lacked the speed to make this rendezvous, however, and the three groups assigned to the Ist CBW did not get  together until they reaches  acquired another lost group.  mid-Channel. By that time they had  Colonel Peaslee, in the lead plane of his 40th Combat Bombard-  ment Wing had assembled t!  e entire 92nd Group behind him, and the  306th Group was sliding into the high position on his right when he began to wonder why he hadn’t yet seen the 305th Group, which was  supposed to be on his left wing.  “Where the hell is our low group?”’ he asked his tail gunner on the interphone. ‘Can you see a loose group anywhere?’” This ‘‘gunner’’ was actually the crew’s regular copilot, whom  288  tion was already lanes next to the ly saved the lives  ‘ed some comfort secause they had four of them had rong when Peas- ose seven planes  17. The 91st had if ten of its planes  entire task force y since he was in Thinking back as for which to be e would never be  ceptionally well- id, was fortunate Division. Adopt- ; south, the Third  minutes behind | delay, radioed ous with the 56th  on encountered a ne high squadron yn soon got bac