er until September 6 when he became a deputy wing commander, assumed after the August mission that they would have to go back.!0 He had noticed that the 8th Air Force always went back to important targets. It was, however, an observation he didn’t emphasize among his men.  During the September doldrums, the crewmen seemed to recover their spirits. In the barracks, they filled the hours writing letters, teasing the rookies, or singing songs. The veterans would check out the shoe sizes of the new men and tell them to keep their spare pairs shined because no one would want to inherit them if they were scuffed. They sang a song about something of which they weren’t  269  getting much around the tiny town of Grafton-Underwood. It was a parody on one of the top tunes in the 1943 Hit Parade, ‘‘Praise the Lord and Pass the Ammunition’’:  Praise the Lord, she gave me her permission, Praise the Lord, now look at her condition. Praise the Lord, I knew the right position And she fell for me . . .  They also sang a self-deprecating parody of the Air Force anthem, “Into the Air, Army Airmen,’’ based on a popular children’s radio program:  Into the air, Junior Birdman, Into the air, Birdman true. Into the air, Junior Birdman, Get your ass into the blue. . .  Sgt. Corwin Miller, the waist gunner in Lt. Philip Algar’s crew who was wounded on the August 17 raid, had now begun a slow recovery at a general hospital in Nottingham.!! The ingenuity of the 384th Group Surgeon, Maj. Henry Stroud, in pumping Miller’s own blood out of his lungs back into his arteries had saved the gunner’s life. But only by the narrowest of margins. Miller was not yet aware of the innovative procedure that had snatched him from death. While Dr. Stroud was working on him, Miller had awakened once to find himself punctured by what looked like a field of needles. He had said, “Doc, if you had any more needles, I guess you’d use em on me.”” Then he had lapsed again into a coma from which he didn’t awake until the