rom head to foot with Bolick’s blood. Making his way toward the rear, he passed one of the waist gunners, S. Sgt. Theodore ~ Bergstrom, the youngest man in the crew. The color faded from Bergstrom’s face as he stared at the ghastly sight of the wounded copilot. Had this bloody mess been flying the airplane?  As soon as the British ambulance men got a look at Downs, they paid no more attention to his insistence that he could proceed under his own power. They placed him on a stretcher and hurried him to the field hospital, where the shrapnel was removed from various parts of his body. The other members of his crew were to be commended in person the next day by Winston Churchill, who happened to be at the R.A.F. fighter base on an inspection tour and noticed their shell- tiddled plane. But Downs would know nothing about that until much  324  greeted by Col. Howard ‘‘Slim’’ Turner, commander of the 40th CBW, who asked him, ‘*Where’s the rest of the group?’’  “*You've just watched the group land,’’ Peaslee said. ‘*All that’s left of it.”  Of the twenty-one B-17s that had taken off from Podington that morning, four had aborted and six had been shot down. But several other groups had been hit just as hard or harder. The 305th had lost thirteen; the 306th, ten; the 96th, seven; the 379th, 384th, and 94th, each six.  Col. Archie Old and his crew couldn’t make it to the 96th Group base at Snetterton Heath, but they did make it back to England. After the German fighters got tired of chasing them in and out of clouds, Major Kenny, the pilot, had nursed the plane across the Channel on two engines at 125 miles an hour ‘‘with the nose up.’’ Their naviga- tion had been perfect. They hit the shore at Beachy Head, flew up the Thames estuary, and landed at Gravesend.  When the returning 379th reached Kimbolton at 6:30 p.m., Col. Maurice Preston, the group commander, was waiting.? Having flown the August 17 mission, he knew what to expect. One look at Colonel Rohr, who had led the grou