scorts on the August 17 mission.  At General Eaker’s 8th Air Force headquarters in Bushy Park, he could do nothing but sit stewing in his office as his bombers invaded Germany.!5 Once again he had found himself sending them out on a dangerous mission, this time probably the most dangerous of the war, with inadequate fighter support. He was getting tired of it. For a whole year he had been trying to get auxiliary tanks that would significantly lengthen the range of his fighters, but he still didn’t have a tank that was both large enough and properly designed. Washington was partly responsible. The American tanks he had received were unsatisfactory, and too little effort had been applied to develop better ones. At the same time, Eaker also blamed the British. Their Ministry of Aircraft Production had promised to supply him a tank that was fairly satisfactory, but it had not delivered it. He had already remon- strated on the subject with Sir Wilfred Freeman, the director of M.A.P. Today he decided to try another tack. While waiting for news about the Schweinfurt mission, he wrote an uncharacteristically snappish letter to Sir Charles Portal, one of the most cooperative of his British associates:  I think there is no question but that our mission last Sunday [to Minster] cost at least twenty heavy bombers which could have been saved had we had an ample supply of 108-gal. droppable fuel tanks. These tanks had been promised us by the Ministry of Aircraft Production in ample quantity as early as last month M.A.P. has not been able to make good the promised deliveries. I have just received a cable from General Arnold which indicates that these long-range tanks cannot be supplied from the United States before December 1. If we can at once obtain an accelerated supply from M.A.P. it definitely would save a minimum of fifty long-range bombers, in my opinion, between now and the arrival of the U.S. produced tanks.  It was surprising that Eaker should call upon Portal in this ma