the end of May would list [ sic] our air offensive to the proper scale.”’  Arnold couldn’t send the planes and crews, however, until he had them. In a letter to Portal (April 16), he reaffirmed the July shipment schedule with the assertion: ‘‘We are bending every effort to provide a powerful air force to collaborate with the R.A.F. in offensive operations this summer and fall. However, it is apparent that the  123  summer will have passed before we can build up a force large enough to carry our share of the burden.”’  Arnold used this same letter as an opportunity to reaffirm his determination to practice daylight bombing: ‘‘In addition to night bombardment, which I do not believe can be counted upon alone to wear down German air power, daylight offensive operations must be resumed.”’  But however often Arnold, Spaatz, and Eaker reasserted the American intention, it was not often enough to induce the British to accept it. Plans were now underway to send the first American fighter planes to England. The R.A.F., convinced that these planes would do more good in Northern Ireland where they could be assigned to submarine patrol, asked their chief representative in Washington, Air Marshal Douglas C.S. Evill, to try out the idea on Amold and associates. Evill reported in a May 12 cable that the idea had not got off the ground  You are up against a very strong determination on the part of Arnold, Spaatz, and others to concentrate the training and employ- ment of their forces in the U.K. entirely upon proving that the daylight bombing offensive can be made a success. . . . Under these circumstances Americans are inclined to regard any sugges- tion that they should use their pursuits [fighters] for air defence purposes or be located in Northern Ireland as something that deliberately or otherwise will have the effect of diverting them from their main purpose. . . . They will not easily be turned from their determination to use their pursuits primarily as escorts to their bomb