ould not repay you and Bert for your many Kindnesses to me.””  On July 16, Eaker learned that General Eisenhower would like to visit the first B-17 base at Polebrook. Two weeks passed before the new theater commander had time to do so. But when he arrived, with a party including General Spaatz, a practice gunnery mission had been arranged for his observation.’ Eaker was apprehensive as soon as he escorted Eisenhower and Spaatz onto the base. He believed in Army doctrine that a disorderly camp was a symptom of sloppy scipline among the men, and in his view, the grounds of this camp were not orderly. The 97th Group had been here almost a mont! here was no excuse for the place to be untidy, At the same time, he a more important reason to be apprehensive. He was not yet *onfident of the group's gunnery skill. hhe one-and-one-half-hour practice flight confirmed his doubts The mission was a dismal failure. The gunners were so inadequately trained they seldom hit even the easy targets. What would they do against veteran German fighter pilots? Eisenhower and Spaata were olite, but Eaker was embarrassed and angry. He reprimanded the wing commander and group commander on the spot and arranged for one of his six original staff officers, Col, Frank Armstrong, to come olebrook and take charge of the group. As soon as Armstrong arrived the next day, the 97th’s practice light program was increased and the English country people around olebrook were subjected to the constant din of B-17 formations overhead from dawn to dusk, With R.A.P. fighter planes acting as mock enemies, the American gunners got an idea what it was going to be like when they had to fire their .50-caliber machine-gun bullets into the mouths of 20-mm, cannons. Baker was beginning to realize  =  136  y impressed’’ by the Theater tions and his evident interest in wanted to be notified when the first mission so he could be at  ithorization for each of them to vaatz had spoiled Eaker’s dream ing that he himself wishe