d its bombs and cleared the target, the German attacks diminished (though they did not end) and the men in the surviving planes began to look around at the damage. Lt. Richard Wolf of the 384th Group, Capt. Philip Algar’s copilot who was acting as tail gunner on this mission, had developed a new respect for the men who regularly rode in the rear. He was doing so today because the group leader, Maj. George Harris, had replaced him in the copilot’s seat. During the course of the almost continuous action, Wolf had seen more shells and bullets fired at him from the rear than he had ever seen from the front. One 20-mm. shell had blown the plane’s tail wheel out from under him. If this shell had been aimed a foot higher, it would have taken him too. Hereafter he would gladly sit in the copilot’s seat and leave the tail gunning to the tail gunner  When Lt. Henry Evers of the 91st Group asked his crew members to check in and let him know if they were all right, he got no answer from his tail gunner, Sgt. Douglas Gibson, the nineteen-year-old “‘baby of the group.’’ Lt. Bruce Moore, the navigator, went aft to investigate, carrying an oxygen bottle, and found Gibson uncon- scious from shock and loss of blood. He had taken a 20-mm. shell against the armor plate between his knees, receiving a severe wound in one leg. Moore dragged him forward to the radio compartment and tried to administer morphine, but it was so cold in the airplane that each time he melted a Syrette in the palm of his gloved hand, it would freeze again before he could get it into Gibson’s arm. Finally, on the fourth attempt, Moore was able to inject the drug, and the wounded man lapsed into sleep.  Most attacks against the First Division came now from the rear. Though they were less frequent, they were as ferocious as ever. The  308  he could. As a result, the three planes of the 305th dropped their bombs on the center of the city.  By this time these three planes, besieged without relief for an hour and fort