ing on the exact situation in Africa. While he had expected heavier casualties than on any previous mission because of the deep penetration of Germany, the lack of fighter cover, and the crucial importance of the targets, he had not envisioned the dire results that were becoming apparent  If LeMay’s force were as badly stricken as indicated, and if it were to attempt another mission on the way home, the already prohibitive losses would continue to mount. LeMay, being as aggressive and determined as he was, might try it anyway. There was only one way, Eaker decided, to assess the situation properly. He would fly to Africa the next day and see for himself.7°  Albert Speer, the quick-witted, handsome young architect who was now Hitler’s Minister for Armaments and War Production, had been at a meeting of the Ship Building Commission in the Berlin suburb of Wannsee, discussing a serious bottleneck in steel-pipe manufacture, when he was informed of the Schweinfurt attack.?! He had asked one of his deputies to get more information as soon as possible. It was not easy for him to think about a pipe shortage when a  78  A few weeks earlier, General Eaker had sent him to Tunis to brief the former 8th Air Force Commander but now Mediterranean air com- mander, Lt. Gen. Carl Spaatz, about the plans for shuttle bombing. If the England-Africa shuttle proved practical, it would confuse and spread the German defense system and make a larger part of Hitler’s Europe vulnerable to American bombs. Spaatz’s chief of staff, Col. Lauris Norstad, had offered a ready suggestion to LeMay on that preparatory visit  ‘*Telergma is your field,’’ Norstad had said. **It’s both a depot and a combat field. There you'll have supplies, extra mechanics— everything you need. That’s the place to land. You can get well serviced there. All the parts you need, all the maintenance people and support, "18  Today, however, when LeMay touched ground and taxied to the cluster of shabby buildings around the operati