hallenge from German fighters.9  On August 25, Eaker wrote a report to Spaatz about the lessons learned as a result of the first five missions. Crew training, which he called ‘‘the essence of success,’’ should stress general alertness and, in pilots, the ability to hold a tight formation. *‘Enemy fighters,”” he  ive loss-  144  the coast of France. As they crossed the coast and lost their short- range fighter escort, he was pleased at the good order of this rookie group’s formation although he felt it could be even tighter. Having taken special training to qualify as a gunner (one of his directives ordered that no one could go on a mission unless he could fire a machine gun), he took his turn at the radio operator’s topside em- placement, but no German fighters had yet appeared.  When the bomb-bay doors opened as the B-17s approached the target, Eaker went to the bomb compartment where he found out what it was like to ride in the body of a B-17 under combat conditions. With the big square waist-gunners’ windows open on both sides as well as the bomb-bay doors and the radio operator’s top gun hole, and with the air temperature around thirty-five degrees below zero, it felt as if ‘‘a howling gale’’ were rushing through the plane.  From the bomb-bay opening he looked down to see a bend in the Seine and then the village of Sotteville. The Americans had still seen no fighters, and no flak had come up to greet them. Directly over the rail yards, Eaker watched the B-17’s five 600-pound bombs drop, one after another. But he had to go to a side window to see them land because some sensible crew-member closed the bomb-bay doors the moment the load was gone. As the formation turned right after the bomb run, the burst of the bombs was visible. It seemed that from each plane’s string, a long, mushroomlike pall of smoke and dirt arose. Two such bomb clouds flanked the roundhouse while four more were well spaced along the marshaling yard. Two bursts were short of the target; two m