rsthey wer  1ey will, therefore, have to adjust their tactics  for improving the P-47 included larger propel- ) rate and general performance, water injection cy power, a canopy bulge for better rear visibili- ider controls, and ‘‘belly tanks with adequate utitudes of 30,000 feet or over.’’ As a result of some to some specific conclusions about the use topean Theater:  y apparent that fighter escort will have to be 7s on as many missions as possible in order them through the first wave of the German iich is now put up in depth so that the B-17s are auntlet both into the target and out from it. The s top cover if satisfactory belly tanks are de- The ideal plane, however, now in production is ; escort duty. Its two engines are a definite rangely enough, its ease of recognition is a 1 to both B-17s and the escorting fighters  igines on the Lockheed twin-fuselage P-38 and plane were to create problems for it against the ineuverable German fighters. Lovett’s predic-  optimistic. The last paragraph of his memo, seemingly offhand remark that would one day t import than anything else he had said:  felt for the P-51 with wing tanks. The 8th Air three to five groups of P-38s and some P-51s in acreasing opposition it is facing and will face on : during the balance of this year.  lation in Lovett’s prophecy was his estimate of s the 8th Air Force would need. In the early ther he nor anyone else could foresee just how ne, improved by the installation of the Rolls  218  supposed to protect.!! After a few frustrating missions, the YB-40s were retired, undefeated but also unappreciated.  Increasingly anxious for help in his campaign to gain long-range fighter support for his bombers, Eaker took advantage of a visit by Robert A. Lovett, Assistant Secretary of War for Air, who arrived in London May 13 to look at what the 8th Air Force was doing. Eaker was ready for Lovett, meeting him at the train when he arrived from Prestwick (the weather prevented flying between Scotland and Eng- l