is last engine died. He made a perfect ‘‘dead stick’’ landing. Another, Flight Officer Randy Jacobs of the 384th, had to make a crashlanding at Grafton-Underwood because he ran out of gas just a few moments too soon.  Though the 381st Group (11) and the 91st (10) had lost the most, the 384th had lost 5; the 379th, 4; and the 92nd, 305th, and 351st, 2 each. Of the 230 planes that had taken off for Schweinfurt that morning, only 194 had come back. Thirty-six had been destroyed. And 122 of the surviving planes had been damaged, at least 27 of them so badly they would probably never fly again.'6  The cost in men could not be calculated precisely. Only the Germans knew how many of those shot down had survived to become prisoners. But the 8th Air Force did know that at least 340 of its men (the crews of 34 planes) had fallen into enemy territory. Since the average number of parachutes seen to emerge from falling Fortresses was 5,!7 it was fair to assume that about 170 American airmen had died on the Schweinfurt mission while an equal number had become prisoners of war. And so far the results were not in from that morning’s arduous Regensburg battle.  Just as the Schweinfurt armada was returning to England, Col. Curtis LeMay’s Regensburg armada was arriving in Africa at two desolate desert bases—Bone and Telergma—about one hundred miles west of Tunis. The first Schweinfurt bomber crossed the English coast near Felixstowe at 5:31 p.M. The first Regensburg bomber, carrying Colonel LeMay himself, touched down at Te- lergma at 5:28 p.m. It was not LeMay’s first landing in North Africa.  76  have stayed at home. Williams believed that with proper practic (iuhinlishenutit bombardiers could greatly increase their accuracy. But hov itl ims hen cloudy England, could the bombardiers get enough practice to |! niga te any difference? It was one of the many problems the 8th Air | tlt had not yet been able to solve. i imi i  As for the horrendous casualties his armada had suffered te {m