ly satisfactory. Harris visited General Chaney in London to support Eaker’s point of view in selecting several other airdrome sites, which Eaker contended should be as far south and as near the east coast as possible to keep the distances between bases and targets at a minimum. Many damaged B-17s would be coming home to these bases short of fuel in the months and perhaps years ahead. A few miles would often make the difference between getting home and not getting home.  Harris also supported Eaker’s insistence that the 8th Bomber Command be allowed to set up headquarters separate from Chaney’s Theater headquarters in London, where Chaney believed all U.S. military commands in the United Kingdom should be centered. While Eaker was careful never to criticize Chaney, he was beginning to think the Theater commander, although an Air Force officer  105  himself, had not attuned himself with General Arnold’s plans for Air Force expansion.!0 Chaney, who had been in London a year or more, seemed still to be thinking in terms of the peacetime Air Corps with its eighteen hundred officers and eighteen thousand enlisted men. He couldn’t seem to visualize the two-million-man U.S. Air Force Arnold was trying to create or even the quarter-of-a-million-man 8th Air Force that Spaatz and Eaker envisioned. Chaney’s decision- making processes were too slow and deliberate for a man-on-the-run like Eaker. Chaney knew too many reasons why something could not be done but too few reasons why it could be done. The very size of Eaker’s 8th Bomber Command plans seemed to him to put them beyond the realm of possibility. But since Chaney did not forbid Eaker to pursue these plans, the new bomber commander pushed forward as if every day were his last. Indeed, any day could be his last if Arnold should decide he was moving too slowly. Arnold was nota patient man, and Eaker had been associated with him long enough to realize it. After a week in England, Eaker still didn’t know where his headquarters