itation, but he did say, “I hope you will be careful, Sir. You might e said, who was also solidly on their side in the matter. After going to more kill somebody.”’ To this, Harris replied, ‘‘My dear man, I’m paid to , about than ordinary lengths in congratulating R.A.F. Bomber Command kill people.’’2 vartime for the fine work they had done against the Germans in February, On March 4 it began to look as if Eaker’s campaign for more planes agland, Eaker finally got to the meat of his letter: was about to be answered. A cable from Arnold announced that three > had at heavy-bomb groups (94th, 95th, and 96th) plus one medium group ashing- It is now evident that the only remaining factor yet to be were ‘‘being prepared for immediate movement”’ to England, and eading, developed to insure the destruction of the enemy is the build-up of that each month thereafter, he hoped, two more heavies and one an adequate force. medium would be sent. Replacement aircraft in March would total ver held  195 196  236 B-17s and 48 B-24s. In April it would be 115 B-17s and 14 B-24s. Arnold was doing his best despite the demand for planes in other theaters, the severe shipping bottleneck caused by the U-boats, plus the African campaign, and the continuing efforts by the U.S. Navy to siphon off planes and matériel. But the strain of fighting the Battle of Washington had aggravated Arnold’s heart condition, and he had to go to Florida for a rest. From Coral Gables he wrote Eaker a letter (March 15) that illustrated some of the pressures upon him.  He asked Eaker to continue sending him any information he could use to support the Air Force cause, and he expressed some optimism about the possibility of building up Eaker’s air fleet. But he also included a caveat:  As you know, from time to time we have one crisis after another in various war theaters, and I am never sure as to when somebody who cries longer or louder will bring about sufficient pressure to cause diversion from the main effort. Th