ey would make their moves Then, as he stared straight ahead, he saw a series of flashes that he recognized as the reports of 20-mm. cannon. A moment later, enemy planes were rushing toward his formation at closing speeds of more than five hundred miles an hour. As they veered right, left, or downward at the last possible second, he wondered how so many of them, approaching head-on, could avoid collision. Maybe the B-17s deserved some credit for this performance because they made no attempt to dodge. If they were to do so, they might dodge into the fighters’ paths rather than away from them.  After the shock of the first attack, Peaslee talked by interphone to the copilot, who was his rear gunner, and learned that no planes had fallen although two were smoking and one seemed to be drifting back. The attacks resumed, and Peaslee’s ears were assaulted by almost constant machine-gun fire. On the radio he chewed out his men for wasting ammunition with such long bursts. He reminded them they had hundreds of miles yet to go—if they were lucky. This German attack, he decided, was the finest he had ever seen, exceed- ingly well coordinated. The timing and technique were masterly.  While these thoughts raced through his head, he got a new report from the rear: ““B-17 going down in flames. No parachutes yet.””  They were over Diiren, and this was the first Fortress to go. Its No 3 and No. 4 engines were afire. As it fell, nine parachutes eventually appeared.  At the same time, more news came from the rear: ‘‘We have two aircraft lagging badly—back about three hundred yards.”  Before Peaslee had time to react to this report, the pilot of his plane, Captain McLaughlin, directed Peaslee’s attention ahead, be- low, and to the left. A bomber in another group, probably the 305th,  297  had just been hit by a rocket. The plane’s right wing folded upward; the fuselage opened ‘‘like an eggshell,’’ and a man with one arm torn away fell out to begin hurtling earthward. For a moment, Peas