m someone else. . . .  Friday’s exploit by no means justifies the optimism in the  164  twenty damaged. This was impressive evidence that the B-17 could take care of itself. The fighters it had faced were the best in the German Air Force—FW-190s and ME-109s.  The day after Eaker wrote that paper, the weather cleared and he sent his largest force to date—108 heavy bombers including some B-24s of the 93rd Group—against the Fives-Lille steel plant in France. The 93rd and 306th Groups were both making their debuts that day, and their performances were not auspicious. Their bombs were so poorly aimed that few hit the target, and several landed in populated areas, causing French civilian casualties. None of the American groups bombed well on this mission. Because of a combi- nation of fierce German-fighter resistance and hopeless confusion caused by the rookie groups, only 69 bombers hit the primary target and only 9 of their bombs fell within 500 yards of the “‘bull’s-eye.’’ The FW-190s and ME-109s, out in great numbers, shot down 4 American bombers—3 B-17s and 1 B-24—but American gunners, when they returned home, claimed 56 German fighters shot down, plus 26 probables and 20 damaged. Despite their 4-plane loss, which was not excessive for a 108-plane mission, the American crews were becoming cocky about their ability to handle the Germans, with or without Spitfire assistance. The Americans now began referring to their B-17 as the P-17 (the letter ‘‘P’’ designating ‘‘pursuit’’ or “‘fighter’’) and talked about giving fighter cover to the Spitfires  British newspapers praised the October 9 raid as an American victory and despite their incredulity were generally polite about the astonishing kill claims of the American gunners  Prime Minister Churchill was not so polite three days later in a “‘personal minute’’ on the subject to Portal. With it he enclosed a Reuters News Agency dispatch from the United States that was printed in the Yorkshire Evening Post that day (October 1