er announcing on the int he had been hit, Molzon walked forward, had the boml the wound, then returned to his gun. Christensen and h it’ not yet ready to surrender. At 3:00 p.M. the First Division reached its rally point : cl in Es he ee bled its depleted ranks. Its bombs had created so mu ili Schweinfurt that the crew members, now twenty miles still see the smoke and flames rising there. But as one aft _ Si their planes fell, they were not certain they had inflic & damage as they had suffered.  ih "|  bone Ne  ay" Yi  a i eden 0 ae Tn  Less than an hour earlier, Schweinfurt had been « tthi loveliest day of the entire autumn. The trees were in evei yellow to purple to red.4 Dahlias and asters were sti ‘iu Lorries were bringing in the grape harvest from vineyards. Boats floated lazily on the Main River. The full of people, especially around the vegetable market square. The scene was idyllically peaceful. Yet many Sc were nagged by a continuing worry they could not pt minds. The expression, ‘‘Schweinfurt weather,’’ was mi ti! into local usage. People had noticed that the Americ attacked only on clear, sunny days, like the day in Augu * had come to Schweinfurt. This realization was almo: ‘ make everyone pray for clouds. On nice days they wou the sky and say, uncomfortably, ‘‘Schweinfurt weather. vi! just that kind of day. The sky was cloudless, the air c visibility almost unlimited.  Shortly after 2:00 p.M., the sirens began to screech. P. ! anxiously toward the southwest but saw nothing. W. teilih alarm? There had been several. It was almost two moni Iii August attack, and some people had begun to think th: thems might never come back. Though the German newspa tila  Kags, ie ie  a endian  nam cane, wl  tebontes Si  iste  esol  309 MI  men were able to get out of the way. The rail hit this man on the upper leg, injuring him so severely that within twenty-four hours he would be dead from loss of blood.  In the VKF Plant II shelter, the young woman sitting next to Heinri