important people. Here in England they included Prime Minister Winston Churchill, Air Minis- ter Sir Archibald Sinclair, Chief of the Royal Air Force Staff Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal, and R.A.F. Bomber Commander Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris. Back home in Washington, critics of the Air Force included almost the entire U.S. Naval Staff, especially the Commander of the Fleet and Chief of Naval Opera- tions, Admiral Ernest J. King, who believed that the national pro- ductive energy spent in building a large strategic-bombing force might better be spent building planes for the Navy. Also opposed to the Air Force strategic-bombing policy were many U.S. Army ground-force generals who believed that this same productive capaci- ty might better be spent building tactical-support aircraft for their infantry and artillery units  In Washington, Gen. Henry H. Amold, the Air Force Chief of Staff, fought a continuous campaign against other members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who wanted to limit if not eliminate the slowly growing mass of B-17s operating from English bases. And while Arnold held off the critics at home, Eaker had to contend with the critics in London, at least until he could prove to them the efficacy of the daylight precision strategy  The British did not support the American admirals and generals who opposed the concept of strategic bombing. On the contrary, the British were strong advocates of the concept. For more than two years they had been sending fleets of R.A.F. bombers against German cities. But they operated only at night, and they gravely doubted that the American B-17s could operate successfully in the daytime, with- out fighter support, against well-defended targets deep inside Ger- many. Since the day Eaker and his first 8th Air Force contingent arrived in England a year and a half earlier, Churchill and his air men had been trying courteously but persistently to persuade these inex-  10  apparent, and the bomber crews abandoned hope