to be in the daytime.  On April 13, the two men interrupted their argument long enough for a joint birthday party, both having been born the same day, Harris in 1892, Eaker in 1896. That afternoon, Eaker’s staff surprised him with a party including a cake. That evening, Lady Harris did likewise with a cake for both of them. And the air marshal, lest Eaker forget their argument, had another surprise for him. He gave Eaker a stereopticon machine for looking at bomb-damage photos in three dimensions—exactly like the machine he himself had in his ‘‘conver- sion room.’* They toasted each other and the assembled company in Old Fashioneds made of prewar bitters, a bottle of whisky Harris had brought back from the States, and oranges from Eaker’s first commis- sary ration.  If Eaker needed any support in maintaining the American view- point on the uses of air power, he got it when Gen. George C. Marshall, the U.S. Army Chief of Staff, visited England with Presi- dent Roosevelt’s personal adviser, Harry Hopkins, the week of April 8 to 15, 1942. The primary purpose of Marshall’s trip was to con- vince the British that the Allies could and should invade the continent that very year, in September, rather than waiting until 1943 or 1944 (Marshall presented his plan with typical American assurance that, however difficult a task might be, you could accomplish it if you were determined to do so. And Churchill agreed to the plan with typical British sophistication, just to be polite, even though he considered it totally impractical.)  While Marshall was in England for his talks with Churchill, he took time out on the 12th to drive to Eaker’s temporary headquarters at R.A.F. Bomber Command.} After a luncheon at Harris’s home, attended also by Chief of Air Staff Portal, Marshall accompanied Eaker to his office to meet his fledgling staff. Eaker was delighted to spend this time with him because, like many American military men, he considered Marshall the nation’s greatest living genera