nmolested, despite the awesome cost of bombing them. It would be nice to wait until the long-range fighters arrived to escort the bombers, or at least until satisfactory drop tanks had been developed for the P-47s. It would be nice to wait until they had a thousand bombers with which to over- whelm the German fighters. But he had too often been accused by Arnold of delaying operations even when he had been moving as fast as his resources would allow.  With Anderson, Williams, LeMay, and the group commanders, Eaker discussed options. They were getting more fighters now, but these were mostly P-47s, and no one had yet developed a drop-tank that would lengthen theiy range significantly. These fighters still could not escort the bombers more than a few miles inside Germany. The new B-17s that*were arriving had chin turrets and greater for- ward-firing capacity to cope with the now general German policy of attacking from the front. But the added firepower of the latest bomb- ers would hardly balance the fact, also disclosed by reconnaissance photos, that the Germans were placing more and more fighters in corridors that led directly to Schweinfurt. In studying the locations of fighter bases on a map, Eaker and Anderson realized to their amaze- ment toward the end of September that it would be easier for their bombers to go to Berlin than to Schweinfurt. That told them all they had to know about the importance of the little town that was Ger- many’s ball-bearing center. But the one vital question still had not been answered positively: how much production loss had the August 17 mission caused? And how much damage could they hope to do to the machines that made ball bearings? They got a convincing answer when the intelligence agencies reported about German efforts to get ball bearings from every corner of Europe.? From France and Italy they could virtually confiscate whatever was available. But even this quantity was not enough. Germany was urgently demanding more ball bear