s the sight put me into a bit of a flap, and the others felt the same. We seemed so puny against these four-engined giants. Then we attacked from the beam.’’?!  Handke’s plane was one of an estimated sixty German fighters that met the Americans that day. They shot down one B-17 and two B-24s—not a prohibitive loss. American gunners claimed twenty- two victories. Even allowing for exaggeration (German figures claimed a loss of only seven fighters that day) the big bombers had made an auspicious debut against the Hitler homeland. It looked almost too easy.  didn’t have to go into the reasons because Churchill already knew them. But the 8th Air Force was now ready and within a month or less would be bombing Germany.  Finally Churchill said to him, ‘‘Young man, you have not con- vinced me you are right, but you have persuaded me that you should have further opportunity to prove your contention. How fortuitous it would be if we could, as you say, ‘bomb the devils round the clock.’ When I see your President at lunch today, I shall tell him that I withdraw my suggestion that U.S. bombers join the R.A.F. in night bombing, and that I now recommend that our joint effort, day and night bombing, be continued for a time.’”  When General Eaker reported the result of this meeting to General Arnold, the Air Force commander was encouraged but hardly con- tented. After commending Eaker for his apparent success, he offered him no opportunity to rest upon it. ‘Now I suggest,” he said, *‘that you start back to England within the hour and devote your maximum effort to proving our case.’”  The following day, January 21, the Combined (British-American) Chiefs of Staff issued an order, soon to be known as the Casablanca Directive,2° which certified that Churchill had kept his word. It defined for the first time with some degree of precision the nature and purpose of the combined aerial offensive from England:  Your primary object will be the progressive destruction and dislocation of the Ge