sant sight of spring, each feeling the lift in mood that comes with the reappearance of a long-absent sun.  Finally, Eaker, sitting in the front seat, turned around to his British colleague and said, ‘‘Now I see, Bert, why you people fight for this bloody country.’"!  The personal relationship between the two men had progressed to where they were Bert (Harris’s family nickname) and Ira to each other. Eaker’s ability to get along with people had so far served him  115  well. While he was not as close to any of his other R.A.F. colleagues as he was to Harris, he and his staff had found all their British counterparts cordial. He was not yet certain, however, that this cordiality indicated respect. Some of the British staff officers were known to refer to him and his men as ‘‘Eaker’s amateurs.’’ This less-than-gallant designation might simply reflect a widespread En- glish view of Americans as rich, brash, and naive. On the other hand, it might have arisen from Eaker’s continuing insistence that his 8th Bomber Command would attack the Germans in its own way. It was only natural for the British to look with some amusement, if not outright scorn, upon these presumptuous colonials who thought they knew all about fighting the Germans before they had even flown their first mission over enemy territory.  Eaker knew, of course, that relations between wartime allies were not always smooth, thanks to cultural differences as well as conflict- ing national interests, but he knew also that a large part of his job was to make certain that he and his men did get along with the British Before leaving Washington he had briefed his staff on how to behave in England, using as his text his own experiences there, plus a series of instructive letters the American Air Attaché in London had written about things to do and things not to do. He didn’t want any of his people to be baited into anger by slighting labels like ‘‘Eaker’s amateurs.’’ If he was to win the respect of the British, it woul