ghters are not being interfered with to much extent by [U.S] fighters in close and area support and are operating with near maximum effectiveness. One of the best ways to support our bombardment in this theater is to attack German fighters while they are taking off, refueling, and landing. Our fighters are not now bombing and strafing hostile airdromes because of the shortage of fighters and the unsuitability of the P-47 for this type of work. Recommend that the P-51 with Merlin engine be supplied this theater in the proportion recommended by Eaker for this and other purposes.5  Amold was now fully aware of the capability of the Merlin- powered Mustang. He put in his first order for P-S1s to be sent to England. But the order was for only 181 of them, and they would not be delivered until late autumn.  Eighth Air Force planners, meanwhile, had begun in late June to work out the details of the long-contemplated mission against the crucially important ball-bearing factories at Schweinfurt. British planners at the Ministry of Economic Warfare (M.E.W.) had marked Schweinfurt as a prime candidate for attack since the brutally suc- cessful German raid, early in the war, against a ball-bearing plant at Chelmsford, thirty miles northeast of London.* The Germans had hit a plant that specialized in bearings for aircraft production, causing  236  enough damage to delay the flow of Spitfire fighters and Lancaster bombers. They created a ball-bearing shortage in England that was overcome only after a large purchase from the United States. The M.E.W. believed that if the partial destruction of one ball-bearing factory could hurt England that much, the destruction of the five plants at Schweinfurt could be catastrophic for the Germans, since those plants made up to two-thirds of Germany’s ball and roller bearings.  When Air Marshal Harris and his Bomber Command associates belittled this idea, insisting that their bombers at night wouldn't be able even to locate a town of fifty thou