ter all, Eaker decided to fly it himself. It was at this time (August 8, 1942) that he issued his directive suggesting his staff officers fly ‘‘sufficient operational missions in order to be cognizant of the problems facing combat crews  The 8th Air Force by now had its first sample of one kind of combat-crew problem. On July 25, a gunnery sergeant who had flown the A-20 mission July 4 against German airfields committed suicide, possibly because he could not face the strain of continued combat. As if in anticipation of such battle-induced psychological crises, the previous day, Spaatz had ordered the establishment of a facility called the 8th Air Force Provisional Medical Field Service School, designed to teach medical officers as much as possible about the problems peculiar to fliers in combat.  Eaker was also taking an important step to safeguard the mental health of his bomber crews. At the suggestion of Air Marshal Harris, he directed that no-one be required or even allowed to fly more than twenty-five missions. Harris had said to him, ‘We made a mistake under the emergency pressures of the Battle of Britain. We let crews go until they were killed. We have found out you must give acombat crew a chance for survival. We learned in the long run that you must set a [fixed] number of missions.’*  On August 8, after arranging for his own participation in the debut of his bombers, scheduled for two days later, Eaker sent a three-page letter to Arnold in Washington reaffirming his faith in American air strategy. ‘“The tempo is stepping up as we approach the zero hour,” he wrote. ‘‘Tooey’s and my theory that day bombardment is feasible is about to be tested where men’s lives are put at stake. . . . Amidall the discouragements—slow arrival of equipment; small numbers available; bad weather and necessity for more training—one thing stands out brightly. Our combat crews have the heart and stamina, the keenness, the will to fight and the enthusiasm which will make them the t