. The ten  guns plus ammunition needed for daytime combat woul ld be limited to about a ton -bay doors were too small, Harris told Eaker, and so were.  was even more emphatic in warning Eaker about climatic areas in the United States where American fliefs trained,  mostly California and Texas, were quite different from the areas they  bombing in Europe. “How many days,’” he asked rhetori-  cally, “will you be able to see the ground in Europe from 20,000  feet? Damned few.””  baker  lots to  ad too much faith in the B-17 and in the skill of American accept these arguments. He knew the plane would need  certain modifications, and the crews would need extra transition training when they arrived. But he was convinced that when they got  doing at  the remat  into battle they would do as well in the daytime as the British were  night. While the bomb load would be smaller, each bomb  ropped on a specific military or industrial target would damage the German war effort much more than a larger bomb dropped at night on the house of one or two German workers. The ten B-17 machine guns were heavy, of course, but if they could hold off German fighters so that the bomber could reach an important target in full daylight when the bombardier could see it, they would be worth their weight. The 8th Air Force B-17s, unlike those the British had tried, would have  ukable Norden bomb-sight, which would enable them to  12  e. God knows I hope you can do ve if we didn’t give those fellows yout daylight bombing. We tried 1ans tried it against us, and they  er of the two that Arnold had sent »ss and got the hell shot out of  Eaker replied. ‘‘Bomber losses 2 size of the force. And we don’t gainst the West Wall defenses. cient numbers to overpower the  he was not convinced.  distinguish and hit even the smallest of targets. Such sophisticated equipment would be wasted if the planes were consigned to night raids in which bombs were dropped indiscriminately on populated areas.  The argument that