or, Wisconsin, Algar’s waist gunners, spent much of their waiting time arranging their ammunition and checking their machine guns.!! They were pals as well as partners, and today they were switching positions because Miller found it easier to fire from the right side than from the left. Like everyone else, they had  31  been astonished at the briefing to learn how far into Germany they were going, but they couldn't imagine that this mission would be worse than some of the others. After eleven missions, Miller had few illusions about his chances of surviving the required twenty-five. Ina letter to his bride of three months he had written: ‘‘It isn’t so terrible over here in England. Fact is, it’s rather pleasant. The only terrible part is on the other side of the Channel.’’ He had written that August 13. Now, four days later, he was sitting in a damp, cold B-17, ready to make his twelfth perilous journey to ‘‘the other side of the Channel.”’  By 10:30 the fog at Bassingbourn and at some of the other bases had begun to clear, bringing General Anderson at Pinetree to his moment of ultimate decision. Was it too late to send the Schweinfurt force? He had to take into account that right now, with the English fog clearing, ‘‘weather conditions over the entire route and at the target areas were the best which had been forecast for a period of over two weeks.””  Another consideration bore down upon him as he later explained: “‘Inasmuch as the importance of these targets increased almost daily, the risk involved in dispatching the two bomb divisions individually was felt to be commensurate with the results which the destruction of these two targets would achieve.’*!2  He gave the order to go. His staff transmitted it to Williams at Bassingbourn, and at 10:40 the crews there were in their planes. At 10:45 the battery booster cart was plugged into the lead plane of the 9ist, to be flown by the group commander, Lt. Col. Clemens L. Wurzbach; a minute later the B-17’s first four-b