he remarkable Norden bomb-sight, which would enable them to  112  daytime operations? It would be a waste of all that armament and all that extra equipment to use the plane at night.  On the subject of the Flying Fortress, Harris tried to be tactful. He knew it was going to be the basic heavy bomber of the 8th Air Force, and therefore he couldn’t dismiss it as if it had no merit. In fact, he believed it had some very good features. He wished his R.A.F. bombers were armed with its .50-caliber machine guns, for instance, instead of the .30-caliber ‘‘pea shooters’’ with which they had to face the German night fighters. But despite all the B-17’s merits, he and most other British air experts had grave reservations about it  The previous October 30, Air Vice Marshal R. H. Peck, one of Portal’s deputies, wrote a letter to Air Vice Marshal Robert Saundby at Bomber Command that illustrated the then-current R.A.F. attitude toward the B-17. :  “*A pernicious article has appeared in a recent issue of the ‘Satur- day Evening Post’ in America,”’’ Peck wrote to Saundby. “‘It takes the line that the Boeing Fortress is the finest bomber in the world and that the stupid British have refused to take advantage of its qualities, refused to order it and cannot make effective use of it. I have been requested to produce a counter to this mischievous propagan- da. . . . Would it be possible for you to get one of your staff to give me some notes on the limitations of the Fortress as we have found them? What has gone wrong with it and why we are not able to make all the use of it which the Americans think we ought to be able to?”’  The R.A.F. at that time already had two B-17s but didn’t like them well enough to order any more. On November 3, 1941, Saundby sent Peck a Bomber Command memorandum dated November 1 which listed the faults the British had found in these early-model Fortresses.  The plane was so ‘‘dependent on suitable weather conditions,’’ this memo stated, that there was a ‘‘seve