hat irtual destruction of five groups of military targets— Cito! , aircraft plants, oil facilities, military transport, and  34  M. “‘Slim’’ Turner, air commander of the two rear combat wings, flying with Maj. William S. Raper in the lead plane of the 306th Group, got off at 11:55. It was another hour and a half before the tedious and exasperating task of assembling the four combat wings had been completed. At 1:26 p.M., the 230 Flying Fortresses of General Williams’s armada crossed the English coast between Clac- ton and Orfordness, heading toward Antwerp, Eupen, Aachen, Weisbaden, Darmstadt, and Schweinfurt J  At 8th Air Force headquarters (code-named Widewing), General Eaker, who did not interfere with the decisions of General Anderson at Bomber Command, couldn’t help feeling some uneasiness when he learned that the Schweinfurt mission, despite the long delay, was on. He didn’t, however, question Anderson’s judgment in sending the two armadas. He understood Anderson’s dilemma because he had once been Bomber Commander himself and had faced similar problems.  Eaker had found that it damaged morale to cancel a mission at the last minute when you had a force of men and planes all ready to go. 3 It was easier for the men to go through with a mission, however difficult, than to return to their barracks with nothing accomplished after such emotional and psychological as well as mechanical prep- aration. Since only the completed missions counted toward the twen- ty-five required in a combat tour, the crews were eager to complete them and have done with their perilous assignment  For a commander in Eaker’s position, there were also other consid- erations. The weather in central Germany was one of them. For two weeks it had been foul. Today, according to all reports, it would be clear over Regensburg and Schweinfurt. With the end of summer approaching, the weather in general wasn’t likely to get any better, so there was no time for delay in fulfilling his most immediate re