ached  303  the day’s battle with some knowledge of what to expect since he had been a combat pilot for a year and a half and had shot down two B-17s in the August 17 defense of Schweinfurt.3 When his squadron came upon the B-17s October 14, he was convinced they were again on their way to Schweinfurt. He was somewhat surprised, however, because he knew how many bombers the Americans had lost in August. He had been pleasantly aware of the 8th Air Force hiatus since then, and he was certain it had been caused by the heavy losses that day. It seemed to him that he and his comrades on August 17 had proven their control of the air over Germany. The Americans could hardly afford to repeat such losses. Yet here they were again, so they would have to be dealt with again.  Langer and his companions, unlike Stedtfeld’s squadron, attacked from the front, one plane after another in a line astern, because they had discovered the dangers of a frontal attack from a line abreast formation. If two fighters flying parallel routes happened to zero in on the same bomber, they might converge and hit each other. They might also bank into each other in their last-second roll or dive to avoid collision. Langer’s squadron therefore met the bombers one after another as the American armada approached its Initial Point near Wiirzburg. But after several passes, Langer could still not claim a kill. While he was convinced he had inflicted damage, none of the Fortresses at which he fired had gone down, or even slowed down. It was as if he hadn’t scored a hit. Meanwhile, his own plane had been hit twice, in the fuselage and in one wing. He was out of ammunition and low on fuel. Forced to land, he did so with a heavy heart because he was leaving what had to be the fiercest air battle of all time and he would not be able to rejoin it. His plane was about to fall out from under him just when he needed it most. Even though great clusters of American bombers had gone down, greater clusters were still c