would see middle-aged men in fire-warden’s uniforms  The London into which these American officers had arrived was suffering all the rigors of a city under siege. The war was felt not only in these vast areas destroyed or damaged by German bombs but in every part of the city, in every family. After two and a half years of war, the English had given up so many of their comforts that very little was left for the government to ration. Coal was so scarce that, despite the winter cold, householders could keep a fire in only one room, and there only in the evenings. They couldn’t even augment these tiny flames with waste paper or cardboard because of the desperate paper shortage. Every spare scrap had to be turned in and recycled. Cloth was so scarce that women were wearing short skirts, not to attract men (who incidentally were also scarce because they were in service) but simply to save material. The wheat content of bread had been drastically reduced. The soap ration was down to four three-ounce bars per month. Matches were in such short supply that “‘a girl could safely beg one from a strange man without being considered fresh.’’ The alcoholic content of beer had been so severe- ly reduced it was almost impossible to get drunk in a pub. And liquor, for the few who could find it, cost the equivalent of seven dollars a bottle, three times what Americans were accustomed to paying in 1942. Canned food was equally hard to find. The British government was down to its last stocks, and women stood in long queues to buy it.  By the time Eaker and his men finished their Sunday-afternoon tour, London’s short winter day had ended, and as they returned to the frigid, rather austere apartment building (the Cranmer Court on Sloane Street) to which they had been transferred from their hotel, the heavy darkness had introduced them to another chilling wartime phenomenon—the blackout. There were no street lights, and the dimmed house lights added no illumination to the streets because a