to be staring back. But his eyes looked vacant. He had obviously been hit by a bullet, perhaps just seconds earlier, and it seemed to Warsaw he was already dead. Yet his finger still squeezed his firing button, and bullets were still pouring from his wing guns.  The plane quickly fell off after its stall, and Warsaw watched it plunge downward. But he had little time to follow the course of the doomed fighter. One of its bullets had struck an oil line in the Fortress. The big bomber’s No. | engine faltered, sputtered, and died. Though Knox quickly feathered its propeller (a procedure to minimize drag by presenting the edges rather than the faces of the blades to the airstream) and advanced the throttles on the three other engines, the plane lost airspeed so fast that the entire formation was pulling away from it.  Captain Knox called Warsaw on the intercom. ‘‘Ernie, what do you think?’’  “We have no choice,’’ Warsaw told him. ‘‘We can’t keep up, and we certainly can’t make it to Africa. We’ve got to turn around and go back.”’  It would be easier, of course, to head for nearby Switzerland, where, if they landed safely, they would be interned in comfort for the remainder of the war. Knox quickly canvassed the crew. Did they want to try for Switzerland or for Thorpe Abbots, their base in England? The consensus was Thorpe Abbots.  “Okay, Ernie,’’ Knox said. ‘‘Give me a heading for home.”’  Warsaw said, ‘‘All right, but first let’s get down on the deck.’ He thought that by flying as close as possible to the ground they would be less noticeable and therefore attract fewer fighters. For Warsaw, the prospect of parachuting and being captured in Nazi Germany was especially chilling because he was Jewish. He had been a first-year law student at DePaul University in Chicago when the United States  14  chances of success? Could he have chosen a better strategy? Were his men well prepared for whatever they might encounter? These were the kinds of fear with which he had to cope to