stry man explained, ‘a lot of girls from the colonies, Australia and Canada, are in that school. And we have to keep them here. We can’t send them home because of the sub- marine menace.”  It seemed to Eaker that there might be places to keep these girls other than Wycombe Abbey. ‘‘If you’re more interested in educating your daughters than in winning this war,”’ he said, *‘I’m glad you told us.”’  In a country where politeness was highly valued, these were strong words, and Eaker knew it. ‘‘That’s putting it harshly,’’ the man said, **but let me go back and talk to my people again.”  A few days later, Eaker learned that Wycombe Abbey would be his headquarters. Though General Chaney may have been displeased, he did not step in. Eaker had now made the move that virtually pulled him out from under the Theater commander.  While Eaker’s relations with Chaney were developing strains beneath the surface, his relations with Marshal Harris became ever friendlier. Harris, in pursuit of one of his initial promises, had said to Eaker one day, ‘‘I’m going to give you a small [office] staff since you haven’t got one yourself yet. I’m going to give you some of our WAAFs [Women’s Auxiliary Air Force]. You’ll find they are very useful people. They’re more dedicated than the men. You'll be surprised to learn that they’re the people who keep our Secret files. They don’t get drunk at the club on Saturday night and tell all they know.”  Harris had temporarily assigned about two dozen of these WAAFs to 8th Bomber Command. Eaker had already accepted them when  108  that school are daughters of what I call the port-drinking classes.’”  Eaker was not to be dissuaded that easily. His men, after a thorough survey, had reported to him that there was no other place. Wycombe Abbey had the only complex of buildings in the entire area that could possibly house a command center as large as the one he would need. If he wanted to be within a few miles of R.A.F. Bomber Command, he had no choice.  “I’m