this a great deal to Spaatz and to others of my  Tealistic  Slessor’s pro-American alti  appalled him. And the fact t le upon Sinclair (their official channel to Chur- chill) was so alarming that on the following day (September 27) Portal himself wrote a letter to  impressing this attitud  point and show  date Slessor’s ideas  nly in isol  They are, I think, oop as a result of their limited experience to date, But they are  bit unwarrantably cock-  and business-like way . . . And mak-  for their natural optimism, I have a feeling they  with certainty that no large scale training for night bombing is contemplated and they have not really thought uit what they would do if t able. They have hung their lo it. And I think to cast doubts on it just at present would only cause irritation and make them very obstinate  ey find the day policy is not practic- ats on the day bomber policy and are  itude, instead of convincing Portal, at Slessor had written a long letter  Sinclair embracing an opposite view- ated instances an effort to accommo-  156  this they would have to develop ft and to study on a relatively training. . . . I am prepared to fore taking this matter up, as I get the Americans to listen at the ertheless, that I should let you asibility of the day bombing of than those held by A.C.A.S. (P)  vident that the whole purpose of ct Slessor’s letter to Sinclair the read before it was dispatched. lly avoided rebuking his presti- iake it clear that Slessor’s sym- i not represent the ruling attitude clear that the Americans had not tance to daylight bombing.  it some high British authorities cesses of the 8th Bomber Com- 1ed to be, but the two American 1is Ominous exchange of views 1. Indeed, Spaatz and Eaker had American policy was softening 1e Flying Fortress. They knew, 1 fully convinced until Fortress- metrate Germany’s West Wall argets, and return home without  n less than three months to lose to the African invasion, plus a verted directly to Africa, he was er grou