ge of trucks (or lorries) and since all the signposts had been removed from British roads in 1940 (to confuse the Germans in the event of an invasion), drivers had endless difficulties finding the little country towns near which the bases had been built.  The new groups, impatient for parts and supplies, decided not to wait for Service Command deliveries. They sent their own trucks to Burtonwood, driven by Americans who had been in England only a  149  few days (the ground echelons arrived by ship at about the same time as the air echelons) and who therefore lost their way even more frequently than the Service Command drivers. On August 28, Eaker thought of a solution to this problem. He put in a requisition for two C-47 transport planes (the military equivalent of the Douglas DC-3) for each heavy-bomb group. These planes could bring priority parts and supplies from Burtonwood to the bases in less than an hour.  Meanwhile, acting on the experiences of the first few combat operations and the increasing evidence of weather problems ahead, he asked for reconsideration of an earlier proposal to provide blind- landing trucks for the ends of runways at which homecoming planes would be prayerfully aiming. And he sent (through two of Arnold’s aides) a set of suggestions for improvements in future model B-17s. He recommended that the entire oxygen system be revamped and better masks installed. He suggested bullet-proof glass for pilot and copilot side windows; 20-mm. cannons in some of the turrets; mechanical means to operate the turrets in the event of electrical or hydraulic failure; and above all, a better heating system for the crews Since it was not possible to heat the airplane itself, he asked for electrically heated, plug-in flying suits.  One after another, the initial difficulties were worked out and the new groups got ready for their introduction to combat. On September 5, the 301st made its debut by joining the 97th in another mission against the railroad marshal