ing straight into the mouth of airing cannon, AS a mental-health mea- sure, he advised his men agains i, {nthe historic pre-Norman town of Kimbolton where King Harold TL kept a hunting lodge unt he lost the Bate of Hastings, and al of England with it, to William the Conqueror in 1066), a teacher at the Toc boys school had founda new way to help his students deveopa sense of history. When the B-17s ofthe 379th Group ook fin the morning, it was usualy so early that only a small percentage of townspeople wete up 10 watch them go. But when they tured, it was midaftermoon, andeveryone waned to wath them land, seehow many gaps the formations had, how many planes were limping home wih dead engines or with ripped wings and fuselages,  Kyffin Oven, lke the other teachers at Kimbolton School, foundit ficult o bod the students tention ater they headin the dance the it sounds ofthe turing planes A few boys would glance  ¥§  toward the windows, then, as the sounds grew louder, all of them would look that way out of the corners of their eyes. Finally, though they might still pretend they were listening to Owen’s history lecture, he would notice that he had lost all of them.  One day, when the planes were in the traffic pattern approaching their base up the hill from Kimbolton, Owen had decided it was pointless to try to compete. *‘Get up and go to the windows,”’ he said to his students. ‘‘Why should we be talking about history down here when they’re making it up there.’”  The long-planned Schweinfurt mission, now scheduled for August 10, was threatened once more at the end of July when Amold informed Eaker of a plan to take away four more of his heavy-bomb groups.?! Gen. Douglas MacArthur was preparing a new offensive in New Guinea, for which his air commander, Gen. George Kenney, was urgently demanding more Flying Fortresses. The groups in England were the only ones that could be sent on short notice. Besides being needed for the New Guinea offensive, four experi- enced groups f