d excessive quantities of food at their disposal, and they were as generous as they were hopeful. When they took a girl on a date, they would bring her ‘‘a carload of food from the PX.’’ With food so scarce in England, this consideration was not to be ignored. The  251  Fairfield nurses began organizing dances and sending blanket invita- tions to Bassingbourn. The boys came by the truckload with canned goods and chocolate and great expectations.  The more attractive girls, like Miss Howden, soon had a selection of eager men inviting them to pubs or to ‘‘dinner houses’’ like the Green Lantern in Baldock. Her first date was with a major who took her to London, but before long she realized officers were not neces- sarily the best boyfriends. The G.I.s had a knack of beating the Army system. They had sources of supply the officers could never tap, and they often showed up driving jeeps or cars while the officers had to walk. Miss Howden liked the enlisted men. Eventually she married one.  When the 95th Group moved in June from Framlingham to the tiny town of Horham six miles northwest, it was a boon to Basel Rodwell, the village blacksmith there. The first thing an American airman tried to buy when he arrived at a base was a bicycle. Except for those who knew how to wangle jeeps or trucks, the bike was the most depend- able transportation available. But bikes were in such demand they weren’t always available. Rodwell had a shop where he not only sold bicycles; he also repaired them.'4 And since most of the Americans didn’t take good care of their bikes, his services were in great demand. He soon found such favor with the men of the 95th that they would sneak him onto the base and into the line at the mess hall.  One night Rodwell had a momentary scare. While he was eating with his new friends in the mess hall, some officers came in to make a surprise inspection. The men around Rodwell quickly locked him in the ice-cream refrigerator. When the inspection was finished and