by Capt. Thomas F. Kenny), he looked back in vain, and perhaps in some anger, for the Thunderbolts, or *‘Jugs,”’ that should have been cruising 5,000 or 6,000 feet above and behind him. LeMay was not patient with what he considered inefficient perfor- mance. He was such a tough and irascible commander that his men called him ‘‘Iron Ass,’” but discreetly and with respect. While they might fear him, they also believed his methods and demands had saved many of their lives. He was so resourceful that several of his innovations, including the protective box formation in which they were now flying, had become standard operating procedures in the U.S. Air Forces  The Thunderbolts were actually on their way.3 The 353rd Fighter Wing, with thirty-two P-47s under the command of Maj. Loren G. McCollom, overflew LeMay’s three combat wings at 10:00 a.M., circled leftward, and took up an escort position at 23,000 feet as the bombers crossed the coast at Haamstede. But Colonel LeMay never sighted Major McCollom’s formation, possibly because his lead plane was too far forward. The 96th Bomb Group, with which he  4  . : J As LeMay’s decoy armada approached the islands of Zeeland on ixty degrees to pas ee bar een BBE Wee Spelt siete es the southwest coast of Holland, bealready knew that this Schweinfurt vee problem since the big bombers began attacking targets inside the force hiad been delaved an’ Glkectiey ‘haba weatheraand heed limbi 2 land the previous January. Maj. Gen. IraC. Eaker, the ns Si 4 y Pees: CAIUS pa aera a hed been pleading focaundiintyduetents annoyed at its tardiness. His own planes had managed to get off the 1ope that they to extend the operating radius of the P-47s.! But only a few such tanks poumel vase eal pee io ets ee Sap : ; eae inland where most of the First Bombardment Wing groups were hope, the two had been made available, and they were less than satisfactory fused than near tlie Count where LeMiav?s wrocis were based -butthae Alo Today, August 17, 1943, t