earings from every corner of Europe.? From France and Italy they could virtually confiscate whatever was available. But even this quantity was not enough. Germany was urgently demanding more ball bearings from neutral Sweden, one of Europe’s top producers. The Germans would accept nothing less than the entire Swedish output.  It was apparent now that the August 17 raid had produced the desired result. After only one attack against Schweinfurt, the enemy  267  was scrounging for ball bearings just as England had been forced to do after one German attack against Chelmsford. Here was proof enough that another raid would be worth the cost. There could be no doubt now. The 8th Air Force would have to return to Schweinfurt. And as quickly as possible, before all the August damage could be repaired.  In most of the bomb groups, morale improved as new crews and planes arrived. But the mood of the men was increasingly thoughtful and somber. They knew too much for comfort about their future. The veterans had not forgotten Schweinfurt, and they had told the rookies all about it. As the dark gloomy days of September passed and the men spent most of their time on the ground, listening to briefings for missions destined to be scrubbed or flying short, easy milk runs to France, they had too much time to brood about their prospects. The Germans were ready for them now and they knew it. The B-17 crewmen were aware of the fighter build-up along the corridors toward their likely targets, and they were also aware that every cloudy day, every day they had to wait before returning to Germany, gave the Messerschmitt and Focke-Wulf factories twenty-four more hours to turn out more fighters.  In the 381st Group at Ridgewell, which had lost more planes (eleven) at Schweinfurt than any other, the men had not yet recovered from the shock. The group surgeon had noticed an immediate drop in the morale of the crews on the night of August 17, after their return from Schweinfurt, ‘‘as soon as stori