e railroad marshaling yards at Rouen, France, sixty-five miles northwest of Paris and thirty-five miles inland from the English Channel. Eaker and staff had planned it so minutely and had discussed it so many times during the last week  141  while waiting for the weather to clear that there wasn’t much to say now except, ‘‘Do it.””  After the conference, Eaker himself flew to Polebrook where twelve crews of the 97th Bomb Group had been on alert for a week. Their morale, according to the 8th Bomber Command diary for the day, was ‘‘wearing thin from repeated ‘dry runs,’ bad weather and impatience to get at the Hun.’’ Eaker, however, was impressed by “the nonchalance of the crews’’ when he arrived in early afternoon and announced that he would accompany them. He found ‘‘evident enthusiasm’’ and ‘‘could detect no nervousness or anxiety—they seemed quite like veterans.”  At 3:14 p.M., the first engine of Col, Frank Armstrong’s B-17 kicked over, emitting a puff of blue smoke, and twelve minutes later, at 3:26, the Group commander got off the ground followed by the five other planes in his flight. Eaker, riding as an observer, took off in the seventh plane, named Yankee Doodle, which was to lead the second flight of six. The twelve planes assembled over the field, climbed to 22,500 feet, and turned toward France. They did not constitute a very impressive armada, but they were the first American Flying For- tresses to attack Hitler’s Europe. After eight months of war, a lot of people back home were thinking it was about time they got around to it. Eaker was sharply aware of this attitude as he took a position in the radio operator’s compartment of his plane. If today’s small operation were to fail, it might be a fatal blow to the concept of daylight bombing. And the fact that the operation was so small increased the possibility of failure. Daylight bombing strategy was based on plans to send out large formations of bombers with so many guns defending one another that fighte