mbled over the field, climbed to 22,500 feet, and turned toward France. They did not constitute a very impressive armada, but they were the first American Flying For- tresses to attack Hitler’s Europe. After eight months of war, a lot of people back home were thinking it was about time they got around to it. Eaker was sharply aware of this attitude as he took a position in the radio operator’s compartment of his plane. If today’s small operation were to fail, it might be a fatal blow to the concept of daylight bombing. And the fact that the operation was so small increased the possibility of failure. Daylight bombing strategy was based on plans to send out large formations of bombers with so many guns defending one another that fighter planes would court quick destruction by coming close to them. Since a twelve-plane formation could hardly be called large, and since none of the men in these twelve planes, including Eaker, had ever before faced combat, it was quite possible that today the German fighters would be able to come as close as they pleased.  There was little danger that the Germans would appear immediate- ly. At the English coast, four squadrons of British Spitfires fell in beside the B- 17s to escort them as far as the coast of France.8 For the round trip from there to the target, in the little town of Sotteville, three miles north of Rouen, the big bombers would be alone. About halfway across the Channel, in sunny skies, Eaker saw ahead of him  142  On the 14th, General Spaatz received an impatient cable from General Arnold. Why were Eaker’s bombers still on the ground? There was pressure in Washington for the 8th Air Force to get going. It would be easier for him to win appropriations from Congress, easier to gain acceptance for Air Force policies if Spaatz and Eaker would hurry up and begin successful operations.  While Arnold fretted in Washington and Eaker anxiously watched for a change in the weather, Sir Charles Portal in London was quite calm abou