r, on the 16th, after their first combat, with ME- 109s and JU-88s, the Mustangs claimed their first victory. Their young pilots still had a lot to learn, and the plane itself still had a few bugs to be eliminated, but day by day its performance was becoming more impressive.  As additional Mustangs arrived, the veteran P-47 pilots would begin flying them. Swarms of them would soon be surrounding the bombers, and the Germans would have a long time to wait if they continued to hold back until this escort ran short of gas and turned for home. The P-51s would not turn for home until the bombers were ready to do so. And if the German fighters decided to attack the bombers anyway, they were not likely to enjoy the experience with the quick and well-armed Mustangs on their tails. The air war over Europe was about to undergo a decisive change, and the Germans, when they saw the Mustang, began to sense it. Hermann Goering, after his capture in 1945, admitted to Gen. Carl Spaatz that when he saw the first P-51 over Germany, he feared that the war was decided.  General Eaker could now see an increasingly triumphant future in store for his 8th Air Force. He had brought the 8th Bomber Command to England when it consisted of only himself and his six-man staff, without headquarters, without aircraft, without bombs, guns, or even paper clips. As 8th Air Force commander he had built it into a mighty force that could now send out more than five hundred aircraft on a single mission, and within a few months would be able to send out a thousand. (In mid-December he had 720 bombers at his disposal.) He had seen it through the two greatest air battles in American history. And now, with the help of the P-51, he would see it through to the day of complete victory over Nazi Germany.  These were Eaker’s happy prospects when, on December 18, he  344  amaze everyone in the 384th by walking into group headquarters at Grafton-Underwood.  As mid-November approached, almost three months after the f