r been called upon to make  Since mid-July, General Anderson and his superior, General Eaker, had held this operation in abeyance, waiting for clear weather over central Germany so that the bombardiers could see their targets On August 10, just one week earlier, the mission had proceeded as far as preflight briefings before the weather in Germany forced its cancellation. Today, with favorable forecasts for Germany, the weather in England was threatening the venture  When LeMay’s groups managed to get in the air, Anderson even- tually sent them to the continent alone because he believed he had no choice.! If he had recalled them, they would have had a hard time finding their way down through the dense clouds to their bases. And  first they would have had to jett  ison their bombs over the English  Channel, where they might have hit British ships. If LeMay’s groups  were to go, they had to move whi! their North African destinations, were unfamiliar with the bases ai  le they still had enough fuel to reach preferably before dark since they t which they hoped to land  So Anderson had sent the LeMay force on its way at 9:35 A.M., but in doing so he had complicated his problem. Since the entire First Bombardment Wing was still on the ground, he had therefore lost the advantage of sending it directly after the Fourth Bombardment Wing, and now he had to decide, even if the First Wing did get airborne, whether to send it to Schweinfurt at all. A gap of two or three hours between the two task forces would give the German fighters plenty of time, after attacking the Fourth, to land, reload, and go up against the First  The commander of the First Bombardment Wing, Brig. Gen Robert B. Williams, was standing by at the Bassingbourn base of the 91st Bomb Group, with which he intended to fly. A self-disciplined man, not easily perturbed, he remained surprisingly calm during the long wait, giving no evidence that he was worried about the time lag. He conferred only a few times with G