eMay’s groups were based, but that rot satisfy him  ‘avors from the English weather, LeMay had made e instrument takeoffs, and he credited this training is wing was en route to its target while the Schwein- for all he knew, be still on the ground, as in fact it : declared that if the First Bombardment Wing ‘“‘had ng on the same sort of bad-weather instrument- 2 which we had been developing for a solid month, deen able to get off the ground as we did.’’? But that e Channel he had other concerns. First of all he what had happened to the two groups of P-47s that ) overtake and protect his force, at least for the first * so into the continent  pilot in the lead plane of his armada (a 96th Group Capt. Thomas F. Kenny), he looked back in vain, ome anger, for the Thunderbolts, or *‘Jugs,’’ that i cruising 5,000 or 6,000 feet above and behind him. patient with what he considered inefficient perfor- such a tough and irascible commander that his men Ass,”’ but discreetly and with respect. While they they also believed his methods and demands had  1eir lives. He was so resourceful that several of his uding the protective box formation in which they , had become standard operating procedures in the  olts were actually on their way.3 The 353rd Fighter y-two P-47s under the command of Maj. Loren G. flew LeMay’s three combat wings at 10:00 a.M., and took up an escort position at 23,000 feet as the the coast at Haamstede. But Colonel LeMay never AcCollom’s formation, possibly because his lead w forward. The 96th Bomb Group, with which he  4  The short range of American fighter planes had become a serious problem since the big bombers began attacking targets inside the German homeland the previous January. Maj. Gen. IraC. Eaker, the 8th Air Force commander, had been pleading for auxiliary fuel tanks to extend the operating radius of the P-47s.! But only a few such tanks had been made available, and they were less than satisfactory  Today, August 17, 1943, these seven groups of Fortr