o do any good at al! in the near future, they would have to be persuaded to devote their full air effort to the support of the North African campaign. On October 22, Churchill read to his Chiefs of Staff an air-policy paper that set down this point of view:  166  American press extracts which you sent me and it has little bearing on the ability of the Fortress to bomb targets in Germany with precision. Lille is about 40 miles from the coast, the Ruhr 125 miles and Frankfurt 230 miles. . . . The Germans must be ex- pected to fight with much more determination over Germany than over France. . . .  My own view is that only very large numbers (say 400 or 500) going out at one time will enable the Americans to bomb the Ruhr by daylight with less than 10% casualties, and I doubt whether even then the bombing will be very accurate.  The German submarine campaign in the Atlantic had, by this time, intensified to such alarming proportions that Churchill was becoming desperate. Between January and October of 1942, the number of U-boats in the fearsome Atlantic ‘‘wolf-packs’’ had increased from 90 to 196. In August, 108 Allied ships, more than one-half-million gross tons, were sunk, and the losses continued to increase through September and October. Ina telegram to Roosevelt’s assistant, Harry Hopkins, October 16, Churchill pleaded for help:  I am . . . oppressed with the heavy U-boat sinkings and the biting need for more long range aircraft to harry the U-boats in their passage out and home from the Biscay ports and Northabout between Iceland and the Faroes, and to strike at the packs collect- ing round the slow convoys in mid-Atlantic. It would be of the greatest possible help to us if you could give us at least another 50 Liberators . . . to help the direct offensive against U-boats  The 8th Air Force had already been invited to join the anti-U-boat campaign by attacking the submarine pens along the coast of France Both Spaatz and Eaker welcomed this operation because the s