rting the greater part of the American bombers claim to have destroyed four Germans over Lille. The experts who analyse German R/T [radio transmission] traffic after a battle, have what they consider to be good indications of the shooting down of 10 Germans. They say that since they can only intercept part of the traffic, it is almost certain that more than 10 were shot down and judging by past results they put the probable number at about 20. Subtracting the 4 shot down by fighters, this would leave 16 for the Americans. . . .  If the Americans did in fact shoot down 16 Germans for the loss of 4 bombers, this is a very fine performance which is in no way spoilt by the excessive claim. It is unavoidable that when a German fighter catches fire or its pilot bails out after ten different air gunners have shot at it, three or four may honestly claim it and each obtain confirmation from someone else. . . .  Friday’s exploit by no means justifies the optimism in the  164  American press extracts which you sent me and it has little bearing on the ability of the Fortress to bomb targets in Germany with precision. Lille is about 40 miles from the coast, the Ruhr 125 miles and Frankfurt 230 miles. . . . The Germans must be ex- pected to fight with much more determination over Germany than over France... .  My own view is that only very large numbers (say 400 or 500) going out at one time will enable the Americans to bomb the Ruhr by daylight with less than 10% casualties, and I doubt whether even then the bombing will be very accurate.  The German submarine campaign in the Atlantic had, by this time, intensified to such alarming proportions that Churchill was becoming desperate. Between January and October of 1942, the number of U-boats in the fearsome Atlantic ‘‘wolf-packs’’ had increased from 90 to 196. In August, 108 Allied ships, more than one-half-million gross tons, were sunk, and the losses continued to increase through September and October. Ina telegram to Roosevelt’