culty, one consolation came his way. On September 17, 1942, he was promoted to major general.  Winston Churchill, who had originated the threat to foreclose the th Air Force when he insisted on the African invasion, now came unexpectedly to Eaker’s aid, perhaps because he had second thoughts about the possible long-term results of an 8th Air Force hiatus. The increasing pressure from certain elements in the United States to concentrate the American war effort in the Pacific made it uncertain that the 8th Air Force, once removed from England, would ever return. It may have been with this prospect in mind that Churchill wrote to President Roosevelt on September 16. After observing politely that ‘‘the results of the first operations by your Flying Fortresses have been most encouraging,”’ he set out, without men- tioning Eisenhower, to undermine Eisenhower’s plans:  oo  In spite of the fact that we cannot make up more than 32 squadrons of bombers, instead of 42 last year, we know our night bomber offensive is having a devastating effect. . . . If we can add continuity and precision to the attack by your bombers’ strik- ing deep into the heart of Germany by day the effect would be redoubled. To do this effectively and without prohibitive loss they must have numbers to saturate and disperse the defences. pai | hope you may consider it wise to build up General Spaatz’s strength. . . . We must make TORCH [the North African inva- sion] a success. But I am sure we would be missing a great opportunity if we did not concentrate every available Fortress and long-range escort fighter as quickly as possible for the attack on our primary enemy.  I cannot help feeling some concern at the extent to which the programme for the build-up of American air forces in this country is falling behind expectations.  Churchill’s belief that day bombing was a mad ambition did not prevent him from seeming to support it in this letter when such  152  Today they attacked more ferociously and persist