y, battle damage to its B-17s had been so extensive that there weren’t enough depots to keep pace with the necessary repair work Until this situation could be corrected, many planes that Arnold considered available would be unfliable. Eaker pointed out to him that a B-17’s ability to return from a mission today did not necessarily mean it could safely carry a crew and a bomb load on another mission tomorrow. Some B-17s came back so thoroughly riddled it seemed miraculous that they could come back at all.  Eaker had found an apt illustration of this point during an inspec- tion of one of his groups. A B-17 had returned the previous day with such a huge hole in its wing that he was able to stand up on a ladder with his head and shoulders through the hole. Someone took a picture, which he then sent to Arnold with the notation, “‘Here’s one of the planes that was not able to go out today.””  In fact, Eaker was suffering from a critical shortage of usable planes. The previous April he had given his name to a plan that envisaged the virtual destruction of five groups of military targets— submarine yards, aircraft plants, oil facilities, military transport, and  34  M. “‘Slim’’ Turner, air commander of the two rear combat wings, flying with Maj. William S. Raper in the lead plane of the 306th Group, got off at 11:55. It was another hour and a half before the tedious and exasperating task of assembling the four combat wings had been completed. At 1:26 p.M., the 230 Flying Fortresses of General Williams’s armada crossed the English coast between Clac- ton and Orfordness, heading toward Antwerp, Eupen, Aachen, Weisbaden, Darmstadt, and Schweinfurt Ly]  At 8th Air Force headquarters (code-named Widewing), General Eaker, who did not interfere with the decisions of General Anderson at Bomber Command, couldn’t help feeling some uneasiness when he learned that the Schweinfurt mission, despite the long delay, was on. He didn’t, however, question Anderson’s judgment in sending the t