an stay, the work rooms had been lined with false walls of beaver-board. During the first evening of the occupation, the main dormitory’s electric-bell system rang constantly. The cause was soon obvious. When the officers moved into their new bedrooms, they found at the head of each bed a little printed sign, intended for the schoolgirls who had lived there. These signs read: ‘‘Ring for mistress.’’  Because the school’s maintenance, kitchen, and mess hall person- nel had remained, the officers were able to dine in their new head- quarters on their first night. And two weeks later, they held their first party, to which they invited everyone who had been helpful to them Three hundred and fifty people came.  Airdrome construction was moving ahead with remarkable speed and efficiency. The British had already built so many fields for their own R.A.F. that they were now able to complete each one within two months. The first eight fields, those that had already been built and needed only to be converted for American requirements, were almost teady, but the 8th Bomber Command still had no planes to land on their runways. Eaker was becoming impatient for the arrival of his first B-17s, and he was not alone. Winston Churchill, in a March 29 letter to President Roosevelt, had pleaded for the arrival of American bombers before July, at which time Arnold expected to be able to send the first groups.  “Can you not manage to expedite this?’’ Churchill asked Roosevelt. ‘‘Never was there so much good work to be done and so few to do it. We must not let our summer air attack on Germany decline into a second-rate affair. Everything is ready for your people here and there are targets of all kinds, fromeasy tohard. . . . Evena hundred American heavy bombers working from this country before the end of May would list [ sic] our air offensive to the proper scale.”’  Arnold couldn’t send the planes and crews, however, until he had them. In a letter to Portal (April 16), he reaffirmed the Ju