Eaker’s happy prospects when, on December 18, he  344  amaze everyone in the 384th by walking into group headquarters at Grafton-Underwood.  As mid-November approached, almost three months after the first Schweinfurt-Regensburg mission, two of the American fliers shot down August 17 were still at large in Belgium. Lt. Edward Winslow, joined now by another uncaptured member of his crew, Sgt. Gerold Tucker, was still hiding out under the protection of the Belgian Resistance in a house at Ath. On November 13 the two men were to be moved to another hideout in Brussels.  An attractive girl whom they hadn’t met before escorted them from Ath to Brussels by train. At the station, she led them calmly past the guard and left them standing among German soldiers while she went to a phone booth and made a call. From there she took them by Streetcar to a residential section where they were to meet two men who would take them to their new hideout. They got off the streetcar near a large church. It seemed to Winslow that the girl was becoming nervous. They walked around the church but saw no one. Evidently worried, the girl made another phone call, after which she announced that the men were on their way.  She took Winslow and Tucker behind the church. Soon they heard footsteps and the girl said, ‘“‘Here they are now.””  The men were in civilian clothes. She introduced them and said to one of them, ‘‘The lieutenant speaks French.”’  This man turned to Winslow and said, ‘‘Oh. I suppose you speak English, too.”  Winslow and Tucker laughed, acknowledging the joke. The girl said goodbye and was walking away when two men in German uniforms appeared. They approached the two Americans, spoke to them in German, then, without ceremony, backed them up against a wall while the two ‘‘escorts’’ watched. The four men marched Winslow and Tucker off to St. Giles Prison. The girl, supposedly a member of the ‘Armée Blanche,’’ had betrayed them to the Gestapo.  In mid-November, the 354th Fighter Grou