ther group that hadn’t already done so. When the three ups reached home, Peaslee didn’t yet know which of the other two committed the unspeakable offense or who was responsible for it. didn’t even want to know who had done it, but General Williams ited to know. Two days later, all the commanders and the key men ots, bombardiers, and navigators) of the lead crews were sum- ied to his headquarters at Brompton. The gray-haired general <ed stern as he entered the room where these men were assembled. h his one good eye, he glanced at them sharply. A critique of the Nazaire mission came first, then it was time to talk about ssels  \ young major stood up and came to the rostrum, his face pale and fists clenched. Addressing General Williams and staff, he said, entlemen, our part of this mission was flown as planned until, on bomb run, our bombs were released prematurely and we bombed city. My bombardier will tell you how it happened.”’  \ slight, blond first lieutenant who looked barely twenty years old yped forward and explained the dreadful mistake as best he could. of his switches had been on as they should have been. To check drift, he had sighted on the park at the center of the city. Then he  232  Eaker’s B-17s encountered one of the most dreaded hazards of precision bombing June 28 when a diversionary force of more than fifty planes flew to Brussels to bomb the German fighter facilities at the airfield there while the main force was hitting the harbor at St. Nazaire. The Brussels mission was delicate because the airfield was on the edge of the city. The danger of bombing a populated area was acute. American crews had been warmed that they were inviting courts-martial anytime they dropped a bomb on French, Belgian, or Dutch civilians. The best approach to the airfield was over the city, however, because it was known that there were fewer antiaircraft batteries along that route. The Germans did not waste antiaircraft artillery defending the populations of occupied citi