ssuming direction of the Army Air Corps in 1939, he had raised its status to that of Army Air Forces, with virtual independence from the rest of the Army. He had also managed in that time to wheedle billions of dollars in Air Force appropriations from Congress. Under his command, the slow- moving, impoverished, eighteen-thousand-man peacetime Air Corps was in the process of becoming the largest air force the world had ever seen  But Arnold hadn’t accomplished all of this merely by using his persuasive charm. Despite a condition that resulted in high blood pressure and required him to hold down his rate of heartbeat by use of a special medicine, he was energetic, restless, quick, impatient, hard-driving, and, in the words of one associate, ‘‘tough as an old boot.’’ His demands upon his staff members and his frequent habit of circumventing them to avoid paperwork and get quick action made it a constant and often harrowing adventure to work for him. One Sunday morning a few weeks before his trip to England, one of his staff colonels had fallen dead on the carpet in front of his desk while Arnold was berating him about the possible inaccuracy of some airplane production statistics the unfortunate man had put before him.4  Arnold was not likely to be afraid even of a personage as impres- sive as Winston Churchill. On his arrival in London the dreary morning of the 26th, he told first Portal and then Churchill the bad news—the R.A.F. in 1942 would be receiving five hundred fewer heavy bombers and fifteen hundred fewer medium bombers than he had hoped to send them. This unhappy revelation began four days of strenuous conversations the British did not enjoy.  American factories were scheduled to produce sixty thousand aircraft in 1942. Churchill said he couldn’t understand why, with that many planes, the United States should raise an issue over allocating ‘a mere five thousand”’ to the British. He wanted to hit the enemy, and he wanted to do it right away. The greatest poss