er he had brought the majority of Germany’s fighers back from the fronts to use in home defense, the day attacks of the enemy would soon be ended. He had thought his fighters would have a feast shooting down enemy bombers, but he had been wrong.  “*The German people have suffered immensely under the terror of enemy bombers, day and night,”’ he said. ‘‘The people can under- stand that it is difficult to fight at night. But they cannot understand why, in the daytime, our fighters do not fight as they should.””  He had received many letters from German people describing the activities of the fighters during the attack on Schweinfurt, and these people did not find them aggressive enough. ‘‘In a word, the popula- tion is very embittered about the action of the day fighters, and they are right. The good name of our air force has been damaged very much by the fighters, not only with the people but also with the Fuhrer. And most of all with the enemy. He scorns you, and he shows it by attacking in daytime, in clear weather.”  It was particularly galling to Goering that these enemy bombers flew, not over the Baltic Sea or over neutral countries *‘but right over the middle of Germany, under everyone’s nose."’ And this they did because they had no respect for the German fighters.  “‘On that day,’’ he declared, ‘it was almost impossible for me to endure the scorn of the enemy [and the fact] that he flew so imperti- nently all the way across Germany without having been destroyed.”’  Even taking Goering’s histrionic tendencies into account, the severity of this scolding indicated that he was now deeply disturbed at the Schweinfurt result. No doubt he was unfair in blaming the fighter pilots. According to their commander, General Galland, they had flown 800 sorties that day. They had not destroyed the 139 American  337  Tlawona: phil convo Yalan  tala ‘in dead  bi uM ehrhta els  ck tiltateil  awk  ‘raniaahnit ‘weds rok bantu  Concentration on the ball-bearing industry, for instanc