m almost faster than they could absorb them. The 301st Group, with twenty planes, had flow  first airp!  the nort  Greenland-Scotland) to settle into the base at CI August, and the 92nd Group, with twenty-three of the newest model had arrived a short time later to take residence at Bovingdon, but the end of the month came without either grou ing operational status  B-17Fs,  Genera him fort  pointedly asked Eaker at an 8th Air Force hea  August 2  97th Group was putting an average of only twelve As it happened, the 97th and 92nd had just traded airplanes  mission  because  hen ferry route across the Atlantic  al Spaatz, possibly exp eit tardiness, decided to get after Genera  91 why these groups weren’t yet flying mi  ecting General Amold to get after  =|  (Newfoundland- helveston in early  seven approach-  Eaker about it. H quarters meetin; ssions and why t  >  oe  ®  saker had decided the 92nd would not be  48  lanes in the air per  needing its brand-  dut the same time way even more \ugust 28, Eaker quisition for two 2 Douglas DC-3) ing priority parts 3 than an hour.  irst few combat problems ahead, to provide blind- necoming planes two of Arnold’s ire model B-17s. ’e revamped and lass for pilot and : of the turrets; it of electrical or 2m for the crews If, he asked for  orked out and the it. On September another mission al of thirty-seven iat day, and once  group, the 93rd, B-24 Liberator, f Col. Edward J. Alconbury (four 1s getting its first 3-17s along with ‘ainst an aircraft > abort  2re on their way ‘rman pilots had bomber for three  tegies against it  new B-17Fs. He realized he had to establish a combat-crew replace- ment and training center, and as soon as the 92nd had flown a few combat missions, he intended to use this group, at Bovingdon, as a nucleus for it. He explained to Spaatz that the 97th was handicapped because its newly acquired, latest model B-17s still had a lot of bugs to be eliminated. During a twelve-plane practice flight, the guns had work