gh about it to fill him full of wrath. If that many American bombers had been able to fly all the way across Germany to attack a city in Bavaria, there must be something wrong with his fighters. It didn’t matter how many B-17s had been shot down. The important fact was that almost two hundred of them had survived to drop their bombs. Four days earlier, when the Americans bombed the Focke-Wulf fighter factory at Wiener Neustadt, Hitler had severely scolded the Luftwaffe chief of staff ,Gen. Hans Jeschonnek. Now he summoned Jeschonnek once more and intensified his castigation. Though Jeschonnek may have felt that Goering, the Luftwaffe commander in chief, was the man to whom Hitler should be talking, he nevertheless accepted the abuse.??  That night, the British struck another heavy blow against Germany and the Luftwaffe in a successful attack against the highly secret  80  ball-bearing shortage was threatened. Ever since he had assumed the enormous responsibilities of his present job eighteen months before, he had been worried about the ball-bearing situation. It seemed to him that ball-bearing production was one of four or five areas of endeavor in which the German war effort was crucially vulnerable. The others were oil production, synthetic rubber, chemicals, and communica- tions. If the allied air attacks were to be concentrated on any one of these industrial sectors, Germany’s ability to make war might be decisively curtailed.  The ball-bearing industry was even more vulnerable than the others because so much of it was concentrated in those five factories clustered around the railway yards at Schweinfurt. On September 20, 1942, a month after the Americans began their daylight bombing, Speer had called Hitler's attention to the importance of the Schwein- furt factories, and two days later he had suggested to Hitler that the  Schweinfurt antiaircraft defenses very little had been done about ii  be increased. Hitler had agreed, but t  Speer had subsequently suggest