, the Belgian returned with a tan civilian suit and helped Winslow put it on. Several other Belgians gathered around, some of them asking for souvenirs. He gave them his parachute and harness, his Mae West (inflatable vest), and whatever else he didn’t think he would need. Suffering the pain of a broken leg (it proved to be fractured in three places), he asked for a doctor, but no one under- stood him. A small boy gave him cognac, and then the farmer carried him piggy-back to a shed behind his barn  When Winslow asked about a toilet, someone, understanding only the French meaning of the word, and supposing he wanted to wash himself, went into the house and brought him a face cloth with a basin of water. He finally managed to convey his actual need and they carried him to a pile of straw outside the shed. Then they took him back inside and laid him down on a bed of straw. His rescuer and several other people began to question him in French, but since he could understand little of what they were asking, communication remained minimal Again he asked for a doctor. They brought him a country priest who wanted to know whether he was a Catholic or a Protestant Winslow, grasping this question, said he was a Protestant.  The priest stayed only a short time before bidding him ‘‘au revoir.””  Finally a girl arrived who spoke some English. The first question she relayed to him was one the men had been trying to ask. Did he have a gun, and would he give it to them?  The question brought home to Winslow the fact that he wasn’t the only person in this little shed who was at war with the Germans. But as he explained through the girl, he wasn’t carrying a gun. He asked her if she could get him a doctor. She said she would do what she could but didn’t know how long it would take. His leg, dangling from the knee, was twisted grotesquely, but none of these people seemed to grasp the importance of straightening it and trying to set it as quickly as possible. So Winslow asked for some sl