nded his speech by introducing Eaker, the general could not, in good grace, refuse to open his mouth. But if he had to speak, he decided he would make it short  “‘We won’t do much talking,’’ he said to the crowd of British soldiers and sailors, ‘‘until we’ve done more fighting. We hope that when we leave, you’ll be glad we came.”’  It was with some relief that Brig. Gen. Ira Eaker learned in mid-June 1942 of the appointment of Dwight Eisenhower, now a new three-star general, as the U.S. Army’s European Theater commander. Though not well acquainted with Eisenhower, Eaker knew that if Arnold had suggested him the man must be, unlike some ground-force generals, a solid supporter of air power  At the same time, Eaker was happy to greet his immediate superior, Maj. Gen. Carl Spaatz, the 8th Air Force commander, on Spaatz’s arrival in England. Spaatz, who had remained in the States almost four months longer than Eaker to arrange and expedite the flow of men and matériel across the Atlantic, was now ready to occupy the headquarters prepared for him—code-named Widewing —at Bushy Park. On June 19, Spaatz held a ‘‘hello’’ press confer- ence in London, during which he asserted once more the American determination to bomb Germany in the daytime.  Eaker now had with him an ally upon whom he felt he could always depend. ‘“Tooey’’ Spaatz was one of his closest friends, the two men having first met in early 1919 when Eaker, as a first lieutenant, was assigned to Rockwell Field in San Diego. Major Spaatz was the  - 132  minutes, welcoming the first increment of in England. When he ended his speech general could not, in good grace, refuse tc had to speak, he decided he would make ““We won’t do much talking,’” he sai soldiers and sailors, ‘‘until we’ve done m when we leave, you'll be glad we came  executive officer thereat the time and Colonel “Hap” Arnold was  the commandant, Amold had been in France only afew months  dhrng the war, but Spatz had been therefor a year anda half, as  c