ury of their machine guns. Having made their single thrusts, the ME-110s quickly turned for home  Bringmann, looking back at the tight formations of American planes, saw dozens of rockets explode among them. Several B-17s caught fire and began to fall. Though he did not know it, some of these planes belonged to the 38 1st Group (the low element in the lead combat wing), which was absorbing an assault ferocious and persis- tent enough to threaten its extinction. Having already lost one plane near Herstal, the 381st lost its second B-17 near Vogelsand, about twenty-five miles east of Eupen.!? That plane, with one engine dead and another on fire, plummeted to earth at 2:15 p.m. At least nine and perhaps all ten of its crew managed to bail out.  Five minutes later, at 2:20, near the Vogelsand airport, the 381st lost its third B-17 when the plane’s right wing caught fire. All ten men bailed out, but only nine chutes opened.  47  Five minutes after that, at 2:25, the group lost two simultaneously. One had an engine feathered and seemed to be under control except that the nose window was broken, indicating that the pilot and copilot might have been killed by a cannon shell. When this plane fell, only one chute was seen. The other plane that fell at the same time had lost its No. 4 engine, and its right wing was on fire.  Within another five minutes, the group suffered its sixth casualty when one of its planes took two direct hits in the cockpit. Still under attack, the B-17 went into a slow roll, then a spin. One chute appeared.  Ten minutes later, at 2:40, a plane that had been flying for about seventy-five miles with its No. 2 engine afire, suddenly went into a steep dive. Three chutes appeared, after which the entire ship caught fire. But just when all seven men still inside seemed doomed, the tail section snapped off, throwing several of them free. Reports differed on whether four or five more chutes opened.  At 2:45, between Koblenz and Frankfurt, the group lost its e