plas ud is omand meter ped a playing very little part in the war and, what is much graver, fatally prejudiced within the very near future £0 jy curl like ee Bhd Aion American Air production will be cast ever more deeply into an period if not for keeps. ots) nt aoe and ala, very isin BoC unprofitable groove. Lita : nd ached vs coed by Chal os, Sung by pn The difficulties which confront the American planes are most Some of Harris’s information came from Eak ja ¢ i ila ite B Bit pil serious. The first is the danger of running out of ammunition and taking command of the entire 8th Ait Force as S00) wv closet pel east Lan Helin asa thus becoming easy prey. . . . What would happen if the Fortress Africa, and who had already got wind from Spa ref the Geman bobs thy ha to ar at the ght of the ran out of ammunition would be a massacre. The accuracy of their plans were Tultilled, he would Pave not much mo blt, Chul was comin tate unishmen ak bombing depends upon their not being harassed while over the force left to command. Churchill knew, of COUTSE 5 ya grey Giminih het indus cup, eventually target. The days when the weather is suitable for this form of high behind Harris's pen, but he was not much sit pore the Geman var eo, and peas level bombing are few and far between, especially in the winter. the ue even now was litte: more than a Papeees f eben gin ie, Cucti di oi On an average, conditions are likely to be suitable on only six days oe es he wrote a petsonal minuteOct clei, Under Pons natin a month in Germany. . . . they frequently have to wait for ten Sinclair's detailed defense of the Americans Chur come (othe conlaon at days before being able to make a sortie. Everyone must admit this he was “‘not at all convinced of the soundness OF ted ws oat Pl ene is a very grievous situation. What ought we to do? October 23 minute on the merits of daylight Pe Dl ado, cng some of ol seater wot srenghen is ee we sae toward the Americans, points Churchill’s low opinion of the Ameri