oss they must have numbers to saturate and disperse the defences. I hope you may consider it wise to build up General Spaatz’s strength. . . . We must make TORCH [the North African inva- sion] a success. But I am sure we would be missing a great opportunity if we did not concentrate every available Fortress and long-range escort fighter as quickly as possible for the attack on Our primary enemy.  I cannot help feeling some concern at the extent to which the programme for the build-up of American air forces in this country is falling behind expectations.  Churchill’s belief that day bombing was a mad ambition did not prevent him from seeming to support it in this letter when such  152  Today they attacked more ferociously and persistently than ever before. Within a few minutes, the Flying Fortress had finally lost its unblemished record. One of the 97th planes went down near Flas- seslles, and another, from the 92nd, fell into the English Channel.  General Eaker, who had worried about his virtually unscathed crews becoming overconfident, could now concentrate on other worries. The men of the 8th Bomber Command gained valuable respect that day for the skills of German pilots.  Three days later, Eaker had a new problem so serious it threatened to make academic the question of the B-17’s merits against German fighters. On September 9, General Eisenhower, calculating the needs of the North African invasion, informed Spaatz that the 8th Army bomber offensive against Germany would have to be not just cur- tailed as anticipated but completely stopped, at least for the near future. Two days later, General Arnold in Washington, undoubtedly alerted by Spaatz, sent a cable to Eisenhower arguing against any such intentions. Though Arnold understood the need for planes in Africa, he didn’t want the 8th Bomber Command forced out of business after all the work it had done to get into business. He listed for Eisenhower some of the benefits of keeping the 8th in operation Besides red