ural that they had learned a few things. They had now got their system working pretty smoothly, and the most effective contribution the American bombers could make toward winning the war would be simply to mesh in with it  Eaker would point out that they had already agreed on separation of effort. Military airdromes were so close together in England even now that the air space was congested every night the R.A.F. sent out its bombers. It would become perilously crowded if the 8th Air Force were to begin sending its fleets up into the dark skies at the same time. On the other hand, congestion would never become an unmanageable problem if the R.A.F. were to continue its night raids while the A.A.F. limited itself to the daytime.  Harris believed the air-space congestion could be handled in either case. And he spoke eagerly of the possibility that combined British- American armadas of a thousand planes a night, even two thousand, might soon be visiting devastation on the Nazis. When Eaker would remind him again that his B-17 crews were not trained for night operations, he would insist that they could be trained  But what of the B-17 itself, which was designed and equipped for  110  Chaney made it clear that he disapproved. Eaker, in desperate need of clerical help, kept the women despite Chaney's opposition.  Eaker’s staff, as a gesture of thanks for favors received, held a reception in their quarters for Harris and his staff, providing, through the American Post Exchange in London, a display of liquor the likes of which few of these British officers had seen since 1939. Harris’s staff reciprocated by inviting the American officers to dances where there were usually more attractive girls than there were men. Harris, who had cosmopolitan tastes in food and had therefore gone to the trouble of becoming a highly accomplished chef, invited Eaker to his home for a dinner featuring a Virginia ham he had brought back from his latest trip to Washington. Thereafter, Eaker’s din