s an accident.  The colonel put an arm on his shoulder. ‘‘That’s all right, Sarge. Don’t worry about it.”’  As copilot Edward Downs and navigator Miles McFann brought their battered 96th Group Fortress to a stop at Ford Field near Chichester, a British ambulance was on the spot waiting to assist them. Downs, despite his wounds, said, *‘I can make it,’’ when the attendants asked if he needed help. They therefore removed first the body of the pilot, Lieutenant Bolick, since it was blocking the catwalk from the cockpit to the rear.  The moment Downs stood up his parachute harness fell off his back. A piece of shrapnel had severed both straps. His oxygen maSk had also been shredded by one of the fragments that hit his head. Blood was dripping from his face and from his whole right side. He was splattered from head to foot with Bolick’s blood. Making his way toward the rear, he passed one of the waist gunners, S. Sgt. Theodore Bergstrom, the youngest man in the crew. The color faded from Bergstrom’s face as he stared at the ghastly sight of the wounded copilot. Had this bloody mess been flying the airplane?  As soon as the British ambulance men got a look at Downs, they paid no more attention to his insistence that he could proceed under his own power. They placed him on a stretcher and hurried him to the field hospital, where the shrapnel was removed from various parts of his body. The other members of his crew were to be commended in person the next day by Winston Churchill, who happened to be at the R.A.F. fighter base on an inspection tour and noticed their shell- tiddled plane. But Downs would know nothing about that until much  324  greeted by Col. Howard ‘‘Slim’’ Turner, commander of the 40th CBW, who asked him, ‘*Where’s the rest of the group?’’  “*You’ve just watched the group land,’’ Peaslee said. ‘‘All that’s left of it.””  Of the twenty-one B-17s that had taken off from Podington that morning, four had aborted and six had been shot down. But several other gro