sters, Britain'sbestheavy to the plan with typical bombers, forcing four squadrons of them out of action. It might be . though he considered it veral months before he got them back. At the same time, the  Admiralty, becoming desperate because of the appalling ship losses. talks with Churchill, he to U-boats, was pleading with Prime Minister Churchill to take six. temporary headquarters more squadrons of Lancasters for submarine patrol in the Bay of 1 >heon at Harris’s home, Biscay. Still new himself in the position of bomber commander, , Marshall accompanied Harris was beginning to feel a heavy pressure, which he later de- . Eaker was delighted to scribed very vividly: American military men, living general and prob- I wonder if the frightful mental strain of commanding a large air ~Arnold, for instance, had force in war can ever be realized except by the very few whohave hat he had once said to it? While a naval commander may at the very sition contrary to mine, I  s  ever experiences  118  117  most be required to conduct a major action once or twice in the whole course of the war, and an army commander is engaged in one battle say once in six months or, in exceptional circumstances, as often as once a month, the commander of a bomber force has to commit the whole of it every twenty-four hours; even on those occasions when the weather forces him to cancel a projected operation, he has to lay on the whole plan for committing the force. . . . Our climate being what it is, I should have been able to justify myself completely if I had left the whole force on the ground, if I had done nothing whatever, on nine occasions out of ten. But this would have led to the defeat of Britain in the air. It is best to leave to the imagination what such a daily strain amounts to when continued over a period of years.?  When Harris took charge of Bomber Command, it had only 378 serviceable planes, and only 69 of these were heavy bombers. It was not surprising that he continued his att