nd that Schweinfurt was producing closer to 65 percent, including most ofthe highly specialized precision bearings that were indispensable to the war effort.” But even the 52 percent assessment made Schweinfurt an apparently iresistible target.  It was a source of constant frustration to M.E.W. experts, how- ever, that Harris found Schweinfurt so easily resstible, When he argued that his bombers wouldn’t be able to find it at night, they suggested that British agents onthe ground might plant portable radio transmitters that would lead the bombers to it. Harris also found this suggestion impractical and resistble MELW, did, however, have some friends at the Air Ministry otal, who had been deputized at Casablanca asthe final authority on target priorities both for the R.A.F. and the A.A.F,, fully appre- ciated the value of M. E,W. assessments, Though he couldn't prevail upon the fiercely independent Harris to make much use of them, he lid encourage the Americans to do so, It was Portal, in his taget- selecting capacity, who issued the offical oder forthe Schweinfur attack, although that order was prearranged with Baker, who was also eager to undertake the mission, Baker's enthusiasm was indicated by is plan to go on it personally a plan that was abandoned only when the European Theater commander, General Devers, expressly ot- ered him not t0 go. The most ardent M.E.W. supporter at the Air Ministry was Air Commodore Sidney O, Bufton, Director of Bomber Operations on the Air Staff. It was ironic that a man with such a ttle should have been almost without influence at Bomber Command, but Bufton, as an advocate of selective strategic targets, was anathema to Harris, who didn’t even want Bufton visiting the bomber squadrons or trying to influence them with his views about strategic bombing  Bufton’s ideas were welcomed, however, by such American intel- ligence officers as Col, Richard Hughes and Col, Harris Hull, Bufton took an active part in preparing the 8th Air Force fo