ver two weeks.”’  Another consideration bore down upon him as he later explained: “‘Inasmuch as the importance of these targets increased almost daily, the risk involved in dispatching the two bomb divisions individually was felt to be commensurate with the results which the destruction of these two targets would achieve.’”!2  He gave the order to go. His staff transmitted it to Williams at Bassingbourn, and at 10:40 the crews there were in their planes. At 10:45 the battery booster cart was plugged into the lead plane of the 9ist, to be flown by the group commander, Lt. Col. Clemens L. Wurzbach; a minute later the B-17’s first four-bladed propeller began to turn slowly, its engine sputtered, coughed, blew a puff of smoke to the rear, then burst into a roar. A smooth roar, loud but not deafening. Even with all four engines running, the Flying Fortress was not an ear-splitting aircraft. The Air Force had several planes that made much more noise, including even one small training plane, the BT-13, whose single engine could drown out the big bomber’s four.  As Wurzbach taxied out to the runway, Col. William M. Gross, air commander of the first two combat wings, settled into the copilot’s seat beside him, studying the revised schedule for the rendezvous of the 91st with his five other groups.  Gross and Wurzbach were off the ground at 11:20. Col. Howard  32  word from the tower. Several times, operations officers came out in jeeps with status reports. This crew had a special interest in the Schweinfurt mission because they had received special preparation for it, and had been waiting two months for it to happen. Once in June and three times since then, each heavy-bombardment group had sent a select crew to General Williams’s headquarters for secret briefings about the ball-bearing factories. Preston had taken this crew to represent the 379th, so they knew better than most of the others what they had to anticipate.  Lt. Philip Algar, a University of California graduate f