s enough to know that innocent Germans, many of them women and children, were being killed by these terrorists  When the sirens continued, the people of Schweinfurt began to believe them and moved toward the shelters. At the ball-bearing factories, now back to almost full production as a result of the two-month respite, the workers moved unhurriedly toward the under- ground bunkers, some of which had been built for them since August. Still they saw no approaching bombers  At VKF Plant II, an artisan named Heinrich Weichsel went into a bunker, then ran back to his work bench because he had *‘a funny feeling.’’ Gathering up his precious measuring tools, he took them with him. As he again approached the still-open door of the shelter he could see clusters of silver dots in the distant air to the southwest. The flak batteries in the southern hills began to fire. Shortly after Weich- sel entered the shelter, its door closed and he noticed in the dim light that many of the men around him were becoming pale, perhaps from fear. He sat down next to a young woman and tried to make himself comfortable. At least he had chosen VKF’s best bunker. While the concrete was only twenty inches thick, it had the added advantage of being under a ramp. It should be safe enough  310  303rd Group, which had not previously lost a plane, lo _ Alig, likin aie the 91st Group, Lt. Harold Christensen, still struggis siliciwtliyhocin: fet donban Hes formation with one propeller windmilling and the three slwedfemnpsc/teblin pt hth speed to compensate for its drag, was beginning to accep 1 0 han iy, Ae he couldn’t keep pace with his companions. Gradually cl fn em ema ih but he was not alone for long. The Germans soon i pumping bullets into his fuselage and wounding his ba ner, S. Sgt. Walter Molzon. After announcing on the int he had been hit, Molzon walked forward, had the boml the wound, then returned to his gun. Christensen and h it’ not yet ready to surrender. At 3:00 p.M. the First Division rea