enek also wrapped eight or nine English blankets around him. Then Schimenek returned to his gun. He did not know how badly Miller had been injured until he looked down to see blood emerging from the man’s oxygen mask and freezing as it hit the air.  Miller had now regained consciousness and was in pain. Schimenek scraped the frozen blood from the oxygen mask, exposed Miller’s wrist, and jabbed a Syrette of morphine into it. To Miller it felt as if he had been punctured by a railroad spike. Gradually he lapsed back into a coma as Schimenek resumed firing, first his own gun, then Miller’s, depending on which side of the plane offered more German targets.  Algar, at the news that Miller was hit, felt fear hit the pit of his stomach for the first time in his seven missions. Never before had anyone in his crew been hit, and the reality jolted him severely when he realized that with more than three hundred miles to go before reaching the target, he had on his hands a man who might die unless he received medical care quickly. But only fleetingly did Algar think of leaving the formation and turning back to England. As aircraft commander, he was responsible for not just this one man but also nine others including himself. If he were to leave the formation, he couldn’t hope to get to England alone. The air was full of German fighters. On his own, he would have twenty of them after him. He glanced at his copilot, Lt. Richard V. Wolf, and shrugged. They had no choice but to continue.  The British Spitfires, weaving around the B-17 formations, trying to sort out the German fighters from the American bombers, had managed to engage several enemy planes. But ten miles north of Antwerp, their short operating range forced them to turn for home. Before departing, they claimed victories over four ME-109s and four or five FW-190s, without suffering any losses themselves  The 92nd Bomb Group led by Maj. James J. Griffith, was the first to encounter the German rockets.‘ Shortly after cros