er friends quickly decided, nevertheless, that Rodwell was astonished at the number of girls who showed up in 2m were becoming these American men were like ‘‘a gift from God,”’ not only because Horham after the Yanks arrived. On Sundays, or on the nights when enty-five or thirty they turned out to be quite entertaining but also because they had the men staged dances in one of the hangars, young women came ey were also bitter. excessive quantities of food at their disposal, and they were as from miles around, oke out at the 100th generous as they were hopeful. When they took a girl on a date, they The same was true at Thorpe Abbots, five miles north of Horham,  g asuperior officer would bring her “‘a carload of food from the PX.’ With food so where the new 100th Group had arrived June 9." Harry Chenery,a subordination was  scarce in England, this consideration was not to be ignored. The ferret keeper there, gazed with wonder upon the parade of girls, with what caused it. One  -ange fighter escort  251 252  their fashionably short skirts and high heels, walking past his house on the way to the air base.  Mrs. Daphne Redgrave, who lived across the street from the Chenerys, near the top of the lane leading to the base, had been tending an eight-year-old boy named Jimmy Sowter when the first American planes landed. It was about five o’clock on a warm, summery afternoon. Though bewildered by the noise of the B-17s coming in one after another at half-minute intervals, she took little Jimmy up the lane with her to watch them land. Mrs. Redgrave soon got to know several of the airmen and liked them. Then she developed the habit of counting the planes as they took off in the morning and counting them again as they returned from their missions in the afternoon. On some days, she noticed, a lot of them didn’t return  To the men of the 100th, the girls around Thorpe Abbots, and in the Norfolk area, were not glamorous—*‘seamed cotton stockings, mended dresses, cheap ribbons in th