ng, more and more of the men ignored the available girls and stopped going into town on their free nights. Most of them were becoming convinced they had no chance of surviving twenty-five or thirty missions. Although they were fatalistic about it, they were also bitter. Many of them drank too much. Fistfights often broke out at the 100th Group’s officers’ club. Getting drunk and attacking a superior officer was a popular way to spend an evening. But insubordination was usually overlooked because everyone understood what caused it. One of the big continuing issues was the lack of long-range fighter escort  254  their fashionably short skirts and high hee on the way to the air base.  Mrs. Daphne Redgrave, who lived a Chenerys, near the top of the lane leadi tending an eight-year-old boy named Jim American planes landed. It was about summery afternoon. Though bewildered coming in one after another at half-minu Jimmy up the lane with her to watch them got to know several of the airmen and liked the habit of counting the planes as they to counting them again as they returned f1 afternoon. On some days, she noticed, a |  To the men of the 100th, the girls around Norfolk area, were not glamorous—‘*‘s mended dresses, cheap ribbons in their h and they were available.! Besides those dances (they seemed to have ‘‘a flair for j others to be found at places like the Samso or at a hundred places in London. (If y ‘halfway home with a girl’’ the minute difficult to get to London and difficult to you got there. Lt. Ernest Warsaw decided t because the city was bombed every time he the shortage of food, there was the shor reason so few were available, it seemed t American officers who had them held ont were probably *‘guys who didn’t fly.”’ An natural hostility toward ground officers bi “risk their asses’’ on missions. And even: some of the fliers that they chose the eas  Major Gale ‘‘Buck’’ Cleven, commar 350th Squadron, felt he could always tell w was going to be rough.!§ Nobody cam