arings, they would have concentrated their aptain, you’ve got Schafer was not willing to wait even until morning. He ordered the entire force upon Schweinfurt. Since they apparently hadn't consid- Ormality that was night shift to begin immediately removing the repairable machines by ered it worthy of the hardest blow they could strike against it, he nd enlisted men. truck to Eltmann. concluded that ball bearings were not a top-priority American target Albert Speer hadn’t yet received all the Schweinfurt details when Hitler was quite calm now about the Schweinfurt matter. He [0, you’ve got that he learned about the Peenemiinde attack. During the night he flew to seemed to derive some comfort from Speer’s appraisal and also from Peenemiinde and talked to his friend, Gen. Walter Dornberger, the the great number of American planes shot down. In any future raids, ng returned from  | about the Fourth  81 =  he believed, the Americans would not find it as easy to get through by daylight as the British did at night  When Speer left the Fiihrer that morning, no drastic measures had been decreed. Even the question of ball-bearing-plant dispersal, though agreed upon, was not completely settled. Speer was certain that various components of the Schweinfurt plants should be dis- persed to a number of other communities; but even with Hitler’s tacit approval would he be able to disperse them? If he were to dismantle and relocate the currently operating factories he would lose at least three or four months’ worth of sorely needed production. And in order to move them, or even parts of them, to other communities, he would have to win the approval of the politically powerful gauleiters (local leaders) of those communities. These men were close to Hitler’s heart. Many of them were his cronies. They were the core of his Nazi constituency. And they were not likely to welcome into their towns or cities factories that might attract American bombers. For the present, Speer could only launch