difficulties were worked out and the new groups got ready for their introduction to combat. On September 5, the 301st made its debut by joining the 97th in another mission against the railroad marshaling yards at Rouen. A total of thirty-seven B-17s, still a pathetically small number, hit Rouen that day, and once again all of them returned.  Next day, September 6, another new heavy-bomb group, the 93rd, flying America’s other four-engine bomber, the B-24 Liberator, began arriving from the states under the command of Col. Edward J. Timberlake, Jr. While it was settling into a base at Alconbury (four miles northwest of Huntingdon), the 92nd Group was getting its first taste of combat. The 92nd that day sent fourteen B-17s along with twenty-two from the ‘‘veteran’’ 97th on a raid against an aircraft factory at Meaulte. Six of the 92nd’s planes had to abort.  The thirty planes that droppped their bombs were on their way home when they met a flight of FW-190s. The German pilots had now been encountering the heavily armed American bomber for three weeks and perhaps had been working out some strategies against it  150  new B-17Fs. He realized he had to establish a combat-crew replace- ment and training center, and as soon as the 92nd had flown a few combat missions, he intended to use this group, at Bovingdon, as a nucleus for it. He explained to Spaatz that the 97th was handicapped because its newly acquired, latest model B-17s still had a lot of bugs to be eliminated. During a twelve-plane practice flight, the guns had worked on only three. Several of the planes had now been flown long enough to need one-hundred-hour inspections, which the ground crews were doing as quickly as possible. And there was such an acute shortage of generators and spark plugs that one-fourth of the 97th’s planes had been put out of commission.  The 301st and 92nd Groups were also suffering from the spark- plug and generator shortage. They didn’t have enough tow-target planes or sleeves for gunn