ciates:  I think there is no question but that our mission last Sunday [to Minster] cost at least twenty heavy bombers which could have been saved had we had an ample supply of 108-gal. droppable fuel tanks. These tanks had been promised us by the Ministry of Aircraft Production in ample quantity as early as last month M.A.P. has not been able to make good the promised deliveries. I have just received a cable from General Arnold which indicates that these long-range tanks cannot be supplied from the United States before December 1. If we can at once obtain an accelerated supply from M.A.P. it definitely would save a minimum of fifty long-range bombers, in my opinion, between now and the arrival of the U.S. produced tanks.  It was surprising that Eaker should call upon Portal in this matter since the M.A.P., while under Air Ministry jurisdiction, was outside Portal’s control. But Eaker’s exasperation had apparently reached its limits. Portal would at least be sympathetic. It was not so surprising  291  that Eaker should choose this day to write him, when almost three hundred unescorted Flying Fortresses were on the way to Germany’s best-protected target. Eaker knew they were about to catch hell.  In Germany, the Central Defense Headquarters’ monitoring ser- vice had picked up signs of heavy air activity over England before 11:00 A.M. Whenever a flight of planes took off from East Anglia airfields and reached a height of five hundred feet, the monitoring service would broadcast the report, ‘‘Assembly has begun in En- gland.’’!6 The Twelfth Air Corps in Zeist and other western air- defense installations had been notified immediately, and more than a score of fighter bases, with four hundred to five hundred planes standing by, had been alerted. At 12:20, when the American force began crossing the English coast, the Germans already knew its size and direction. The one thing they didn’t yet know was its final destination. By 12:50, when the First Division crossed the Dutc