ile other fighters landed, refueled, rearmed, and took off again to rejoin the battle, which was moving quickly eastward.  One ME-109 dropped a bomb into the 351st and 38 1st formation, but it exploded harmlessly, too far away. Several of the twenty-five B-17s in this formation had been hit, yet none had gone down or fallen back. In the most severely mauled groups, the 305th, 92nd, and 379th, one B-17 after another had begun to smoke, or had lost engines, burst into flames, fallen backward or downward. Bouquets of white American parachutes floated toward earth, sometimes with one or two yellow German chutes among them, like buttercups among daisies. The ground to the rear, along the flight path, was dotted with flames from crashed aircraft, both American and Ger- man. And there was no sign of let-up in the German attack. As soon as one group of fighters ran out of ammunition and fuel, another would arrive to replace it.  299  ian: aber of German squadrons in the air around Stedtfeld, bombers as digi} 1 as fighters, all moving north, told him that Central Defense iid) OMand was expecting a deep penetration.  # he feelings that surged through him included little or no fear yitvitya4 ause his anticipation was blocking it out. For more than four years ithiiiy 'ad been looking forward to combat, and for more than a month he ii’) been impatiently expecting it. Today he was convinced that «hiya Mething very big’’ lay ahead.  si ver the radio came another order. All units were to change to the ur © frequency. When they did, they heard the cool voice of an air »hy umander (perhaps a general, though Stedtfeld could not identify ;) who was cruising above the battle telling at least a dozen itn adrons where to go, how to position themselves, when to attack.  “wlan ear Koblenz, within sight of the Rhine River, flying at 23,000 fede and still climbing, Stedtfeld and the other pilots in the Fifth (hivdebiabliy adron got their first glimpse of B-17s when one of them exploded tiny T