) during their combat tours.  The A-8-B oxygen masks used in the B-17s, the best masks then available, tended to freeze when used above 20,000 feet. Ice would form in the bag, then in the tube between bag and mask, causing complete stoppage. Inexperienced crewmen were sometimes slow to realize what was happening. Anoxia casualties were highest among men on their first five missions. Sometimes also the plane’s entire oxygen system would fail because of battle damage or mechanical malfunction. If such failure happened during an attack by enemy fighters, it might be safer to fly on with whatever oxygen was still available in ‘‘bottles’’ than to leave the relative safety of the forma- tion and descend alone to a lower altitude.  In some crews, one member was assigned to make regular oxygen checks by calling everyone on the interphone. If a man didn’t answer, someone near him was’ sent to make sure he was conscious and breathing properly.  The dangers of anoxia, however, did not match the awesome misery created by air temperatures of thirty to fifty degrees below zero. One flight surgeon who sometimes went to the flight line to watch the returning planes come in would sigh with relief when he saw that none of them were firing ‘‘wounded aboard”’ flares only to watch with horror later as his dispensary became ‘*jammed with men with frozen hands, feet, faces.’’ When the flight surgeons investi- gated the most common causes of frostbite, they found a variety of factors. Dampness was one of the worst. ‘‘Men who walked through the rain to their aircraft; who slept in heated suits; who played sweaty games in their flying clothes, were wet when they took off. They were casualties when they came back.’’ Ball-turret gunners, who might get no opportunity to leave their turrets during protracted periods of combat and would therefore succumb finally to the neces- sity of urinating where they sat, sometimes returned to England with frozen backs, buttocks, and thighs.  The heavy, leath