l had a shop wherehe not onlysold 1g the British that wooded countryside, had very little social activity. Most of them had icycles; he also repaired them.'4 And since most of the Americans >dicated to fighting lost their boyfriends to the services. Miss Howden’s fiancé had been idn’t take good care of their bikes, his services were in great week, thought the killed. Her first contact with the Yanks did not seem promising lemand. He soon found such favor with the men of the 95ththatthey 2h trivial occasions When they arrived at the base, many of them had suffered food would sneak him onto the base and into the line at the mess hal hile the impatient poisoning on the ship that brought them, and she was assigned to One night Rodwell had a momentary scare. While he was eating  ” the English were nurse a forty-bed ward full of them. They were not sick enough to with his new friends in the mess hall, some officerscameintomakea ling a little life in resist commenting on her charms and suggesting several things they surprise inspection. The men around Rodwell quickly locked him in the war would still would like to have her do with them. It seemed to her also that most of the ice-cream refrigerator. When the inspection was finished and they them had unpronounceable names, and those who had pronounceable hurried to the refrigerator to let him out before he began to freeze, | roup where casual- names were pronouncing them wrong. The peculiarity of American they found to their surprise that he was in no hurry tocome out.  ght-hearted as the names and their pronunciation soon became a source of amusement to Rodwell loved ice cream. the tension increas- all the nurses at Fairfield. There was never a shortage of girls around the American bases. _le girls and stopped Miss Howden and her friends quickly decided, nevertheless, that Rodwell was astonished at the number of girls who showed up in 2m were becoming these American men were like ‘‘a gift from God,”’ not only because Horham