two ) Few Missions,’ and Abortive Sorties.’’ In s to TORCH and the t of the 8th’s mainte- mand, he pointed out, frican operation, with increased on the re- ent of the planes had lanes, after taking off vay to their target. By t, where the tempera- bomb-bay doors were frozen in fixed posi- neither defend them- ruary 4 raid aimed at six bombers that took day, only thirty-nine  missions by recalling e so recklessly as to eplete his force. By ig, Eaker was remind- r build-up in England t suspended.  ind about diversion of a devilish scheme to y toenlist all possible set the 8th Air Force acking such places as n with gradually in-  A few hours after the Wilhelmshaven mission, Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris sent a message to General Longfellow at 8th Bomber Command welcoming the Americans to a club the R.A.F. had founded and for which it had been eagerly soliciting new members:  Greetings and congratulations from [British] Bomber Command to all who took part in the first United States raid on Germany. This well-planned and gallantly executed operation opens a campaign the Germans have long dreaded. To them it is yet another ominous sentence in the writing on the wall. . . . To Bomber Command it is concrete and most welcome proof that we shall no longer be alone in carrying the war to German soil.  There was no irony in Harris’s congratulations. Though he had argued for a long time against the day bombing of Germany, he had never joined Sinclair and Portal, or later Churchill, in criticizing the Americans for being so slow to get to it. He remarked to an aide one day that British critics of the Americans had short memories. It had taken the British two years or more, from late 1939 to early 1942, to  191  get their bomber offensive into high gear. Eaker and his first six officers had arrived in England only eleven months before, with nothing but their suitcases. All their men, planes, and equipment then had to be brought from three thousand miles away. The logistic ac