tower acknowledged: ‘‘We know you have wounded. We'll have someone to meet you.””  By the time Algar brought the plane to a stop at a hardstand near the end of the runway, the group surgeon, Maj. Henry Stroud, was standing by with an ambulance. Miller, who had regained conscious- ness once more as the plane reached home, experienced an agonizing pain in his chest when his comrades bent his body to get him out of the plane and into the ambulance. As the ambulance sped through the woods to the base dispensary, Miller lapsed again into a coma. Dr Stroud, who was at his side, could see that the first thing he needed was blood. But was there enough time to find out what type of blood? Even if that information was on Miller’s dog tags, would there be time to find a donor?  When Miller was wheeled into the dispensary, Dr. Stroud found that his blood count was down to 41. The man had only a few minutes to live. He was coughing up so much blood his lungs were obviously full of it. Noticing this, Dr. Stroud hit upon a desperate idea. Punctur- ing Miller’s lungs, he pumped the blood out of them into a bottle. Then, as quickly as possible, he pumped this same blood back into Miller’s arms. It was one of the most unusual blood transfusions in medical history. All Stroud could do now, after dressing Miller's wounds, was to wait and see if this unorthodox treatment would work.  The two most badly mauled groups, the 91st and 381st, were limping back across the North Sea together, and they were destined to suffer further losses before reaching England. Lt. Eugene Lockhart had managed to keep his crippled B-17 in the 91st formation on three engines all the way from the target. But when he reached the coast, where he could feel relatively safe from enemy fighters, he decided he had better do something about his serious fuel shortage. !? Leaving the formation at 18,000 feet, he put the plane into a slow glide in the hope that he might have just enough gasoline to reach an air base on t