d comprehend it. On his third or Alamein in Africa, he had been shot down erican P-38. Thereafter he had caught on : rapidly enough not only to survive but ssive record in the most dangerous of alerted at eleven o’clock on the morning Air Corps headquarters was guessing that might be against Frankfurt. Langer and is squadron stood by their ME-109s. idar indicated that the second American was crossing the English coast. The First, 1 Fifth German Air Divisions at Deelen, i Schleissheim were soon notified, and  38  One member of this group was a twenty-two-year-old navigator and radio operator, Sgt. Hans Bringmann. Born and raised in Berlin, he had entered the Luftwaffe after two years at the university, and since early 1942 had been flying night missions against British bombers.!7 He understood why his group’s ME-110s were to be tried against the Flying Fortresses. The ME-110s now carried four 21-cm. rockets (two under each wing) with electric fuses. These rockets had an effective range of about eight hundred yards (which was the outside limit of the B-17 machine-gun range) and they had the explosive power of small artillery shells. When the B-17s were escorted by fast American fighter planes, it might be suicidal for the ME-110s to go near them, but Galland and his staff had calculated that after the B-17s had penetrated beyond the range of their escorts, it would be reasonably safe for the ME-110s to come within rocket range of their machine guns.  Bringmann and many of his companions were not yet convinced. Their planes were rigged for night operations, and all of their combat experience had been at night. They were accustomed to flying singly ‘tas lone wolves,’’!8 using radar to seek out the slow, poorly armed British bombers, which were virtually helpless when they were found. In the daytime, the ME-110s would have to maintain tight formations, to which they were unaccustomed. And if they wanted their rockets to be at all effective, they would have to come closer