n early down and then opened fir October, was less reserved than Bolick and Downs around British uncomfortably if the mai Women He learned quickly that the kind of girl he might meet at that as he looked out of hi Piccadilly considered all Americans rich. He had been told by an had been vaguely aware Englishman he met that when the Canadians came, the British “was were down. Though he f gettin’ a piece of ass for a shilling.” But the Canadians “‘gave ‘em occurred to him now tha ‘wo shillings. And when the God damned Yanks came over, they and the rest of the crew fii didn’t know where to stop. They were liable to give ’em a few fly formation with them. pounds.” The captain bellowed That was not Rand’s style. He preferred to meet nice girls in pubs, violated the unwritten a andhe found them very approachable. Some of the British men might down. What kind of peoy ‘sent the way the Americans dressed and the way they flashed their less. Warsaw remained d: money, but the girls didn’t. Andas for the men, Rand didn’t have any continued his tirade. trouble. Not many men enjoy making trouble for steelworkers from Finally the man’s ange Youngstown. saw in his cell, smiled, a The 94th had bounced back after finding itself in a sorry condition he said, ‘‘all men who { after the June 13 mission to Keil. That was the day nine of its planes shake, walked away. were shot down in the Channel on the way back because the gunners, Warsaw could breathe ‘thinking they would see no more Germans, were cleaning their that was not the last he w Weapons when a squadron of JU-88s arrived. A week later, General their guns after putting tt Eaker had decided the group needed a new commander and had sent Stalag 3 after a long, arc e of his original six staff members, Col. Frederick Castle, who had and other American prisc been nagging him for a chance to be airborne rather than chairborne ‘The group did not welcome Castle when he arrived. Many of the men  277  were cynical, not only about their cha