nd then going down on the last one.  ut this possibility when a teletype message 8th Air Force headquarters ordering Capt.  127, to report immediately to General Eaker  iadn’t seen the commanding general since  ter the Schweinfurt-Regensburg raid. But  v had received, on August 26, a commenda- flight, conveying his appreciation of their  ration of their ‘superior qualities.’’  Bushy Park and walked into Eaker’s office,  g the three stars of a lieutenant general since  stion) looked up and smiled. ‘‘ You thought * he said, ‘‘didn’t you?’’  , I didn’t know there was any reason for you  ou going on another trip?’’  1eone keeping track of your tour. You’re just  yu?””  nission.”’  get home?’’  elor. [don’t have any family to worry about,  ng home to get into B-29s.””  © postponing that a few months?’’ Eaker set up a plane and crew with you as my  selieve his good fortune. There was no better t than flying a general. He mumbled some- d. Then he said, ‘‘I’m not in that much hurry  m, said, ‘‘Fine. Go out and tell General \versation.”* ed the chief of staff's desk, Chauncey asked,  ith said.  to Polebrook, pack your things, and come a billet for you.”’  moment of elation before remembering that  272  bicycle up the narrow, black-dark lanes to the base. Sometimes there were dances at the Red Cross Aero Club, but most of the crewmen were in no mood to dance. Most of them would hang around their barracks, listening to Glenn Miller, Dinah Shore, Betty Hutton, Bing Crosby, or the skinny kid, Frank Sinatra, on the Armed Forces Network. They often listened to Lord Haw Haw, with his precise British diction, delivering the ‘‘news’’ on the German propaganda network. Haw Haw was startlingly accurate in his little items about activities of the American bomb groups, but few of these items were of any importance. They were designed simply to make the Ameri- cans think there were enemy spies around them, and perhaps there were. But if so, they were wasting a lot of time on trivia. As for