cans. ‘*Naturally the British manufacturers are thumping the drum for their own products,’’ he concluded. *‘The British operational people have no such ideas.”  As this conclusion proves, Eaker was still unaware of the exchange of views between Churchill, Sinclair, and Portal. He didn’t know how deeply they still distrusted the strategy and equipment to which he was committed. But he discovered how highly they regarded his personal integrity and discretion when he received a visit from an R.A.F. officer named Group Capt. Frederick W. Winterbotham. He had come at the behest of the Prime Minister, Winterbotham said, to make Eaker privy to the most closely guarded secret of the war—the Ultra secret.? British cryptographers had broken Germany’s most confidential communications codes, enabling them to intercept and read all the messages between Hitler and his top commanders. The Prime Minister, aware that information gained by Ultra would be  180  British. When Air Marshal Harris was in America with an R.A.F. purchasing commission in April 1940, James H. ‘*Dutch’’ Kindel- berger, president of North American, had said, *‘Why don’t you let us design a new fighter plane for you?’’ The British said, ‘‘Go ahead,’’S and by the end of the year the Mustang was in production. But when R.A.F. test pilots flew it, they noticed what Eaker had noticed—its Allison engine wasn’t powerful enough, especially at high altitudes. The British at first could think of nothing to do with the Mustang except to put it in the R.A.F.’s Army Cooperation Com- mand for use as an infantry support plane. Then they replaced its 1,200-horsepower Allison engine with a 1,620-horsepower Rolls Royce Merlin engine, whereupon the Mustang became an outstand- ing aircraft, destined eventually to be acknowledged on both sides as the best of the widely used fighter planes in World War II  It was this plane that Churchill (October 16, 1942) told Harry Hopkins the Americans should hasten into production because Porta