sion? In lis reasons it is necessary to go back at least as far , on February 20, 1942, when he and his six ers arrived in England to organize the 8th Air mand.  home. And there were strong reasons for hoping he could do so. Eaker did not want to let the Germans think they had reduced LeMay’s force to impotence, and neither did he want LeMay’s men to feel they had been defeated. It would help their morale if they could return to England proudly in broad daylight, bombing the enemy on the way, rather than sneak home at night around the coast of France. By the time this meeting ended, the Bordeaux mission was on again But the concept of shuttle missions to Africa was off. Only in England were there maintenance facilities for large bomber forces  It was the next afternoon (August 20) before Eaker was ready to leave Telergma for the long flight back through Marrakesh to Lon- don. Aware that Smith and his crew were now nearing exhaustion, he gave them a day’s rest at Marrakesh. But on the second day, even though the weather was threatening, he decided he could no longer delay his return to England. In the wake of the Schweinfurt- Regensburg mission, he had a lot of problems to solve and a lot of replanning to do.  At midday on the 22nd, Captain Smith pulled Spare-ball off the Marrakesh runway and headed north on the reverse of the route that had brought them to Africa. It was virtually the same route General Eaker had flown in a Dutch airliner from Portugal to England just eighteen months earlier when he and six staff members, in civilian clothes and with no airplanes, arrived to begin the organization of the 8th Air Force Bomber Command. The basic problem he had faced then was the same one he faced now, except that today it was more precisely defined and more immediate. He still had to prove to his British colleagues and to a lot of important people back home that the daylight bombing strategy of the American Air Force was both effective and practical against Hitler’s G