lso supported Eaker’s insistence that the 8th Bomber Command be allowed to set up headquarters separate from Chaney’s Theater headquarters in London, where Chaney believed all U.S. military commands in the United Kingdom should be centered. While Eaker was careful never to criticize Chaney, he was beginning to think the Theater commander, although an Air Force officer  105  himself had not attuned himself with General Arnold's plans fo Air  Force expansion."° Chaney, who had been in  seemed still  couldn't see  Arnold was trying to create or even the Ait Force that Spaata and Eaker envsi  making proc  aker’s 8  forward asif  tient man, realizeit. Aft weadquarters Baker and  after which then sent his that might a found. an ic Wycombe Al eadquarters  building wit  town of Hig  When Bal  chance of ge  if Amold should decide he was moving too  coordinate operations, regardless of whether joint or separate, Harris told Baker to go ahead and select a site, ye would do everything possible to help him getit. Baker  on an immaculately  ‘olling lawns swept down to a pond on countless ducks made thier homes.  et Saw ithe decided it would be ideal. But when he tol aris he wanted it, the crusty ai marshal didn’t think he had muct  tobe thinking in terms ofthe peacetime Air Corps wit it eighteen hundred officers and eighteen thousand enlisted men, He  m t0 visualize the two-millic  0 esses were too slow and deliber  ike Baker. Chaney knew too many reasons why something could not be done but too few reasons why it could  Bomber Command plans seemed to him to put them yond the realm of possibility. But sinc aker to pursue these plans, the new bomber commander pushe  every day were his lst. Indee  uarter-of-2-million-man 8t  dona year or more,  ion-man U.S. Air Force  med. Chaney's decision- rate for a man-On-the-run  lone. The very size o  ¢ Chaney did not forbi  any day could be hs ast slowly. Amold was nota  and Baker had been associate ter a week in England, Eaker st would be, I