h better for them to work in Africa.  The Air Ministry was now so alarmed about what Churchill might or might not be planning to do that General Eaker was invited the next day (January 1 1) to visit Sir Archibald Sinclair.!3 They had a pleasant talk in which Sinclair solicited Eaker’s arguments supporting Ameri- can policy. Sinclair ‘got the impression that Eaker was ‘“‘straining at the leash,’’ but that the loss of so many airplanes to TORCH had frustrated him as much as had the weather. Nevertheless, Eaker assured the British Air Minister that he was ready right now to bomb certain targets in Germany, which he named, and that he could do so with fewer losses than he was sustaining against the submarine bases in the Bay of Biscay.  Eaker was not told how much trouble Sinclair and Portal were having with Churchill over American air policy, but he was shown one of the papers the Air Ministry had prepared in defense of the 8th Air Force.!4 This was enough to make Eaker suspect that something untoward was in the air.  On Wednesday, January 13, Eaker received a cable directing him to report as soon as possible to General Arnold in Casablanca. Casablanca! What was Armold doing there? Eaker had written to him in Washington just two days earlier. Eaker had received no inkling of the Churchill-Roosevelt conference, which was to begin in Africa January 14.'5  The British weather, plus the German fighter patrols from France that forced Africa-bound planes to fly a roundabout route into the Atlantic, delayed Eaker’s arrival in Africa until late in the evening of the 15th. The next morning, General Arnold’s aide, Col. Eugene Beebe, took him to the villa where the U.S. Air Force commander  183  was staying, within the Anfa Hotel compound just outside Casa- blanca. Arnold was in the bathroom shaving, but he didn’t allow that to delay his meeting with Eaker. He still had lather on his face when the two men greeted each other—not enough lather, however, to conceal the grimness of h