resses. Until today, these reserves had alled into action. Now, however, the decision was made to  . of the night-fighting groups. Among them was 2 Gruppe  igeschwader 5 (Group 2, Night-fighter Wing 5) stationed , Sixty miles west of Berlin. It’s crews had been informed our days earlier that they might be called upon for daylight  36  ball-bearing factories—but which depended for execution upon his getting about 950 heavy bombers by July and about 1,200 by Oc- tober.'* He believed that with enough planes he could knock out nine-tenths of Germany’s submarine construction, for instance, and three-fourths of its ball-bearing production. But because of demands for aircraft in other American theaters of operation, Eaker had re- ceived in mid-August fewer than 800 B-17s. He had been stripped of our of his groups because they were needed to support the invasion of North Africa, and he had just recently avoided having others taken tom him. At the same time, his losses over Germany continued to mount. By the end of July 1943, he had an effective force of only 275 heavy bombers.  Though the rate of replacement arrivals was increasing daily, the osses were severe enough to seemingly dictate a curtailment of operations, at least until the range of his fighters could be increased. Eaker could ill afford a hiatus, however, because in so many impor- tant quarters it would be interpreted as a proof of failure. On the other hand, if his B-17s could paralyze the ball-bearing plants at Schwein- urt today, the strike would have to be interpreted as a proof of success. He wished these planes had been able to get off on schedule, and he wished he’d had more of them to send. But in a three-square- mile target area, he was confident that 230 B-17s would be enough to do the job  In the underground Combat Control Center of Germany’s Twelfth Air Corps at Zeist, Holland (near Utrecht), and at other western fighter-defense bases, operations staffs had been working nervously, speedily, and witho