air (January 4) note that the Americans have not ye 0 bomb on Germany.’”!° Sinclair and Portal had been try convince him that the Americans expected under harsh circumstance} demnation of the American effort in| Ministry, Portal had replied (Nove: which, however, the Prime Ministe January 4 minute testified. He was | was angry. Sinclair and Portal went to wor! him—an ‘‘Air Policy’’ statement th] each other for revision before sendi January 9, over the Air Minister’s  181  General Eaker (left) and George VI, King of England, discuss  of mutual concern. Photo Courtesy of Imperial War Museum  (left to right) Maj. G al Eaker, . and B General Armstrong upon 1943. U.S. Air  Lt. Colonel Fargo (back to c  Mr. Anthony Eden, Lt. General Deve their arrival at 305th Bomb Group Base in England, June Force Photo  ° R.A.F. Air Chief Marshall Harris (center) talks with General Arnold, CG U.S.A.A.F. (left) and Maj. General Eaker, CG 8th Air Fore U.S. Air Force Photo  any is the target of planning session in England for mission by 8th Air Lt. Gen. Ira C. Eaker, Brig. Gen. Frank O. Bottom row (left to right): Lt. Gen  Top row (left to right) r, Brig. Gen. Robert C. Candee Carl Spaatz, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, Maj. Gen. W. H. Fran! U.S. Air  Force Photo  neral Eaker (left) and George VI, King of England, discuss p of mutual concern. Photo Courtesy of Imperial War Museum  Lt. Colonel Fargo (back to camera) greets (left to right) Maj al Eaker, Mr. Anthony Eden, Lt. General Devers, 1 General Armstrong upon their arrival at 305th Bomb Group Base in England, June 1943. U.S. Air  Force Photo  17 in which Edwin Millson flew as navigator took this phot: = of second Schweinfurt raid, October 14, 1943. Phor Edwin Millson  A familiar sight to crewmen of B-17’s flying over Germany was another Flying Fortress in same formation against background of clouds and flak. View is through opening for waist gun. U.S. Air Force Photo  Not nearly so familiar a sight as B-17 crews would have preferred were f