es, and two days later he had suggested to Hitler that the  Schweinfurt antiaircraft defenses very little had been done about ii  be increased. Hitler had agreed, but t  Speer had subsequently suggested that ball-bearing production be  dispersed; Hitler, apparently trusting him and probably not very keenly interested in the subject, had acquiesced without any special reaction. The only move Speer had yet been able to make toward decentralization of the industry was to expand other ball-bearing factories at Steyr, Erkner, and Cannstatt. Would this be enough? He didn’t think so.  Speer remained mindful of the possibility that the Americans might attack Schweinfurt. He had watched carefully and with grow- ing concern as they gradually expanded their operations and im- proved their techniques. He had developed a fearful respect for the devastation either the American or the British bombers could inflict. And after the British destruction of Hamburg July 24 to 27, his respect developed into alarm. At a Central Planning conference July 29, Speer said: ‘‘If the air raids continue on the present scale, within three months we shall be relieved of a number of questions we are at present discussing. We shall simply be coasting downhill, smoothly and relatively swiftly. The urgent question is simply , can we produce more single- and twin-engined fighters? And what can we shut down for that purpose? Otherwise, we may as well be holding the final meeting of Central Planning.’  Three days later, Speer told Hitler essentially the same thing. If six  79  more cities were attacked as severely as Hamburg, he warned, it  would bring German armament production to a total halt  Hitler, who had refused even to go and look at Hamburg, to comfort the survivors there, showed remarkably little concern at the  ssibility of other German cities suffering the same fate  out again,”  one and a half or two years we have been on the defensive  roduction to be assigned to home defense. That very even