l in eff will ever be abl perhaps Hambu  On the other t had a force of 3 erly trained for1 could pulverize power of Germ morale of the C  In a slight con Sinclair he agreec ‘confining thems: going off to other failed. But he stuc alter their course:  I think it is « some extent agi  one man named it, with apologies to Winston Churchill, ‘‘Mud, Sweat and Tears.”’3 For a short time some of the men had to sleep in tents, and the officers’ mess was so small it had to operate in three shifts, but few of the officers complained. Until American rations arrived, no one was very eager to eat the food  Operations, flight-control, and intelligence personnel were sent immediately to training schools and R.A.F. stations for indoctrina- tion. Pilots and navigators learned the air-traffic system over the British Isles, and then the operational training and practice missions began.  The 303rd Group, under Col. James H. Wallace, began moving into Molesworth (ten miles west of Huntingdon) September 12, and the ground echelon of the 305th arrived at Grafton-Underwood, sixty miles northwest of London, the next day. The 305th Group comman- der, Col. Curtis LeMay, and his planes were being held in Syracuse, New York, pending some required modifications  Between the first and 17th of October, the planes of the 91st Group arrived at Kimbolton (six miles north of Thurleigh), and virtually destroyed the runways there simply by landing on them. These runways, hastily built for fighter planes during the Battle of Britain, had not yet been reinforced for bomber use. The heavy B-17s tore ruinous holes in them. The town of Kimbolton was the site of one of England’s most Stately castles, which had been for three centuries the country seat of the Dukes of Manchester. In this castle, Catherine of Aragon, Henry VIII's first wife, spent the last two years of her life. It was now occupied by the Kimbolton Boys’ School. When the newly arrived “*Yanks’’ began coming down the hill from the air base to loo