one-mile radius from aiming point. It is safe and conserva-  145  tive to say, therefore, that high level day bombing will be at least ten times as effective for the destruction of definite point targets as night area bombing.  It had taken the Americans a long time to get started, but their bombing debut had proven so persuasive that the British also praised it. Some of Eaker’s R.A.F. colleagues were openly impressed, perhaps because the evidence of the American success had come from their own reconnaissance photos. If the 8th Air Force could maintain this accuracy, they agreed, then daylight bombing might work after all, and the Flying Fortresses might be able to knock out Germany’s aircraft factories, thus eliminating at the source the fight- er planes that were bedeviling their night bombers. It was an exciting prospect.  Some people in the R.A.F. became so enthusiastic about the potential of the Flying Fortress that they began leaking information to the British press. As a result, aviation writer Colin Bednall wrote a thapsodic article about the big American bomber for the September 2, 1942, London Daily Mail. Bednall seemed to think the Flying Fortress was going to revolutionize the war in the air:  So remarkable has been the success of the new Flying Fortresses operated by the United States Army Air Force from this country that it is likely to lead to a drastic resorting of basic ideas on air warfare. . . . Many experts had grave misgivings when the Ameri- cans began operations in Europe with Fortresses, which compared unfavorably with our own heavy bombers. . . .  These calculations, however, made no allowance for two vital factors. First: instead of the 10 .30-calibre machine guns carried by the Lancaster, the new Fortresses are armed with no fewer than 12 [sic] .50-calibre machine guns. Second: in daylight it could bomb with extreme accuracy from great heights and therefore avoid much of the ground flak which night bombers have to penetrate because they mu