tion to compensate for small adjustments by planes in the center. The outside bombers often had to strain their engines, simply to keep pace. Preston thought this stress might explain the great number of stragglers and dead engines in the outer groups. Today he didn’t have to worry about this problem personally. His group would be in the center, or lead position, of a combat wing. But six of his group’s extra planes would be part of a composite group on the outside to his right, and he was worried about them. He did not enjoy being number one in the loss column.  In Preston’s plane as a crew member was the group bombardier for the 379th, Capt. Joseph Brown, a man whose achievements were remarkable in light of a childhood accident that had threatened to disable him. The son of a coal miner in the southern-Illinois town of Gillespie, he had fallen from a tree when he was seven years old, shattering his elbow so severely that the doctor decided to amputate his arm. His father adamantly withheld permission.  “‘But he’ll be a cripple,’ the doctor said.  “Just strap it up,’ Brown’s father insisted, ‘‘and I'll take him home.”*  Reluctantly the doctor complied. In the months that followed, Brown’s father massaged, twisted, straightened, and healed the boy’s arm so skillfully that when Brown grew up and went to the University of Illinois, he was able to play football under the school’s famous coach Bob Zuppke, becoming the regular fullback in 1936 and 1937, Zuppke’s last two teams. Though the use of Brown’s arm was limited, he managed to pass the Air Force physical examination and qualify as a bombardier. Preston had appointed him group bombardier shortly after the 379th was formed in the fall of 1942.9 Preston, Brown, and the rest of their crew sat quietly in their plane near the end of the runway on the rise above Kimbolton awaiting  30  jeep.’ He had good news for one crew member, Sgt. Star A. Tucker, whose promotion to staff sergeant had just been approved.  Sheeler also