ller said that of the sixty ME-109s that had taken off from Neubiberg-Munich, only one had returned undamaged. Not all of the others had been shot down, but many had landed at other fields or crash-landed. He didn’t yet know exactly how many of the sixty had gone down, but it was apparently a significant number because many of Stedtfeld’s com- rades, like himself, had reported making parachute jumps. Despite the airplane losses, the controller at Neubiberg was in a mood of elation because none of the Molders pilots had been killed, and they had received credit for shooting down twelve American bombers. The feeling among the pilots was that they had scored a great vic- tory.  As for Stedtfeld himself, he was eager to get out of his hospital bed, return to Neubiberg, and get back in action again. Now that he was actually in the war, he wanted to hurry up and win it. The doctors who had treated him promised to put him on a train for Munich as soon as he was in shape to travel.  Albert Speer and several other people were in conference with Adolf Hitler at his Rastenburg headquarters when Hitler’s adjutant, Julius Schaub, entered the room to interrupt.4  “‘The Reichsmarshal [Goering] urgently wishes to speak to you,”” Schaub said to Hitler. ‘“This time he has pleasant news.”’  Hitler left the room to take the call and when he returned Speer could see he was ‘‘in good spirits.’’ The Americans had again tried a daylight attack on Schweinfurt, he said, but the battle had ended with  Spa)  a great victory for the German defenses. The countryside was strewn with the remains of American bombers.  Speer, aware that this information had come from Goering and familiar with the Reichsmarshal’s habit of exaggerating victories while he ignored defeats, decided he had better find out for himself what had happened at Schweinfurt. In the two months since the August attack Speer had not succeeded in doing very much to ward off the dangers of further attacks. The factory dispersal plan h