e German night fighters were looking for the British over Berlin while the Peenemiinde attack was in progress. When Jeschonnek learned about this fiasco, he decided he wasn’t going to face Hitler again the next day. He wrote a note that said, ‘‘It is impossible to work with Goering any longer. Long live the Fiihrer.’’ Then he put a bullet in his head  At Schweinfurt, Kugelfischer owner Georg Schafer was still sit- ting dejectedly in his bunker at 10 p.m. when Wilhelm Stenger, the comanager of his ball division, returned from a trip to Marienthal and found him there. Schafer was disconsolate. The entire ball plant had been knocked out. It looked as if everything of value had been destroyed. It would be difficult to salvage anything.?3  “T'll get a lamp,”’ Stenger said, ‘‘and take a look around.”’  He went first to the ball plant that he considered the core of the entire enterprise. Without balls there would be no ball bearings. This plant was a two-story building. The upper floor had collapsed and fallen onto the lower floor. The place was a mess, but fortunately it had not burned. To Stenger, about half the machinery looked as if it could be repaired. He returned to Schafer and said so.  At this heartening assessment, Schafer suddenly shook off his depression and became once more the dynamic German entrepreneur who had made Kugelfischer the large company it was. Leaping to his feet he said, ‘Well then, let’s do it!"’  There was still a question of exactly what to do. Even if they were to restore the whole factory completely, it might be bombed again, and more disastrously the next time. The entire plant could not be moved, but certain critical elements, like the ball machines, should be elsewhere. Schafer was already building a branch facility near the town of Eltmann, thirty miles east of Schweinfurt. As many of the ball machines as possible should be taken there. When? Right now Schafer was not willing to wait even until morning. He ordered the night shift to begi