ng it down. After ruthless pruning, there wasn’t much room for statistics, but Eaker had produced a memorandum less than a page long, and it made eight major points:  186  expect. He has said he hac fight on the issue. ‘‘I knew the Prime Minister and we not do daylight bombing.”’ the Prime Minister had ali on the subject. The ‘‘Brit ing Churchill were his R Slessor.  It was ironic that Arnold all their recent efforts, in Americans against Churce memoranda. He made his a statements, by Portal in 4 Americans until Churchill assuming he was still up a the issue, had summoned E best informed about it  Arnold may also have ability as a special pleade1 taken time out to study | journalism (at the Univers veloped a knack for conc before in his life he would was acquainted with enou; the Prime Minister did not  It was to be three days | Meanwhile, the 8th Air F James Parton, the aide het As a first step, at Arnold’ entitled ‘‘Why Have U.S. was a question for which A British but also against his “‘an explosion’’ at a recent top priority in the build-u Ernest King had been ope useless to bomb Germany should go to the Pacific. / answer such arguments bec ventured inside the Germa  . Day bombing is more accurate and can destroy obscure but important targets the night bombers can’t find.  . Being more accurate, day bombing is more economical be- cause a small force concentrating its bombs is more effective  tl  we  han a large force scattering its bombs.  . By bombing the devils around the clock, we can prevent the  German defenses from getting any rest  =  . If the R.A.F. works by night and we work by day, we can  prevent airdrome and airspace congestion.  a  . Our crews are trained for day bombing. There would bea long delay in retraining them. . Our planes and equipment are designed for day operations.  They would require extensive modification  ~  . Day bombing permits the destruction of enemy fighters—one  of our prime objectives—by exposing them to the B-17’s  t  twelve ha