- tion from the Ministry of Economic Warfare, and careful attention to Arnold’s instruction. As soon as they were finished, they submitted their plan to Eaker, who made some changes, wrote a summary, then got the whole thing approved by Portal, Harris, and Andrews.  This then was the origin of what came to be known as the Com- bined Bomber Offensive. It was nothing but a document devised to help Armold get more planes and men for the 8th Air Force. Though it was to have small effect on the major policies of either the R.A.F. or the A.A.F., it did set some much needed standards of procedure and coordination between the two forces. And it codified American target priorities so specifically that such remote places as Schweinfurt and Regensburg became unavoidable and inevitable destinations for American bombers.  The essence of the Combined Bomber Offensive Plan,? which eventually became known also as the Eaker Plan, was acommitment to enlarge the 8th Air Force into equal partnership with the R.A.F. in  206  the battle against Germany. Eaker wrote into the text that ‘‘300 heavy bombers is the minimum operating force necessary to make deep penetrations,”’ and that ‘‘at least 800 airplanes must be in the Theater to dispatch 300 bombers on operations.”’  Six specific target systems were singled out for bombardment. But to accomplish their destruction, the plan pointed out, the 8th Air Force would need a steady flow of airplanes. The minimum re- quirements would be 944 heavy bombers in England by July 1, 1943: 1,192 by October 1, 1943; 1,746 by January 1, 1944; and 2,702 by April 1, 1944.  The six major targets listed were submarines, aircraft, ball bear- ings, oil, synthetic rubber, and military vehicles. The plan promised that with the required number of airplanes, the 8th Air Force could knock out 89 percent of the submarine construction; 43 percent of the German fighter and 65 percent of its bomber production; 76 percent of its ball-bearing manufacture; and 50 percent o