rymomentofhow conpi- it, and they were standing in almost total football star and a convivial man who kept in shape at the officers’ cus they were—tree well-dressed German soldiers with oneragged, Lilly awning when Downs felt a hand on his club bar. He liked to give the impression that he didn’t take anything dated American ining it atta “teas shang.” at to be robbed? He turned but could see seriously. One night at the club he laughingly strummed a base fiddle Ty uoka*Cok sof Clog, wich as yemasol ad him. Then he smelled perfume. A girl’s  while his men engaged in a brawl with some uninvited visitors from rubble” asareut of RAF. rds. Bodes wer sll stewnonthe a like to come home and sleep with me,  ihe neighboring 95th Group - Horham. A fav SEs paren the club sets, andthe city seemed na tate of paralysis. Warsaw'seeots, ached his shoulder to ascertain his rank from when the officers weren’t drinking or brawling, and sometimes when 2 time, another girl was doing likewise with  n 273 276  who were polite and friendly, told him Cologne had been in ruins for several months.  After twelve hours of streetcar travel, the Germans brought him to the Cologne airport, which was also a fighter base, and put him in a cell. Here Warsaw let his captors know he spoke German, a fact that fascinated them so much they took him to the officers’ mess and then to the control tower. He was a novelty. Most of the fighter pilots had never before seen an American flier except through their gun-sights. And none of them had ever met one with whom they could converse in their own language.  One day while Warsaw was still held at Cologne, a German captain, a flier wearing an Iron Cross and several other medals, came in drunk to see ‘‘the American flier who speaks German.’’ Though apparently friendly with Warsaw, he was angry at ‘‘some son of a bitch’’ who had ‘‘shot me down after his plane surrendered.”’  As the captain loudly described the B-17 that had put its wheels down and then opened fire w