oticed, a lot of them didn’t return  To the men of the 100th, the girls around Thorpe Abbots, and in the Norfolk area, were not glamorous—*‘seamed cotton stockings, mended dresses, cheap ribbons in their hair’’—but they were girls and they were available.!6 Besides those who came to the base for dances (they seemed to have *‘a flair for jitterbugging’’), there were others to be found at places like the Samson and Hercules at Norwich or at a hundred places in London. (If you wore wings you were “*halfway home with a girl’’ the minute you met her.) But it was difficult to get to London and difficult to cope with the place when you got there. Lt. Ernest Warsaw decided he must be a jinx to London because the city was bombed every time he went there.!7 And besides the shortage of food, there was the shortage of hotel rooms. The reason so few were available, it seemed to Warsaw, was that those American officers who had them held onto them, and most of them were probably ‘guys who didn’t fly.’’ Among the fliers, there was a natural hostility toward ground officers because they didn’t have to “‘risk their asses’’ on missions. And even when they did, it seemed to some of the fliers that they chose the easy ones  Major Gale ‘‘Buck’’ Cleven, commander of the 100th Group’s 350th Squadron, felt he could always tell when the next day’s mission was going to be rough. !§ Nobody came to see him, and he couldn’t get anyone on the telephone. But if the base was full of staff cars and officers from wing headquarters were all over the place, he could sense that they'd be hitting the coast of France on a milk run.  The men the American fliers admired most were their R.A.F.  253  counterparts. The Yanks especially admired them for being able to find their way to German targets in the dark and for flying poorly armed, lightly built planes like the Lancaster, which the Americans considered ‘‘flimsy kites’’ compared to their heavy Fortresses. The R.A.F. fliers, on the other hand, admired the