collapsed. The bombardier and navigator applied a tourniquet, bandaged him and administered morphine. Though he looked as if he would be all right, his blood loss had been too great He had saved his plane and his crew, but by the following morning Lieutenant Christensen would be dead  Between Rheims and Soissons more than two hundred of the fighters that had attacked the bombers on the way to Schweinfurt were waiting to meet them again on the way back. The 96th Group absorbed the brunt of their attack. At 4:35 p.M., one of its planes went down and seven chutes emerged. A few minutes later, another fell after six chutes appeared. At the same time, a 20-mm. shell exploded  319  Edward Downs.!  in the cockpit of the Fortress  Though Bolick was the pilot, minutes earlier to relieve Down flying. Because their plane was  lown by Lt. Robert Bolick and Lt.  had taken the copilot's seat a few , who had been doing most of the on the left side of the 96A Group  formation, it was easier to manage from the right-hand copilot’ seat,  which was closer to the plane Downs had just bent over to a  occurred. He blacked out for perhaps a minute or more. When he regained consciousness, he saw that Bolick, his body blown open by the blast, had fallen forward onto the control column, putting the  on whose wing they were flying just a trim tab when the explosion  plane into a dive. The rest of the the left Since Downs himself was aw  t side, he had to reach across with his left hand to pul e control column. The mortally wounded pilot regained consciousness, sat up, and tried to take hold of the controls, When he realized he  d  could not do so, he patted the yok  take over. Then he slumped in his seat jowns, noticing clouds below, brought the plane out of its dive st above them, ready to descend into them if more fighters ap- eared. Lt. Miles McFann, the navigator, and Lt. Harold Edelstein, the bombardier, both of whom had hurried to the cockpit after the losion, removed the dying Bolick f