opelessly awkward and  yards to their bomber targets before metimes they turned too late and the rith the debris of shattered bombers,  after the departure of the fighter ME-109s and another of eleven ymbat wing from six o’clock low, 80-degree climbing turn, attacked i through the bombers, a few Ger- achine-gun bullets, but four of the ) and three in the 100th, the entire Buck’’ Cleven’s 350th Squadron— formation. lanes, apparently dazed by a shell it wing through a gaping hole the fuselage. He was not wearing his realizing this lack, he reached back . The slip stream swept him off the tail. No one else emerged from the o hundred feet into a stall, then ys of metal and flesh. ly in his copilot seat (beside the as E. Murphy), was unable to do battle continued across the skies of ibed by the sight of airplanes plum- slowly by clusters of parachutes, American white. He became aware happening to him. His mouth was to be freezing up; he felt as if his is parachute. And at moments he ving. He wished he were flying the Id give him a function on which to measure of relief from the horror of ‘s flying straight at him. Murphy, urned the controls over to him. The , even though Lay was certain he  1 steadily deeper into Germany at speed, the enemy strategy became  8  that the tanks themselves, made of pressed paper, were too easily broken. The pilots had an even more serious complaint. They re- ported that with as little as seventy-five or a hundred extra gallons of fuel in this kind of belly tank, the P-47 couldn’t climb above 20,000 feet. A better auxiliary tank would have to be found before American fighters could accompany the B-17s on long-range missions into Germany. Until then, the Flying Fortresses would have to continue going alone, as they were doing today, with only their own machine guns to protect them.  Zemke’s group, during its short sojourn with the bombers, spotted fifteen to thirty enemy aircraft and got close enough for an ‘‘inconclu- sive engagement”’ near H