l nice to wait until they had a thousand bombers with wh whelm the German fighters. But he had too often been * Arnold of delaying operations even when he had been m« till as his resources would allow. rail With Anderson, Williams, LeMay, and the group cc lll Eaker discussed options. They were getting more fighte ttl these were mostly P-47s, and no one had yet developed wy lijnizgn that would lengthen their range significantly. These f i could not escort the bombers more than a few miles insid ! The new B-17s that*were arriving had chin turrets and ti ward-firing capacity to cope with the now general Germ It attacking from the front. But the added firepower of the | ‘ti,nvt;nunian ers would hardly balance the fact, also disclosed by rec: tt photos, that the Germans were placing more and more Wittil corridors that led directly to Schweinfurt. In studying the tl fighter bases on a map, Eaker and Anderson realized to t hhh ment toward the end of September that it would be eas hislkamit  hihi  hive’  shied hin ol  bombers to go to Berlin than to Schweinfurt. That told el ililiGon had to know about the importance of the little town th. sli many’s ball-bearing center. But the one vital question : ! been answered positively: how much production loss hac 17 mission caused? And how much damage could they h hv the machines that made ball bearings? They got a convin when the intelligence agencies reported about German e !! ball bearings from every comer of Europe.? From Fran they could virtually confiscate whatever was available. E ‘it quantity was not enough. Germany was urgently dema ball bearings from neutral Sweden, one of Europe’s top The Germans would accept nothing less than the enti ‘i output. bee  It was apparent now that the August 17 raid had pi tit! desired result. After only one attack against Schweinfurt st hy  267 a  ‘a, DS  ty te  rue  Praise the Lord, I knew the right position And she fell for me . . .  They also sang a self-deprecating parody of the Air Force