lfs were in phalanxes eleven or twelve abreast  As the cannons popped and the machine guns began to stutter, Smith turned uncomfortably to his copilot, Lt. George Nicolescu, and said, *‘I’ve always wondered when they were going to do this.””  46  that seemed certain. But moments, then minutes passed, and nothing happened. Their plane, Oklahoma Okie, with Colonel Wurzbach at the controls, continued smoothly to lead the armada despite the cannon shell lodged in its fuel tank.  The armada’s air commander, General Williams, in another plane about one hundred feet away, observed the battle with outward composure but inner restlessness.’ Though he couldn’t see what was happening in the rear, he was well aware of the mounting losses in the lead formations and increasingly frustrated at his inability to prevent further losses. Once the action began in an air battle, there was little a commander could do. He could, of course, order his planes to turn around and retreat, but that notion didn’t even occur to Williams. He could and did go on the air occasionally to tell his pilots to tighten up their formations. They would do so, then begin to tire under the strain of constant attack and gradually loosen up again, whereupon he would have to pick up his microphone and chew them out once more. But to harangue them too frequently would produce a diminishing effect. Besides, the air waves were already clogged with gunners warning each other of new German arrivals.  As the battle intensified, Williams lost his patience with his limited part in it. He decided he had to get into it with his hands as well as his head. Finding the bombardier’s machine gun unused in the nose of the plane, he settled into position and began squeezing out bursts of bullets at the oncoming German planes. The general did not at any time see friendly fighter planes arrive to protect his two beleaguered task forces. Perhaps he was too busy firing his machine gun, or perhaps the sky is so big around such an arm