m,”” was staging something even more persuasive—the R.A.F.’s first 1,000-plane mission against Germany. In the largest raid ever Jaunched, 1,046 aircraft (376 of them snatched temporarily from  operational bombs on  training units) were taking off to drop 1,455 tons of  Cologne as Churchill and his guests sat down to dinner:  Since Churchill's social evenings always lasted far into the following  morning,  the raid had been smashingly successful  ug! presse night bom  arris was able to announce before the guests retired that  the details were fragmentary, Amold was indeed im-  lowever, he was not converted. On the issue of day versus  ing, the evening was a standoff. As Arnold later wrote,  all the moments in history when I might have tried to sell Mr.  Churchill and his R.A.F. advisers on the future of American preci-  sion bomb: selling thei  During he  ardment by daylight, I had picked the night when they were it own kind of bombardment to the world.””  is London stay, Amold also visited Eaker’s stately new  quarters at Wycombe Abbey, where he found most of the staff  playing touch football on the lawn. When Eaker showed him through the building, Arnold noticed some of the British WAAFs who were doing the typing, telegraphing and general office work, and even  ke  ing the ‘Secret’ files. Eaker explained that Harris had very generously loaned these girls to him, “How are you getting along with them?”’ Arnold wanted to know, “No problem at all,” people are right out of Ber  Eaker assured him, “‘but you know, these arris’s hide, and he'd like to get them  back. I think you ought to ask Hobby (Col. Oveta Culp Hobby, commander of the U.S. Women’s Army Corps} to get us a company  of our own WACs,”” iat evening, when Eaker joined Amold in London for dinner, the ‘orce commander had already spoken to the European Theater  A  commander, General Chaney, about the matter. With a wry smile, Amold said to Baker, ‘Chaney won't have any WACs in this theater He thinks it will cre