ss without replacements, the last B-17 would take off on its last mission within a month.  Eaker’s reply to this was, ‘‘O.K., I'll be on it.”’  At the end of the first week in April, with no new bombers yet in sight, his exasperation had grown beyond control. He wrote a blister- ing indictment to Arnold on ‘‘The Position of the 8th Air Force.’’ It was an essay hardly likely to enhance his reputation for tact and diplomacy:  The current position of the 8th Air Force is not a credit to the American Army. After sixteen months in the war we are not yet able to dispatch more than 123 bombers toward an enemy target. Many of the crews who fly this pitiful number have been on battle duty for eight months. They understand the law of averages. They have seen it work on their friends. . . .  They know that we have been promised replacement crews as often as we have been promised more planes. They have seen the number of planes dwindle until its scarcity has restricted most of our raiding to relatively futile forays on the coast of France.  They have seen our precision bombing improve, in bloody lessons, until they know with confidence what they can do, or could do, if they had enough planes to run the increasing gauntlet of enemy fighters to important targets. As it is, they know that we have not enough. They know that they will have to continue battle duty after the limit of thirty tours lately set. And they know the reason, which is that after eight months in this theater, the 8th Air Force is still an unkept promise.  This is written in no apprehension of trouble with the crews. They are American, and they will pay for the mistakes of their superiors as uncomplainingly as the men of Wake and Bataan did. This is written as a statement of our critical need of planes and crews with which to redeem the promise of the 8th Air Force while there is still time.  202  line of thin used as def  Arnold hop heavy-bomb December 31 suddenly beg: and the three ; for immediate England.  As