r Force could knock out 89 percent of the submarine construction; 43 percent of the German fighter and 65 percent of its bomber production; 76 percent of its ball-bearing manufacture; and 50 percent of its synthetic-rubber capacity. Its oil supplies could be disrupted and its military vehicle supplies seriously depleted.  The plan carefully stated, however, that unless the 8th Air Force could achieve daytime air superiority in the skies over Germany, none of those goals could be accomplished. Eaker himself inserted a strong warning when he wrote: ‘‘If the growth of the German fighter strength is not arrested quickly, it may become literally impossible to carry out the destruction planned.’”  Eaker had been confident in September 1942, after a few missions, that the B-17 could defend itself in the skies over Germany. But soon thereafter he had begun to realize that fighter protection would be urgently needed to hold down losses, and that the farther the fighters could go with the bombers, the smaller the losses would be. It was this realization that had prompted him in October 1942, and again in January 1943, to explore the possibility of having auxiliary fuel tanks made in England for the newly arriving P-47s. In February, having received no satisfactory answer from the British Ministry of Aircraft Production, he had ordered sixty thousand tanks of 200-gallon capac- ity from the United States.  In his January 16 paper, ‘‘Why Have U.S. Bombers Not Bombed Germany?’’ Eaker had pointed out that ‘‘we have no fighters with sufficient range to accompany our bombers into Germany. We have  207  had three groups equipped with such long-range fighters, but before they were trained they were taken from us, assigned to the 12th Air Force, and dispatched to Africa.’’  In a February 26 letter to Arnold he said: ‘‘I believe there is no question that our bomber losses will be greatly reduced when our fighters are ready to accompany us. . . . The early receipt of any adequate quantit