:15 p.m., German radar indicated that the second American task force had gathered and was crossing the English coast. The First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth German Air Divisions at Deelen, Stade, Metz, Doberitz, and Schleissheim were soon notified, and  38  One member of this group was a twenty-two-year-old nav nla biti  and radio operator, Sgt. Hans Bringmann. Born and raised in ,,j, he had entered the Luftwaffe after two years at the universit: jijcie myn iudenshi since early 1942 had been flying night missions against ] jy phsnnisyuh bombers.!7 He understood why his group’s ME-110s were to b jglijinitijaticurhi, against the Flying Fortresses. The ME-110s now carried four 2 rockets (two under each wing) with electric fuses. These rocke an effective range of about eight hundred yards (which w outside limit of the B-17 machine-gun range) and they hi explosive power of small artillery shells. When the B-17s escorted by fast American fighter planes, it might be suicidal { ME-110s to go near them, but Galland and his staff had calc that after the B-17s had penetrated beyond the range of their es it would be reasonably safe for the ME-110s to come within range of their machine-guns.  Bringmann and many of his companions were not yet conv Their planes were rigged for night operations, and all of their c experience had been at night. They were accustomed to flying ‘tas lone wolves,’’!8 using radar to seek out the slow, poorly British bombers, which were virtually helpless when they  found. In the daytime, the ME-110s would have to maintai1 The two large American task forces, each almost ten miles long, one formations, to which they were unaccustomed. And if they v with 116 Flying Fortresses, the other with 114, droned through the their rockets to be at all effective, they would have to come ck clear air of the North Sea. Looking to the rear, beyond the white the B-17s than eight hundred yards. Bringmann had never had | vapor trails, the B-17 crews could still see the