perate the radio with which one raft was equipped, but they couldn’t raise the kite designed to serve as its antenna. Neither could they raise the dinghy’s distress balloon nor get its battery-operated flashlight to work. They could only sit and hope they would be rescued, and after two hours that hope would begin to fade because they were nearer the enemy shore than their own. But having come this close to home, they were not fated to drift back into the hands of the Germans. The British Air-Sea Rescue Service had heard Lockhart’s S.O.S. At 7:40 p.M., three Spitfires would appear overhead, and by five o’clock the next morn- ing, the ten American airmen, cold and damp, would be landing at Ramsgate. Meanwhile, the loss of Lockhart’s plane brought the 91st Group’s total casualties to ten out of twenty-four.  While Lockhart’s B-17 was flying its last few miles over the North Sea, a Fortress in the 381st Group, piloted by Flight Officer George R. Darrow, was also descending ever closer to the waves. !3 Darrow’s battered plane managed to bring its crew to within sight of the English coast, every man safe and sound, before reaching its own final crisis. A few miles off shore, Darrow ordered the crew to begin ditching procedures. After broadcasting a distress signal to the British Air-Sea Rescue Station at Manston, Darrow settled the doomed Fortress for its last landing, on the North Sea. Every member of Darrow’s crew got out safely before the plane sank, and all ten were waving from  72  When they reached Grafton-Underwood, Algar flew across the end of the field where he could be seen from the control tower and fired a red flare to indicate he had a wounded man aboard. He then came around to land on the field’s shortest runway, firing a second flare during his approach.  The tower acknowledged: ‘‘We know you have wounded. We'll have someone to meet you.””  By the time Algar brought the plane to a stop at a hardstand near the end of the runway, the group surgeon, Maj. Henr