pilot, could regain control of it. Old feathered one engine while the stand-by copilot feathered the other. As they lost altitude and gradually fell back, they could see the formation pull away, above and ahead. At 10,000 feet, after throwing out everything but their guns, they were able to maintain altitude on two engines. Fighters closed in to attack. As the bullets flew, the situation looked hopeless. Some crew members suggested on the interphone that the time had come to bail out.  ‘‘Hell no,’’ Old announced. ‘‘We’re going back to England.”’  They were now approaching clusters of puffy, cumulus clouds. Kenny flew into the first one he could reach. The fighters lost them. When they flew out the other side, the fighters found them again, but before the fighters could do them any more damage, Kenny was disappearing into another cloud. If the Germans were determined to shoot them down, they would have to play hide-and-seek to do it  Lt. Harold Christensen’s 91st Group Fortress was now hedgehop- ping its way across France on three engines, having escaped the German fighters by dodging into a convenient bank of clouds. Just above treetop level it was relatively safe from the high-altitude ME-109s and FW-190s but perilously vulnerable to ground fire. Skimming over the crest of a hill, Christensen found himself heading toward a city ina valley ahead. Cities meant flak. He veered away but not in time. A shell exploded against the side of the plane, and a fragment from it tore a jagged hole in his arm  Since the plane was approaching more guns and another hill, Christensen, with a fountain of blood spurting from his arm, insisted on remaining at the controls until he was convinced they were out of immediate danger. Then, after his copilot, Lt. Stuart Mendelsohn took over, he collapsed. The bombardier and navigator applied a tourniquet, bandaged him and administered morphine. Though he looked as if he would be all right, his blood loss had been too great He had saved his p