t the spirit of the campaign by firing some new ammunition right back to Eaker the same day:  I am very pleased indeed to know that you are taking this action. The whole of our experience in the last war as well as in this one goes to show that one of the greatest factors in sustaining the morale of fighting units is the prompt replacement of their losses. Losses which are insignificant in relation to a single operation assume a very different aspect when four or five operations are added together and then no replacements are received.  It is not difficult to envision Eaker and Portal on the phone saying to each other, *‘I’ll write such-and-such to you so you can quote it to so-and-so, and you write such-and-such to me so I can quote it to so-and-so. Then we’ll both write to a few other people and enclose our messages to each other so they can quote us to whomever.”’ Eaker’s next communication, the same day (March 3), was to Harris, who was also solidly on their side in the matter. After going to more than ordinary lengths in congratulating R.A.F. Bomber Command for the fine work they had done against the Germans in February, Eaker finally got to the meat of his letter:  It is now evident that the only remaining factor yet to be developed to insure the destruction of the enemy is the build-up of  an adequate force.  195  Harris, a quick man to pick up a cue, sent Eaker (March 5) exactly what he wanted—a stirring endorsement of the urgent need to aug- ment Eaker’s command:  Our only regret is that the VIIIth Bomber Force, which we know already to be fully equal in quality to the best we can produce, is still too small to take its full share of the attack. Had you the force to operate by day on the same scale as we have done and shall continue to do by night, there would be no hope for the enemy in Europe, who could not long stand against such a weight of com- bined offensive.  The whimperings of the German propagandists at our opening blows in the campaign of 1943 sh