nvade the con managed to defeat the Luftwaffe. (Sin this could not be done before the comin his proposal for a continental invasion | Churchill’s acceptance of it. Perhap project for 1942 was premature but feared an invasion might never take f were begun immediately.)  Eaker assured Marshall that he alre Luftwaffe well fixed in his mind, t German weapons manufacture, as the Force mission in Europe.  Marshall was apparently satisfied v said nothing about getting the job done  121  then laid out a softball diamond. Bake  aintings, its library, and its paneled w the work rooms had been lined with uring the first evening of the occu electric-bell system rang constantly  nel had remained, the officers were al  hree hundred and fifty people came. Airdrome construction was moving and efficiency, The British had alrea  cet took for himself a ground-  floor office that had belonged to the headmistress and also her two-room living suite on the floor above, To protect the school's  vills during the American stay, false walls of beaver-board. pation, the main dormitory's fe cause was soon obvious  When the officers moved into their new bedrooms, they found a the ead of each bed a litle printed sign, intended forthe schoolgirls who ad lived there. These signs read: “Ring for mist Because the school's maintenance, kitchen, and mess hall person-  ble to dine in their new head-  uarters on their frst night. And two weeks later, they held their frst arty, to which they invited everyone who had been helpful to them  ahead with remarkable speed ly built so many fields for thei  own R.A.P, that they were now able to complete each one within two  months. The frst eight fields, those t  needed only to be converted for American  eady, but the 8th Bomber Commanc their runways, Baker was becoming i  letter to President Roosevelt, had plea  send the first groups “Can you not manage 0 expe  here and there are targets ofall kinds,  bombers before July, at which time Amol  at had already been b