neral did not at any time see friendly fighter planes arrive to protect his two beleaguered task forces. Perhaps he was too busy firing his machine gun, or perhaps the sky is so big around such an armada that it is impossible to see everything. Williams may have failed to see the friendly fighters simply because they were not with him very long. But two groups of them, in addition to the Spitfires, did appear, and within the limits imposed by their fuel capacity, they tried to help.  Lt. Col. Donald Blakeslee’s Fourth U.S. Fighter Group, with forty-one P-47s that had been scheduled to escort the two task forces from Deist to Eupen, finally caught up to them in the vicinity of Duren, ten miles east of Aachen, which was considered the outside limit of the P-47 range with the paper belly tanks they were using.9 So these U.S. fighter planes were arriving just about in time for their departure. As they approached, eight or ten enemy aircraft were attacking the lead formation. At sight of the P-47s, the German pilots  45  very sensibly pulled away, realizing these interlopers would be on the scene for no more than two or three minutes, after which the bombers would again be unprotected. Blakeslee’s group, having made its pathetically inadequate gesture, was forced to turn to starboard and head back to England. On the homeward flight, the P-47 pilots saw nine German fighters shadowing one of the rear bomber formations but were unable to do anything about it.  Forty P-47s of the 78th Fighter Group, scheduled to escort the B-17s from Antwerp to Eupen, arrived eight minutes late for their rendezvous after seven of their number aborted because of defective belly tanks. These planes, led by Lt. Col. James F. Stone, accom- panied one formation of the bombers for a few miles east of Eupen without seeing any German fighters, then circled to return home. Moments later they encountered ‘‘small gaggles of FW-190s and ME-109s,’’ which *‘scattered at [the] approach of [the] group,’’ pl