on five fronts around the world in addition to the United Kingdom. The 8th Air Force had suffered losses of experienced units and many other vicissitudes. Nevertheless, its crews had often given good accounts of themselves in combat. It was reasonable, therefore, to remain patient and op- timistic about their prospects:  The view of the Air Staff is that there is a good chance that the Americans and the R.A.F. will be able to bomb Germany in daylight. Given sufficient strength to saturate the defences, they think it quite possible that our losses—though possibly heavy in the initial phase—will in the aggregate be no heavier than by night, and that the results, combined with night attack, should be doubly effective. No one can say for certain until it has been tried—and tried repeatedly. Clearly, however, it would be wrong to try it prematurely, with insufficient numbers and with crews inade- quately trained. .  Americans are much like other people—they prefer to learn from their own experience. In spite of some admitted defects— including lack of experience—their leadership is of a high order, and the quality of their air crews is magnificent. . . .  They will not turn aside from day bombing till they are con- vinced that it has failed: they will not be convinced except by their own experience.  Such a note was hardly forceful enough to convince a man as strong-minded as Churchill, especially when he was angry. In a savage reply the next day, he leaped upon Sinclair’s conclusion:  I object strongly to paragraph 5. What is meant by **Given sufficient strength to saturate the defences’’? This is quite a mean- ingless condition unless some idea of numbers is attached to it. By *‘defences’’ do you mean flak or enemy fighters? Then again, take the statement ‘‘No one can say for certain until it has been tried — and tried repeatedly.’’ So far they have not tried at all. Even when they begin, the weather will make the chances of experiment few  182  valuable to the 8th Air