ith his new friends in the mess hall, some officers came in to make a surprise inspection. The men around Rodwell quickly locked him in the ice-cream refrigerator. When the inspection was finished and they hurried to the refrigerator to let him out before he began to freeze, they found to their surprise that he was in no hurry to come out. Rodwell loved ice cream.  There was never a shortage of girls around the American bases. Rodwell was astonished at the number of girls who showed up in Horham after the Yanks arrived. On Sundays, or on the nights when the men staged dances in one of the hangars, young women came from miles around.  The same was true at Thorpe Abbots, five miles north of Horham, where the new 100th Group had arrived June 9.15 Harry Chenery, a ferret keeper there, gazed with wonder upon the parade of girls, with  252  letters, 13 ea.;—on a yellow pad, later to be typed in septuplicate and Fairfield nurses began organizing dances and sending blanket invita- | m for being able to  sent with the man’s belongings to a special depot, pending confirma- tions to Bassingbourn. The boys came by the truckload with canned © d for flying poorly tion of his death or of his capture by the Germans. The final disposi- goods and chocolate and great expectations. lich the Americans tion of the letters and photographs was a matter requiring tact and The more attractive girls, like Miss Howden, soon had aselection © vy Fortresses. The discretion. A man’s widow might not want to receive, among his of eager men inviting them to pubs or to ‘‘dinner houses” like the  iks for invading the effects, nude pin-up pictures or letters from other women. Green Lantern in Baldock. Her first date was with a major who took so easily find and Air Force policy was to remove a man’s property from his barracks her to London, but before long she realized officers were not neces- the same day he was declared missing so that his buddies wouldn’t sarily the best boyfriends. The G.I.s had akna