79th reached Kimbolton at 6:30 p.m., Col. Maurice Preston, the group commander, was waiting.? Having flown the August 17 mission, he knew what to expect. One look at Colonel Rohr, who had led the group today, told Preston that the man had been through something. Besides the six planes lost, there were several others that would never fly again. Although Rohr was very much in control, Preston could see he was unusually nervous.  “In my opinion,’’ Rohr said simply, ‘‘this was an extremely rough mission.””  His bombardier, Lieutenant Millson, fell to his knees in thanksgiv- ing as soon as he got out of the plane. But as his fear receded, a certain excitement returned. After he had been debriefed by intelligence officers, Millson hurried to the photo lab. He wanted to see the strike photos, which had been sent for immediate development. Capt. Ted Rohr, the group photo-interpreter, was examining the wet prints when he arrived.  “*You hit it,’’ Captain Rohr said. ‘‘Brother, you plastered hell out of that place.”’  When the 94th Group landed at Bury St. Edmunds, Sgt. Leo Rand, having completed his first mission, turned to his fellow waist gunner, Sgt. Donald McCabe, and said, ‘‘How did I do, Mac?”’  “*You live through that,’’ McCabe said, ‘‘you’ll live through anything.”’  323  “Tgut  farts could have lumps in ’em,”” and had no trouble relaxing after the excitement of the mission,  but one  of me.” he ct “Tn you. Iki  “You di and ec Don’t w  As copilot Edward Downs and navigator Miles McFann brought  their bat  Chichester, a British ambulance was on the spot waiting to assist  them attendant body of catwall  The moment Downs stood up his parachute harness 1 had severed both taps His oxygen mask iad also been shredded by one of the fragments that hit his head, ood w was splattered from head o foot with Bolick’s blood. Making his way  ack, A  toward t  copilot  aid no is own  is body erson t AF riddled  jergstrom, the youngest man in the crew. The color jerpstrom’s face as he