42, after a few missions, that the B-17 could defend itself in the skies over Germany. But soon thereafter he had begun to realize that fighter protection would be urgently needed to hold down losses, and that the farther the fighters could go with the bombers, the smaller the losses would be. It was this realization that had prompted him in October 1942, and again in January 1943, to explore the possibility of having auxiliary fuel tanks made in England for the newly arriving P-47s. In February, having received no satisfactory answer from the British Ministry of Aircraft Production, he had ordered sixty thousand tanks of 200-gallon capac- ity from the United States.  In his January 16 paper, ‘“‘Why Have U.S. Bombers Not Bombed Germany?’’ Eaker had pointed out that ‘‘we have no fighters with sufficient range to accompany our bombers into Germany. We have  207  muna hh ety  Arad eat emg  sot brad A aida ont  During the months of curtailed operations in the winter and spring of 1943, the men of the 8th Air Force flew practice missions whenever they could get off the ground. They maintained their aircraft, at- tended ground school, logged “‘sack time’’ in their Nissen-hut bar- racks, read paperback novels, huddled around the coal stoves brood- ing about the cold English days, sloshed through the thick, sticky mud to their latrines and mess halls, and, every time they got the opportunity, went into the nearest towns to sample British hospitali- ty, which was generous in spirit though materially limited. Wartime English beer seemed weak, and for most of the boys, Scotch whisky was something they heard about but seldom saw.  For those in the 91st Group, the one-street village of Bassing- bourn, with a population of about three hundred, offered only one pub, the Hoops. It was a charming, friendly bar in a two-story thatched building, but it provided less excitement than Cambridge, nine miles away, where there were several American Red Cross clubs, the most popular of which