on because the bulk of it was concentrated in one place, Schweinfurt, where the techniques of mass-producing balls and bearings had been invented  The status of Schweinfurt as a potential target was therefore under  237  constant review. In November 1942, M.E.W. estimated that 52 percent of Germany’s current ball-bearing production came from the factories there. Postwar German sources indicate that this estimate was low and that Schweinfurt was producing closer to 65 percent, including most of the highly specialized precision bearings that were indispensable to the war effort.7 But even the 52 percent assessment made Schweinfurt an apparently irresistible target.  It was a source of constant frustration to M.E.W. experts, how- ever, that Harris found Schweinfurt so easily resistible. When he argued that his bombers wouldn’t be able to find it at night, they suggested that British agents on the ground might plant portable radio transmitters that would lead the bombers to it. Harris also found this suggestion impractical and resistible.  M.E.W. did, however, have some friends at the Air Ministry Portal, who had been deputized at Casablanca as the final authority on target priorities both for the R.A.F. and the A.A.F., fully appre- ciated the value of M.E.W. assessments. Though he couldn’t prevail upon the fiercely independent Harris to make much use of them, he did encourage the Americans to do so. It was Portal, in his target- selecting capacity, who issued the official order for the Schweinfurt attack, although that order was prearranged with Eaker, who was also eager to undertake the mission. Eaker’s enthusiasm was indicated by his plan to go on it personally, a plan that was abandoned only when the European Theater commander, General Devers, expressly or- dered him not to go.  The most ardent M.E.W. supporter at the Air Ministry was Air Commodore Sidney O. Bufton, Director of Bomber Operations on the Air Staff. It was ironic that a man with such a title should hav