wind was knocking him about so roughly he couldn’t see what had happened, but it felt as if his chute had been caught on the tail. It must have opened too quickly. He envisioned the horrible likelihood that the plunging plane would pull him with it to the ground. But before he had time to reconcile himself to this fate, his chute inexplicably popped open above him “‘like a beautiful white umbrella.’ The sound of the falling plane’s engines died away  When Winslow looked around, he saw several chutes below him but none above. Though he couldn’t count all of them, members of the Belgian resistance movement, watching from the ground, saw eight open before the plane exploded. A ninth crew member, Sgt. Star Tucker of Athol, Massachusetts, the ball-turret gunner, who had been told of his promotion that morning, got out of the plane safely, but his chute did not open. The Belgians found his body near the debris. Lieutenant Hargis, the pilot, was still in the plane when it exploded  As Winslow descended, the wind continued to buffet him so severely he feared his parachute might collapse. Approaching the ground, he heard dogs bark, which he supposed were German police dogs, and saw what looked like farm buildings scattered across the countryside. He also noticed with some alarm that the wind was carrying him sideways toward a long row of trees at the edge of one of these farms, and it seemed that even if he missed the trees, he might be impaled on one of several sharp poles sticking up from a hay wagon. To change his course he pulled a shroud line and slipped sharply leftward. This maneuver also took some air from his chute and quickened his descent. He missed the trees and the wagon, landing instead in a beet field. The beets, already dug up, were spread on the ground. Winslow came down hard. His right leg hit one of these beets and twisted sideways with such force he could hear bones snap.  Before he had time even to try standing, a farmer near the haywa- gon ran over to h