r of running out of ammunition and thus becoming easy prey. . . . What would happen if the Fortress ran out of ammunition would be a massacre. The accuracy of their bombing depends upon their not being harassed while over the target. The days when the weather is suitable for this form of high level bombing are few and far between, especially in the winter. On an average, conditions are likely to be suitable on only six days a month in Germany. . . . they frequently have to wait for ten days before being able to make a sortie. Everyone must admit this is a very grievous situation. What ought we to do?  Churchill’s low opinion of the American air effort and its potential now hung like a sword over the 8th Air Force. If he were to write to Roosevelt what he had written to Portal in that November 2 letter, the American President could hardly escape the conclusion that the 8th was no longer welcome in the United Kingdom since the Prime Minister felt it was “‘playing very little part in the war.’’ And there was no way in which Eaker might counteract Churchill’s attitude, because he didn’t even know about it. He was completely without knowledge of the extensive secret correspondence between Chur- chill, Sinclair, Portal, and Slessor about the 8th Air Force and its prospects.  While Eaker remained ignorant of this aspect of his continuing problem with the British, he was aware of enough other problems to keep him busy. The 8th’s only experienced bomb group, the 97th, would be leaving for Africa in another week. (The North African invasion was to begin November 8.) Shortly thereafter, two more groups would follow, leaving him nothing but four groups of rookies. And he was beginning to wonder how long these groups would have to wait before getting their chance to become veterans. The weather had kept his entire force on the ground since October 21. In two months, since September 7, his bombers had been able to fly only three missions. (By this time Churchill must have begun t