rcame it and stayed at his post. On anc tobimuitanrhebhinudt hurried to the refrigerator to let him out before he began to freeze, flying again as a tail gunner, he saw his tracer bullets explod esmpuigtomy nimi they found to their surprise that he was in no hurry to come out. oxygen bottles in an FW-190 that had closed to within fifty fe welyuijucieuniam Rodwell loved ice cream.  him. The German fighter burst into flame, and as he watched the thu There was never a shortage of girls around the American bases. go down inside it, he thought again about himself in that plungin |iinalei Rodwell was astonished at the number of girls who showed up in section. ‘eden  Horham after the Yanks arrived. On Sundays, or on the nights when Eventually, other crew members noticed his worsening cond  tytauhbyistiy the men staged dances in one of the hangars, young women came and he was sent to the Central Medical Board though he had 1 ivntsihsinigl ay cet from: miles:around.  asked for relief from flying duty. To one of the doctors he was fi jaw: able to admit that he never wanted to get into an airplane again wh  spc ny The same was true at Thorpe Abbots, five miles north of Horham,  ee yeah Ta where the new 100th Group had arrived June 9.15 Harry Chenery, a doctor granted his wish. ‘vig acevo ferret keeper there, gazed with wonder upon the parade of girls, with  249 i 252  letters, 13 ea.;—on a yellow pad, later to be typed in septuplicate and sent with the man’s belongings to a special depot, pending confirma- tion of his death or of his capture by the Germans. The final disposi- tion of the letters and photographs was a matter requiring tact and discretion. A man’s widow might not want to receive, among his effects, nude pin-up pictures or letters from other women.  Air Force policy was to remove a man’s property from his barracks the same day he was declared missing so that his buddies wouldn’t brood any more than necessary over his loss. July had been a busy month for Gibson. H