ether with the thirty-six other men in his senior replanning to do. ———_—_ class, on April 7, 1917, the day after the United States declared war At midday on the 22nd, Captain Smith pulled Spare-| on Kaiser Wilhelm’s Germany. Because these men were college  Marrakesh runway and headed north on the reverse of thi students, they were sent to an officers’ training school in Arkansas, had brought them to Africa. It was virtually the same rou where Eaker became a second lieutenant.  Eaker had flown in a Dutch airliner from Portugal to Ei He was drilling his platoon at his first station, Fort Bliss in El Paso, eighteen months earlier when he and six staff members, uy! tka he ai one day in October 1917, when a Signal Corps plane landed on the clothes and with no airplanes, arrived to begin the organiz: hy ity alte. eryin at parade field with engine trouble. Though Eaker had never seen an 8th Air Force Bomber Command. The basic problem he jj su hig airplane engine, he climbed onto the wing to take a look at it. A then was the same one he faced now, except that today it shi ih spark-plug lead had come loose. Little as he knew, he could see that precisely defined and more immediate. He still had to p jj was wrong. He put the wire back in place and said to the pilot, British colleagues and to a lot of important people back ho frig hii ‘*Maybe this is your trouble.’ When the pilot started the engine, it daylight bombing strategy of the American Air Force se fh wes Dp, to ran perfectly. ‘‘You know so much about airplane engines,’’ he said effective and practical against Hitler’s Germany. He ha: ls epi to Eaker, “you should go into flying.”’  prove his point beyond doubt at Schweinfurt and Regensbu hyo Within a few weeks Eaker did so; and after World War I, when the felt he had proven it to the Germans. He had struck mi fgg, it uiha ps a Signal Corps aviation section became the Army Air Corps, he re- against the ball-bearing plants and the Messerschmitt facto wean f mained with i