enforce them. Unlike Ira Eaker, he had never been described as a tactful, diplomatic man.  These two generals had met a few times when Harris visited the United States on R.A.F. missions to buy airplanes and materiel, but they were not well acquainted. Eaker, knowing Harris by reputation, could hardly guess what to expect of him. He was aware that like most R.A.F. experts, Harris had a low opinion of America’s best bomber, the B-17, which would have to be the mainstay of the 8th Air Force. He also knew Harris was skeptical of the possibilities of daylight precision bombing. Eaker was therefore ready to defend the American position in arguments about these important mat- ters.  But today no arguments developed. Harris was the very model of British cordiality as they walked to church together. Did Eaker need any help in selecting a site for his headquarters or in procuring necessary equipment? Indeed he did. His little staff of six had arrived without so much as a typewriter. Harris would gladly take care of all that. Would Eaker like to inspect the R.A.F. Bomber Command setup and attend operational conferences? He would be welcome anytime. Would he need some office help until his own personnel began to arrive? Harris was shorthanded himself, but he would loan Eaker as many people as he could spare. By the time the two men reached church, Eaker was much more confident about the fulfill-  97  ment of his mission and more relaxed about his relations with the British.  The irony of these two generals walking to church as they dis- cussed plans to drop bombs on thousands of Germans probably did not occur to either man. The moral justification for World War II had already been defined so clearly by 1942, and accepted so universally outside Germany, that people took it for granted. In the minds of most of the British and Americans, whether military or civilian, Adolf Hitler had reduced the ethical considerations of the war to simple terms. It might be argued that Germany ha