would not turn for home until the bombers were teady to do so. And if the German fighters decided to attack the bombers anyway, they were not likely to enjoy the experience with the quick and well-armed Mustangs on their tails. The air war over Europe was about to undergo a decisive change, and the Germans, when they saw the Mustang, began to sense it. Hermann Goering, after his capture in 1945, admitted to Gen. Carl Spaatz that when he saw the first P-51 over Germany, he feared that the war was decided.  General Eaker could now see an increasingly triumphant future in store for his 8th Air Force. He had brought the 8th Bomber Command to England when it consisted of only himself and his six-man staff, without headquarters, without aircraft, without bombs, guns, or even paper clips. As 8th Air Force commander he had built it into a mighty force that could now send out more than five hundred aircraft on a single mission, and within a few months would be able to send out a thousand. (In mid-December he had 720 bombers at his disposal.) He had seen it through the two greatest air battles in American history. And now, with the help of the P-51, he would see it through to the day of complete victory over Nazi Germany.  These were Eaker’s happy prospects when, on December 18, he  344  amaze Grafto1  Asn Schwe down / joined Tucker Resistz be mo:  Anz Ath to guard : to a pl streetc: who wi near a nervou worrie: that thi  She footste  The one of  This Englis!  Win said gi unifort them i wall w Winslc memb<  In Greent miles | P-5Sls, had all intensi  received an astounding cablegram from General Arnold in Washington:  It has been decided that an American will take over command of the Allied Air Force in the Mediterranean. . . . Asa result of your long period of successful operations and the exceptional results of your endeavors as Commander of the Air Force in England, you have been recommended for this position. Other changes which have been set up tentatively are as follows: