her execu- tive, a friend of Stenger’s, called him from the command shelter directly under the administration building.  “‘Where are you?’’ he said. ‘*You’d better come down here. We expect something today.’”  Stenger had work to do. *‘I’ll stay here,’’ he said. *‘It’s just another alert.”  “‘Listen,’’ his friend said, *‘I want you to look out at the sky.””  Stenger glanced out the window. It was Schweinfurt weather. He couldn’t deny that.  “‘This time it’s likely to happen,”’ his friend said.  Stenger was finally persuaded. Even as he went down the stairs of the building toward the basement shelter, he heard no sound of airplanes outside, but he guessed it was sensible to play it safe. Two minutes after he entered the command shelter, the first bombs fell on the building and exploded in front of the reinforced shelter door. With the blast came the sound of glass breaking on the upper floors. A fire extinguisher fell from the trembling wall, spreading foam throughout the chamber. But the wall held.  Leo Wehner, the antiaircraft commander at Kugelfischer, had moved his gun post to the roof of a sturdy building in the center of the plant. Forewarned of the approaching planes, he and his men were ready for them, but his guns were not. Wehner still had nothing better to shoot than the same 20-mm. cannon, which could not send shells even half as high as the bombers. Since the Americans obviously weren’t going to descend to seven thousand or eight thousand feet, it seemed pointless and needlessly dangerous for Wehner to keep his men at these useless guns. But he had been told to do so, and he did what he was told, even though the bombing was much more accurate and fearsome this time than it had been in August. In addition to the high explosives, the enemy today was dropping many more fire bombs. Those of his men who had been in service and had seen action were not noticeably frightened by the bombardment, which soon filled the air around them. Some of the other men, howev