ok as if this might be one of those days. Below them were only a few soft puffs of cumulus, and ahead they  40  more than three hundred pilots, already standing by their planes at a score of bases, received takeoff orders. Since the Americans were headed southeast toward Antwerp, Frankfurt still seemed to be the probable target. Ready to intercept the Americans was the largest force Hitler’s homeland defense had ever assembled.  39  Une ‘neal tli ue haa ‘a da Ista devise i NaN oo hd  rg Vegas ‘uote Mind  over the waterways of Holland; and the bombardier, Lt. James McClanahan, at his machine gun in the plexiglass nose, was an- nouncing the German arrivals over the intercom as they approached. Though McClanahan was brave in combat he was also excitable. By listening to his voice, the whole crew could tell how close the Germans were; the closer the enemy came, the higher his vocal register. When they were bearing in upon him, he would be scream- ing at them as he fired.3  One of the German fighters, approaching from eleven o’clock high, released a 20-mm. cannon shell that ripped into the plane just behind pilot Algar on the left side. It plowed through the radio compartment, past the head of S. Sgt. Francis Gerow, and exploded amidship, knocking the top off the oxygen bottle of S. Sgt. Kenneth McKay, the ball-turret gunner. It also drilled a shrapnel sliver into the arm of S. Sgt. John Schimenek, the left waist gunner. But the force of the explosion centered upon the right waist gunner, S. Sgt. L. Corwin Miller, who was already firing from his open window in the side of the fuselage.4 Miller heard a ‘*whoomph,”’ felt a blow from behind as if someone were hitting him across the back with a board, and was knocked against a bulkhead. Picking himself up, he glanced momen- tarily at Schimenek, who was staring at him. Both returned to their guns. Schimenek’s arm was now stinging ‘‘as if someone had poured battery acid on it,’’ but Miller was apparently unhurt. He continued f