itted into their plexiglass bubbles like pickles in a jar.  The navigator and bombardier shared a snug, glass-windowed nose compartment that also had to accommodate the navigator’s work table and stool, the bombardier’s Norden bomb-sight, and a pair of machine guns. The pilot and copilot, above and slightly behind them, shared a cockpit so crammed with dials, levers, cranks, instruments, pedals, throttles, compasses, and control yokes that anyone seeing it for the first time would wonder how they could keep track of so many things. The pilot’s compartment also had two very pleasant features: it was heated, and its leather seats were as comfort- able as a first-class airline chair. The cockpit, and to a lesser extent the entire plane, had a new-automobile aroma of metal, leather, and gasoline. Even the relatively older B-17s in service had come too recently from the assembly line to have lost that factory smell.  The crews who flew these famous bombers were mostly in their late teens or early twenties, from places like Kankakee and Keokuk, Little Rock and Little Falls, New York and New Brunswick, Miami and Seattle, Bangor and San Diego. They knew more about Gary Cooper, Joe DiMaggio, Bing Crosby, and the Dionne quintuplets than they did about Adolf Hitler. But one important thing they did know about Hitler was that he had enslaved Europe and was coldly eliminating everyone who opposed him. Many of these men were only minimally interested in politics. Franklin D. Roosevelt had been their country’s President for so long—half their entire lives—that they could scarcely imagine having another one. When they read, most of them chose comic books or paperback novels, the sexier the better. They considered Forever Amber just about as sexy as a book could get, but the letters they wrote to their wives and sweethearts were often sexier. Fantasy was rampant in the G.I. mind. Almost all of them had pictures in their wallets of girls back home, but on their walls they had picture