astered hell out of that place.”’  When the 94th Group landed at Bury St. Edmunds, Sgt. Leo Rand, having completed his first mission, turned to his fellow waist gunner, Sgt. Donald McCabe, and said, ‘‘How did I do, Mac?”’  “*You live through that,’’ McCabe said, ‘‘you’ll live through anything.”’  323  “I guess so,’’ Rand said. **Today I found out for the first time that farts could have lumps in ’em.”’  Rand had no trouble relaxing after the excitement of the mission, but one thing still disturbed him deeply, and he decided to get it off his chest at the interrogation. He walked up to the ‘‘full-bird colonel’’ who was in charge of debriefing and said, ‘‘Sir, I guess this is the end of me.””  The colonel said, ‘What do you mean, sergeant?’’  “‘I know it’s gonna be reported,’’ Rand said, *‘so I may as well tell you. I killed a guy in a parachute.”’  The colonel listened while Rand described the whole incident. ““You didn’t do it on purpose, did you?’’  Rand assured him it was an accident.  The colonel put an arm on his shoulder. ‘‘That’s all right, Sarge. Don’t worry about it.”’  As copilot Edward Downs and navigator Miles McFann brought their battered 96th Group Fortress to a stop at Ford Field near Chichester, a British ambulance was on the spot waiting to assist them. Downs, despite his wounds, said, *‘I can make it,’’ when the attendants asked if he needed help. They therefore removed first the body of the pilot, Lieutenant Bolick, since it was blocking the catwalk from the cockpit to the rear.  The moment Downs stood up his parachute harness fell off his back. A piece of shrapnel had severed both straps. His oxygen maSk had also been shredded by one of the fragments that hit his head. Blood was dripping from his face and from his whole right side. He was splattered from head to foot with Bolick’s blood. Making his way toward the rear, he passed one of the waist gunners, S. Sgt. Theodore ~ Bergstrom, the youngest man in the crew. The color faded from Bergstrom’s f