letely covered by clouds. They were  August 17 mission in which they lost nine planes. Life looked so 7 and had thrown away his dog tas to prevent the Gestapo ftom :stwick tower by radio, but they couldn’t unpromising that many of them began to treat it as a joke. If they took leaning he was lewis, sas now in Prisoner of War Camp Saag}, ottish traffic controller was saying. Bolick it seriously, it became unbearable. When the ragged remnants of the about twenty miles from Breslau, Poland." Warsaw, navigaorofthe ugh the clouds and make a blind instrument 100th reached Africa from Regensburg August 17, the survivors cripled B17 that had fed on approaching German ighersaftrits din’t come out of the overcast until he was were so badly shot up only a few could fly the return mission against wheels were down, had undergone some interesting experiences on. he found the runway and landed easily. Then Bordeaux. Most flew instead across North Africa and out over the is odyssey across Germany tothe camp, After one day with he an in the tower had been saying: *‘Go Atlantic to reach England. One pilot, Lt. Owen D. ‘‘Cowboy”’ Ces, ad been handed oer toa uate egemtandtwo closed.” Roane, had *‘requisitioned’’ a donkey in Africa and brought it home rivals who were to scot him this destination, Becawetheewas. vs were still at the Bovingdon Replacement on his plane. Entering the traffic pattern at Thorpe Abbots, he radioed 10 ober tranportation availble, they had to rave fom Aachento. gned to the 96th, they and their bombardier, to the tower: **Stand by, I’m coming in with a frozen ass.”” Cologne by streetcars, seven of them, transfering from one 10 t Some free time and went to London. It was a Col. Neil Harding, the 100th Group commander, was a former another; and Warsaw was conscious everymomentofhow conpi- it, and they were standing in almost total football star and a convivial man who kept in shape at the officers’ cus they were—tree well-dressed German soldiers with oneragged, Lil