ered the war and had joined the Air Force the next day. Because of the Nazi persecution of Jews, he considered the war a personal vendetta. And though he did not enjoy flying missions (in addition to all the other hazards and discomforts he was prone to air-sickness), Warsaw did not want this one, his thirteenth, to be his last.  If the crippled Fortress were to have any chance to reach England, he would have to plot a very careful course, avoiding German fighter quadrants and skirting cities, where antiaircraft guns were waiting. As Captain Knox banked the big plane around, Warsaw began studying his maps. After about five minutes of calculation, he looked up and found to his surprise and consternation that the ship was still at  15,000 feet. emerged in parachutes before it plunged toward the ground. Tobin, that any of the 100th Over the intercom he shouted to the pilot, ‘‘What the hell are you who was one of them, had been thrown out of the plane by an ing certain extinction doing up here?’’ explosion. group was Maj Gale  Neither Knox nor the copilot answered. The plane was flying Warsaw, hanging from his parachute, felt a draft from the rear and low the Piccadilly Lily straight and level. Warsaw had the eerie feeling that nobody was at became aware not only that the seat of his flying suit had been blown OSe Squadron had only the controls, that the plane was flying on automatic pilot. away but also that his buttocks were beginning to sting, apparently is second element, was  Moments later, a gunner yelled over the intercom: ‘‘A whole from shrapnel wounds. He didn’t think the wounds could be very had sent them down.'6 squadron coming up at six o’clock!”’ serious if it had taken this long to notice them. Anyhow, they didn’t plane he was flying,  When Warsaw looked out the side windows, both left and right, he constitute his most immediate concern, On the roads below himhe  10nor of their barracks saw a strange mixture of German planes, twelve or thirteen of them, co