gbourn. The boys came by the truckload with canned Unable to smash his way through the rear plexiglass bubb] trihenithurtition hig goods and chocolate and great expectations.  attacked the metal fuselage skin with his feet. He finally manag ii{tsutiptniasaumyd The more attractive girls, like Miss Howden, soon had a selection  get his body through but his shoulders became wedged. Then in {atn(airajinwieynyi of eager men inviting them to pubs or to ‘‘dinner houses’’ like the  way that he could never explain, he broke free, opened his para: fit sheyitlnhotta Green Lantern in Baldock. Her first date was with a major who took  just before reaching the ground, and landed without injury i | middle of a British antiaircraft installation The plane had crashed only a hundred yards away, and wh ti  her to London, but before long she realized officers were not neces- sarily the best boyfriends. The G.I.s had a knack of beating the Army system. They had sources of supply the officers could never tap, and reached it, he could see his fellow crew members (presumab pti they often showed up driving jeeps or cars while the officers had to dead except one other man who had parachuted) burning inside. tj ikititraha walk. Miss Howden liked the enlisted men. Eventually she married the help of British soldiers, the tail gunner tried to pull out one bide lbi ire lim, one bodies, but they were forced back by a new burst of flame. ubitijsiajily When the 95th Group moved in June from Framlingham to the tiny That night in a British barracks the tail gunner lay swee beblbhhiitit town of Horham six miles northwest, it was a boon to Basel Rodwell, shaking, and sleepless. Next morning, when his commanding 0 bitihulkeinsycnmihts the village blacksmith there. The first thing an American airman tried arrived and they inspected the wreckage, he saw the charred rer \ittali tai to buy when he arrived at a base was a bicycle. Except for those who  of his crew. Thereafter, he slept poorly and dreamed of p