f September and was sweat- ing out his last one.!3 As the weather socked in again after the September 27 Emden mission, he became more nervous and impa-  271  tient by the hour. He wanted to get that twenty-fifth mission in and be done with it. Yet he dreaded it more than any of the others. He could envision the hideous fate of surviving twenty-four missions, includ- ing such horrors as Schweinfurt, and then going down on the last one.  He was brooding about this possibility when a teletype message came to Polebrook from 8th Air Force headquarters ordering Capt. William R. Smith, 0790727, to report immediately to General Eaker at Bushy Park. Smith hadn’t seen the commanding general since flying him to Africa after the Schweinfurt-Regensburg raid. But Smith and his entire crew had received, on August 26, a commenda- tion from Eaker for that flight, conveying his appreciation of their hard work and his admiration of their ‘‘superior qualities.’’  When Smith reached Bushy Park and walked into Eaker’s office, the general (now wearing the three stars of a lieutenant general since his September 13 promotion) looked up and smiled. ‘*You thought I'd forgotten about you,”’ he said, ‘‘didn’t you?’’  Smith said, ‘‘Well, sir, I didn’t know there was any reason for you to remember me. Are you going on another trip?”’  “*No, but I’ve had someone keeping track of your tour. You’re just about finished, aren’t you?”’  “Yes sir. One more mission.”’  “*Are you anxious to get home?”’  “*Well, sir, I’m a bachelor. I don’t have any family to worry about, but I had figured on going home to get into B-29s.”’  “‘Would you object to postponing that a few months?’’ Eaker asked. ‘‘I’d like you to set up a plane and crew with you as my pilot.’*  Smith could scarcely believe his good fortune. There was no better and safer duty for a pilot than flying a general. He mumbled some- thing about being honored. Then he said, *‘I’m not in that much hurry to get home.”’  Eaker, dismissing him, said, ‘‘Fi