go a long way toward sharing Harris’s views, but with the modification that such a campaign would be more successful in the daytime against crucial targets. Spaatz was so confident about day bombing that when he was in England as an observer during the Battle of Britain, he had told newsman Drew Middleton, ‘‘The British are winning. They forced them [the Ger- mans] to bomb at night. The Germans won’t beat them that way.””!  134  executiv the com during tl comman fighter g  Becau the mos Rockwe to four | mediate] commis: among | through auspices 1924, w served w when Ea Spaatz, 1919, w tempora’ Arnold j want to: the wars somepla comman assigned  Spaati incident ary war! a colone rank bec Arnold ; switchin was hor comman himself  Arnol zealous Mitchell  Eaker, who had talked to Harris about the letter before it was sent, appreciated the spirit of Harris’s argument. He too believed that air power, well used, could win the war, but he had told Harris that as far as the United States was concerned, it was daydreaming to think the Army and Navy would be willing to sit back and let the fledgling Air Force win the war. Harris had said the same was true in England, but he was going to tell them what he thought anyway.  The arrival of Spaatz in England presaged finally the beginning of 8th Air Force operations, but on a very modest scale. Though no planes had yet arrived, several crews from the American 15th Light Bomber (A-20) Squadron had come to study R.A.F. methods. On July 4, six of these crews were invited to join six British crews in a twelve-plane mission using American-made but British-owned A- 20s. The attack was against four German airfields in the Low Coun- tries, and two of the six American-manned planes failed to return. A third, piloted by Capt. Charles C. Kegelman, came back on one engine. General Eisenhower, aware that this mission was the first American air action against German-held territory, awarded the Distinguished Service Cross to Kegelman and Distingu