d a their for of cons would h But to | effect. warning As th part ini head. F the plar bullets ; time sex task for perhaps see evel simply them, ii impose Lt: C forty-or from D Duren, limit of these U departu attackin  It had seemed to him the only sensible way for fighters to attack, but he wished the Germans hadn’t come to agree with him. The intensity of an assault by a dozen fighters, wing-tip to wing-tip, firing all at once, was so unnerving that Smith could see the entire bomber formation go sloppy. He could feel the sweat inside his sheep-lined flying suit as more German fighters arrived to repeat the new phalanx tactics. Time after time Smith heard the ping of bullets and the bang of shrapnel perforating his plane, and he realized he might hear on the intercom any second that someone in his crew had been hit. But the minutes passed, and though the attacks intensified, sending other Fortresses earthward in flames, his plane flew steadily onward, as if it thrived on bullets.  Several groups of German ME-110 night fighters now joined the battle, launching their 21-cm. rockets into the B-17 formations. One of these was 2 Gruppe Nachtjagdgeschwader 5, of which navigator- radio operator Hans Bringmann was a member. When his formation approached the American bombers near the German border, he stared in awe at the size of the enemy armada. "! Flying Fortresses seemed to fill the sky. And darting among them were scores of ME-109s and FW-190s. The slower ME-110 night fighters would have to adopt different tactics. The thirty-six planes of Bringmann’s group, each with its four rockets under wing, approached the leading B-17 forma- tions from the front. At about 750 yards, each plane fired all four rockets, then plunged immediately under the American bombers to escape the fury of their machine guns. Having made their single thrusts, the ME-110s quickly turned for home  Bringmann, looking back at the tight formations of American planes, saw dozens of rockets explode amon