’’ with which the American general made his points. He mentioned the immense preparations that had already gone into the build-up of the 8th Air Force in England. But, Churchill pointed out, this was the beginning of 1943 and the Americans had been in the war more than a year. They hadn’t yet thrown a single bomb on Germany. The British had been led to believe a year earlier in Washington that within four or five months American aircraft would be making very heavy deliveries of bombs. Eaker said it was quite true they had not yet struck their blow. He  188  1. Day bombing is more accurate and can destroy obscure but  important targets the night bombers can’t find.  Being more accurate, day bombing is more economical be-  cause a small force concentrating its bombs is more effective  than a large force scattering its bombs.  3. By bombing the devils around the clock, we can prevent the German defenses from getting any rest.  4. If the R.A.F. works by night and we work by day, we can prevent airdrome and airspace congestion.  5. Our crews are trained for day bombing. There would be a long delay in retraining them.  6. Our planes and equipment are designed for day operations. They would require extensive modification.  7. Day bombing permits the destruction of enemy fighters—one of our prime objectives—by exposing them to the B-17’s twelve half-inch guns.  8. We can coordinate day raids with R.A.F. night raids. We can ignite obscure targets by day which the R.A.F. can bomb that night by the light of our fires.  nN  Armed with his one-page brief, Eaker nervously reported to the villa Churchill was occupying, also within the closely guarded, barbed-wire-enclosed Anfa Hotel compound, at 10:00 A.M. on the morning of January 20. It was a lovely house with two-story double windows. When Eaker was admitted to the foyer, he looked out through these windows to a cluster of orange trees in the garden. While he was still gazing at this exotic view and enjoying the warm sunlight t