titude ME-109s and FW-190s but perilously vulnerable to ground fire. Skimming over the crest of a hill, Christensen found himself heading toward a city ina valley ahead. Cities meant flak. He veered away but not in time. A shell exploded against the side of the plane, and a fragment from it tore a jagged hole in his arm  Since the plane was approaching more guns and another hill, Christensen, with a fountain of blood spurting from his arm, insisted on remaining at the controls until he was convinced they were out of immediate danger. Then, after his copilot, Lt. Stuart Mendelsohn took over, he collapsed. The bombardier and navigator applied a tourniquet, bandaged him and administered morphine. Though he looked as if he would be all right, his blood loss had been too great He had saved his plane and his crew, but by the following morning Lieutenant Christensen would be dead  Between Rheims and Soissons more than two hundred of the fighters that had attacked the bombers on the way to Schweinfurt were waiting to meet them again on the way back. The 96th Group absorbed the brunt of their attack. At 4:35 p.M., one of its planes went down and seven chutes emerged. A few minutes later, another fell after six chutes appeared. At the same time, a 20-mm. shell exploded  319  in the cockpit of the Fortress flown by Lt. Robert Bolick and Lt.  .Edward Downs.!  Though Bolick was the pilot, he had taken the copilot’s seat a few minutes earlier to relieve Downs, who had been doing most of the flying. Because their plane was on the left side of the 96A Group formation, it was easier to manage from the right-hand copilot’s seat, which was closer to the plane on whose wing they were flying. Downs had just bent over to adjust a trim tab when the explosion occurred. He blacked out for perhaps a minute or more. When he regained consciousness, he saw that Bolick, his body blown open by the blast, had fallen forward onto the control column, putting the plane into a dive. The rest of the fo