or less important than the ones that were hit? The statement that the main railway station was heavily damaged (actually it was destroyed) might sound good in the report, but the station was not part of the target. The fact that it and several residential areas were hit meant that a significant number of bombs had missed their mark.  Damage to the Schweinfurt factories had undoubtedly been severe But Eaker was unable to say how severe it was or what effect it would have on ball-bearing production. His information left too many questions unanswered. He was not privy to the German reports from the scene that had thrown Albert Speer into such alarm. Hence the German authorities, knowing in detail the results of the attack, considered it a much greater American success than did the Ameri- cans. If Eaker and other Allied authorities had known then what Speer disclosed later—that the August 17 attack had caused an immediate drop of 34 percent in Schweinfurt ball-bearing produc- tion—they might have prevailed upon British Bomber Command to follow up the American daylight raid immediately with a series of night attacks, which would no doubt be less costly. But Eaker could make no positive assertions about the Schweinfurt results, especially since Williams said he was ‘‘not satisfied with our bombing accuracy although there was considerable damage to the ball-bearing plants.”’  Eaker in an August 27 letter to Robert Lovett praised the Regens- burg results without mentioning Schweinfurt. However much dam- age had been done at Schweinfurt, he obviously did not believe it had been enough. In answers to the congratulations he had received for the double mission from such people as Sir Archibald Sinclair, Air Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, and Air Marshal Sir Douglas C.S. Evill, he carefully avoided boasting about the 8th Bomber Command’s accomplishments at either Schweinfurt or Regensburg. He wrote instead about the help the R.A.F. had given the 8th Air Force since its ‘‘fe