er four ME-109s and four or five FW-190s, without suffering any losses themselves  The 92nd Bomb Group led by Maj. James J. Griffith, was the first to encounter the German rockets.‘ Shortly after crossing the coast, the 92nd encountered seven FW-190s firing tracers and 20-mm. cannons. When they were 750 yards behind the group’s low squad- ton, ‘‘a very large flash emanated from the center of each enemy aircraft, obliterating it from view.’’ When these planes came back into view they were diving beneath the bombers, but the American fliers scarcely gave them a second glance. By now they were staring  43  apprehensively at several projectiles, each about three inches thick, which were flying into their formation at a high speed but slowly enough to be followed by the human eye. A second or two later, several “‘large black bursts,’’ half again as big as ordinary flak bursts, appeared among the bombers. These explosions occurred in midair, without benefit of impact. But their effect was so powerful they caused extensive damage to two Fortresses, one flown by Capt. Roland L. Sargent and the other by Lt. J. D. Stewart. Both pilots, however, managed to keep their aircraft in formation.  Between Antwerp and Eupen, more German fighters arrived on the scene, and these began concentrating on the lead formations of the First Task Force—the 91st and the 381st Groups. Lt. Ted Winslow, bombardier in Dame Satan, the ‘‘always returning’’ substitute plane to which his crew was assigned that day, noticed that most of the enemy planes attacking his 91st Group were FW- 190s, and he had to admire the courage of some of their pilots as he watched them “rolling, banking, and twisting through our formations with their guns blazing all the time.’’ The B-17 gunners were hitting some of them, but not without cost. Winslow saw the Fortress on his wing, then another and another, catch fire and begin to fall behind.  Near Herstal, sixty-five miles southeast of Antwerp, the 381st suffered its firs