man fighters had finally turned back, leaving them un- molested for the first time since they had crossed the Belgian coast- line. The worst of the day’s ordeal had apparently ended. They had  21  flown through the thickest storm of bullets and shrapnel in the history of air warfare. With enough luck and enough gasoline, most of them would be in Africa by late afternoon.  For the Schweinfurt-bound men of the First Bombardment Wing, however, the ordeal had not yet begun. And the decoy strategy that had been designed to minimize that ordeal was now beyond hope of fulfillment.  was now so clear over south-central Ge twenty-five miles in all directions.'8 And z straight-and-level bomb run from the Initi west of Regensburg, he had the satisfa before him the mile-square complex of fi prised the Messerschmitt plant.  He was surprised to find no German figh approached the target, and he saw only tv ineffective. The 96th’s lead bombardier, L out any opposition to distract him, droppec explosives and British incendiaries directl The rest of the B-17s in his group, droppin accurate. The time was 11:45 A.M  During the next twenty-two minute LeMay’s task force released 303 tons of bc plant in one of the most accurate bombardr aerial photos later confirmed,!9 virtually 2 factory buildings or on the adjacent airfi« were at least partly destroyed. One han destroyed,’ while another main store ar fourths destroyed.’’ Nearly every buildin  Despite their severe losses and despite t any of them had yet encountered, the men Bombardment Wing were convinced, whe flaming rubble at Regensburg, that they ha mission. But they had little or no time Fifteen German fighters—ME-110s and harass the 385th and 94th Groups directly planes continued their attacks as the big b the Brenner Pass. Within a few miles, L B-17s, raising the total so far to a stagge Africa still far away. Many of the Fortres damaged or so short of fuel that their crey making it. But as they reached the Alps, Fourth Bombardment