tresses ei thrived on b Several g battle, launc of these was radio operat approached in awe at the fill the sky. FW-190s. 1 different tac with its four tions from 1 rockets, thei escape the thrusts, the Bringman planes, saw caught fire : these planes combat win; tent enough near Herstal twenty-five and another perhaps all | Five mim lost its third bailed out, |  to go off either on contact or after a fixed time, exploded in quick succession—pomp! pomp! pomp!—close enough to put holes in the side of the plane but just far enough from Algar to leave him unscathed.  The 384th, in the coffin corner of the Second Combat Wing, had fighters coming at it from all directions. Algar, looking around, saw an engine catch fire on the lead Fortress of the group’s high squadron. The plane’s pilot, experienced enough to be a squadron leader, pulled away from the formation, apparently trying to spare the other planes in case he exploded, and also trying to get away from the lower squadrons so that if his men had to bail out, they would not be chewed up by propellers. Unfortunately, this squadron had several new, inexperienced pilots. When their leader pulled out of formation, they followed. Algar, aware of the confusion, told the squadron on the radio to get back in forrhation and let their leader go. Then he pushed his own throttles forward and moved up to the squadron leader’s position. When the errant planes came back to the formation, they fell in on Algar’s wing. Though this was only his seventh mission, he suddenly found himself leading a squadron.  Despite the carnage, one combat wing still had not lost a plane Ironically, it was the most vulnerable rear wing, led by Col. Maurice Preston and his 379th Group. But so many of the fifty-three planes in this wing were already shot full of holes that Preston did not expect their luck to hold. He was especially concerned about the high group on his right; too much distance separated it from his group. Unless this composite high grou