a mission on which Eaker himself had flown. But the early missions had been against German targets in France and the Low Countries, not into Germany itself. And while British authorities had been tactful in their public appreci- ation of these missions, they had been blunt in expressing secretly to each other their private impatience with the first several American efforts. Air Minister Sir Archibald Sinclair, in a September 25, 1942, memo, had asked rhetorically, ‘‘What are the Americans doing? What do they intend to do? . . . As far as I know, they have not dropped a single bomb in Germany. . . . Do they contemplate the use of the Flying Fortress at night?’’s  Air Chief Marshall Sir Charles Portal wrote two days later: ‘‘I have . serious doubts . . . about whether the Americans will ever achieve their objective. . . . Although it is quite easy to pick off small targets by day when you are not seriously opposed, it is an entirely different matter when you are being harassed all the time by fighters and flak.’*? A month later, Churchill noted: **At present the United States are persevering with the idea of the daylight bombing of Germany . . . in formation without escort. So far they have not gone beyond the limits of strong British fighter escort. They will probably experience a heavy disaster as soon as they do.’”!0  While Eaker had not seen these secret memos, he was well ac- quainted with British thinking, and he was also painfully aware of a growing pressure from General Arnold in Washington for him to prove beyond doubt the capability of the B-17 and the workability of the American Air Force policy. During the past six months, since Eaker’s planes had begun to fly shallow missions into western Ger- many, the British had muted their campaign against the daylight precision strategy, but they were not yet convinced that the 8th Air Force could profitably attack important targets deep inside Germany. Eaker still needed dramatic proof that his B-17s could seriously