comrades in the rear. To slip a plane, a pilot must turn his rudder control one way and his aileron control the other. The effect is to glide sideways while keeping the wings fairly level and the nose pointing forward. For an experienced pilot it is not a difficult maneuver  Langer slipped just beneath the bombers and pulled up in their midst with one on each side of him and a third only fifty feet in front of him. His ME-109 was now flying formation with the B-17s. Both on his right and on his left he could look American gunners in the eye, confident that they wouldn’t fire at him for fear they might hit each other. He had, of course, to contend with the rear gunner in the plane ahead of him, but he also had that plane in his cannon sight. He pushed his button and a moment later saw the plane’s No. 2 engine pull away from the wing as if it had been torn off. Then the whole right wing collapsed and flopped over onto the left. The stricken bomber, completely out of control, flipped onto its back and hit another B-17, causing a massive detonation. A huge fireball ap- peared and was followed by such a powerful concussion it could only have resulted from the explosion of bombs in one or both of the B-17s. Langer, caught in this concussion, either blacked out momen- tarily or lost his orientation. He felt as if his small fighter plane were being hurled backward. The next thing he knew he was some distance behind the B-17 formation and below it, but still flying, apparently undamaged. The Fortress he had hit and the one with which it collided were plunging to earth.  Langer noticed now that his fuel warning light was on. Turning back to Frankfurt, he landed to refuel and rearm, but by this time the  52  By this time, Eagle’s Wrath was shredded with holes and its crew members did not expect it to fly much farther. Yet they continued firing at the onrushing Germans. The radio operator-gunner, Sgt Delmar Kaech, who was on his fifth mission since transferring in June from the