the first cluster of explosions among the factories.  For the groups behind the 91st, precision would be more difficult. By the time they arrived, smoke and fire would be spreading a cover over the target. If the first bombers had missed, then all the others, guided by their explosions, might also miss, thereby rendering the entire mission useless. Lieutenant Slayton, aware of this possibility, was relieved to know that his bombs had landed where he aimed them.  Only eighteen B-17s remained in the shattered 381st when it approached the target, and as if the group had not suffered enough, one of these was hit, probably by flak, on the bomb run. With its No. 3 and No. 4 engines silenced, it fell out of formation and went into a long glide. The seventeen surviving planes of the 38 1st dropped their bombs and followed the 91st westward  In the Second Combat Wing, the 384th, flying the low, coffin- corner position, was absorbing the heaviest punishment. As Maj. Thomas Beckett led his battered group toward the target, only eleven of its original eighteen planes remained in the formation. Two had turned back because of mechanical failures after dropping their bombs on targets of opportunity, and five had been shot down. Several of the planes still plodding onward were carrying wounded crewmen.  In Lt. Philip Algar’s Lucky Thirteen, S. Sgt. Corwin Miller, gravely wounded over Holland more than an hour and a half earlier, still lay bundled in blankets on the bomb-bay catwalk. Lapsing into and out of consciousness, he would stare at the ceiling when he was awake and listen to the gunfire around him. He could see the bursts and feel the whoomph as flak exploded beneath the plane, tossing it upward and lifting him off the floor. S. Sgt. Kenneth McKay, whose ball-turret gun had been disabled, was now at Miller’s gun, and the air above Miller’s head was filled with .50-caliber casings as McKay and S. Sgt. John Schimenek fired back at the Germans.  During one of Miller’s conscious