strike photos could be misleading due to smoke over the target, and that bomber crews could not avoid duplicating fighter claims when several gunners were firing at the same plane. Under these considerations Eaker might have preferred to make no ap-  331  praisals until he had much more ieee but he was oppressed by the compelling fact that of 291 Flying Fortresses dispatched to Germany, 60 had failed to return. This loss rate—19 percent—was one that no air force could afford. Such a loss demanded immediate explanation.  If the Germans had actually lost 99 fighters out of 300, as Eaker and Anderson believed after making adjustments for duplicate claims, that would be a 33 percent loss, which would be much more expensive to the Luftwaffe than the 60-plane loss was to the 8th Air Force. The Germans were no longer able to replace aircraft at the same rate as the Americans. (On the 14th, the day of the Schweinfurt mission, 93 new American crews arrived in land. During Oc- tober, Eaker was expecting 250 to 300 replacement aircraft plus crews.) And if the attack had actually damaged the ball-bearing factories as extensively as the photos indicated, then the loss of 60 Fortresses, though awesome, was not too high a price to pay. But since none of these assumptions could be proved, would other people believe them? Already the U.S. newspapers would be announcing in huge headlines that 60 Flying Fortresses had been lost at Schwein- furt, a little German town which meant nothing to most Americans. In the early hours of the morning General Arnold had sent Eaker a personal cable indicating some alarm in Washington at such a heavy  loss  “‘It appears from my viewpoint,’’ Arnold wrote, *‘that the German Air Force is on the verge of collapse. . . . We must not (repeat) not miss any symptoms of impending German air collapse. . . . Can you add any substantiated evidence of collapse?’*  In light of the performance of the German Air Force on the previous day, this cable looked like noth