ogether until they reached mid-Channel. By that time they had acquired another lost group.  Colonel Peaslee, in the lead plane of his 40th Combat Bombard- ment Wing had assembled the entire 92nd Group behind him, and the 306th Group was sliding into the high position on his right when he began to wonder why he hadn’t yet seen the 30Sth Group, which was supposed to be on his left wing.  “Where the hell is our low group?’’ he asked his tail gunner on the interphone. ‘‘Can you see a loose group anywhere?”’  This ‘‘gunner’’ was actually the crew’s regular copilot, whom  288  The major, after explaining the importance of the ball-bearing plants and the reason they had to revisit them, assured the men that flak would be light along their route, except over the Ruhr and at Schweinfurt, where the Germans had installed three hundred 88-mm. guns with excellent crews as a result of the August raid. ‘‘ You new crews—don’t panic and try to dodge,’’ he warned. ‘*And you’ll leave yourself wide open to get picked off if you straggle.’’ He also cautioned the tail gunners to ‘keep a sharp watch for twin-engine ME-210s sneaking up vapor trails to blast you.’’ The older B-17s still left thick white wakes behind them at high altitudes  When the major finished, another officer showed films of Schweinfurt, its factories, and several landmarks on the way to it The group navigator explained the route, and the meteorologist gave an uncertain weather forecast. Visibility was now only a quarter of a mile, but it should increase to one mile by takeoff time. At 2,000 feet, he said, they would break out of the overcast. The continent was expected to be clear, and by the time they returned, southern England should be fairly clear.  Colonel Peaslee then stood up. He told them to fly their formations as if it were ‘‘a Presidential review,’’ to conserve their ammunition, to fill the hole quickly if another plane dropped out, and to keep their guns loaded until landing. He reminded them of the nine B-