, however, the attacks against the Third Division on the way to Schweinfurt were less severe than those against the First, which had drawn the bulk of the German fighters by arriving earlier. Fewer than one hundred enemy aircraft took part in the initial skir- mishes with the Third Division.  At Neubiberg fighter base near Munich, Group Two of the famous Molders Wing had been alerted shortly after 1:00 p.M. and had been ordered a few minutes later to fly its ME-109s to Weisbaden- Erbenheim. Among the pilots, a rumor circulated that an American armada had just left England via Belgium. To veterans like Lt. Hans Langer this ‘“‘news’’ may have sounded routine. The group was often sent on short hops from here to there, just to be in position if the American bombers moved too far eastward, as they had done August 17. Today’s flight didn’t even excite brand-new 2nd Lt. Gunther  300  ripping a great hole in it and shooting away the rocket rack attached to it. Knoke, controlling his suddenly unbalanced plane with difficulty and fearful that his left wing might snap off at any moment, neverthe- less continued to move in on the bombers, determined to lead his squadron’s attack even though he now had only one rocket to fire.  Avoiding any sharp turns that might snap off his damaged wing by putting too much stress on the main spar, Knoke maneuvered his ME-109 into the best position he could achieve and fired his right rocket. It passed harmlessly through the bomber formation, hitting nothing. The ten fighters behind him fired theirs. On explosion, the rockets looked four times as big as flak bursts. Red flares appeared first, followed by dense black smoke. Each rocket burst exposed clusters of smaller shells that would explode a few seconds later. If a rocket were to penetrate a bomber, it would then distribute its shrap- nel fragments in all directions—enough of them for every man in the crew.  Of the twenty-one rockets fired by Knoke’s squadron, nineteen were wasted on the ai