peed with which they were rebuilding the ii hweinfurt plants raised the question of how soon they would be tisblrethdghie 2k at full production.  q 266  thing else.’’ The message also said the German fighters must stop attacking the straggling Fortresses and apply their efforts instead, under pain of court-martial, against the formations, which had to be prevented at all costs from reaching their targets. This was exactly the kind of news Arnold wanted to hear. It meant to him that his B-17s were in fact hurting Germany as grievously as Eaker had claimed.  Portal and Slessor also spoke to Arnold about the Schweinfurt mission and its importance, which they, unlike Harris, had never doubted. After visiting with them, Arnold told Eaker the British still felt a great concern about the ball-bearing situation. They considered it one of the highest American priorities.5  ‘I know you’ll get at it,” Arnold said to Eaker, *‘as soon as the weather permits.’”  More impatient than ever, Arnold could not be satisfied unless his bombers were hitting Germany every day. Even though he knew why such a schedule was impossible, he had difficulty accepting the limitations. Now that Eaker was hurting the Germans, he must not let them rest. He must hit them harder and harder, send out more planes, and bomb more German targets every day. It was an order Eaker would be happy to obey as soon as he could, but for the present, with his forces depleted by ‘‘Blitz Week,’’ the Regensburg-Schweinfurt mission, and the unfortunate Stuttgart mission, he would have to limit his Bomber Command to short strikes.  Eaker now received through intelligence sources further confirma- tion of his belief that the Fortresses were hurting Germany. He was told that 30 new fighters had just been added to the German force at Frankfurt, placing 755 single-engine fighters plus 680 twin-engine fighters in the western defense corridors.6 These 1,435 planes, he was informed, were 65 percent of the total German fighter st