ds. On nice days they would look up at the sky and say, uncomfortably, ‘‘Schweinfurt weather.’’ Today was just that kind of day. The sky was cloudless, the air crisp, and the visibility almost unlimited.  Shortly after 2:00 p.M., the sirens began to screech. People looked anxiously toward the southwest but saw nothing. Was it a false alarm? There had been several. It was almost two months since that August attack, and some people had begun to think the Americans might never come back. Though the German newspapers had ne-  309  glected to mention Schweinfurt after the August raid, they had at least mentioned the presence of enemy bombers over southern Germany and had announced that fifty-one of them [sic] had been shot down. Surely the Americans could not afford such losses. No doubt that was why they had not returned in the last two months. Yet the sirens continued to wail. Were those gangsters actually coming again? Many people were righteously indignant at the very thought of enemy attacks. It was inhuman to drop bombs on civilians, to murder people by the tens of thousands, and to destroy whole cities the way Ham- burg had been destroyed. News reports about Hamburg had been very vague, yet descriptions of the devastation there had spread by word of mouth, and most German city dwellers now felt the anger and frustration that arises from vulnerability. Parachuting enemy airmen were fortunate if they came down among policemen or soldiers because many civilians were eager to vent their rage against these killers from the sky. The average German was too furious about the destruction of his own cities to think about the populations of Polish, Czech, Russian, Rumanian, Yugoslav, Greek, Norwegian, French, Belgian, Dutch, and English cities whom German fliers had bombed It was enough to know that innocent Germans, many of them women and children, were being killed by these terrorists  When the sirens continued, the people of Schweinfurt began to believe them and moved tow