ers, after harassing LeMay, had landed to refuel with the intention of harassing him again on his way home d. When his force turned south from Regensburg toward 2 German defenders had little time to exercise their amaze- w their radar monitors were registering an even greater ircraft over England than they had observed in the early The Americans evidently had a second operation in prog- , even bigger than the first, which meant that the German stem had better prepare an even fiercer reception for this than the one it had offered this morning. Adolf Hitler was ed in his homeland air defenders as a result of the damage me by the Americans to German industry and the far greater one by the British to German cities, especially Hamburg, tish bombers had more than half destroyed in night raids > last week of July. Whatever the Americans might be  ' ,0w, it must be stopped.  concentration of air traffic over England increased, and the adar sets began to indicate just how large this second force activity intensified at the several German combat control eletypes chattered. Phones rang. Messengers ran from desk stributing dispatches. Girls in uniform tried to keep track of craft locations on vast grid maps. Generals and colonels at  \ff meetings discussed possibilities and issued orders. An- ' rican raid as damaging as the one at Regensburg, and on  jay, would be intolerable. The situation called for extraor- asures.  ' dolf Galland, commander of Germany’s day fighters, had  2et the growing American bombing threat by having several nd FW-190 groups returned from the Russian front and the nean, but even with almost three hundred planes operation- did not think he had enough. ' So he had arranged, in recent se some night fighters—larger, slower, twin-engine ME- 1inst the Flying Fortresses. Until today, these reserves had alled into action. Now, however, the decision was made to  . of the night-fighting groups. Among them was 2 Gruppe  igeschwader 5 (Group 2, Night-fighter Wing 5