o anything about it.  Forty P-47s of the 78th Fighter Group, scheduled to escort the B-17s from Antwerp to Eupen, arrived eight minutes late for their rendezvous after seven of their number aborted because of defective belly tanks. These planes, led by Lt. Col. James F. Stone, accom- panied one formation of the bombers for a few miles east of Eupen without seeing any German fighters, then circled to return home. Moments later they encountered ‘‘small gaggles of FW-190s and ME-109s,”’ which *‘scattered at [the] approach of [the] group,’’ plus eight twin-engine ME-210s, painted white, perhaps because they had been used in winter on the Russian front. Flight Officer Pete E. Pompetti dived after one of them, raked it with bullets, and last saw it in flames, ‘“‘tumbling down, nose over tail.”’  Maj. Eugere Roberts then spotted an ME-1 10, also painted white. With Flight Officer Glenn H. Koontz on his wing, Roberts gave chase and opened fire when he was about a hundred yards behind the slower German plane. The ME-110 quickly caught fire and went out of control. Roberts pulled up sharply to avoid hitting it, but his wing man, Koontz, blinded by the smoke, hit the German plane’s tail with his own left stabilizer. As the ME-110 went down in flames, Koontz’s P-47 flew on toward home, suffering no observable hand- icap despite the loss of half its stabilizer.  Capt. William Smith of the 351st Bomb Group, which led the Second Combat Wing of the First Task Force, watched the departing P-47s with apprehension because in the distance he could see the “‘little enemies’’ approaching to replace the ‘‘little friends.’’!° The German fighters arrived to harass the 351st as soon as the Thunder- bolts left, and this time instead of attacking singly or in pairs, the Messerschmitts and Focke-Wulfs were in phalanxes eleven or twelve abreast  As the cannons popped and the machine guns began to stutter, Smith turned uncomfortably to his copilot, Lt. George Nicolescu, and said, *‘I’ve always wo