are not entirely out of the wood yet, but I think we will make the h grade in one of the toughest spots imaginable if I can maintain your d confidence and backing.  Vv  si A week later Arnold sent Eaker what might be called a vote of  confidence. In a July 7 letter, he was at great pains to point out the a high regard in which he held the 8th Air Force commander:  I want you to get this firmly in your mind that had I not had confidence in you—confidence in your ability, I would never have built you up for the job that you now have. I give you full credit for having the inherent ability—the knowledge and judgment that goes with the command that you now hold. That being the case, I see no reason in the world for any fears or suspicion as to our relationship entering your mind. But you must know me well enough by this time to know that I am very outspoken. I say what I think and do what I think best, so when you hear these rumors, comments, criticisms, or what-have-you, always remember that if there is anything serious you will be the first one to hear of it and it will come from me direct.  229 230  recent letters, lead me to make the following comment quite On casual reading this sounded like a forthright statement, but  frankly and after careful consideration. what exactly did it mean? It didn’t actually say Eaker’s position was  Regarding our personal relation, I have always felt the closest secure. It simply reaffirmed their close personal relationship and bond of friendship between us as two individuals. I have never promised that if he were ever to be dismissed, he would hear it from thought that you placed quite the confidence in me officially as an Arnold first. In other words, Arnold was still his friend, but their officer, as you did as a friend. I sometimes thought that you were friendship would not save him if he failed to deliver.  tough on me officially in order to make certain that nobody had a feeling that I got the positions I held through our persona