ught him a country priest who wanted to know whether he was a Catholic or a Protestant  Winslow, grasping this question, said he was a Protestant.  The priest stayed only a short time before bidding him ‘‘au revoir.”’  Finally a girl arrived who spoke some English. The first question she relayed to him was one the men had been trying to ask. Did he have a gun, and would he give it to them?  The question brought home to Winslow the fact that he wasn’t the only person in this little shed who was at war with the Germans. But as he explained through the girl, he wasn’t carrying a gun. He asked her if she could get him a doctor. She said she would do what she could but didn’t know how long it would take. His leg, dangling from the knee, was twisted grotesquely, but none of these people seemed to grasp the importance of straightening it and trying to set it as quickly as possible. So Winslow asked for some slender boards.  68  pulled through space at a tremendous speed.’’ He could still hear the roar of the plane’s engines, and he was certain something had gone wrong. The wind was knocking him about so roughly he couldn’t see what had happened, but it felt as if his chute had been caught on the tail. It must have opened too quickly. He envisioned the horrible likelihood that the plunging plane would pull him with it to the ground. But before he had time to reconcile himself to this fate, his chute inexplicably popped open above him “‘like a beautiful white umbrella.’’ The sound of the falling plane’s engines died away.  When Winslow looked around, he saw several chutes below him but none above. Though he couldn’t count all of them, members of the Belgian resistance movement, watching from the ground, saw eight open before the plane exploded. A ninth crew member, Sgt. Star Tucker of Athol, Massachusetts, the ball-turret gunner, who had been told of his promotion that morning, got out of the plane safely, but his chute did not open. The Belgians found his body near the debr