pered by the fact that the P-47s available to them lacked the range to penetrate more than a few miles into the continent. But even though this fighter couldn’t go all the way with the bombers, he insisted that if Hunter and his pilots would change their policies they could go much farther than they were presently going. The plane’s range was supposed to be 300 to 400 miles with the 200-gallon drop-tanks Eaker had got from the States. This range took into account the high use during formation flying, at least twenty minutes for actual combat, and a comfortable reserve if the planes cruised at about 75 percent of maximum power.?!  In practice, the P-47s with drop tanks had shown a range of only about 170 miles, and Hunter’s policy of sweeping an area rather than patroling a corridor was only one factor responsible for this limita- tion. More important was his understandable fear that if his planes took off overloaded with extra gasoline, they would be too slow to cope with the Germans, and his pilots would be burned up as well as shot down. This consideration had led him at first to oppose the use of any auxiliary tanks. When he eventually agreed they were necessary, he remained unenthusiastic about them. In fact, no one was very enthusiastic about the type of auxiliary tank available at that time. Besides lowering the plane’s speed and maneuverability, the tank was difficult to install and didn’t work very efficiently at high  Eaker needed better officers in several other command and staff positions, but he didn’t press the matter during his conversations with Eaker in Washington.  Shortly after Eaker’s return to London in early May, he had realized uneasily that the issue was not settled. At his first meeting with General Devers, the new Theater commander had said to him, ‘They tell me in Washington you don’t have much help over here.’”!8  Arnold was obviously the original source of Devers’s remark Eaker, bristling with anger, told Devers it was ‘‘a gross slander o