the Theater tions and his evident interest in wanted to be notified when the first mission so he could be at  ithorization for each of them to vaatz had spoiled Eaker’s dream ing that he himself wished to do ; concerned, Eaker could go on A.F. missions that promised to ‘ment needed Eisenhower’s  tipulated that they could not go z who should succeed him if atz immediately named Eaker. same question, he named Col. ed in England only nine days Eaker had known Longfellow es (1919-21), where they had our of duty, the two had taken ‘r, coming home the long way they could find airplanes to fly. iir Force, and in Cairo with the  aed that Spaatz and Eaker in- i strong disapproval. They said e to help you chaps prepare for secret information we have. If to start over again with some-  once told Eaker, ‘‘It has taken igs I should know to be bomber for Air [Sir Archibald Sinclair] templated it.”’  iments. Eaker, though he might on to go because he was bomber Lyon who was planning to join of his staff, ‘‘I don’t want any heir boys someplace where I'd  that he might have to establish gunnery ranges, perhaps off the coast of Northern Ireland, where all new crews could be sent for extra training. But that wouldn’t help the crews of the 97th Group. They would have to learn to shoot the hard way—against the Germans.  From Eisenhower, Spaatz and Eaker now found out about an important new high-command development that also concerned them.* The Combined Chiefs of Staff, on July 24, had officially scrapped General Marshall’s plans for a massive military build-up in England (code-named ROUNDUP) and the earliest possible invasion of the Continent. Instead of this operation, the Chiefs, at the insist- ence of Churchill and his advisers, had decided upon an invasion of North Africa (code-named TORCH) during the autumn of 1942. Though General Eisenhower had been selected to command this operation, he, being a Marshall disciple, did not favor it. He once referred to the day it was decided, Jul