ll founded, however; the bombers were virtually unchallenged by the Luftwaffe, and the P-38 received only a cursory test as an 8th Air Force bomber escort. But it had already  340  been tested sufficiently in Mediterranean action to reveal its limita- tions. Eaker said its first appearances with the 8th were ‘‘encourag- ing’’; but he knew it was not the ultimate weapon, the fighter plane that would solve his primary problem.  Fortunately, Eaker could now look forward to something much better. His year-old prayer for a long-range escort was about to be answered. General Arnold, as a result of the Schweinfurt losses, had promised him on October 16 ‘‘the majority of U.S. allocated Mus- tang production”’ as well as one-third of the P-38 production. And on October 30, Arnold decreed that all Mustangs, as well as all of the longer-range models of the P-38, were to be assigned to Europe. It was the greatest news Eaker had received since his arrival in England There was no longer any doubt, thanks to exhaustive tests, that the Merlin-powered Mustang was faster and more maneuverable at all altitudes than either the FW-190 or the ME-109. In addition, the Mustang had a range of more than six hundred miles. It could take the bombers anyplace in Germany and bring them back.  When Eaker learned (October 30) that he would soon be getting all the Mustangs he needed, he immediately cabled his appreciation to Arnold: ‘‘We need them badly. We can accommodate them all. And I guarantee you they will be fully employed. Their primary task will always be to accompany and protect our bombers.”’  In late October, an exciting rumor had begun circulating among 8th Air Force fighter pilots. Someone had seen a new Merlin- powered Mustang with U.S. Air Force markings at the Greenham Common Air Service Command base in Berkshire. Every American fighter pilot was now aware of what the Merlin-Mustang could do, and everyone wanted to fly the plane. Did the sudden appearance of this one mean that other