anese took Singapore, which had been a British possession for more than a century. They were now advancing so rapidly against American forces in the Philippines that at this very moment, Gen. Douglas MacArthur, the U.S. commander, was preparing to evacuate.  In London, Prime Minister Winston Churchill had reorganized his war cabinet the previous day. And in the Atlantic, German sub- marines were sinking thousands of tons of allied shipping every day.  On the outskirts of Lisbon, in neutral Portugal, at five o’clock the morning of February 20, two taxicabs carrying seven Americans in  91  civilian suits honked their horns in front of the barred gate of Cintro Airport. When no one arrived to open the gate, a man in the second cab got out and opened it himself. He was Ira Eaker, at that time a brigadier general.!  Eaker’s rapidly rising Air Force career was remarkable. In an organization dominated by West Point graduates, he had begun as an unpromising outsider, a country boy who had never even seen the Military Academy until long after he became an officer. The son of a Texas farmer and the product of small-town schools in such places as Field Creek and Eden, Eaker had joined the aviation section of the Army Signal Corps during World War I. He didn’t become a flier on the strength of any special mechanical aptitude or romantic notions about the wild blue yonder. He knew nothing about airplanes at the time and had never even driven an automobile. As a student at Southeastern Teachers’ College in Durand, Oklahoma, he had en- listed in the Army, together with the thirty-six other men in his senior class, on April 7, 1917, the day after the United States declared war on Kaiser Wilhelm’s Germany. Because these men were college students, they were sent to an officers’ training school in Arkansas, where Eaker became a second lieutenant.  He was drilling his platoon at his first station, Fort Bliss in El Paso, one day in October 1917, when a Signal Corps plane landed on the p