lown iditional one-level the bombers. On n of the multilevel  planes out again. But even then, at the insistence of Churchill and Eisenhower, he was allowed only to bounce his bombs harmlessly off the concrete submarine pens at Brest. If, as he had told an aide, he considered patience a general’s highest virtue, he should now be content because he was getting an apparently endless opportunity to practice it.  Only three times in December of 1942 did the weather clear enough  for the 8th to fly. On the 12th, two heavy bombers went down in an  attack against the Rouen marshaling yards. On the 20th, two were  lost at Romilly sur Seine. And on the 30th, three went down on  another mission against the Lorient submarine pens. One of these was  a 306th Group Fortress that inexplicably pulled out of formation a  few moments after the bomb run. A second plane, which followed te® protect the first, suffered the same fate, illustrating dramatically the  importance of staying in formation.  During four and a half months of operation in 1942, the 8th had flown 1,547 bombing sorties (individual bomber thrusts) with a loss rate of slightly less than 2 percent (thirty-two aircraft), which sounded better than the R.A.F.’s loss of approximately 4 percent,! except that the R.A.F. was dropping most of its bombs within German borders.  The 305th Group’s commander, Colonel LeMay, had now flown enough missions to convince himself that the traditional one-level formation did not offer maximum protection to the bombers. On practice flights he had worked out the first version of the multilevel  176  planes out again. But even then, at the insisten y {oman vbih wis so aot by th eie Boner highly of Armstrong he had held him back when the 97th Group left  Eisenhower, he was allowed only to bounce his b¢ Conn, Berasetisomn andl at facuny for Africa. Now he sent him to Thurleigh to command the 306th. It the concrete submarine pens at Brest. If, as he 1 « sui tonh nn wih ay eave ation iad fk might