im, ‘They tell me in Washington you don’t have much help over here.’”!8  Arnold was obviously the original source of Devers’s remark Eaker, bristling with anger, told Devers it was ‘‘a gross slander on some mighty fine officers who had done some very hard work.’’ At the same time, Eaker was well enough acquainted with Arnold’s persistence to realize that if he wanted to put the matter at rest, he would have to agree to at least some changes. With Devers’s approv- al, Eaker sent a cable May 13 asking for several new officers, many of them specialists in maintenance and supply, crucial areas of concern both to him and to Arnold.  The fact that the 8th Air Force had so many new airplanes in- creased its maintenance problems not only because of the greater numbers but also because with the new planes had come largely untried mechanics. A tragic accident at Alconbury on the evening of May 27 demonstrated that rookies on the ground could be as danger- ous as rookies in the air. Mechanics of the new 95th Group there were loading and fusing 500-pound bombs for the next day’s mission when several of the bombs exploded, one after another, until the area looked as if it had been the target of a German air raid. Nineteen men were killed, twenty seriously injured, and fourteen slightly injured. Four Flying Fortresses were totally destroyed and eleven others damaged.  German fighter resistance was also intensifying as the summer progressed, thus increasing the number of aircraft damaged in com- bat as well as destroyed and heightening the problem of getting damaged planes back in operation. Robert Lovett noticed that 80 percent of the planes used on missions during his two and one-half weeks in England were damaged to some extent. ‘“The greatest single factor differentiating the 8th Air Force operations from those of other theaters,’’ he declared in one of his memos to Arnold, ‘‘is the extremely high proportion of battle damage resulting from combat with the best of the German fi