and his small group took a two-hour drive through London’s bombed-out areas, mostly in the East End around the dock and factory districts but also around St. Paul’s Cathedral, where scarcely a building remained intact. It was a tour that made them realize immediately what kind of war they were entering. They  98  Rhodesian Infantry Regiment, he eventually went to England and got into the Royal Flying Corps (forerunner of the R.A.F.) as a second lieutenant on probation. This began a career that was now reaching its zenith as Harris took command of the R.A.F.’s bombing campaign against German cities, the only military offensive Britain had yet been able to take against Germany during two and a half years of war.  Churchill had every reason to believe that Harris would add punch to the bomber offensive because Harris was dedicated to it as some- thing that, by itself, could destroy Hitler and end the war. He had already won Churchill’s heart by talking about his dream of sending a thousand bombers a night against Germany. Harris’s determination to repay the Germans for their destruction of British cities, and in the process prove the irresistible power of aerial bombardment, had earned for him a reputation as the toughest, most hard-headed, most committed man in the R.A.F. Positive in his convictions, he was quick to assert them and uncompromising in his resolve to enforce them. Unlike Ira Eaker, he had never been described as a tactful, diplomatic man.  These two generals had met a few times when Harris visited the United States on R.A.F. missions to buy airplanes and materiel, but they were not well acquainted. Eaker, knowing Harris by reputation, could hardly guess what to expect of him. He was aware that like most R.A.F. experts, Harris had a low opinion of America’s best bomber, the B-17, which would have to be the mainstay of the 8th Air Force.® He also knew Harris was skeptical of the possibilities of daylight precision bombing. Eaker was therefore ready to defe