yn/ovlshiotik hood var them nse after day, until his men were exhausted. He wa tra tayo! Mw IML  igh, Pea Bish peopl then ierhad even dig  immediately about the complications of flying i Goer fae'seiemmtal te pone yowtholhisifone they might meet another plane around the corner fi ys tempered oti eu Engl by th nes tat Gener where contact navigation was difficult because Ex Audevshdbeelileinaploe cain a cade nom-  were fortunate enough to see them through bre: in fater ol ft allen a vel a eset for tended to look alike. Landmarks were not easy to d fare offer obo bl  the sei A  cd Eieahonet as Eupean Theater  also wanted his pilots to come to terms with the } onus Duiag Ane’ tot ime in Loo, hen  was a new experience for them on takeoff *‘to stan te har oe bisful suport Forunuey fo El in sunshine and before clearing the ground to by {tilt Ge beth, Dave, hugs yond downpour.’’s vey ch amid an ll be eg  ket his cli, was  When the air echelon of the 384th Group r:_Astenevgostitetaningad pepo! eer cota  Scotland, May 24, its commander and flight lez fairs oulok equnel inal May be fom Peaslee, was three hours behind some of his plar wit efor ux had lost its No. 4 engine four hundred miles out of {alcme'o Eng wiht  and of Brig. Cen Fed And thst pole recmmendation of  RW COMDAL n, ho  few days earlier on takeoff from Kearney, Neb AmollsChifot Aut Mu Gen Gere Shatner “Thre England, his plane had lost both the No. 4 and © isialneroicerint yo "Sruemeyerhlaidaf Andro,  "  After an immediate forced landing, both were re; ‘Win the No. 4 died a second time between Kearney ai staghfowad, n-tinkig When it died the third time over the Atlantic, he tistelov, He gotta.” Andon’ new vi without it. His decision was vindicated when he thew Si, ‘Sh, a Yoh grup  you get any i of ju and eed some ood vie, don't ever bao cl on  loin  safely.6 CnMay3, Baer wasting hel hut deepen  Peaslee’s was not the only plane in the 384th  lenmieadmostcapboriletero Gener Amol  over the Atlantic. Battlewagon, pilo