he side windows, both left and right, he constitute his most immediate concern, On the roads below himhe  10nor of their barracks saw a strange mixture of German planes, twelve or thirteen of them, could see crowds of Germans, probably angry at the bombing of their this moment), was hit ME-109s, ME-110s, FW-190s, Junkers 88s, and other types. All cities, awaiting his arrival. Two weeks earlier he himself had dropped veral German fighters were sliding in close, with throttles back, as if they intended to fly a loose bomb on Aachen, not far from here. He hoped no onehad + €- Others struck at the formation with the B-17. dropped any bombs in this area today d past so close Cleven  Never before had the men in Knox’s crew enjoyed such a splendid Because Warsaw's parachute was so small, makinghisdescenttoo sides. He felt he could opportunity. Everyone who could get close to a gun, including rapid for safety, his concern about a possible lynching ended the © venty-one missions he Warsaw, opened fire. One after another of the German planes began moment he hit the ground. The hard impact knocked him out. When the courage of German falling away in flames. It seemed to Warsaw that at least nine of them regained consciousness a few minutes later, he was surroundedby nd collide witha B-17, went down. He was certain that he, personally, had shot down three. uniformed Gestapo men. They had kept the angry mob at bay, but CS.  He watched them go into the ground. when he realized they were members of Hitler’s dreaded secret. d ever seen them. The  As he looked out the window he also noticed, but only vaguely, olice, he knew that as a Jew he might have more trouble with them  t side of the nose, just that for some reason the bomber’s wheels were down. In the excite- than with the crowd. To add to his worries, he suddenly remembered > radio operator, Sgt. ment of the moment, however, he gave no thought to the significance thatthe letter “‘H’” for Hebrew was stamped on his identificatio