-on tactics.  Today they were as accurate as Cleven had ever seen them. The first shell to hit his plane penetrated the right side of the nose, just beneath the pilot’s compartment, where the radio operator, Sgt. Norman Smith, was firing a gun. The shell cut off both of Smith’s legs just above the knees. It also damaged the electrical system and radio equipment  The second shell entered the left side of the nose, injuring the bombardier in the head and shoulder as it shattered a section of plexiglass and ripped away a gun installation.  18  in Germany, he wanted it registered in the minds of the Germans who found him that this was a Jew who had given his life fighting Hitler and the Nazis. It would not be healthy, however, to have the Gestapo discover while he was a live prisoner that he was a Jew.  When they loaded him into their car, he took advantage of a moment while no one was looking. With a quick yank he pulled the dog tag from around his neck and flung it to the wind.  A few miles west of Aachen, across the Belgian border near Montzen where another of the Fortresses had crashed, hundreds of Belgians gathered at almost precisely the same time, shortly after eleven, but to display quite opposite sympathies.!4 Arriving before the German occupation troops, these Belgians found three American fliers alive in addition to the bodies of several others. They could do little for two of the three survivors who had been injured. These men were captured as soon as German soldiers reached the scene. But the third man, unhurt, was soon lost in the crowd, later to be passed along to the Belgian underground in the hope that he might be smuggled back to England. The Belgians hissed and booed the German sol- diers, first when they took personal belongings from the dead Ameri- cans in the wreckage, then when they carried away, presumably to a prison hospital, the two injured men.  Colonel LeMay’s beleaguered task force, despite its continuing losses, held to its course toward R