eavy bombers (B-17s and B-24s) wait- ing for this word. On the morning of the 4th, the B-24s, 35 of them, took off on a diversion flight while 326 B-17s headed straight for Frankfurt, with more P-47s than ever before escorting them, at least as far as Aachen. Fighter opposition was strong, but the Forts hit several targets in Frankfurt. Only 12 bombers were lost. The new, remotely controlled chin turrets performed effectively against frontal attacks. Gunners claimed the destruction of 56 German fighters.  279  Even if General Anderson discounted this figure to a reasonable extent, he had to be pleased. His loss was light, the offensive was on again, and the weather outlook for October was promising.  It was four days later, on the 8th, however, before the Fortresses could fly again. This time 30 were shot down in a two-pronged attack on Bremen. Despite the loss, 352 heavy bombers were able to take off the next morning to hit Gdynia naval yards as well as aircraft factories at Marienburg and Anklam. The Germans were caught by surprise at Marienburg, which was so far east they didn’t realize it had to be defended, and the bombing there was so precise that Sir Charles Portal, after seeing the photos, wrote a glowing report to Prime Minister Churchill:  This is about the best high altitude bombing we have seen in this war. You asked yesterday whether they could put their bombs into the area of St. James’ Park. As a matter of interest, I have attached to the photograph a tracing of St. James’ Park on the same scale, from which you will see that almost all the bombs went into the area.  Only one building of the factory is not destroyed, and that one is damaged. It was a magnificent attack.18  At the same time, the results over Anklam were less spectacular, and the B-24s that flew to Gdynia missed their target completely Twenty-eight heavy bombers were lost on the 9th.  Miinster was the target of 274 Fortresses on the 10th. Despite heavy flak and attacks by an estimated 20