mans. There was no doubt now that these factories would be bombed. Williams’s lead groups were so close they couldn’t possibly be turned back. Despite the fiercest defense any bomber force had ever faced, the Fortresses had once again prevailed. In the lead plane just ahead of Williams, Colonel Wurzbach and Lieutenant Williams, his navigator, could take satisfaction in the jobs they had done so far. Wurzbach had held his front position despite constant attacks that had taken a chunk out of his left wing and lodged an unexploded shell in his left wing fuel tank. Williams, on this deepest American penetration of Germany to date, had guided the armada precisely to the target. Now, at the Initial Point, it was time for the bombardier, Lt. Sam Slayton, to take over for the bomb Tun  Five miles southwest of the city, a fairly intense flak barrage came up to jolt them, but Slayton held a steady course and with a clear view  54  American armada was too far east for him to catch it. He would have to wait for its return from the target.  As the Americans approached Schweinfurt, they had already lost twenty-one bombers and the German fighters were still swarming around them like wasps, but the surviving Fortresses continued their relentless path toward the target. The 91st Group, still in the lead, was about twenty-five miles from the Initial Point (the spot at which the bombardier takes over for the straight-and-level run to the target) when another of its planes, piloted by Lt. Eugene M. Lockhart, faced a crisis.!5 This Fortress had already sustained damage to its left wing-tip and right horizontal stabilizer. Now it developed a malfunc- tion of the supercharger on the No. 3 engine. Unable to keep pace with a full bomb load, and watching the formation pull slowly away to leave him at the mercy of the attacking fighters, Lockhart ordered his bombardier, Lt. Robert Sherwin, to salvo the bombs, and he ordered the rest of the crew to throw out any equipment they didn’t think the