rom one tank, Hargis had no choice but to turn for home and hope for good fortune.  It seemed a bleak hope, especially when the vulnerable Dame Satan began to attract fighters. The damaged Fortress still had its guns, however, and its crew continued to return the German fire. The 53  rear gunner, Sgt. Leland Judy, buoyed everyone’s hopes when he announced that he had set one German fighter afire. Shortly thereaf- ter, the remaining fighters retired, perhaps running short of fuel, and Hargis headed toward Belgium, carefully avoiding cities with their unfriendly flak batteries. A sense of hopeless loneliness settled over Dame Satan’s crew  It was about 2:50 p.m. when General Williams, in the second-lead plane of the task force under his command, got his first view of Schweinfurt, about fifteen miles dead ahead.!? The city was small and flat against a green-gold background, exactly as it had looked on the Top Secret plaster mockup at Williams’s headquarters. In the foreground was the meandering Main River, and on all sides the gentle Franconian slopes. The railroad track from Wiirzburg (twenty- seven miles southwest) curved its way around these hills, then pointed directly at the ball-bearing center and the cluster of five factories that were today’s target. Williams could be certain now that though his force had been brutally assaulted and drastically reduced, it would not be stopped.  As the first bombers approached Schweinfurt, a high cirrus layer  covered half the sky and the air was clear. At the southwest edge of the city, where the railroad tracks converged into a large marshaling yard, Williams could see the passenger station and freight depots, two ‘‘half-moon’’ locomotive roundhouses, and around all these rail facilities, the five factories so precious to the Germans. There was no doubt now that these factories would be bombed. Williams’s lead groups were so close they couldn’t possibly be turned back. Despite the fiercest defense any bomber force had ever fa