t of this meeting to General Arnold, the Air Force commander was encouraged but hardly con- tented. After commending Eaker for his apparent success, he offered him no opportunity to rest upon it. ‘Now I suggest,”’ he said, *‘that you start back to England within the hour and devote your maximum effort to proving our case.’”  The following day, January 21, the Combined (British-American) Chiefs of Staff issued an order, soon to be known as the Casablanca Directive,” which certified that Churchill had kept his word. It defined for the first time with some degree of precision the nature and purpose of the combined aerial offensive from England:  Your primary object will be the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial, and economic sys- tem, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.  The directive also listed target priorities—submarine yards, air- craft factories, transportation facilities, oil plants, and so on—and stipulated that the bomber fleets could be called upon at any time for such special purposes as attacking the German Navy or supporting an Allied invasion. But for the 8th Air Force, the most satisfying paragraph in the directive was one that guaranteed it at least achance to prove itself:  You should take every opportunity to attack Germany by day, to destroy objectives that are unsuitable for night attack, to sustain  189  continuous pressure on German morale, to impose heavy losses on the German day fighter force, and to contain German fighter  strength away from t  Russian and Mediterranean theaters of war.  It was five days before Eaker managed to get back to England. On  the 25th, his plane ma at C  S  North Sea route towar about thirty miles up ¢ tered no opposition on  get, the nearby  ighters caught up to ¢!  rom the beam.  by clouds but not completely invisible, and fifty-eight o roped their loads upon it, still unhampered by fi