d twoseys,’’ but that if they were to make all their attacks in organized squadron strength, they might succeed in breaking up the armada.  The single-engine fighters, coming from the front, would fire their cannons and machine guns all at once, then break off into half-rolls or sudden dives within a few yards of collision points. Some of them, just before attacking, would engage in mock dogfights with each other to create the impression that they themselves were under attack by P-47s.  The twin-engine fighters came in mostly from the rear, between five o’clock and seven o’clock level, to a range of fifteen hundred or a thousand yards, whereupon they would lob their shells or rockets into the formations.  Some of the single-engine fighters also carried rockets. These included Lt. Heinz Knoke’s squadron of eleven ME-109s, which had been following the B-17s since they passed over Antwerp. Ready now to attack, Knoke, with his comrades behind him, closed in on the First Division from the rear. Before he had a chance to fire either of his rockets, a Fortress gunner hit the underside of his left wing,  298  morning. He hadn’t dreamed of leading the division, but when Peaslee had ordered him to the front, he had not hesitated. Looking for something positive to distract him from the swarms of buzzing fighters, he glanced up at the sun and thought to himself: **At last, we've got perfect weather. Too good a day to go home without accomplishing something.’’ But beneath this rationalization, he was beginning to wonder if he would be going home at all.  For several minutes after the P-47s departed, Colonel Peaslee, commanding the First Division and 40th CBW from the lead plane of the 92nd Group, watched the skies around him fill up with German fighters and wondered in dread when they would make their moves Then, as he stared straight ahead, he saw a series of flashes that he recognized as the reports of 20-mm. cannon. A moment later, enemy planes were rushing toward his formati