d led the group today, told  reston that the man had  been through something. Besides the six planes lost, there were  several others that would never fly again  much in control, Preston could see he wa: “Tn my opinion,”’ Rohr said simply, ‘thi  mission.”  Although Rohr was very s unusually nervous. is was an extremely rough  His bombardier, Lieutenant Millson, fell to his knees in thanksgiv-  ing as soon ashe got out of the plane. But as  his fear receded, a certain  excitement returned. After he had been debriefed by intelligence officers, Millson hurried to the photo lab. He wanted to see the strike photos, which had been sent for immediate development. Capt. Ted Rohr, the group photo-interpreter, was examining the wet prints  when he arrived.  “You hit it,”” Captain Rohr said. ‘Brother, you plastered hell out  of that place.’”  When the 94th Group landed at Bury St. Edmunds, Sgt. Leo Rand,  having completed his first mission, turned t  0 his fellow waist gunner,  Sgt. Donald McCabe, and said, ‘‘How did I do, Mac?”’  “You live through that,” McCabe sai anything.”  323  id, ‘‘you'll live through  “I guess so,’’ Rand said. **Today I found out for the first time that farts could have lumps in ’em.’’  Rand had no trouble relaxing after the excitement of the mission, but one thing still disturbed him deeply, and he decided to get it off his chest at the interrogation. He walked up to the ‘‘full-bird colonel”’ who was in charge of debriefing and said, ‘‘Sir, I guess this is the end of me.”’  The colonel said, ‘What do you mean, sergeant?’’  “*T know it’s gonna be reported,’’ Rand said, ‘‘so I may as well tell you. I killed a guy in a parachute.’”  The colonel listened while Rand described the whole incident. “*You didn’t do it on purpose, did you?’’  Rand assured him it was an accident.  The colonel put an arm on his shoulder. ‘‘That’s all right, Sarge. Don’t worry about it.”’  As copilot Edward Downs and navigator Miles McFann brought their battered 96th Group Fortres