ob without some experience and indoctrination in this theater. I have talked the whole situation over with Hunter and he understands the position thoroughly. . . . He still insists that it was absolutely necessary, having new men and a new plane, to break them in gradually. I thought, along with Tooey [Spaatz], that the situation was so critical for fighter support for our bombardment effort that we should have taken more of a chance with our fighters, and I have continually urged Hunter to greater boldness in this regard. I must admit, however, that Hunter’s system is now paying results. His fighter pilots have high morale; they are enthusiastic about sup- porting the bombers and they have complete confidence. . . . The principal handicap, of course, to full and thorough support of the bombers has been the lack of long-range [fuel] tanks. . . .  Regarding the Air Service Commander . . . I agree fully that it is very important to get Hugh Knerr here as soon as possible. The arrival in recent times of more than 15,000 Air Service Command personnel, including depot groups and station complements, will greatly improve this situation.  Col. Hugh Knerr was a maintenance and matériel expert who had recently visited England to figure out how damaged aircraft might be repaired more quickly. His idea—to send mobile repair units to the planes instead of shipping the planes to a depot—was so simple but so brilliantly practical that Eaker had asked Arnold to send Knerr back permanently.  With the addition of Anderson, Kepner, and Knerr, the 8th Air Force command structure would undoubtedly be strengthened. But how long would Eaker himself be around to direct this new team? Reflecting on his recent relations with Arnold and on Arnold’s well-known penchant for shaking up the men under him, Eaker could well ask himself that question. He decided he had better, in effect, ask it of Arnold:  Averell Harriman talked to me the day after his return about his two conferences with you. Hi