use, Nearly all crew  ‘was only one of several horren- ncountered,  Almost as hazardous was the need to avoid flak by flying a high asitwasthin. The B-17 wasnota  uch thing at that time, At 20,000  touse oxygen masks, Nor could the plane be heated  ite. Flight surgeons  ay  fired through open windows. The  estimated that more than half of  e electric gloves that many gunners They were hooked to electric boots e or boot went dead, so did the whole d one man why his right hand was ‘my Goddam left boot burned out.”” ow temperatures, the gunner would 3to work on it. Then he would have to ven if overheated from firing, soon his fingers on touch. being a menace in itself, also made a bite. In one B-17, a flak fragment d perforated the oxygen mask of the uring him. Unaware of his danger, he that was not discovered until an hour ied home base. Six weeks later, this ie had to be amputated, and his frozen sockets. Flight surgeons had become ne in with hands and feet that were i swollen in a few hours, purple and ack and dry.’’ One man who suffered saved from death by a quick-thinking aid. But his buddy either didn’t think to keep them warm. They were so ine returned home that they had to be  by the cold and lack of oxygen were creating emotional disorders among gripe about physical conditions, they aining experience, could counteract factor that few men ever completely was an ordeal with which they never da new kind of horror, never before he horror of confinement. A ground e the carnage, could at least turn and might be. In a bomber under attack at to run. At the end of *‘Blitz Week’’ ie 8th Air Force squadron and group eports to headquarters that their men ’* as a result of the six missions in  244  all crewmen suffered ‘‘some degree of anoxia”’ (ill effects from lack of oxygen) during their combat tours.  The A-8-B oxygen masks used in the B-17s, the best masks then available, tended to freeze when used above 20,000 feet. Ice would form in the bag, then in the tube between