till arriving. At one hundred feet above the ground, he leveled off. He had no navigator, so he simply pointed the plane in the general direction of England  In the rear, Layn found Sergeant Cherry, despite his pain, hobbling from fire to fire on one foot, beating out the flames with whatever he could find. Cherry couldn’t use the fire extinguishers, because their chemicals gave off a noxious gas when they came in contact with battery sparks. Layn went to work at top speed, putting out the flames that continued to erupt, throwing everything movable out of the plane to lighten it, and firing the waist guns at the fighters on their tail During one lull he went back to the tail gun, which would have given him a better aim at the pursuers, but found it disabled by enemy fire. Returning to the waist guns, Layn fired them alternately as German shells and bullets kept whizzing past.  In the cockpit, Lieutenant Judy was waging a desperate battle with his damaged controls, and it was beginning to look as if he might win. The besieged Fortress continued to fly  Among the German pilots attacking the B-17s was Lt. Hans Langer of 2 Gruppe Jagdgeschwader 51 , who had brought down two of the big bombers on their way to the target. Langer was not so fortunate this time. Taking off from Frankfurt where he had refueled and rearmed, he attached himself to the first unit he could find in the air since his own unit was scattered. With two other planes he made two passes at the returning Fortresses. He may have scored some hits, but he did not manage to bring any of them down.3  Some of his comrades were enjoying greater success. Between Bonn and Aachen, at 4:30 p.m., the 381st Group lost its tenth plane. When this Fortress dropped out of formation, it was surrounded by fighters. It was the seventh to fall since leaving Schweinfurt.  Help for the Americans was on the way. Fifteen miles east of Eupen, forty-six P-47s of the U.S. 56th Fighter Group, led by Col. Hubert Zemke, made contact w