r own machine guns to protect them.  Zemke’s group, during its short sojourn with the bombers, spotted fifteen to thirty enemy aircraft and got close enough for an ‘‘inconclu- sive engagement”’ near Hasselt, ten miles from the Belgian-German border, but could claim no kills. By this time the Germans had already developed the intelligent strategy of waiting until after the American fighters had been forced to turn back before attacking the bombers. Today the pilots in Zemke’s group observed that the enemy “appeared unwilling to mix it’’ with them, staying ‘‘either below the bombers or well to the side.’’ Other reports indicate, however, that the Germans were not quite that reticent, and Zemke himself noted that one B-17 was ‘‘seen to explode over Diest at 1025 hours with no chutes appearing,’’ Zemke also mentioned that another B-17 was “*seen going down over Maastricht at 1030 hours, six chutes appear- ing.’’ Zemke’s P-47s turned right at Eupen. The bombers, already under attack, crossed the German border alone.  The ME-109s and FW-190s were now darting furiously through the Fortress formations, firing 20-mm. nose cannons as well as machine guns. The smell of burned cordite filled the B-17s, especial- ly those in the two rear combat wings, as their gunners spent thousands of rounds of .50-caliber shells. So many fighters were attacking them that few gunners bothered to call out on the interplane radio the position or direction of the ‘‘bandits.’’ Over the air now came Such bits of advice as ‘‘Lead ’em more!,’* ‘Short bursts!,”” “Don’t throw rounds away!,’’ ‘‘Don’t yell. Talk slow.”’  The German attack soon became more coordinated. Some fighters came in head-on from slightly above while others, from three and nine o’clock, approached at the same level as the B-17s and still more, in the rear, came up from slightly below. The sky was crisscrossed with orange tracer bullets from the B-17 machine guns and dotted with 20-mm.-cannon puffs from German fighters, which  %  so