esistance in a house at Wannebecgq, heard the unmistakable drone of B-17 engines from the northwest and looked out the dining-room window at the approaching armada. '8 Where was it going? Though he didn’t know, he could tell by its size that it was on a major mission. Was it returning to Schweinfurt? This was the route to Schweinfurt, but it was also the route to several other important German targets. The B-17s, to keep the Germans in sus- pense as long as possible, almost always took an indirect route to their destination. Winslow couldn’t even guess where they might be going today. He knew only that if they continued on their present route, they were in for trouble. He had traveled that way himself, and he sympathized with the men in the planes. Many of them would not come back. Yet as he watched those Fortresses, a shiver of thrills went through him. They were a beautiful sight, moving through the clear sky in solid formations, with P-47s cruising above them and long white vapor trails spreading out behind them  293  It was shortly after 1:00 P.M. when the P-47s, now low on fuel, had to abandon the B-17s of the First Division between Aachen and Diiren. Moments later the German fighters moved in like snarling beasts released from their cages. The sky around the bombers filled up with ME-109s, FW-190s, ME-110s, ME-210s, JU-88s, and even Stuka dive bombers. They had all been hovering at a safe distance, waiting to pounce  The fifteen planes of the 305th Group apparently presented the most inviting target, perhaps because they were in the vulnerable low position on the left wing of the Ist CBW. Against the 305th, the German fighters attacked in groups of three to seven from every direction and using every known tactic. They came in such numbers and from so many angles that they were in danger of colliding, not only with the B-17s but also with each other. The twin-engine ME-110s and ME-210s lobbed rockets into the formation, emptying their entire arsenals before ret