ns and the exceptional results of your endeavors as Commander of the Air Force in England, you have been recommended for this position. Other changes which have been set up tentatively are as follows: Spaatz to command the United States Strategic Air Force in Europe. [Lt. Gen. James] Doolittle to command 8th Air Force.  Eaker could scarcely believe that this communication meant what it said. The 8th Air Force was to be taken away from him just as it finally reached the strength toward which he had been building it for almost two years. His astonishment turned to anger. He believed his old friend ‘‘Hap’’ Arnold had let him down. They had often differed in the last two years. Arnold had frequently been impatient with him, but Arnold could be impatient with anyone. After each of the Schweinfurt missions, he had been supportive in his communications and in his public statements. Did Arnold nevertheless harbor secret reservations about those costly operations? In spite of the kind words in his cablegram, was he dissatisfied with Eaker’s management of the 8th Air Force? Or were there other, as yet unexplained, reasons for transferring him?  On the 19th, after Eaker recovered from his shock, he decided not to surrender without a struggle. He vigorously protested his removal in a cable to Arnold, which he first wrote by hand to make sure it was worded strongly enough:  Believe war interest best served by my retention command 8th Air Force: otherwise experience this theater for nearly two years wasted. If I am to be allowed any personal preference, having started with the Eighth and seen it organized for major task in this theater it would be heart-breaking to leave just before climax. If my services satisfactory to seniors, request I be allowed to retain command 8th Air Force.  Not content with bombarding Arnold alone, Eaker then fired off similar salvoes of protest to General Eisenhower, who was about to  345  be named Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, and to General Spa