’’ As this lump approached his plane, he could see that it was a man “‘clasping his knees to his head, revolving like a diver.’’ The man flew past so close that Lay saw a piece of paper blown out of his leather jacket.  Some of the German planes were now shooting rockets, and a few of the slower ones were flying directly above the formations, drop- ping air-to-air bombs with fuses set to go off at the level of the B-17s. There was so much debris in the air—plane fragments, prematurely opened parachutes, even human bodies—that the whole Third Com- bat Wing was threatened. Though the target in Regensburg was now only about half an hour away, Lay doubted that any of the 100th Group would get there. They seemed to be facing certain extinction  Most harried of the surviving pilots in the group was Maj. Gale Cleven, commander of the 350th Squadron below the Piccadilly Lily in which Colonel Lay was flying. Cleven, whose squadron had only three surviving planes after losing all three in his second element, was now receiving the same kind of attention that had sent them down. !6 Just east of Heidelberg, at about 11:30, the plane he was flying, Phartzac (inelegantly named by the crew in honor of their barracks bunks, where all of them might prefer to be at this moment), was hit by five 20-mm. shells, one after another. Several German fighters queued up to come in on the nose of the plane. Others struck at the tail, the sides, and even the belly. Some rolled past so close Cleven could almost read the printing on their undersides. He felt he could reach out and touch them. In the twenty or twenty-one missions he had flown, he had developed great respect for the courage of German pilots. Even when one would come too close and collide with a B-17, the others would continue their head-on tactics.  Today they were as accurate as Cleven had ever seen them. The first shell to hit his plane penetrated the right side of the nose, just beneath the pilot’s compartment, where the radio op