ected, Going into low his battered office, he sat down in utter  fe was convinced that al his sensitive machinery had been  was us pile of rubble, that the company his  begun an lemption  he bimself had built into a huge industry was  I  All but three of the B-17s in Gen. Robert Williams’s Schweinfurt fleet enjoyed a short respite after turning for home. These three succumbed to flak wounds inflicted over the target, bringing the armada’s casualties so far to a horrendous total of twenty-five. For the others, the skies ahead looked clear, and some of the more hopeful crew members were beginning to wonder if the German fighters had finally exhausted themselves. They soon found out.  At 3:15 p.m., the first task force under Colonel Gross circled over Meiningen to reassemble and tighten its formations before heading westward. Ten minutes later the second task force under Colonel Turner did likewise. With the smoke and fire of Schweinfurt behind them, the American airmen, deeper inside Germany than they had ever been, could enjoy their first relaxed look at the beautiful German landscape with its wide, winding rivers and green, tree-covered hills But the respite did not long endure. A few miles west of Meiningen, the ME-109s, ME-110s, ME-210s, and FW-190s began to reappear, first in twos and threes, then in packs of ten and twelve.  The first victim of the renewed attacks was a previously damaged B-17 in the 92nd Group, flown by Capt. Roland L. Sargent. After a  62  greatest threat to the sensitive ball and bearing machines, had been kept to a minimum.  Dr. Georg Schafer, a stocky, dynamic, quick-moving man who was the principal owner of Kugelfischer and son of its founder, had gone to Bamberg on business and was returning home by train that afternoon when he learned that Schweinfurt was under attack.25 Because the railway station and yards had been demolished, his train stopped about a mile north of the city. He ran from there to his large, elegant home in the northern