be clear over Regensburg and Schweinfurt. With the end of summer approaching, the weather in general wasn’t likely to get any better, so there was no time for delay in fulfilling his most immediate responsi- bility: to prove the effectiveness of daylight precision bombardment by destroying some important and difficult German targets. The pressure upon Eaker to accomplish this objective, and quickly, came not only from his British allies but also from his Air Force superior in Washington, General Arnold, who was up against the same pressure from his U.S. Army and Navy colleagues.  Arnold had expressed his impatience sharply in recent correspond-  33  ence with Eaker. He had sent two cables in early June complaining that too few of the bombers at Eaker’s disposal were being used in combat. And in a June 15 letter, he had enlarged on that theme:  I realize full well the necessity for having a period of time to acclimate the crews and to get them ready for operations. I also realize that there are certain modifications that we on this side will never be able to put in to meet your desires, so there must always be a delay if your planes are to have all the changes made. On the other hand, I am not sure that all of these changes are absolutely necessary and in certain instances somebody may be leaning over backwards trying to get 100% perfect planes when 90% perfect would do the trick  Eaker was aware of the conditions in Washington that made Arnold impatient—especially the Navy’s campaign to get more planes and matériel assigned to the Pacific War and to cut back B-17 production in favor of carrier planes. But he did not think Arnold was sufficiently aware of conditions in England. Since the 8th Air Force had begun bombing targets inside the German border the previous January, battle damage to its B-17s had been so extensive that there weren’t enough depots to keep pace with the necessary repair work Until this situation could be corrected, many planes that Arnold consid