2, memo, had asked rhetorically, ‘‘What are the Americans doing? What do they intend to do? . . . As far as I know, they have not dropped a single bomb in Germany . Do they contemplate the use of the Flying Fortress at night?’’’  Air Chief Marshall Sir Charles Portal wrote two days later: ‘‘I have . serious doubts . . . about whether the Americans will ever achieve their objective. . . . Although it is quite easy to pick off small targets by day when you are not seriously opposed, it is an entirely different matter when you are being harassed all the time by fighters and flak.’’? A month later, Churchill noted: ‘‘At present the United States are persevering with the idea of the daylight bombing of Germany . . . in formation without escort. So far they have not gone beyond the limits of strong British fighter escort. They will probably experience a heavy disaster as soon as they do.’’!0  While Eaker had not seen these secret memos, he was well ac- quainted with British thinking, and he was also painfully aware of a growing pressure from General Arnold in Washington for him to prove beyond doubt the capability of the B-17 and the workability of the American Air Force policy. During the past six months, since Eaker’s planes had begun to fly shallow missions into western Ger- many, the British had muted their campaign against the daylight precision strategy, but they were not yet convinced that the 8th Air Force could profitably attack important targets deep inside Germany. Eaker still needed dramatic proof that his B-17s could seriously damage Germany’s war machine, and today he hoped to get such proof. But unfortunately, the weather had already compromised the basic strategy. Unless the 230 planes of the Schweinfurt force were to  11  clei  1 sence panty oleh By wide oki wvtatio  ‘tdignt beni tbl selevnit weds theta xWhidlh urdinin nd  taint cece (init  hl Ign vs  riggs  addi waitin  below.!3 Since the Knox plane was the very last in the armada, it was also the most v