’” There was nothing left for him to do in England now but to make arrangements for his move, then say goodbye to the men of the 8th and to his British friends.  Eaker’s transfer was not, in fact, a reflection on the job he had done as commander of the 8th Air Force. Arnold, whom he immediately blamed for the transfer, probably had little or nothing to do with it. When General Eisenhower was told by General Marshall that he would be returning to London as Supreme Allied Commander, it was natural that he should think about taking with him men who had worked under him in the Mediterranean, men whose skills he had closely observed. Among these men were Spaatz and Doolittle.  346  received an astounding cablegram from General Arnold in  Washington:  It has been decided that an American will take over command of ,, the Allied Air Force in the Mediterranean. . . . As a result of your long period of successful operations and the exceptional results of , your endeavors as Commander of the Air Force in England, you ,, have been recommended for this position. Other changes which ,  United States Strategic Air Force in Europe. [Lt. Gen. James] Doolittle to command 8th Air Force.  Eaker could scarcely believe that this communication meant what it said. The 8th Air Force was to be taken away from him just as it ,, finally reached the strength toward which he had been building it for almost two years. His astonishment turned to anger. He believed his old friend *‘Hap’’-Arnold had let him down. They had often differed in the last two years. Arnold had frequently been impatient with him,  but Arnold could be impatient with anyone. After each of the thesis  Schweinfurt missions, he had been supportive in his communications 4, and in his public statements. Did Arnold nevertheless harbor secret jy, reservations about those costly operations? In spite of the kind words ,, in his cablegram, was he dissatisfied with Eaker’s management of the  8th Air Force? Or were there other, as yet un