had ever seen. He had been on many previous missions, but mostly with the 351st Group from which he had transferred a few weeks earlier to become the 91st executive officer. A 1940 West Point graduate and son of an Army colonel, he had risen quickly despite his youth and was already under consideration as a group commander. Only by ‘‘gathering up bits and pieces’’ had he been able to muster even the seven planes in his depleted group this  295  THE SCHWEINFURT RAID  October 14, 1943  North Sea  o Nuremberg  77  REGENSBURG “S.  ENGLAND  APNE eC  @ PARIS  fo Stuttgart  The 305th Group gunner number of German planes at had been told about conservi have to take care of themselv enemies than they had ever possible response was to sper fired.  So many German planes w tration on the 305th, the othe enough enemy fighters for ev contingent of 91st Group For “getting the hell shot out of’ Lt. Henry G. Evers’s crew, ' manning one of the forwarc metal, bowl-shaped compas Quickly he unzipped his leat the bowl.  At that moment, someone twelve o’clock level!””  The bombardier turned ba urine, then began firing hi coming at them from straigt  When the fighter dived t lower face covered by his ¢ laughter in his eyes. Moore, i contents of the compass cov laid the cover down near th over. The urine spilled and al joints. If they were forced tc another exit.  Colonel Milton, commanc the 91st, sat helplessly in the fighter attack as he had eve’ missions, but mostly with transferred a few weeks earli A 1940 West Point graduate: quickly despite his youth an group commander. Only by been able to muster even the  morning. He hadn't dreamed of leading the division, but when  sitive to distract  im  for something  we've got perfect weather. Too g accomplishing something.” But beneat  a day to go  For several minutes after the P-47s departed, Col  en, as he stared straight ahead, he saw a series of  Janes were rushing toward his formation at closing g than five hundred miles an hour. As they v