es were expanding day by day. The Germans might one day manage to concentrate all their fighters in the right place and deliver a crippling blow to his meager fleet. To avert this possibility, he had to suspend his attacks against Germany proper, sending his bombers instead on short, relatively safe missions against Rouen (March 28), Rotterdam (March 31), Paris (April 4), and Antwerp (April 5).  Eaker’s frustration at this new and unexpected interruption of his plans soon turned to anger and then to uncharacteristic fury as he saw the effect upon his veteran crews of having to remain on the combat roster without any apparent hope of replacement when their tour was finished. He was now so short of crews he had to extend the twenty- five mission limit, which he had considered inviolable, to thirty missions per man. And he wasn’t certain he could hold it there.  The group commanders were beginning to report a growing de- pression among the crews. The men in Colonel LeMay’s 305th Group were ‘sitting around figuring out what their chances were’’ to survive their full tours of duty, and they were coming to the conclu- sion that the chances ‘‘weren’t very good.’’5 It seemed to them that if they lost 4 percent of their planes (and they figured they were actually losing more) on each mission, they would all be shot down within twenty-five missions unless they got some replacements. In every  201  group the crews made similar calculations. There was only one bitter consolation, as the black humorists pointed out. If they were all gone after twenty-five missions, they wouldn’t have to fly the extra five for which they had now been scheduled.  At Eaker’s headquarters, one of his staff members, engaging in the same kind of arithmetic, remarked to him that at their present rate of loss without replacements, the last B-17 would take off on its last mission within a month.  Eaker’s reply to this was, ‘‘O.K., I'll be on it.”’  At the end of the first week in April, with no new bombe