d the group land,’’ Peaslee said. ‘‘All that’s left of it.””  Of the twenty-one B-17s that had taken off from Podington that morning, four had aborted and six had been shot down. But several other groups had been hit just as hard or harder. The 30Sth had lost thirteen; the 306th, ten; the 96th, seven; the 379th, 384th, and 94th, each six.  Col. Archie Old and his crew couldn’t make it to the 96th Group base at Snetterton Heath, but they did make it back to England. After the German fighters got tired of chasing them in and out of clouds, Major Kenny, the pilot, had nursed the plane across the Channel on two engines at 125 miles an hour ‘‘with the nose up.”’ Their naviga- tion had been perfect. They hit the shore at Beachy Head, flew up the Thames estuary, and landed at Gravesend.  When the returning 379th reached Kimbolton at 6:30 p.m., Col. Maurice Preston, the group commander, was waiting.? Having flown the August 17 mission, he knew what to expect. One look at Colonel Rohr, who had led the group today, told Preston that the man had been through something. Besides the six planes lost, there were several others that would never fly again. Although Rohr was very much in control, Preston could see he was unusually nervous.  “In my opinion,’’ Rohr said simply, ‘‘this was an extremely rough mission.””  His bombardier, Lieutenant Millson, fell to his knees in thanksgiv- ing as soon as he got out of the plane. But as his fear receded, a certain excitement returned. After he had been debriefed by intelligence officers, Millson hurried to the photo lab. He wanted to see the strike photos, which had been sent for immediate development. Capt. Ted Rohr, the group photo-interpreter, was examining the wet prints when he arrived.  “*You hit it,’” Captain Rohr said. ‘‘Brother, you plastered hell out of that place.”’  When the 94th Group landed at Bury St. Edmunds, Sgt. Leo Rand, having completed his first mission, turned to his fellow waist gunner, Sgt. Donald McCabe, and said, ‘