antiated evidence of collapse?’*  In light of the performance of the German Air Force on the previous day, this cable looked like nothing more than a frantic plea from Arnold for Eaker to send him all possible ammunition with which to counter expected attacks in the Battle of Washington. The message could hardly surprise Eaker. It was obvious that there would be a strong reaction any time he lost sixty planes in one day, and it was equally obvious that he had no time to waste before justifying this loss. On the morning of the 15th, he sent both a radiogram and a letter to Arnold.  **Yesterday the Hun sprang his trap,’’ Eaker said in the radiogram. “*He fully revealed his countermeasure to our daylight bombing.’ After describing the great air battle and its outcome, the aircraft  332  When the October 14 losses were tallied, Gen. Ira Eaker once again, as in August, knew the extent of his defeat but could only make an educated guess at the extent of his victory. He and Gen. Fred Anderson stayed up at Bomber Command headquarters almost the entire night of the 14th/15th, talking to task-force leaders, reading the crew interrogation reports, and, in the early morning, studying the strike photos taken at Schweinfurt.! After compiling all the informa- tion they could get, they hopefully judged that the three largest ball-bearing factories had been destroyed, and that of the three hundred fighters the Germans sent up in more than seven hundred sorties, ninety-nine had been shot down, plus thirty more probables The two men were aware, of course, that these were no more than informed estimates. The attack had obviously been very costly to the enemy, but only the Germans could know exactly how costly. Eaker and Anderson had been in the bombing business long enough to realize that strike photos could be misleading due to smoke over the target, and that bomber crews could not avoid duplicating fighter claims when several gunners were firing at the same plane. Under these conside