is the most important air operation yet conducted in this war. The target must be destroyed. It is of vital importance to the enemy. Your friends and comrades that have been lost and that will be lost today are depending on you. Their sacrifice must not be in vain. Good luck, good shooting, and good bombing  The briefing officer at the 96th spoke honestly and openly about the hazards of the task in front of them. He made no attempt to gloss over how rough the mission would be. But could it be any worse than the Bremen and Minster raids of the previous week, each of which had cost thirty planes? The older men seemed to think so, especially for their group, which would be leading the entire second task force today  Sgt. Phillip R. Taylor, a waist gunner in Capt. Beryl Dalton’s 91st Group crew, was ready for a tough mission (it would be his tenth) when he reported for the briefing at Bassingbourn, but neither he nor any of his buddies was ready for Schweinfurt.5 An immediate silence fell upon the room when the target was announced. These men remembered the ten crews they had lost in the August raid. Taylor suddenly considered himself dead, and he found that the men around him felt the same way. After the briefing, the entire crew went back to their barracks and put on their best Class A uniforms—wool olive-  284  briefing, the docto making sure every¢ didn’t seem to cai frightened, and tot would return.”” When he asked about fighters, he \ was little point in r force in the west course. Most of the out soon enough. One fairly prom going today. The result of his experi finally managed t commander, had ta missions since the medical section jus' announcement that he was sent to the C familiar with his c voyant. How did h back to Schweinfu At the briefing o Old felt a special officers outline the opposition.3 The fa August 17 mission The August missio: If this backgrou: also had the heav During a recent Bc and Fourth Combz redesignated as the three newly createc 96th Group