ner things. The house was virtually a mansion, with broad, well-landscaped grounds abutting a golf course. It also had a tennis court. Though it was already well furnished, Parton gave it an extra touch of class by borrowing for its walls a selection of paintings from the Tate Gallery. Here Eaker was able to entertain from time to time such people as the Harrises, Sir Louis Greig who had been equerry to the abdicated King Edward VIII, the Averell Harrimans, Sir John and Lady Dashwood who had been his friends and neighbors at High Wycombe, General Andrews, and American literary figures like Cass Canfield and Robert Sherwood. On March 24, Eaker invited to Castle Coombe the war correspondents who had invited him to lunch the previous day. It was a perfect opportunity to spread the American Air Force gospel.  After describing the successes in the daylight raids against Vegesack and Wilhelmshaven, he announced that U.S. fliers had now shot down 356 German aircraft in 51 missions at a cost of 90 bombers.  “*We have come to the end of an experiment,’’ he said, ‘‘and the Liberators and Fortresses have proven themselves completely. It is agreed by British and American authorities that the experiment of using our bombers for daylight high-precision attack has succeeded without uneconomical loss. We are now going to have the maximum number of aircraft and crews. Hundreds of United States bombers will be operating from Britain by the middle of this summer.”  Eaker entertained Winston Churchill two nights later (March 26) at a Bomber Command dinner in High Wycombe, honoring the Prime Minister. It was a convivial evening attended by Harris, Andrews, and all the 8th Air Force wing, group, and squadron commanders. Churchill, who was in sharp form, delivered a stirring speech of praise for the American air effort, giving the distinct impression that he no longer disapproved of daylight bombing. After dinner he let drop a gentle hint that he wished it would develop more quickly. He p