en about things to do and things not to do. He didn’t want any of his people to be baited into anger by slighting labels like ‘‘Eaker’s amateurs.’’ If he was to win the respect of the British, it would have to be not by fighting them but by fighting the Germans.  At any rate, neither Eaker nor his staff had much time to pay attention to what the British were saying about them. After approving and accepting the first eight airdromes the British offered them, they specified the changes they would need and helped supervise the reconstruction. They also surveyed at least one hundred more pos- sible sites and asked for fifty-three more complete airdromes to be built before the end of 1942. They worked out tables of organization not only for their headquarters section but also for such necessary support facilities as hospitals, ordnance and quartermaster depots, engineering and maintenance units, and so on  They arranged for a continuing flow of food shipments from the United States sufficient to supply independent American mess facilities, and they set up their own rationing system for other provi- sions arriving from home. On March 25, they issued their first commissary rations—six oranges, six apples, and a dozen eggs per  116  man. They worked out procedures for the arrival of their first two heavy-bomb groups and, using British guidelines, established minimum extra training requirements for all incoming units. They supervised the conversion of the Wycombe Abbey girls’ school intoa military headquarters and allotted the space there both for offices and living quarters. Each of them made several trips to London to keep General Chaney’s staff apprised of what they were doing. And in their spare time, Eaker and the other pilots on his staff—Armstrong, Castle, Lay, and Cowart—flew British Spitfires to maintain flying proficiency.  Lay and Lieutenant Hull, who was already up for promotion, conferred with a group captain (equivalent of colonel) in charge of R.A.F. Bomber Co