owed, Brown’s father massaged, twisted, straightened, and healed the boy’s arm so skillfully that when Brown grew up and went to the University of Illinois, he was able to play football under the school’s famous coach Bob Zuppke, becoming the regular fullback in 1936 and 1937, Zuppke’s last two teams. Though the use of Brown’s arm was limited, he managed to pass the Air Force physical examination and qualify as a bombardier. Preston had appointed him group bombardier shortly after the 379th was formed in the fall of 1942.9 Preston, Brown, and the rest of their crew sat quietly in their plane near the end of the runway on the rise above Kimbolton awaiting  30  jeep.’ He had good news for one crew member, Sgt. Star A. Tucker, whose promotion to staff sergeant had just been approved.  Sheeler also noted that this crew, ready for its eighth mission, would be flying a substitute plane, named Dame Satan, because the crew’s regular plane was still being repaired.  “One good thing about Dame Satan,’’ he remarked. ‘‘She always comes back.””  Winslow thought to himself, I wish he hadn’t said that.  Capt. William R. Smith, a tough, shrewd coal miner’s son from Kingston, Pennsylvania, who had been a miner himself before work- ing his way through the University of Pittsburgh, felt a tightness in his stomach as he waited with his 351st Group crew at Polebrook.® He had made a bet that there would be a big mission today because it was the anniversary of the first American foray over Europe. Though he now had the satisfaction of winning the bet, he was wishing he had lost it. He figured the German fighters would finish ripping up the Fourth Bombardment Wing just in time to come after the First. He had a premonition that he and his comrades were about to get ‘‘the living daylight’’ beat out of them.  At Molesworth, Col. Kermit D. Stevens from Eugene, Oregon, commander of the 303rd Group and an Air Force pilot since 1936, expected that this would be an especially bad day for himself a