aller Second Division. While this force included about 60 fewer aircraft than Anderson had hoped to send, it was still sizable. It was destined to diminish quickly, however, when only 24 of the B-24s could find one another at their rendezvous location. Rather than send such a pitifully small contin- gent to a target as dangerous as Schweinfurt, Bomber Command sent the B-24s on a diversion raid up the North Sea to the Frisian Islands.  Meanwhile, mechanical failures were diminishing the two B-17 forces so that when it was time to fly eastward toward the Channel, the First Division had 149 planes in the air, and the Third Division, 142. But even then, not all of these planes were where they belonged. The 381st Group, which was supposed to take the low position in the First Division’s 1st Combat Bombardment Wing, had suffered an aggravating delay in assembly because its planes did not break out of the overcast above Ridgewell until they reached 10,000 feet. When their group leader, Maj. George Shackley, finally got them together and led them to the wing assembly point, he found the 92nd and 306th Groups there, but he was looking for the 91st and 351st. Shackley contacted the 91st Group leader and arranged a rendezvous over Orfordness. His planes lacked the speed to make this rendezvous, however, and the three groups assigned to the 1st CBW did not get together until they reached mid-Channel. By that time they had acquired another lost group.  Colonel Peaslee, in the lead plane of his 40th Combat Bombard- ment Wing had assembled the entire 92nd Group behind him, and the 306th Group was sliding into the high position on his right when he began to wonder why he hadn’t yet seen the 30Sth Group, which was supposed to be on his left wing.  “*Where the hell is our low group?’’ he asked his tail gunner on the interphone. ‘‘Can you see a loose group anywhere?”’  This ‘‘gunner’’ was actually the crew’s regular copilot, whom  288  The major, after explaining the importance of the