isms, or what-have-you, always remember that if there is anything serious you will be the first one to hear of it and it will come from me direct.?5  229 230  recent letters, lead me to make the following comment quite frankly and after careful consideration.  Regarding our personal relation, I have always felt the closest bond of friendship between us as two individuals. I have never thought that you placed quite the confidence in me officially as an officer, as you did as a friend. I sometimes thought that you were tough on me officially in order to make certain that nobody had a feeling that I got the positions I held through our personal friend- ship, and to make doubly sure that you did not allow that friendship to influence you unduly toward me officially.  . . . I shall always accept gladly and in the proper spirit, any advice, counsel or criticism from you. I do not feel, however, that my past service which has come under your observation indicates that I am a horse which needs to be ridden with spurs. I think you know that I will do my best, not only for you but because I realize the importance in this War and to our Air Force of the job I have to do here. Naturally, I am working pretty hard and under consid- erable strain. . . . We have been through a very dark period and we are not entirely out of the wood yet, but I think we will make the grade in one of the toughest spots imaginable if I can maintain your confidence and backing.  A week later Arnold sent Eaker what might be called a vote of confidence. In a July 7 letter, he was at great pains to point out the high regard in which he held the 8th Air Force commander:  I want you to get this firmly in your mind that had I not had confidence in you—confidence in your ability, I would never have built you up for the job that you now have. I give you full credit for having the inherent ability—the knowledge and judgment that goes with the command that you now hold. That being the case, I see no reason in th