e plane been on fire once, and Moore had once blacked out from 1ac jy je  if  Schweinfurt.  But the B-17s couldn’t spend the rest of the war hitting Emden. Eypigjq\" man in his right mind knew they would soon be going deeper jj)  Germany. Would they have to go back to Schweinfurt? Moore, tind i ait most of the men in the 91st and like most of the men in the 8th Bont} yisigtig,  Command, was afraid they would, but he preferred not to think al It.  On October 3, forecasters indicated the weather would be g over western Germany the next day. General Anderson at Bomber Command had 361 heavy bombers (B-17s and B-24s) wv ing for this word. On the morning of the 4th, the B-24s, 35 of th took off on a diversion flight while 326 B-17s headed straight Frankfurt, with more P-47s than ever before escorting them, at | as far as Aachen. Fighter opposition was strong, but the Fort: several targets in Frankfurt. Only 12 bombers were lost. The n remotely controlled chin turrets performed effectively against fro attacks. Gunners claimed the destruction of 56 German fighi  279  ‘echo With the numerical strength of the 8th Air Force building up orn el  more since Schweinfurt, the bombers were beginning to in syjfuiyittiibeulesit Germany again. It was only the short run to Emden so far jointing fails September 27 and October 2. Emden wasn’t so bad. The P-47s ct yyjit:it now go that far even with the puny drop-tanks they were carry ton doajzmea ll  Twit  bth nsdn abhi oxygen. Yet no one claimed any of these missions was as toug yc jy ye jaa r)  iene neckt esther afte  guilt  it  The air was cold and foggy as the seventeen crews of the 38 1st Group assembled in their briefing hut at 7:00 A.M. the morning of October 14. The question among most of the men was not where they would be going today but whether they would be going at all. The fog did not look as if it would ever lift. But this being England, any kind of weather change was possible.  As soon as the men were settled in their chair