r added weight, they were too slow to keep pace with the bombers they were  216  walking toward shelter. Watching these Londoners that night, Peas- lee felt he was learning something important about the British people. If they could be this calm in the face of falling bombs, then Hitler had been foolish to think he could scare them into surrender, even during the dark days of 1940 to 1941.  General Eaker’s excitement at the promised growth of his air force was tempered on his return to England by the news that General Andrews had been killed in a plane crash against an Icelandic moun- tain. Eaker had felt affection as well as respect for the senior Air Force officer who had replaced Eisenhower as European Theater commander. During Andrews’s short time in London, he had given the 8th Air Force his full support. Fortunately for Eaker, his succes- sor, Lt. Gen. Jacob L. Devers, though a grounds-force officer, was very much air-minded and likely to be helpful.  As the new groups finished training and prepared to enter combat, Eaker’s outlook expanded. In early May he formed a new combat wing, the Fourth, under command of Brig. Gen. Fred Anderson, who had come to England with the highest possible recommendation of Arnold’s Chief of Air Staff, Maj. Gen. George Stratemeyer. ‘‘There is nota finer officer in the world,’’ Stratemeyer had said of Anderson. ‘‘When and if you get in any kind of a jam and need some good straightforward, fine-thinking advice, don’t ever hesitate to call on this fellow. He’s got it, Ira.’’® Anderson’s new wing was to include the new 94th, 95th, and 96th groups.  On May 13, Eaker was feeling so cheerful about developments that he wrote an almost euphoric letter to General Arnold: **This is a great day for the 8th Air Force,’’ he said. ‘‘Our combat crew availability went up in a straight line today from 100 to 215. That is because the five new groups have finished their two weeks’ training and are off this afternoon on their first mission.’’? Eaker w