him to certain death  The P-47s proved more helpful to their big brothers on the way home than they had been on the route to the target. Zemke’s group was effective in diminishing enemy frontal attacks. Flying above the Fortresses where they could see these attacks developing, they sim- ply dived at the German fighters and disrupted their approach. Then they engaged the Germans in dogfights, which kept them busy while many Fortresses escaped. The air battle reached its greatest intensity now over western Germany, then over Belgium, as the American fighters chased the Germans in and out among the bombers, climb- ing, diving, banking, rolling in desperate acrobatic maneuvers at such high speed that only the men involved in them could make sense of them. Three P-47s were lost in the engagement while Zemke’s men claimed the destruction of fifteen German fighters plus four more probables.  Despite the support of Zemke’s P-47s, however, bombers con- tinued to fall victims to the German guns. At 4:25 p.M., one went down near Aachen, with all ten men escaping. At 4:40, two were seen going down, with seven parachutes emerging from one but only  65  two from the other. Fifteen minutes later, another fell with only four chutes trailing behind it. Eleven B-17s had now been destroyed on the return voyage, bringing to thirty-three so far the total losses on just the Schweinfurt mission.®  And still another Fortress, which had turned back shortly before reaching the target because it had lost an engine and couldn’t keep pace, was flying into more trouble as it approached the outskirts of Brussels. This was Dame Satan of the 91st Group, piloted by Lt. Jack Hargis. Unmolested for more than an hour as it plodded slowly across Germany alone, Dame Satan encountered a pair of FW-190s over the little town of Montreuil, between Tournai and Frasnes.7  The first of the German fighters made a pass almost head-on from eleven o’clock but did not fire a shot. Lt. Ted Winslow, the B-17’s bombard