pallingly during t  danger of extinction. At Bremen fifteen Fortresses; at Minster two days later it had lost twelve of  thir  commander, Col. ters to ask that all  teen. These disasters had so  e pre Octol  adly  led to fly wit  up's lead bombardiers, he had been making a special study of e didn’t know he was going there  t. Joseph G. Wall, a lead ich he was plotting a flight  our thirteenth,” he said to hat day’s group  h’’ Group had been living up vious week that it seemed in er 8 it had lost eight of its  depleted the group that its  Neil Harding, had gone to 8th Air Force headquar is surviving men be al  lowed to rest for a few days.  From the staff officers with whom he talked there, Harding had received a severe dressing down and a suggestion that he change his training methods ‘‘so that your boys can learn to fly the B-17.”’ Then their losses might not be so heavy  Harding in return had suggested angrily that ‘You junior officers  285,  might need to learn, but not my boys.’’ He had then returned to Thorpe Abbots to get the remnants of his group ready for the next mission, which was today’s trip to Schweinfurt. This time the 100th could muster only eight airworthy planes, not enough to fly as a unit. Four were assigned to the 95th Group; the other four to the 390th.  S. Sgt. Leo Rand of the 94th Group would be flying his first mission today. He had trained for it by playing blackjack in the barracks until the early-morning hours.? He had won so many pounds, shillings, and pence that when the game was finished, one of his opponents had said jokingly, ‘‘I hope you go down tomorrow.”’  At the briefing, when Rand saw how the other men reacted to the Schweinfurt announcement, he began to think there was at least some small likelihood of it. He couldn’t figure out why they were so worried. Did they get this excited before every mission?  “It’s bad,’’ one of the men near him said when the map curtain went up, and several others repeated, ‘‘It’s bad, bad, bad.”’  ‘*