n from repeated ‘dry runs,’ bad weather and impatience to get at the Hun.’’ Eaker, however, was impressed by “the nonchalance of the crews”’ when he arrived in early afternoon and announced that he would accompany them. He found ‘‘evident enthusiasm’’ and ‘‘could detect no nervousness or anxiety—they seemed quite like veterans.”’  At 3:14 p.M., the first engine of Col, Frank Armstrong’s B-17 kicked over, emitting a puff of blue smoke, and twelve minutes later, at 3:26, the Group commander got off the ground followed by the five other planes in his flight. Baker, riding as an observer, took off in the seventh plane, named Yankee Doodle, which was to lead the second light of six. The twelve planes assembled over the field, climbed to 22,500 feet, and turned toward France. They did not constitute a very impressive armada, but they were the first American Flying For- tresses to attack Hitler’s Europe. After eight months of war, a lot of eople back home were thinking it was about time they got around to it. Eaker was sharply aware of this attitude as he took a position in the radio operator's compartment of his plane. If today’s small operation were to fail, it might be a fatal blow to the concept of daylight ombing. And the fact that the operation was so small increased the ossibility of failure. Daylight bombing strategy was based on plans to send out large formations of bombers with so many guns defending one another that fighter planes would court quick destruction by coming close to them. Since a twelve-plane formation could hardly be called large, and since none of the men in these twelve planes, including Eaker, had ever before faced combat, it was quite possible that today the German fighters would be able to come as close as they pleased  There was little danger that the Germans would appear immediate- ly. At the English coast, four squadrons of British Spitfires fell in beside the B-17s to escort them as far as the coast of France. For the round trip from there