us as ever. The  308  he could. As a result, the three planes of the 305th dropped their bombs on the center of the city.  By this time these three planes, besieged without relief for an hour and forty-five minutes, had spent all but a few rounds of their ammunition. For one of them it wouldn’t matter. Within minutes after leaving Schweinfurt, the group’s thirteenth victim fell back, then drifted aimlessly toward earth like an exhausted bird. Now there were only two bombers left in the 305th. On the way to the posttarget rally point west of Nuremberg, they quickly attached themselves to the 91st.  As Colonel Peaslee approached the target in the lead plane of the 92nd Group, he could see Schweinfurt ‘‘rapidly going to hell’’ under the impact of the bomb strings the Ist CBW. had unloaded upon it Flak was coming up to greet the 40th CBW, but it was inaccurate Picking up his microphone, Peaslee said to the bombardiers in the planes behind him, ‘‘Let’s make it good. We’ve come a long way for this.”  His plane, controlled now by the bombardier, moved relentlessly toward the ball-bearing plants even though fighters were assaulting it “from all directions.’’ Peaslee had expected the fighters to break off when the flak began, but they kept coming. He had never encoun- tered braver men than these German pilots.  Despite fighters and flak, the bomb run of the 40th was quite satisfactory. Peaslee was pleased as pilot McLaughlin, once more in control of the plane, banked to the right in the direction of the rally point. On the radio, Peaslee sent a two-word message back to En- gland: ‘*‘Primary bombed.’’  When the 379th Group brought the 41st CBW to the target, smoke was rising but lead-plane bombardier Millson had no difficulty seeing the factories. His approach was precisely as he wanted it. At the very moment he released his bombs, a burst of flak hit the side of the plane, its shrapnel sounding like hailstones on a tin roof  “Bombs away!’’ Millson shouted. ‘‘Let’s get the he