eriors in Washington was through the British, but how many times could he get away with that ploy? On August 16, he learned that he had gotten away with it once again. Portal, in a telegram to Harris through the War Cabinet Offices, disclosed that he had averted the new crisis:  Please inform Harris that the question of expediting reinforce- ments to 8th Bomber Command, and particularly of avoiding further diversions and restoring the three groups loaned to North Africa, was brought up by me at the C.C.O.S. meeting today. My attitude, which was largely based on his telegram, met with gener- al approval of British and American Chiefs of Staff, and Harris can rest assured that existence of opportunity for decisive victory in the Battle of Germany during the next three months is fully appre- ciated, and that Arnold will continue to do his utmost to build up and sustain the 8th Air Force.  Portal had won a significant concession. But by tying it to Harris’s argument, he had brought into play the question of whether Harris and Eaker could actually deliver on the Harris promise to ‘‘push Germany over by bombing this year.’’ Eaker felt the pressure to help Harris keep this promise and, in the process, prove once and for all the worth of a concept in which, ironically, Harris still did not believe—the American daylight precision bombing strategy  To this end Schweinfurt was undoubtedly the ideal target and  257  Eaker’s men were ready to attack it, but once again the weather thwarted them. On the night of August 9, the groups were alerted; on the morning of August 10, the mission was postponed.  The weather was also delaying the projected double mission against the Regensburg ME-109 factory from England and the Wiener Neustadt FW-190 factory from Africa. This combined thrust, scheduled for August 7, had been postponed each day. As the weather in England continued bad, General Spaatz in Africa decided to wait no longer. On August 13, he sent his heavy bombers, includ- ing th