for certain until it has been tried — and tried repeatedly.’’ So far they have not tried at all. Even when they begin, the weather will make the chances of experiment few  182  valuable to the 8th Air Force, had de the secret, and Winterbotham was | Even this early in the war, Ultr valuable to the British. It had helped Dunkirk by keeping them informec units pursuing them. It had guided tk forces during the Battle of Britain. landings in North Africa by ascerta would be found. Eaker knew very li one warning about it. Spaatz, in ame “‘Don’t let them read you in on it.”’ { R.A.F. Air Chief Marshall Harris (center) talks with General because he knew the Ultra details, Arnold, CG U.S.A.A.F. (left) and Maj. General Eaker, CG 8th  missions or even go near the front lir Air Force. U.S. Air Force Photo  and compromised. Eaker, not wish Winterbotham for the Prime Ministe General Eake (left) and George VI, nglan, discuss  the 8th Air Force Intelligence chie{ of mutual concer, Photo Courtesy of Imperial War M : 2 : = Pes ; Germany is the target of planning session in England for mission by 8th Air  Ultra secrets. ; 4 : 3 ames : Churchill had b <Grdial to-Fal Force. Top row (left to right): Lt. Gen. Ira C. Eaker, Brig. Gen. Frank O. ee ere ree ee Hunter, Brig. Gen. Robert C. Candee. Bottom row (left to right): Lt. Gen.  indication of personal trust, even th Carl Spaatz, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, Maj. Gen. W. H. Frank. U.S. Air clined to take advantage of it, was V |; (og Fargo (back to (left to right) Ma . Force Photo  have been mistaken, however, to Su M;, Antony Eden, Li. General Devers, and Brig, General Amstong upon i of American air policy by the Prime ? thir arival at 305th Bomb Group Base in England, Ju tion with 8th Air Force operations w. Force Photo terse minute to Sinclair (January 4) note that the Americans have not ye 0 bomb on Germany.’”!° Sinclair and Portal had been try convince him that the Americans expected under harsh circumstance} demnation of the American