foreman in one of the factories. The story he told took much of the luster from Goer- ing’s story. All the factories, he said, had been hard hit. The oil baths had caused serious fires in the machine shops. The damage was *‘far worse than after the first attack.’’  329  Speer, deeply worried now, returned to the conference room to find Hitler still basking in the good news from Goering. Speer could see Hitler’s happiness reflected in the brilliance of his eyes. The brilliance faded when Speer told him what the Schweinfurt foreman had said. His disappointment was immediately evident, but he made no effort to question this new information. He obviously trusted Speer. The war-production minister had always found it easy to influence him, to alter his thinking. But if he were to believe Speer, could he still believe Goering? As Hitler digested the apparently conflicting reports, Speer could see, perhaps with some satisfaction since he was not a Goering enthusiast, that the Fiihrer was beginning to doubt the story of the glorious victory for the German defenses. Finally Hitler's doubts came to the surface. ‘‘There must be a thorough check by a neutral committee,’’ he said. ‘*I want to find out the exact number of American planes on the ground.”’  330  an isolated incident, that it was not part of a concerted American program to destroy the German ball-bearing industry. Just as he had suspected, the Americans apparently didn’t realize the vital impor- tance of Schweinfurt and therefore might not have any plans to attack it again.  Under this assumption, Speer gradually laid aside his concern about ball bearings as other pressing problems demanded his atten- tion. On October 11, for instance, three days before the second attack, he and his staff conducted a lengthy discussion about putting aircraft factories underground. Nothing was said about doing like- wise with the ball-bearing factories. The subject of ball bearings was not mentioned.  When Hitler relayed Goering’s an