or establishing a separate A his policy had proven itself by saving thousands of  With Pershing’s successful example behind hir foolish not to follow it, especially since the L including the President and all the senior milita repetition of it. The U.S. Air Force, in committing had bought thousands of planes, thousands of sights, and hundreds of thousands of machine gun if it were to opt for a night bombing effort. The almost fixed in concrete as far as Eaker could see, he personally approved. Yet he could not ignore ments the weight of British experience against difficult to answer Harris when he said, in effe we’re talking about because we’ve been through Eaker would say, ‘All right, then, if you want me the fellows for you to talk to are the Combined Chic our directives from them.”” Ml  Harris knew this, but he also knew it was At fy pressure that had persuaded the Combined Ch concept of daylight bombing. He conceded that the more and better guns than the British night bom’  which we don’t have. We have only tail guns. Bu 1 can’t protect you from fighters because fighters \ maneuverable.’’ U.S. bombers, Harris said, woul te al attack for all the hours into and out of the tar; they’d be sitting ducks on their bomb runs when t ol keep a straight path at a constant elevation.  ve cond cod and omy ut A een I ben tat  Bae, sl ving wt Ai Marsh able to fire from more angles. *“‘You have side g wulloteRAF opiinscnfeene (women tinting frail of ring, pear ng un, inl, a  “I just don’t think you can do it,’” he insiste Americans appreciate the German defensive effo  ee  West Wall, how much antiaircraft they have, how  113  ish, he weather  sumtin neni wed Engh cou  te i  penton vee he tro nen had (Hai alike) and jet Ee’ ayo geal wi pele  they vee  IIs  fe any hae of  a's hoe, rode wih in as thea, esa  ea ing ow th inmod hat comes wih he  pa  inte om ea ume an ow se, Br, hy  i  Avi he war wer fo nll bud forth besieged an ung te winer of 19411992 General ake an alt vo mont blr