is Flying Fortresses had fallen to the German guns.!7 But the surviving 131 still held ranks in their forma- tions, the rearward planes moving forward to fill the gap each time one of their companions fell out. LeMay’s own First Combat Wing was relatively intact, having lost so far just two of its 62 planes. The German fighters had largely left it alone, concentrating their fury on the smaller Second and Third Combat Wings. Many planes in the Second Wing, and almost all in the Third were now damaged. The most fortunate had simply been ventilated by bullet and shrapnel holes. Several were flying on two or three engines. Some suffered shell holes as big as doors. Others had leaking fuel or hydraulic lines, runaway propellers, battered oxygen or electrical systems, inopera- tive radios.  LeMay himself, at the head of the fifteen-mile-long column of bombers, did not realize the extent of the carnage behind him. His job had been to lead these planes to the target, and he had done it. The sky  20  flown through the thickest storm of bullets and shrapnel in the history of air warfare. With enough luck and enough gasoline, most of them would be in Africa by late afternoon.  For the Schweinfurt-bound men of the First Bombardment Wing, however, the ordeal had not yet begun. And the decoy strategy that had been designed to minimize that ordeal was now beyond hope of fulfillment.  The third shell hit the right W# now 0 clear over south-central Germany that he could see broke the hydraulic system, re twenty-five miles in all directions." And as LeMay’s plane began its The fourth crashed through tl straight-and-level bomb run from the Initial Point a few miles north- hit the No. 3engine, whichim of Regensburg, he had the satisfaction of seeing distinctly  The crew of the Phartzac n__ before him the mile-square complex of factory buildings that com- prised the Messerschmitt plant  He was surprised to find no German fighters over Regensburg as he approached the target, and he saw o