vinced that the 8th Air Force, or whatever was left of it after the African invasion began, should join the R.A.F. on night raids, which did not require precision. In an effort to answer these people and to prove that night bombing suf- fered from even more serious limitations, Spaatz asked Eaker to prepare a paper on the subject. On October 8, another dismal day that  161  produced another 8th Bomber Command postponement, Eaker re- lieved his day-bombing frustrations by writing a discourse about the problems of night bombing:  Only two reasons can exist for bombing at night: one, for greater safety of bombardment aircraft and crews, i.e., economy of force; or two, to bring pressure upon the enemy during the hours of darkness without interruption. These are the only two reasons for night bombing because it is perfectly clear that the efficiency of bombardment during the daylight hours is much greater.’  Day bombers, he argued, were more efficient because they could locate targets more easily and identify them more precisely through their bomb-sights, thereby establishing a more accurate bombing pattern. It would take a thousand bombers at night to do as much damage to a specific target as a hundred could do in the daytime.  Inevitably, Eaker’s paper on night bombing turned out to be alsoa dissertation on day bombing, which he was prepared to discuss with greater enthusiasm  There was a quite common belief in this country that day bombing was too expensive because of the heavy fighter losses which the enemy could inflict. Our bombing experience to date indicates that the B-17 with its twelve .50-caliber guns can cope with the German day fighter, if flown in close formation. There will be losses, of course, but there is no evidence that the losses will be of such high order as to make day bombing uneconomical. The evidence in this regard will be more impressive as our force is built up. I think it is safe now to say that a large force of day bombers can operate withou