ld no longer stand the sound of airplane engines or any other noise con- nected with flying. He hoped for bad weather. After a week of this, he decided he was cracking up and sought medical help. As soon as the flight surgeon grounded him, all of his symptoms disappeared  A technical sergeant who was a tail gunner developed a horror of flying as a result of an experience before he was introduced to combat. Shortly after arriving in England, his crew was ona practice mission at 26,000 feet when one man passed out from lack of oxygen. The pilot, anxious about the man, impulsively dived to a safer altitude, but when he tried to pull the rapidly accelerating bomber out of the dive, its control cables snapped, its right wing fell off, and the fuselage caught fire. One of the bomb-bay doors broke away, flew rearward and sliced off the entire tail section. The tail gunner,  248  Norway. After a seven-hour flight over water, his was the first plane to bomb the target. The trip back that day was uneventful for most of the planes but not for his. While his copilot was flying, fighters attacked, and his gunners shot down two of them, one of which had come in from the front and barely missed a head-on collision. During this attack his navigator was wounded so badly that the bombardier had to hold the man’s head for five hours to keep him from bleeding to death. One 20-mm. shell knocked out the hydraulic system and another blew the plane’s tail to pieces. A bullet punctured the fuel tank and sprayed gasoline over the underside of the fuselage. Despite all this misfortune, the pilot once again brought his plane home. But his nerves were so frazzled it would be dangerous to send him out again. The flight surgeon could only ground him, rest him, and hope he would recover. In such cases, the recovery rate was fairly high.  The prospects were not so bright for a second lieutenant copilot who had grown up as a typical all-American boy. Raised in Illinois, he had been a high-school foo