by side though at a safe distance, in compliance with a radio order to gain more altitude before attack- ing. As Stedtfeld passed the Fortresses and rose above them, he saw other units attacking them. From a cruising position a few thousand feet higher and less than a mile behind, where his squadron and several others formed a line astern awaiting their turn, he watched Fortresses burst into flames and parachutes appear as ME-109s darted in and out of the boxes. When black puffs of flak began exploding near the bombers, he noticed they were now approaching Frankfurt. He felt as if he were sitting in a theater, watching a movie about an air battle.  Even after the order came for his squadron to attack, Stedtfeld felt no fear. Still flying on Captain Rubell’s right wing, he dived toward the rear of the bombers, contemplating not their guns but their beauty. He admired the lines of their gigantic tails and their silvery aluminum fuselages shimmering in the sunlight. Closing fast on those gigantic tails, Stedtfeld saw Rubell’s cannon and machine guns begin to spit. He pushed his buttons, and his own guns fired. But the bomber at which he was aiming showed no sign of being hit. The one Rubell attacked now had two engines in flame, and the captain was pulling away, apparently confident of his success. Stedtfeld stopped  302  Stedtfeld, who had only recently joined the Molders Wing and had not yet seen a moment of combat.?  Stedtfeld, a Dortmund University student when the war began in 1939, had volunteered immediately for the Luftwaffe, hoping to achieve his boyhood dream of becoming a flier. Though he soon realized this ambition, he was not destined to see combat for another three years, because he was assigned to a flying school in Berlin as an instructor. He enjoyed a comfortable life as an instructor, spending much of his free time with a college girlfriend who was now a medical student in Berlin and whom he eventually married. But he was not content as an instructor.