e to the trouble of becoming a highly accomplished chef, invited Eaker to his home for a dinner featuring a Virginia ham he had brought back from his latest trip to Washington. Thereafter, Eaker’s dinners with the Harrises were frequent.  One day, the Harrises suggested that until the Wycombe Abbey facility was secured and ready for occupation, Eaker should move with them into a new home the R.A.F. was providing for them, a pleasant, three-bedroom country house with stables and garden, three miles from his headquarters.  Lady Harris, to assure Eaker that the invitation had been serious, renewed it one evening. It would give them all a chance to get better acquainted, she explained, but there would also be a practical consid- eration. Despite her husband’s high military rank, she had to do her marketing with the same ration cards as any other British housewife. The more ration cards she had, the more food she could buy, and the better they would be able to dine. She and her husband both made it sound, very graciously, as if Eaker would be doing them a favor by moving in with them.  He was so charmed he happily agreed to do so, even though he knew there might be another motive involved in the offer. Despite the growing personal warmth between Harris and Eaker and despite the generous help Harris had provided, the arguments between the two men about bombing policies and strategies continued, as it did also at lower levels among their staff members. The R.A.F. had not aban- doned its desire to remake the American Air Force in its own image.  After Eaker moved into the Harris home April 5, he found himself spending evenings in what the air marshal called his ‘‘conversion room,’’ a study where he had set up a stereopticon machine that showed three-dimension aerial photographs of the German cities the R.A.F. had bombed. These were specially processed pictures taken  109  by British reconnaissance planes as soon as the smoke cleared the day after a raid. In some, there were