eloped a tendency to disappear whenever they saw him looking around for cards  His work habits were methodical but quick. He was not an extreme  117  disciplinarian because he considered patience and loyalty more im- portant qualities. He told one of his aides that he thought patience might be the most important quality for a general to develop. With patience, a man could inspire the kind of loyalty that would create its own discipline. Eaker’s greatest weakness as an administrator was a tendency to get too involved with details. He took part even in the floor-plan design for the Wycombe Abbey headquarters.  With all of this on his mind, Eaker managed nearly every morning to attend Harris’s operations conference. Never having been a bomb- er commander until now, he was able to learn important lessons about the job ahead of him simply by watching Harris. In addition to the daily decisions about the next night’s’ mission and the problems arising from the previous night’s losses, Harris had to deal with a succession of even larger difficulties, some of which he had inherited when he took over the R.A.F. Bomber Command. The Germans had recently set up a new radar box defense system that made it easier for their night fighters to find his bombers. They had also set up a continuous searchlight belt over the Ruhr that exposed the vulnerable bellies of his bombers. He had worked out a method of partially defeating these defenses by concentrating his stream of planes in closer succession so the Germans would have time to catch only a small percentage of them, and this method was quite effective ex- cept that it increased the danger of his bombers colliding with each other.  To add to his woes, a structural defect had developed in the wing-tips of some of his four-engine Lancasters, Britain’s best heavy bombers, forcing four squadrons of them out of action. It might be several months before he got them back. At the same time, the Admiralty, becoming desperate because of the a