ed the bomber in its dive, now proceeded to pump hundreds of machine-gun bullets into it, starting more fires But the dive had apparently extinguished the worst of the cockpit flames, enabling Judy to keep the plane under precarious control, despite the smoke and fumes, while he sent Layn to the rear to find out how much damage had been done. Layn discovered that the entire plane was riddled; several small fires were burning, and electrical sparks were jumping from the broken ends of the battery cables. When he reported to Judy, they agreed the time had come to abandon ship. Judy had also noticed the rudder and elevator cables were severely damaged and the aileron trim tabs were jammed in the ‘‘up’” position. With the partial controls left to him, it was doubtful that he could keep the plane in level flight much longer  Layn again went to the rear to make sure the crew members bailed out safely. Lts. Edward DeCoster and Lewis Allen (the navigator and bombardier) dropped through the nose hatch, and all the enlisted men escaped without difficulty except T. Sgt. Earl Cherry, the engineer, who could not jump for two reasons: he had been badly injured in one foot, and his parachute had burned in one of the fires  When Layn reported the situation to Judy, the pilot decided there was only one course. Rather than doom Sergeant Cherry to certain death, he would try to get the ship back to England. But there was no need for all three of them to die. Lieutenant Layn, he said, was free to bail out or stay.  Layn decided to stay.  In that case, Judy said, he would try to manage the plane himself while Layn tried to put out the fires and fight off the German attackers  As Layn returned to the rear, Judy put the ship into a gradual descent, zigzagging to avoid the bullets which were still arriving. At one hundred feet above the ground, he leveled off. He had no navigator, so he simply pointed the plane in the general direction of England  In the rear, Layn found Sergeant Cherry, d