failed, they would then wholeheart- edly embrace night bombing:  I think that those Heavy groups already in this country when that situation arose would probably be modified and trained for night work. Whether they would attempt to build up the force I think is doubtful. . . . It would involve a fundamental readjustment of American air policy, with all its consequential repercussions on equipment and training. And I think it might well involve a sharp swing away from this theatre towards the PACIFIC  Slessor’s immediate superior, Chief of Air Staff Portal, was not so sanguine about American prospects for success. By coincidence he asked for Slessor’s comments the same day (September 26) on a note he had prepared about the U.S. bomber force. In this note, Portal began by acknowledging that to him the great question was still “DAY” or “‘NIGHT.”” He believed a good night bombing force could be quickly turned into a day bombing force, but it would be difficult to turn a day force into a night force because it would involve production as well as training. The hope that America might yet switch from the B-17 to the Lancaster was still with him:  The Americans will not get a night bomber force by the beginning of 1944 unless they start now. Are they going to start or are they going to persist in an attempt at 100% day effort?  The danger seems to be that if they suffer heavy casualties with 5 or 6 groups they will merely say that the job requires 15 or 20 groups and by the time they have 20 groups they will probably be committed to 40 or 50. In the end they may find themselves no more successful with 50 groups than the Germans were with the same numbers in the Battle of Britain.  Is it not therefore essential to persuade the Americans to lay the  155  foundations in aircraft production and in training for at least a substantial part of their offensive to be by night bombing?  On the production side, neither the B-17 nor the B-24 appear to be ideal night bombers and the obv