, it will scarcely be a fair fight!’’  The commanders of whom he wrote were Col. John Moore, 94th Group; Col. Alfred Kessler, 95th; Col. Archie Old, Jr., 96th; Col William Hatcher, Jr., 351st; and Col. Maurice Preston, 379th  The 94th, 95th, and 96th made their debuts that day against the airfields at St. Omer, a comparatively easy target. The next day (May  215  14) thy nd he 351d hor rugs in  the th Ai Fre's  bigest oan wo dle when, forthe fi time, mor than to  planes invaded the Continent. Ander rman ito at Ante  bonded rts a bombed the  dt Court. The ole rus  ed two ofthe ne ile eos that ay ook ona  ‘ought apne, returning Geman oom estar at  Kiel  ‘Though aes wer igh inh is, Geman wer ow  ting tir weer ge squats, Baler expected muh rea isomer inthe near fue, Intro  Gen Olver P, Ech at Mate! Command in Washington (ao May 13), be woe about improvements then bing made inthe  engines and P) esha a  waned 5m  ase could get.  hsp ote Fights heals ofauiay  thes anon itu. [stl ik reget the Pl  you oul mn 9 there,  Aor experiment BT German igh Corporation, a Locke  ese tate an get them nee  legod the  b  shipscald Ys {outen machine gu tice a uch ammunition a er B Tet ution would be to acne the bo pote hem fom Geman fighters  ae testing pi  ight plane, wich bad oa ben at. Dest th pl’ poles, ake  4) uation as worked otal igh wie hols Thenhe refed one moro ane that  themeles, “That fuels toetend  hier slicin to accompany our bombers 0  epi isnotno  woud apeciit however, i figure out how to get usthe aula flanks which wl n quality etd  nerbiiy ofthe Aidt sy ince epi i ing bat heavy arora,  amehunie chin tue, were desged  7 but obo het oats and  Teco fhe YB0 ha sounded god But when Baker ut  his hie batlsips” ino ao, ha forge to do some  thinking, Because o  i developers aed Domersthey wer  1ey will, therefore, have to adjust their tactics  for improving the P-47 included larger propel- ) rate and general performance, water injection cy power, a canopy bulge for better rear v