er as to make day bombing uneconomical. The evidence in this regard will be more impressive as our force is built up. I think it is safe now to say that a large force of day bombers can operate without fighter cover against material objec- tives anywhere in Germany, without excessive losses.  It was not an unreasoned statement. The 8th Bomber Command had flown only twelve missions, to be sure, but on five of these, the B-17s, in small numbers and beyond Spitfire protection, had encoun- tered German fighters. Only two B-17s had been lost in these con- frontations while American gunners claimed twenty-two German fighters shot down, twenty others probably shot down, and more than  162  General Eaker, enmeshed in all the necessary details of getting his new groups into operation and at the same time planning daily missions despite one weather postponement after another, could no longer spend as much time as he would have liked with Air Chief Marshal Harris, whose advice he still found valuable. But he did continue to see Harris on occasion. The British bomber commander and Lady Harris came to a luncheon at Pinetree September 26 with Lady Nancy Astor, the formidable American-born member of Parlia- ment. Though Eaker didn’t realize it, she was a devout prohibitionist. When he asked her if she would like something to drink, she said with some heat, *‘Certainly not! You people will lose the war if you don’t stop drinking.’’ After lunch, when she went to High Wycombe to make a speech at the opening of the local Boys’ Club, he was able to excuse himself from accompanying her by pleading work and by sending five of his aides instead  His conversations with Harris now seldom touched upon the day- night bombing argament. Though Harris sensed the Americans were still ‘‘feeling their way,’’ and though he remained unconvinced that day bombing could be sustained without prohibitive losses, he genuinely hoped he was wrong. The thought of bombing Germany on a twenty-four-hour schedule