rom the front. One 20-mm. shell had blown the plane’s tail wheel out from under him. If this shell had been aimed a foot higher, it would have taken him too. Hereafter he would gladly sit in the copilot’s seat and leave the tail gunning to the tail gunner  When Lt. Henry Evers of the 91st Group asked his crew members to check in and let him know if they were all right, he got no answer from his tail gunner, Sgt. Douglas Gibson, the nineteen-year-old “‘baby of the group.’’ Lt. Bruce Moore, the navigator, went aft to investigate, carrying an oxygen bottle, and found Gibson uncon- scious from shock and loss of blood. He had taken a 20-mm. shell against the armor plate between his knees, receiving a severe wound in one leg. Moore dragged him forward to the radio compartment and tried to administer morphine, but it was so cold in the airplane that each time he melted a Syrette in the palm of his gloved hand, it would freeze again before he could get it into Gibson’s arm. Finally, on the fourth attempt, Moore was able to inject the drug, and the wounded man lapsed into sleep.  Most attacks against the First Division came now from the rear. Though they were less frequent, they were as ferocious as ever. The  308  he could. As a result, | bombs on the center of  By this time these thre and forty-five minutes ammunition. For one 0 after leaving Schweinf then drifted aimlessly to were only two bombers rally point west of Nure the 91st.  As Colonel Peaslee aj 92nd Group, he could se the impact of the bomb Flak was coming up to Picking up his microphi planes behind him, *‘Le this.”’  His plane, controlled toward the ball-bearing | “from all directions.”’ F when the flak began, bi tered braver men than t  Despite fighters and satisfactory. Peaslee wa control of the plane, bai point. On the radio, Pe gland: ‘Primary bombe  When the 379th Grou was rising but lead-plan¢ the factories. His approz moment he released hi: plane, its shrapnel soun  *‘Bombs away!’” M here!”’  As they tur