who had been captured by the Gestapo that morning when his plane fell near Aachen on the way to Regensburg, was now confined in a small building a few miles from Aachen, wondering how long he had to live.? When he was captured, he had been almost grateful for the presence of the Gestapo because they had saved him from the angry mob of German farmers who had watched his parachute de- scend. After making him identify two of his comrades (Sgt. Walter Paulsen, radio operator, and Lt. Edwin Tobin, bombardier) who were wrapped in canvas bags and appeared to be dead, the Gestapo men had taken him to the gate house of a nearby country school, which they used for temporary incarcerations.  A short time after Warsaw was brought there, he was astonished at the arrival of Sergeant Paulsen, the radio operator whose ‘‘dead’’ body he had identified. Paulsen had hit the ground so hard he seemed to have no life left in him, but he had quickly regained consciousness. Neither he nor Warsaw (with shrapnel in his backside and a badly twisted neck) was feeling very well, but as the day progressed they began to think that wasn’t going to matter very much. A furious crowd had gathered outside the little gate house, and their Gestapo guard was no doubt more sympathetic to the crowd than to the  69  prisoners. Though the guard did try to chase people away, they continued to come back, and only the bars on the windows kept them from getting at the prisoners. The bars did not, however, keep out the various items they brought along to throw through the windows. These included rocks, garbage, and the contents of their outdoor toilets. By late afternoon, Warsaw was wondering if he would sur- vive the first night  By the time the bullet-riddled Schweinfurt armada reached the continental coast, it had been joined first by forty Thunderbolts from the U.S. 353rd Fighter Group and then by eighty-five British Spit- fires of R.A.F. Squadrons 129, 222, 303, 316, 331, 332, 403, and 421, which escorted the