were so decimated by losses during this week,”’ Williams reported, ‘‘that a total of only six combat boxes [15-18 planes per box] can be flown until suitable replacements are made operational.’’  Not until August 27, ten days after Schweinfurt, could the 8th Bomber Command launch another mission, and it was one of the shortest of the war, to Calais, where the Germans were building concrete bunkers for the V-rockets they planned to launch against England. On August 31, September 2, and September 3, the big bombers went to thé Paris area, where they were relatively safe. On the 6th, when 338 of them, many manned by rookie crews, set out for Stuttgart, they were belabored by a combination of bad weather, inexperience, and German fighters. In one of the most dismal and unproductive missions of the war, another 45 aircraft went down. It looked as if the 8th would have to be content for a while to find more targets in France.  Eaker, in the meantime, had renewed his quest for long-range fighters to accompany the bombers, and Amold, in late August, had promised to send him some P-38s with extra tanks and some P-51Bs with Merlin engines. In an August 30 letter, Eaker thanked Arnold for the promise, but it was not yet clear when the desperately needed fighters would arrive. Arnold himself arrived in England September 1 to see what was happening, and Eaker quickly called his attention to the fighter problem. Two days later, Arnold, from London, sent a cable to General Marshall in Washington reflecting Eaker’s urgent plea: ‘‘Operations over Germany conducted here during the past several weeks indicate definitely that we must provide long-range fighters to accompany daylight bombardment missions.’”  Arnold followed this with another cable to Marshall in an effort to prevent diversion of more fighters from England to Africa. Eisenhower had requested additional fighters, and the tone of  263  Arnold’s cable suggests that he may have agreed, before leaving Washington, to send them