than stay. They would rather face the German guns than return to their barracks with nothing accomplished. This  245  tt  ev tile a dwg,  itu nd riyelacmat iy  pc tit  satay att eh fat a dydolpruyns  close together. He made such a scene about this that his pilot again had trouble managing the aircraft. When the copilot announced after this mission that he didn’t want to fly any more of them, none of his fellow crew members tried to talk him into it. Neither did the flight surgeon. The copilot was sent to the Central Medical Board for evaluation.  A second lieutenant navigator had flown four missions before reporting to his flight surgeon that he had “‘lost his nerve.’’ The first mission, which was routine and uneventful, hadn’t bothered him. On the second, his plane was hit by flak and lost two engines. Another crew member, wounded by flak in the neck and shoulder, apparently panicked and bailed out. The navigator, tempted to do likewise, sat down instead, shocked, stunned, and stupefied. Five minutes later he looked out the window just in time to see another B-17 go down in flames. The reality of the scene was so much more hideous than his previous conception of combat that he couldn’t adjust himself to it. His plane returned to base without further damage, however, and he prepared to continue his tour of duty.  A week later, as the time approached for his next mission, he developed a ‘‘sense of dread’’ and ‘‘sick feelings’’ in his stomach. He got drunk and found some relaxation in it. When his crew took off again, he was with them. Even though this mission was called back after an uneventful hour or so above the clouds, it filled him with ‘‘a tremendous sense of dread.’’ He tried one more; it too was aborted but still left him feeling like ‘‘a mechanical man.’’ He could no longer stand the sound of airplane engines or any other noise con- nected with flying. He hoped for bad weather. After a week of this, he decided he was cracking up and sought medical help. As s