uds. But now, in the open sky above the Channel, their chief concern was fighter planes—the two groups of their own that were supposed to be escorting them at least part way to their target, and the many German groups that would be waiting to “‘escort’’ them the rest of the way. Among the B-17 crews, a grim joke had been circulating: ‘‘Now we have fighters with us all the way. Our P-47s take us as far as Aachen. The Messerschmitts and Focke-Wulfs take us to the target and back. Then the 47s pick us up again when we reach the Channel. If we reach the Channel.’’ An increasing number of Fortresses had failed to do so in recent weeks.  RETURN FROM SCHWEINFURT  ROUTE TO ENGLAND  REGENSBURG——_°  ! WH vA |  August 17, 1943  THE SCHWEINFURT-REGENSBURG RAIDS  The 146 Flying Fortresses of the Fourth Bombardment Wing, emerg- ing from the deep gray mass of clouds that engulfed England, clung to one another in ever-tightening formations as they streaked across the English Channel toward the perilous European continent. From their bright, sunny altitudes of 17,000 to 20,000 feet, the nervous crew- men saw only isolated cloud patches below and over Holland and Belgium in front of them.  Throughout the early hours of the morning at their English bases  | Ft . . : : 2  and as they took off into the dismal gloom, their most immediate | ee worry had been the clouds. But now, in the open sky above the il Se G3  28  Channel, their chief concern was fighter planes—the two groups of | their own that were supposed to be escorting them at least part way to their target, and the many German groups that would be waiting to “‘escort’’ them the rest of the way. Among the B-17 crews, a grim  REGENSBURG——_°  joke had been circulating: ‘‘Now we have fighters with us all the 2 Zz way. Our P-47s take us as far as Aachen. The Messerschmitts and 5 oe Focke-Wulfs take us to the target and back. Then the 47s pick us up ee 53 Ht lh ON  again when we reach the Channel. If we reach the Channel.’’ An increa