roup, after taking off from Neubiberg near Munich, had been vectored toward Frankfurt, which German Homeland Defense officials considered the probable target right up to the moment the bombers began passing it. They now expected Schweinfurt to be the target  Langer, like most German pilots, knew enough about the Schwein- furt plants to realize their importance; and when he saw the masses of American bombers heading eastward, he felt certain they were going there. He and his group, deciding on a twelve o'clock attack, sped around to the front of the American air fleet. The Germans had settled on the frontal approach as the best tactic against the B-17 because of the effectiveness of the American .50-caliber machine gun. German armaments experts had concluded from early experience that this weapon had one compelling advantage over their own 20-mm. can- non. The machine gun, because of its greater initial velocity, had a longer range. And from the rear or from either side of a Fortress,  51  seven of these guns could fire at once, whereas from the front, a German fighter faced only two, or at most, four.  The first assault by Langer and his comrades was a coordinated effort. In formation they passed through one of the lead Fortress groups, firing their cannons and machine guns. Looking back, Langer saw two B-17s trailing smoke though neither was going down. The ME-109s circled tightly, broke up into pairs, and attacked from the rear, a tactic that gave them more time to aim at the Fortresses even though it did expose them to a greater concentration of machine-gun fire. After this attack, Langer saw four or five more bombers trailing smoke. When he came around to make his third pass, he decided to slip in from the side, thus avoiding the heavy B-17 firepower focused on his comrades in the rear. To slip a plane, a pilot must turn his rudder control one way and his aileron control the other. The effect is to glide sideways while keeping the wings fairly level and the nose