he little town of Montreuil, between Tournai and Frasnes.7  The first of the German fighters made a pass almost head-on from eleven o’clock but did not fire a shot. Lt. Ted Winslow, the B-17’s bombardier, was at his nose gun when the second FW-190 ap- proached from one o’clock. He saw the flash of the Focke-Wulf’s cannon and pressed his own trigger, but his gun jammed after two rounds. When he looked up, the fighter was ‘‘right on top of us.”” Winslow felt the bomber shudder and vibrate as at least two 20-mm shells ripped into it.*  Over the intercom someone said, ‘‘Oh, . I'm hit.”  **Who’s hit?’’ Hargis asked  Another voice said, ‘‘The radio operator. In the chest.’  The plane went into a shallow dive, suffering from such massive damage that Hargis was unable to pull it out and resume level flight. Winslow noticed that his altimeter still registered 16,000 feet, but they were dropping fast.  ‘Prepare to bail out,’’ Hargis ordered. ‘‘Someone help the radio operator.’”  Winslow and Lt. Richard Martin, the navigator, snapped on their parachutes, tore up and threw out some classified papers, then awaited the next command, which came quickly.  “Bail out when ready. Bail out when ready.”’  Martin went first through the hatch in the nose. Winslow was about to follow when he heard Hargis’s last command. ‘*Hurry up, you guys. I can’t hold this thing up all day.”’  Kneeling at the hatch, Winslow took a deep draught of oxygen, then glanced down at the green and distant earth. He was struck by how small everything looked. Bending forward, he tumbled out head first. A moment later he felt ‘‘a terrific jerk and a sensation of being  66  pulled through space at a tremendous speed.’’ He could still hear the roar of the plane’s engines, and he was certain something had gone wrong. The wind was knocking him about so roughly he couldn’t see what had happened, but it felt as if his chute had been caught on the tail. It must have opened too quickly. He envisioned the horrible likelihoo