land, pretending even to support day bombing in his desperation to attract more planes and crews, the men at the Air Ministry could agree completely with his strategy because they presumed the newly arriving planes would be used against Germany. But Portal, in his October 13 minute to Churchill discounting American gunnery claims and deploring pessimistically the American daylight policy, did not take into account Churchill’s growing concern about the submarine menace and the grave danger it presented to the African invasion fleet. Portal perhaps unwittingly gave Churchill a whole set of arguments to use in persuading the Americans immediately that they must divert their air energies to TORCH.  Though it was partly under Portal’s and Sinclair’s influence that Churchill had virtually written off the 8th Air Force as an instrument against Germany, these men were now alarmed because he had gone beyond them and was using their ideas for a purpose they opposed. Their position was delicate, however, because they could not openly proclaim their opposition to TORCH. They had, therefore, to shift their argument carefully. Sinclair, who had impatiently asked Slessor in late September what the Americans were doing and when they  168  The utmost pressure must be put upon the United States au- thorities here and in America to utilize their Fortresses and Liberators in support of our sea communications during “‘TORCH.”’. . . At present the United States are persevering with the idea of the daylight bombing of Germany by means of Flying Fortresses and Liberators in formation without escort. So far they have not gone beyond the limits of strong British fighter escort. They will probably experience a heavy disaster as soon as they do. We must try to persuade them to divert these energies (a) to sea work, beginning with helping ‘“TORCH”’ (including bombing the Biscay ports), and (b) to night work. See my telegram to Mr. Hopkins on these delicate subjects.  . . . The Americans have su