tegic bombing  Bufton’s ideas were welcomed, however, by such American intel- ligence officers as Col, Richard Hughes and Col, Harris Hull, Bufton took an active part in preparing the 8th Air Force for is thrust against Schweinfurt, which was scheduled to take place on the first day of favorable weather after July 17. Together with the M.E.W., his office provided 8th Bomber Command with all the information necessary to prepare special maps and build plaster mock-ups of the  288  the 8th Air Force and were now in ker’s friend, General Spaatz. Eaker tz, he might be able to do something ‘isome fighter factories.  sent a copy of it July 18 to General iat explained its urgency:  mightily and squirming to beat hell g our bombers. They have tried air tange cannon fire, head-on attacks None of these systems has yet been 1 sufficient skill and accuracy to be vever, that there is grave danger that ay eventually be tried in such force nt and highly trained crews as to ir bombing.  id two suggestions. First, he wanted n methods of attack at a special Air p the best possible measures against diately, he wanted permission to go nst the two huge fighter factories. In e again dropped some big, reliable  much higher priority than the oil id I do also. Nothing we can do is as yan aviation. It will be absolutely ssful invasion next year unless we Be.  July 19, wrote a letter to Spaatz ast the two factories and asking for  to do this is for us to take on one and he one closest to him. This will take nakes his attack first, it will make a defenses that the other will have to  !40  target area. And on July 15, he made one more attempt to commit British Bomber Command to a follow-up night attack against Schweinfurt a few hours after the American day attack. Surely the  \, British bombers would be able to find the place after the Americans set it afire. But Harris was still not interested. His mind was on another very important target—the German secret-weapon research laboratory and factor