aff to Chaney and his much larger staff the next day, he was expecting only that Chaney would offer him whatever help he might need in procuring a headquarters for Bomber Command and launching his mission. Eaker already knew what that mission was to be and how he was to approach it. General Arnold had spelled it out verbally. And General Spaatz, who would not be arriving in England until summer because he was busy with organizational details at Bolling Field near Washington, had spelled it out even more precisely in a six-page organizational memorandum.  But it was quickly apparent that General Chaney, a senior Air Force officer himself, had some ideas of his own about the develop- ment of Bomber Command. He could see no compelling reason why it would need a separate headquarters. He floated the suggestion that Eaker and his small staff would fit nicely into these Whitehall offices he was occupying.  Aside from the danger of Eaker’s tiny nucleus being swallowed up by Chaney’s already sizable apparatus, the suggested arrangement might also create a situation in which Chaney, who outranked Eaker and was also his titular superior, would soon take over actual if not official control of Bomber Command. This was hardly what Eaker wanted, and it was obviously not what Arnold and Spaatz wanted Spaatz had written in his organizational memo: ‘‘As muchas possible of the Theater Commander’s functions and responsibilities should be delegated to the commanders of his Air Force, Ground Force, Service of Supply and Naval Forces.’’3 Those words could almost have been in specific anticipation of the delicate problem Eaker faced. But  95  Spaatz and Arnold were back home, and Eaker—a brigadier general —could not openly defy a major general who was also the theater commander.  Arnold and Spaatz had warned Eaker that he would have difficul- ties with the British, but there had been no reason to suppose he would have difficulties with Chaney. They had known each other for many years. Cha