bathroom shaving, but he didn’t allow that to delay his meeting with Eaker. He still had lather on his face when the two men greeted each other—not enough lather, however, to conceal the grimness of his expression. Eaker, who had often enough seen Arnold when he was angry, had seldom seen him this deeply disturbed. Eaker sensed immediately that some kind of serious trou- ble was afoot. Arnold wasted no time telling him what it was.  ‘At lunch yesterday,’’ he said, **I heard the Prime Minister ask our President to discontinue daylight bombing. And he got an agree- ment from the President that your 8th Air Force will join the R.A.F. in night bombing. What do you think of that?’’!6  Arnold knew very well what Eaker would think of it but apparently wanted to hear him express it. Eaker said: ‘*General, that is absurd. It represents complete disaster. It will permit the Luftwaffe to escape. The cross-Channel operation will then fail. And our planes are not equipped for night bombing. Our crews are not trained for it. We'll lose more planes landing on that fog-shrouded island in darkness than we lose now over German targets. The million men standing on the West Wall can go back to work in the factories or make up another sixty divisions for the Russian front. Every time our bombers show on radar, every workman in the Ruhr takes to the shelters. If our leaders are that stupid, count me out. I don’t want any part of such nonsense.””  “*L hoped that would be your reaction,’’ Arnold said. **Of course I know the reasons you’ve given as well as you do, but in my judg- ment, the American Chiefs of Staff will join the British Chiefs in acceding to Churchill’s request. And that will settle it because if Roosevelt accedes, it’ll finish daylight bombing for the 8th Air Force in England. It occurred to me that the only chance we had to get the Prime Minister to change his view was to have you come down and see him. I’ve heard him mention you favorably. If you can’t convince him that w