been joined first by forty Thunderbolts from the U.S. 353rd Fighter Group and then by eighty-five British Spit- fires of R.A.F. Squadrons 129, 222, 303, 316, 331, 332, 403, and 421, which escorted the B-17s west from Antwerp. The British claimed the destruction of four ME-110s and one FW-190 at the cost of two Spitfires.!°  Most of the men in the B-17s could feel the relief when the blue water came into view and their German tormenters disappeared. But for some there were still serious hazards to come. In the 384th Group’s Lucky Thirteen, piloted by Lt. Philip Algar, the gravely wounded waist gunner, S. Sgt. Corwin Miller, was regaining con- sciousness less frequently now, and everyone in the plane knew that without medical care he could hardly survive another hour.!! Whenever he did become conscious, he asked S. Sgt. Schimenek how far they were from home  “‘Just a little while longer,’’ Schimenek kept telling him. **Just a little while longer.”’  As the remnants of the 384th reached the continental coast, Algar, aware of Miller’s condition, asked permission to leave the group and hurry home ahead of it. Adopting a course that Lt. Frank Celentano, his navigator, had already determined was the most direct, Algar pushed his throttles forward as far as he dared. Lucky Thirteen headed out across the water alone.  Within a few minutes, Algar saw fighters ahead, and not knowing whether they were friendly, slid under one of the lead groups for protection. But when he spotted the English shore, he ducked the nose of the plane, opened the throttles even further, and raced for the 384th Group’s base at Grafton-Underwood, about sixty miles north- west of London. He had to get down out of the rarefied atmosphere as quickly as possible because the plane’s oxygen supply was ex- hausted. Schimenek had administered all of it to Miller.  70  When they reached Grafton-Underwood, Algar flew across the end of the field where he could be seen from the control tower and fired a red flare