uns, all manned by steel- workers. When Wehner saw the bombers to prepare to fire, but not to do so unless tl the 8,000-foot maximum range of their gi he watched the planes approach. It seen than 30,000 feet high  Soon the B-17s were overhead and the bearing shop. Balls, rings, and sharp ch through the air. More bombs fell amon glass, collapsing walls, starting fires, : booming, painful noise. Wehner realized  59  greats threat othe Senstive ball and bearing machines, had been  Kept toa minimum,  Dr, Georg Schafer, cipal owner of Kugelfischer and son ofits founder, had gone 1o Bamberg on business and was returning home by train that  was the pi  afternoon  WS and the  talk: about  nis or ve  the bomb ejection  father had beyond re  jecause the al  actory, ey  early inthe wat, hea German newscaster wombed the British ball-bearing center a Chelmsford.” Leaping to his eet, Schafer had shouted fo the radio ‘Shut u  Chelmsford rad. His Americans or bth had remembered Chelmsford all oo  When Schafer reac of inspection, It ooke  ruined, that his pant  when he leamed that Schweinfurt was under attack, ay tation and yards had been demolished, his train stopped about a mile north ofthe city. He ran fom thereto his age, elegant home in the no ther sheler and making certain they were safe, he hurried to his ecting the worst, Schafer had fared for some time that  cher bal  it!” He ha  Shelter be!  A stocky, dynamic, quic-moving man who  onhern suburbs, After finding his family stil in  beating plants would be tacked. One evening nd hs family were listening tothe radio when lans Fritsche said, “Last night our planes  fool! Don't eared the British would get ideas from the fears had been well grounded. Apparently the  his bombed factory, he took oe short tour even worse than he had expected, Going into low his battered office, he sat down in utter  fe was convinced that al his sensitive machinery had been  was us pile of rubble, that the company his  begun an lemption  he bimself h