arriving in Africa at two desolate desert bases—Bone and Telergma—about one hundred miles west of Tunis. The first Schweinfurt bomber crossed the English coast near Felixstowe at 5:31 p.M. The first Regensburg bomber, carrying Colonel LeMay himself, touched down at Te- lergma at 5:28 p.m. It was not LeMay’s first landing in North Africa.  76  73 i)  have stayed at home. Williams believed that with proper practice his bombardiers could greatly increase their accuracy. But how, in cloudy England, could the bombardiers get enough practice to make any difference? It was one of the many problems the 8th Air Force had not yet been able to solve.  As for the horrendous casualties his armada had suffered today, Williams did not yet know the extent of the devastation. He could see only the lead groups. He did know that the 91st and the 381st had been badly hit, and he was not surprised. He had expected the mission to be the most hazardous any American air task force had ever attempted. And despite the losses, which he knew were considerable, he was certain it had been a success. The Germans, though they had sent up every plane they could find, had not been able to turn back the B-17s; they had not been able to shield their precious ball-bearing plants from the bombers; and they now knew there was no place in Germany that the Americans could not reach and attack with rea- sonable accuracy in broad daylight.!5  As the bomber in which he was flying crossed the North Sea, Williams found out he had a more immediate problem. Captain Weitzenfeld informed him they might not have enough fuel to reach the English coast. Pulling out of formation, Weitzenfeld headed for the nearest point of land and slowed up to get the maximum mileage out of what gas he had. The plane was still flying when they crossed the coast near the mouth of the Deben River, north of Felixstowe, but it had only a few more miles left in it if Weitzenfeld could believe his fuel gauges  Williams was in the cockpit wi