two other American bomb- ers. In his haste to get himself ‘out of this mess,”’ he rolled leftward and became aware for the first time of heavy gunfire coming at him from all directions. He heard a drumlike noise behind him, and his stick went dead. An explosion right in front of his face blew away the glass bubble above his head. For a moment he knew panic. Then, acting reflexively as a result of long training, he unfastened his safety belt, bailed out, and pulled his rip cord. Since he had never jumped before, he waited for several seconds with increasing anxiety for something to happen, more and more convinced that his chute was not going to open. Finally it did so, painfully snapping his legs and shoulders.  As the noise of the battle above him receded, giving way to a peaceful and absolute silence, Stedtfeld began to feel he was safe at last. But when he looked downward, he feared there was something wrong with his vision. He saw two burning planes below, but they were blurry. Finally he realized his eyes were covered with blood from a wound in his face. A piece of metal was sticking out of this wound, and another was sticking out of his right hand. He landed ina treetop and had to be helped to earth by a group of farmers who rushed him toa hospital. After the metal had been extracted from his face and hand and he had been ‘‘anesthetized’’ by a few cognacs, Lieutenant Stedtfeld began to realize what a busy introduction to combat he had just experienced. In his first battle he had shot down his first B-17, had been shot down himself, had received his first wound, and had made his first parachute jump. It was, he decided, an occasion to celebrate. He drank more cognac while his face and hand were being bandaged.  Lt. Hans Langer of the Molders Wing Squadron Four approached  303  the day’s battle with some knowledge of what to expect since he had been a combat pilot for a year and a half and had shot down two B-17s in the August 17 defense of Schweinfurt.3 When his