cust, Ul  ns ao below Eaker’s men brought back from encounters with FW-190s and ME- 109s heightened in his mind a concern he had felt for some time about  the range of the American fighter planes now being sent to his Fighter  isace, Oveackrevedin namaing&ch Command. The P-47 Thunderbolts arriving in January had an ex- wen, eae them ide fate, and thy loved in, Bt ikea pected operating range of only 175 miles, which meant they would be fate, Overcome tem get aun. LeMay othe able to escort the bombers no farther than the Spitfires were now oft and, wash ind of an oe old et aod Tas ot going. While Eaker still felt the B-17s could take care of themselves, beau weary this meee hina ons, it was obvious that fighter escorts would make their job easier and cut fe was sotough they ee hin, Ytman ofthe ae credited in their losses.  wih ving theres by fing them to mee his sundas Having been a fighter pilot and commander for most of his career,  glow and Ea, ering ht he sa wer fang below toe of te oh gop, decide  Eaker placed a high value on fighter protection. In the fall of 1941, he had flown the first P-47 to come off the Republic Aviation Company  tet mad, gi, Eke ced pn Cl ak Amst, assembly line on Long Island, New York. And shortly thereafter, neo fis i rial aff members. The previous Aug, when when he was repositioning fighter squadrons in California for the tule deep int Gop, Amsong dake cre Pacific Coast defense, he happened to be at Mines Field, San Diego, it eon the 8h Fre’ it min and son made it the the day the first P-51 Mustang came off the North American Aviation Baber Command be grup. fer he ba ive isons its Company assembly line there. He took advantage of the opportunity cei, Eilers Spon enpracoexethp,a to fly that plane also. He found the Mustang ‘‘the best fighter plane I si“ tacit te opens wh Cone had flown.’’ Though he believed it was “‘somewhat underpowered,”” Atm taste ver comply aces, whe evo ope he assumed that weakness could be corrected by the installa