himself in the same position today since he was in Colonel Milton’s plane as the 91st Group navigator. Thinking back as he looked ahead, Williams had only one thing for which to be thankful: at least he knew the way to Schweinfurt. He would never be able to forget it.'4  The Third Division, led by two units of the exceptionally well- stocked 96th Group, with Colonel Old in command, was fortunate enough to escape the assembly problems of the First Division. Adopt- ing a course parallel to that of the First but ten miles south, the Third crossed the English coastline at 12:25, only five minutes behind schedule. Old, concerned about even this small delay, radioed Ground Control that he might be late for his rendezvous with the 56th Fighter Group’s P-47s at Sas-Van-Gent.  On its route across the Channel, the Third Division encountered a cloud bank at 21,000 feet and for a short time lost one high squadron after its leader was forced to abort; but this squadron soon got back into position, and the entire division was ready for action, with crews at their stations and machine guns tested by short bursts, when, at 1:05 p.M.., it met the forty-eight Thunderbolts that would escort it as far as possible.  Because the First Division was ten minutes late, its escort, fifty Thunderbolts from the 353rd Fighter Group, overtook it in mid- Channel. Both task forces now had an escort, but not for very long. The P-47s were still using a belly tank that didn’t work very well and had a capacity of only seventy-five gallons. They would be able to fly  290  Peaslee had displaced and who was < “‘No, sir,”’ he said. He did not see :  They were now at 20,000 feet and: After one final circle to tighten the ¢ the task force would be moving eastw continent. But Peaslee could not lead in his wing. The lead group was req maximum defensive firepower becau: had been concentrating on frontal ati As the division began its final circle, to fire a signal flare every twenty secc errant 30Sth, but even a