didn’t want the 8th Bomber Command forced out of business after all the work it had done to get into business. He listed for Eisenhower some of the benefits of keeping the 8th in operation Besides reducing the German war effort by attacking important targets, it was attracting the attention of the German Air Force and drawing German fighters away from other fronts. (The implication was that one of those other fronts might be North Africa.) Arnold fell short, however, of asking or demanding that Eisenhower abandon his plan of shutting down the 8th. He asked only that Eaker’s bomber operation be continued until the last possible moment. Arnold knew that Eisenhower’s decisions came from George Marshall, with whom Arnold had once said he would consider himself wrong to disagree  To Eaker, who had repeatedly declared that he considered the North African invasion an unfortunate diversion from the main task of attacking Germany directly, Arnold’s less-than-defiant cable to Eisenhower looked like an open surrender of the 8th. The fact that it might be a reluctant or even necessary surrender by Arnold was no consolation. Eaker talked heatedly to Spaatz about the matter, but Spaatz was at a disadvantage. He had just been chosen as Eisenhow- er’s air commander in Africa. While Spaatz agreed with Eaker that it would be tragic to dissipate the bomber effort against Germany just  151  when it was developing enough force to make an impression, he was also aware that any planes he helped Eaker keep would have to come out of the force he himself was going to need in Africa. Eaker was beginning to feel lonely in his campaign to hold his 8th Bomber Command together. And he had been so outspoken in his arguments he sensed that Eisenhower was becoming annoyed at him.? Despite all this difficulty, one consolation came his way. On September 17, 1942, he was promoted to major general.  Winston Churchill, who had originated the threat to foreclose the th Air Force when he insisted on the Af