bearing factories. Preston had taken this crew to represent the 379th, so they knew better than most of the others what they had to anticipate.  Lt. Philip Algar, a University of California graduate from Mo- desto, was one of the eighteen pilots of the 384th Group waiting to take off from Grafton-Underwood, but he knew very little about the target of the day.!° His crew had received no special training for the Schweinfurt project, and until the aborted mission a week earlier, he had scarcely been aware that Schweinfurt was a ball-bearing center What had impressed him at this morning’s briefing was the distance they were expected to fly today, plus the news that he was scheduled to fly in his group’s ‘‘Tail-end Charley’’ position—low plane, low squadron. He sensed his blood pressure rising at the realization that they would be penetrating so far into Germany without fighter sup- port, but when the man said go, you went. So Algar had performed all his preflight preparations with outward calm, acting, in front of his crew, as if this were just another mission.  At the same time, he was determined to minimize his vulnerability, and the only way he could do that was by making sure the planes in front of him stayed close together, offering him a tight nest on which to affix himself. If the rest of his squadron were to string itself out, he would be virtually alone at the extreme edge of the ‘‘wheel,’’ racing his engine to hold position each time the combat wing made a turn of two or three degrees. In the hope of preventing this problem, he decided to put his fellow pilots on notice. At the end of their briefing, he had warned them, “‘If you don’t stay in formation, I'll go around you.””  Staff Sergeants L. Corwin Miller of Stockton, California, and John F. Schimenek of Superior, Wisconsin, Algar’s waist gunners, spent much of their waiting time arranging their ammunition and checking their machine guns.!! They were pals as well as partners, and today they were switching p