sses could be sustained even if the results were excellent. Recon- naissance photos showed that the Regensburg results were perhaps even better than excellent. The British were astonished by the bomb- ing accuracy of LeMay’s task force. Vice Chief of Air Staff Slessor, ina report to Portal, called it “outstandingly successful. Probably the  t concentration on target yet seen.""!  The photos showed that nearly all the craters were within the  Messerschmitt factory. All six main workshops were destroyed oi badly damaged; also damaged were the final assembly shop, the gun-testing worksho destroyed, and thirty-seven aitcraft—presumably ME- 109s just off the assembly line—seemed to have been damaged by bomb blasts  At Schweinfurt, where the target included five factories and was therefore less concentrated, the results were more difficult to inter- pret. Photos taken directly after the attack were virtually useless because the area was still obscured by smoke and fire, Subsequent photos showed that General Williams's task force had scored eighty direct hits on the two largest factories, Kugelfischer and VKP. An the mission report said bombing results were very good  Considerable damag the Kug  com ings) static resi  hous  the  singl ings, plant Wor  destroyed.  on, also suffered very heavy damage as well as a number o lential areas. . .. At the Kugelfischer Works the power e, a single-story machine shop, a multi-story machine sho and a large group of office buildings and stores received hits. At ichtel & Sachs plant at least two bombs burst directly on a e-story machine shop, with three more on adjoining build-  ge, a large new shop, a boiler house, main store and  ops, plus several other facilities. A hangar was more than half  was inflicted on a number of buildings of fischer Works (ball bearings), Fichtel & Sachs (aircraft onents) and the Vereingte Kugellager Fabriken (ball bear- Works | and Il. Communications, including the main railway  Direct hits were scored on tw