sent out its bombers. It would become perilously crowded if the 8th Air Force were to begin sending its fleets up into the dark skies at the same time. On the other hand, congestion would never become an unmanageable problem if the R.A.F. were to continue its night raids while the A.A.F. limited itself to the daytime.  Harris believed the air-space congestion could be handled in either case. And he spoke eagerly of the possibility that combined British- American armadas of a thousand planes a night, even two thousand, might soon be visiting devastation on the Nazis. When Eaker would remind him again that his B-17 crews were not trained for night operations, he would insist that they could be trained  But what of the B-17 itself, which was designed and equipped for  110  Chan cleric  Ea recep the A of wi staff there who troub home his lz Harri  Or facili with pleas miles  La rene\ acqui eratic mark The: bette soun: movi  He knew grow gene’ men lowe done  Af spen: room show R.A.  daytime operations? It would be a waste of all that armament and all that extra equipment to use the plane at night.  On the subject of the Flying Fortress, Harris tried to be tactful. He knew it was going to be the basic heavy bomber of the 8th Air Force, and therefore he couldn’t dismiss it as if it had no merit. In fact, he believed it had some very good features. He wished his R.A.F bombers were armed with its .50-caliber machine guns, for instance, instead of the .30-caliber ‘‘pea shooters’’ with which they had to face the German night fighters. But despite all the B-17’s merits, he and most other British air experts had grave reservations about it.  The previous October 30, Air Vice Marshal R. H. Peck, one of Portal’s deputies, wrote a letter to Air Vice Marshal Robert Saundby at Bomber Command that illustrated the then-current R.A.F. attitude toward the B-17. :  “A pernicious article has appeared in a recent issue of the ‘Satur- day Evening Post’ in America,’ Peck wrote to Saundby. ‘‘I