not easily perturbed, he remained surprisingly calm during the long wait, giving no evidence that he was worried about the time lag. He conferred only a few times with General Anderson.? They had talked often enough in recent days; they both knew what they wanted to do and what it would take to be able to do it.  cancellation.  24  Since the early hours of August 17, long before the Regensburg task force got off the ground, tension had been mounting at the 8th Air Force Bomber Command headquarters (code-named Pinetree) near High Wycombe. Through the night the fog had continued to deepen all over eastern England, threatening cancellation of this most ambi- tious and carefully planned American operation to date  At Pinetree, the heaviest pressure bore down upon thirty-eight- year-old Brig. Gen. Fred Anderson, who had arrived in England only six months earlier and had been in charge of Bomber Command for only two months. Anderson was an amiable, efficient West Point graduate who had taken flight training and won his pilot’s wings at Kelly Field, San Antonio, in the same 1929 class as Curtis LeMay Later Anderson had contracted tuberculosis after a plane he was flying lost its engine and crashed into the cold waters of San Francis- co Bay. For a time he was in danger of being separated from the service, but after a remarkable recovery, he continued his career and became a specialist in aerial bombing.  Anderson, like many other American generals at this stage of the war, had never held an important combat command. He had, how-  23  ever, supervised bombardier instruction at the Air Corps Technical School, and he had been deputy director of bombardment at Air Force headquarters in Washington. Today he was facing the most important and difficult operational decision he had ever been called upon to make  Since mid-July, General Anderson and his superior, General Eaker, had held this operation in abeyance, waiting for clear weather over central Germany so that the bombardier