roduction and in training for at least a substantial part of their offensive to be by night bombing?  On the production side, neither the B-17 nor the B-24 appear to be ideal night bombers and the obvious course of action would seem to be that they should build a very large number of Lan- casters.  Slessor’s reaction to Portal’s note came within hours, and it was entirely negative. Always an outspoken man, Slessor was as vigorous in disagreeing with the Chief of Air Staff as with the Secretary of State for Air. He attached a copy of his reply to Sinclair, then enlarged upon it in his response to Portal:  Perhaps I am unduly optimistic, but I have always felt that when we get large numbers of bombers we shall be able to go in by day. I think if the Germans in the Battle of Britain, even with the same number, had had aircraft with the performance, armour, armament and precision bomb-sights of the B-17, the answer might have been very different  I have talked about this a great deal to Spaatz and to others of my American friends. They are, I think, a bit unwarrantably cock- ahoop as a result of their limited experience to date. But they are setting about it in a realistic and business-like way . . . And mak- ing all allowances for their natural optimism, I have a feeling they will do it.  I think it can be said with certainty that no large scale training for night bombing is contemplated and they have not really thought out what they would do if they find the day policy is not practic- able. They have hung their hats on the day bomber policy and are convinced they can do it. And I think to cast doubts on it just at present would only cause irritation and make them very obstinate.  Slessor’s pro-American attitude, instead of convincing Portal, appalled him. And the fact that Slessor had written a long letter impressing this attitude upon Sinclair (their official channel to Chur- chill) was so alarming that on the following day (September 27) Portal himself wrote a lette