s to break off when the flak began, but they kept coming. He had never encoun- tered braver men than these German pilots.  Despite fighters and flak, the bomb run of the 40th was quite satisfactory. Peaslee was pleased as pilot McLaughlin, once more in control of the plane, banked to the right in the direction of the rally point. On the radio, Peaslee sent a two-word message back to En- gland: ‘Primary bombed.”’  When the 379th Group brought the 41st CBW to the target, smoke was rising but lead-plane bombardier Millson had no difficulty seeing the factories. His approach was precisely as he wanted it. At the very moment he released his bombs, a burst of flak hit the side of the plane, its shrapnel sounding like hailstones on a tin roof  “Bombs away!’’ Millson shouted. ‘‘Let’s get the hell out of here!””  As they turned from the target, fifteen FW-190s dropped out of the sun ‘‘in an unannounced attack.”’ Millson heard the sharp crack of a bursting 20-mm. shell behind him. He whirled around, half expect- ing to find that the navigator, Capt. Joe Wall, had been hit, but Wall, with a grin on his face, was pointing to a pile of tattered shreds on the  307  floor. It was Millson’s parachute, which had taken the full impact of the bursting shell. No more than a ruined remnant now, it couldn’t possibly save his life if he had to bail out. On the other hand, it had already saved his life, and Wall’s also, by absorbing the shell explosion.  Another Fortress in the 379th was less fortunate than Millson’s when the FW-190s attacked. An overly daring German pilot mis- judged his frontal approach and collided with the bomber. The 550-mile-an-hour combined speed of the two planes coming together was so great that they both immediately disintegrated.  After the First Division had dropped its bombs and cleared the target, the German attacks diminished (though they did not end) and the men in the surviving planes began to look around at the damage. Lt. Richard Wolf of the 384th Group,