sion- rate for a man-On-the-run  lone. The very size o  ¢ Chaney did not forbi  any day could be hs ast slowly. Amold was nota  and Baker had been associate ter a week in England, Eaker st would be, It was about time  with him long enough to till didn’t know where his to decide,  aris agreed that their command centers shouldbe as close together as possible, not over five  miles apart to facilitate  liaison, They and ther staffs would have to  staff out to search the nearby iccommodate them,  leal-looking place—a girls’ bey, about four miles from R.  Wycombe. Linden trees lined  ting it  “Wetrie  106  ey reported back that they ha  . Wycombe Abbey was a large, white-stone, castlelike enough smaller structures to house four hundred men, landscaped knoll a mile anda half south of the  ave daily conferences to 1 those operations were fo  countryside for buildings  boarding schoo! calle AF. Bomber Comman  its walks and driveways which a few swans an  to gett ourselves,” hesaid, “but we failed, The girlsin  By this time there was an additional 2rs site because more officers were er’s staff.  ‘epresentative came to talk about the wo days later, two others came. For ed. Finally, the Ministry man an- tty could not be made available. He rvey and find another site.  ired of the subject but more than ever “We’ve already made a survey,’’ he buildings close to R.A.F. Bomber sdate us.”’  y man explained, ‘‘a lot of girls from ada, are in that school. And we have 2nd them home because of the sub-  might be places to keep these girls f you’re more interested in educating iis war,”” he said, *‘I’m glad you told  was highly valued, these were strong t’s putting it harshly ,’’ the man said, ) my people again.””  d that Wycombe Abbey would be his ‘haney may have been displeased, he made the move that virtually pulled * commander.  n Chaney were developing strains is with Marshal Harris became ever ne of his initial promises, had said to ve you a small [office] staff since you *m going t