other American prisc been nagging him for a chance to be airborne rather than chairborne ‘The group did not welcome Castle when he arrived. Many of the men  277  were cynical, not only about their chances of survival but also about the prospect of being commanded by a desk officer. Before the end of July, Castle had turned that feeling around by personally leading the 94th, plus thirteen planes from the 388th, on a mission against a Focke-Wulf fighter plant at Oschersleben. The clouds were so heavy no other groups could even find the target, but Castle’s planes broke through a small opening and bombed so effectively that reconnais- sance photos indicated a whole month’s production, perhaps fifty FW-190s, had been lost. Thereupon, life had become easier for Castle at Bury St. Edmunds. He had won a lot of respect, and the 94th Group records were steadily improving.  Lt. Ted Winslow, the 91st Group bombardier who had been shot down in Belgium August 17 and had broken his leg parachuting into a beet field, was still at large in early October, protected by members of the Belgian underground.'!7? The day after he landed, a doctor had come to the farm where he was hidden and had set his leg. Whenever the farmer heard motorcycle sounds, indicating the German police might be coming, his two daughters jumped into bed with Winslow, one on each side, tenting up the covers to make it look as if they were the only ones in the bed.  After three days Winslow had been taken to another house, then another in the town of Flobecque. The man there, fearing Winslow might be a German posing as an American, asked him where he was from in the United States. Winslow said Springfield, Massachusetts. What was the population there? Winslow wasn’t sure, but he had better come close because the man was looking it up in an atlas. Winslow said, ‘‘About 100,000.”’ It was close enough to satisfy the man. (He must have had an old atlas. The 1940 population of Springfield was actually 148,000.)  Eventu