ard Koblenz. Fortresses have just crossed the border at 23,000 feet.’*  The possibility that he might at last see action hit Stedtfeld ‘‘like an electric shock,’’ and his excitement grew as he and his comrades pushed their throttles forward to gain altitude. Were they actually going to meet the Americans at last? Several times during the previ- ous month or so they had taken off to chase the Fortresses, but not since August 17, before Stedtfeld joined his group, had the big bombers come far enough east for Munich-based fighters to catch them. Something different was happening today, however. The  301  number of German squadrons in the air around Stedtfeld, bombers as well as fighters, all moving north, told him that Central Defense Command was expecting a deep penetration.  The feelings that surged through him included little or no fear because his anticipation was blocking it out. For more than four years he had been looking forward to combat, and for more than a month he had been impatiently expecting it. Today he was convinced that “*something very big’’ lay ahead.  Over the radio came another order. All units were to change to the same frequency. When they did, they heard the cool voice of an air commander (perhaps a general, though Stedtfeld could not identify him) who was cruising above the battle telling at least a dozen squadrons where to go, how to position themselves, when to attack.  Near Koblenz, within sight of the Rhine River, flying at 23,000 feet and still climbing, Stedtfeld and the other pilots in the Fifth Squadron got their first glimpse of B-17s when one of them exploded several miles ahead. Moments later he saw his first ‘*big box of Forts flying close together,’’ and a few minutes after that his squadron was flying directly parallel to them, side by side though at a safe distance, in compliance with a radio order to gain more altitude before attack- ing. As Stedtfeld passed the Fortresses and rose above them, he saw other units attacking them.