did not expect it to fly much farther. Yet they continued firing at the onrushing Germans. The radio operator-gunner, Sgt Delmar Kaech, who was on his fifth mission since transferring in June from the Canadian to the U.S. Air Force, had brought a double supply of ammunition aboard this morning when he learned that the day’s target was Schweinfurt.'3 He now had plenty of time to use it because the plane’s entire communications system had been shot out,  leaving him no radio to operate. He was firing his gun when he noticed that Sgt. H. K. Michaud, the ball-turret gunner, had been killed. As Kaech was trying to get Michaud’s body out of the turret, word came back from Arcaro that the plane was no longer fliable. By the time Kaech groped his way back to the radio compartment where he had left his parachute, the plane was in a dive. He put on the chute as best he could, went ont the hatch, and pulled his rip-cord as soon as he had fallen clear of the plunging bomber. Unfortunately, he’d had only enough time to get one leg into the harness, part of which was also still unhooked. When the chute opened, the jolt twisted and dislocated one of his vertebrae, sending him to earth with his back in pain, but he had little time to think about that. He was holding on for dear life to his unfastened harness  When Lt. Hans Langer and his comrades in 2 Gruppe Jagdge- schwader 51 caught up to the Fortresses, the bombers were already east of Frankfurt. Langer’s group, after taking off from Neubiberg near Munich, had been vectored toward Frankfurt, which German Homeland Defense officials considered the probable target right up to the moment the bombers began passing it. They now expected Schweinfurt to be the target.  Langer, like most German pilots, knew enough about the Schwein- furt plants to realize their importance; and when he saw the masses of American bombers heading eastward, he felt certain they were going there. He and his group, deciding on a twelve o’clock attack, sped aro