orce began crossing the English coast, the Germans already knew its size and direction. The one thing they didn’t yet know was its final destination. By 12:50, when the First Division crossed the Dutch coast, German planes from such bases as Antwerp and Abbeville were in the air to meet them.  Over the Walcheren Islands, twenty of these planes, all ME-109s, attacked, at 32,000 feet, the fifty P-47s of the U.S. 353rd Fighter Group under the command of Maj. Glenn E. Duncan. The second battle of Schweinfurt had now begun. These first German planes ignored the American bombers and concentrated on the fighters in an apparent attempt to break up the escort and send it home immediately rather than wait until its short range forced it to go home. This attempt failed. After a series of dogfights above the bombers, the ME-109s had managed to knock down only one P-47. The American pilots claimed ten Germans. Many of these were undoubtedly duplicates, but the Thunderbolts had proven that they would not be driven away until they ran short of gas.  Some of the early German pilots in the air were not so quick to attack. Lt. Heinz Knoke and his eleven ME-109s of the Fifth Squad- ron, 11 Gruppe Jagdgeschwader 2, out of Jever, approached the First Division over Antwerp. But because the Fortresses were still accom- panied by fighters and because Knoke’s planes were carrying wing rockets that restricted their speed, he merely followed the American armada without getting too close.!7 He could afford to be patient. He knew the fighter escort would have to turn back near Aachen.  As the big bombers cruised across Belgium at 150 miles an hour with the protective fighters overhead, there were so few German  292  no further than the Aachen area, which was exactly where the B-17s had lost their escorts on the August 17 mission.  At General Eaker’s 8th Air Force headquarters in Bushy Park, he could do nothing but sit stewing in his office as his bombers invaded Germany.!5 Once again he had fou