ging remarks about U.S. airplanes an unfortunate situation developing in the 306th Group at Thurleigh. smerican manufacturers visiting London.’ One of these The very popular commander of this unit, Col. Charles ‘‘Chip’’ ‘tea had returned home to proclaim that the B-17 was Overacker, was so solicitous of his men that their discipline began to ¢ min Combat in Europe and that the Lancaster was a better suffer. Since the group’s performance on missions was also below | ball: Campaign to convert the Americans to the night- average, the disciplinary shortcomings were looked upon as a prob- slttinmigiy aster was still in progress, and Eaker resented it. *‘This able cause. Unlike some other commanders, Colonel LeMay, for temple ai na isefield talking,’’ he wrote to Arnold. He was referring instance, Overacker believed in maintaining a close rapport with his } field, the London Times aeronautical correspondent men. He treated them like a father, and they loved him. But like a id, ‘‘represents the M.A.P. view of British aircraft.’’ father, Overacker sometimes let them get around him. LeMay, on the asefield and the M.A.P. of misleading the Americans. other hand, was the kind of man no one could get around. It was not British manufacturers are thumping the drum for their because he was a nice guy that his men referred to him as ‘Iron Ass.”’ *’ he concluded. ‘‘The British operational people have He was so tough they feared him. Yet many of them later credited him 4 with saving their lives by forcing them to meet his standards. Longfellow and Eaker, perceiving that the standards of the 306th were falling below those of the other groups, decided a change would have to be made. Again, Eaker called upon Col. Frank Armstrong, 7 { ids eal, tted. But he discovered how highly they regarded his one of his six original staff members. The previous August, when ks iy ii ui rity and discretion when he received a visit from an troubles developed in the 97th Group, Armstrong had taken charge o