ged.  At the plants, the workers reappeared and numbly began clearing away debris and searching for possible victims. Destruction was so widespread that none of the factories looked as if it would operate again for a long time. Kugelfischer’s Leo Wehner came down from his rooftop gun post and walked through the grounds, inspecting the damage. In one shelter, nineteen people lay dead. A wall had col- lapsed after a direct hit. In many of the buildings there might be other victims, but if so it would take time to find them. At least twenty bombs had scored direct hits on important structures. Wehner noticed one thing with some satisfaction, however. Fire, which posed the  60  capacity. The people on the day shift we machines when the air-raid sirens began t P.M. The people of Schweinfurt had only the possibility that they might actually be fifty-thousand people, was so small and s British night bombers were not likely eve can day bombers would have to overcor fighters to reach it. Nevertheless, in mid had been set up on the roofs of the plants city.23  The chief of Schweinfurt’s Air Defen: now alerted the antiaircraft crews, the brigade of men assigned to ignite smoke f the ball-bearing factories. Air-raid ward: over town herded people to the less-than-: their way to the shelters, residents could approaching from the southwest, their sil the bright sunlight.  The flak batteries south of the city bega the skies around the bombers with smoke 88-mm. and 105-mm. guns, easily capal the B-17 altitudes of 17,000 to 20,000 fe roofs were smaller, 20-mm. cannon, able they dropped lower for their bomb runs  Leo Wehner, a Kugelfischer employe lieutenant in charge of the factory’s antiz command post on the roof of its largest bu crews there.?4 At various locations aroun: he had nine guns, all manned by steel- workers. When Wehner saw the bombers to prepare to fire, but not to do so unless tl the 8,000-foot maximum range of their gi he watched the planes approach. It seen than 30,0