London May 13 to look at what the 8th Air Force was doing. Eaker was ready for Lovett, meeting him at the train when he arrived from Prestwick (the weather prevented flying between Scotland and Eng- land that day) and moving him right into his own Castle Coombe home for the duration of his stay. The general had also prepared his staff and his wing and group commanders for the Secretary’s arri- val.!2 On each base he visited, Lovett was told first by the comman- ders, then by fighter pilots and bomber crews, one after another, that they had to have long-range fighters. Though many of them spoke about the newly improved P-51, of which they were beginning to hear rumors, theiz more practical hopes centered on getting suitable aux- iliary tanks and other improvements for their P-47s.  When Lovett returned to Washington, he wrote two memoranda to General Arnold (June 18 and 19) setting forth his appraisal of the 8th Air Force and its needs on the basis of what he had seen and what he had been told. These memoranda, which were to have a significant effect on the future development of the air war in Europe, reflected the prevalent attitudes of Eaker and his men in May 1943.  Lovett began his first memo by pointing out that he had visited all the fighter groups and talked to ‘‘a large proportion’’ of the fighter pilots, of which there were now more than one hundred in General Hunter’s Fighter Command. !3 They had given Lovett a precise com- parison between their P-47s and the FW-190s and ME-109s, which they had begun battling above the Channel and the continental coastal region. The P-47, they said, was ‘‘faster than the Focke-Wulf at altitude and in the dive,’’ but it was inferior ‘‘in rate of climb, angle of climb, search vision, and simplicity of control.’ They believed they had an edge on the FW-190 ‘‘in firepower and in any combat where they start with an initial height advantage.”’  At the time of Lovett’s visit, the P-47s had experienced very limited contact with the