g man, at having to leave the 8th Air Force just when it’s achieving its maximum effect in the war effort. But as for your new assignment, I want to remind you that we’re entrusting to you two of our favorite British units, the Balkan Air Force and the Desert Air Force. If we didn’t have great faith in you we wouldn’t put them under your charge. You’ll also have the R.A.F. Coastal Command, the French air forces, and your own very considerable Twelfth and Fifteenth Air Forces. All in all it will be a much larger command, with more responsibilities, than you had in the United Kingdom.  Eaker had not thought of his new job in such terms. He appreciated the Prime Minister’s kind observations. They talked for a half-hour, and then the general prepared to leave.  Churchill had one parting remark. Reminding Eaker of their previ- ous meeting here, he said: *“This gives me an occasion to tell you that your representations to me at that time have been more than verified. Around-the-clock bombing is now achieving the results you predicted.”’  It was an acknowledgment that meant much to Eaker. He thanked the Prime Minister and returned to his plane for the rest of the journey to his new command. He felt better now.  348  Eisenhower confidante Harry C. Butcher records that while the general was eating breakfast December 29, 1943, he received a message from Marshall about reassignments of commanders. The message was that Eisenhower was to get ‘‘everything you wanted.’’? Spaatz and Doolittle were included in what he wanted  Eaker’s British friends were so sympathetic they scheduled a farewell dinner in his honor for New Year’s Eve. That afternoon at 6:00 P.M., a messenger on motorcycle came to his house with a note which said that a ‘‘Colonel Holt’’ would like to see him on his way to his new assignment. Who was Colonel Holt? Eaker had never heard of him, but after talking to Sir Charles Portal, he decided he would stop and see the man on his way to the Mediterranean  More than tw