Air Force operations from those of other theaters,’’ he declared in one of his memos to Arnold, ‘‘is the extremely high proportion of battle damage resulting from combat with the best of the German fighters.’’!9 Battle damage and repair difficulties were almost as effective as the British weather in keeping  221  the big bombers on the ground. If the maintenance and repair prob- lems could be solved satisfactorily, Arnold might gradually forget his determination to have Longfellow replaced.  Eaker, while reluctant to lose Longfellow, was now becoming almost eager to lose his fighter commander, Brig. Gen. Frank Hunt- er, whose dismissal Arnold had never suggested. Eaker had de- veloped a truly substantive problem with Hunter. In fact he was having almost as much trouble with his fighter commander as he was with his less-than-adequate P-47 fighter planes. He and Hunter pro- foundly disagreed about the best use of fighters. Hunter, a World War I fighter pilot and a highly respected tactician, believed the most effective tactic for fighters was to sweep an area and clear out the opposition, thus enabling the bombers to fly through unmolested. Eaker, though once a fighter man himself, was now so much con- cerned about his bombers that he believed the fighters should accom- pany them in close formation, above, to each side, and below, in an effort to hold off the Germans en route to and from the target.20  Eaker’s argument was slightly hampered by the fact that the P-47s available to them lacked the range to penetrate more than a few miles into the continent. But even though this fighter couldn’t go all the way with the bombers, he insisted that if Hunter and his pilots would change their policies they could go much farther than they were presently going. The plane’s range was supposed to be 300 to 400 miles with the 200-gallon drop-tanks Eaker had got from the States. This range took into account the high use during formation flying, at least twenty minutes for actual co