look for another field, so he decided to try the grass  Plotting a wide traffic pattern because he had neither the engine power nor the controls for normal turns, Judy, with Layn’s help, brought the plane around again. Sergeant Cherry, watching their approach from the copilot’s seat, could see sizable holes and ruts on the ground ahead of them and doubted whether Judy would be able to land without crashing. But Judy had no choice. Aiming at what looked like the smoothest possible path down the green field, he settled the plane onto the grass. The wheels held. And if the ball- turret guns scraped the ground, the plane showed no sign of it. Hitting evenly, it sped down the field while Judy applied all his muscle to the brake. Cherry felt certain they would crash at the end of the field, but finally, with only a few feet left, Judy brought the plane to a stop. When he later inspected it, he found approximately five hundred bullet and shell holes in it.  The Schweinfurt mission commander, Gen. Robert Williams, flying in a plane piloted by Capt. Richard Weitzenfeld, had spent much of his time during the flight firing the bombardier’s machine gun at German fighters. But eventually the barrel of that gun had burned out and Williams began to brood about a problem that had disturbed him when they were over the target. From what he had seen, he wasn’t satisfied that his bombardiers were as accurate as they might be. They weren’t bad, but with more training, more practice, they could be better. If a man accepted the American concept of daylight pinpoint bombing of military targets, he had to admit that any bomber which missed its target, by even a few feet, might as well  74  their inflated dinghies when the R.A.F. . havestiyedathome, Willams believed tht with proper pratc his soon as the plane’s fuel tanks were filled, they took off again for the  hour and twenty minutes later. The loss of bombardiers could greatly increase their accuracy, But how, in 91st Group’s base at Bas