due time a pair of Spitfires popped up through the clouds and signaled them to follow. During the descent, Downs had to take over because the clouds required instrument flight. With his good left hand on the yoke and good left foot on the rudder pedal he could manage the gentle moves that were necessary since McFann was handling the throttles. But would the injured copilot have the strength to land the plane?  Their Spitfire escort led them out of the overcast at 2,000 feet and directly to Ford Field, a fighter base in Sussex. Edelstein, standing between Downs and McFann, called out the air speeds as they descended toward the runway. Over the treetops they dropped to 120, 110, then 105 miles per hour. Downs could feel the plane shudder as if about to stall and crash. He needed more gas and he needed it quickly, but he failed in his attempt to convey this need to McFann, whose hand was on the throttles. Finally, despite his pain, Downs  321  raised his wounded right arm and pushed McFann’s hand forward. The three operating engines roared, the plane cleared the trees, and Downs dumped the nose slightly to pick up more air speed. As the big bomber settled toward the ground and McFann brought the throttles all the way back, Downs tried to pull the yoke toward his belly for a tail-low landing, but he didn’t have the strength. McFann, sensing what he wanted to do, did it for him, and the B-17 hit the ground, roughly but safely  A 94th Group Fortress flown by Lt. Joseph Brennan had lost two engines after several encounters with fighters and flak, but it was still flying proudly as it approached the English Channel just above treetop level. Then one more in a series of flak bursts hit it and nocked out its third engine. Could a B-17 with full crew fly on one engine? Brennan and his men were determined to find out. To help it fly on two engines they had discarded everything in it that was unattached. Now, to help it fly on one, they detached and jettisoned every fixture they