s came in mostly from the rear, between five o’clock and seven o’clock level, to a range of fifteen hundred or a thousand yards, whereupon they would lob their shells or rockets into the formations.  Some of the single-engine fighters also carried rockets. These included Lt. Heinz Knoke’s squadron of eleven ME-109s, which had been following the B-17s since they passed over Antwerp. Ready now to attack, Knoke, with his comrades behind him, closed in on the First Division from the rear. Before he had a chance to fire either of his rockets, a Fortress gunner hit the underside of his left wing,  298  morning. He hadn’t dreamed of leading the Peaslee had ordered him to the front, he had no for something positive to distract him from the fighters, he glanced up at the sun and thought t we've got perfect weather. Too good a day accomplishing something.’’ But beneath this rat beginning to wonder if he would be going hon For several minutes after the P-47s departe commanding the First Division and 40th CBW f the 92nd Group, watched the skies around him fighters and wondered in dread when they woul Then, as he stared straight ahead, he saw a seri recognized as the reports of 20-mm. cannon. Ar planes were rushing toward his formation at clo than five hundred miles an hour. As they vv downward at the last possible second, he wond them, approaching head-on, could avoid collisic deserved some credit for this performance bec attempt to dodge. If they were to do so, they 1 fighters’ paths rather than away from them. After the shock of the first attack, Peaslee tal the copilot, who was his rear gunner, and learne fallen although two were smoking and one se back. The attacks resumed, and Peaslee’s ear almost constant machine-gun fire. On the radic men for wasting ammunition with such long t them they had hundreds of miles yet to go—if tl German attack, he decided, was the finest he ha ingly well coordinated. The timing and technic While these thoughts raced through his head, from the