whizzing past.  When Schafer react _ out how much damage had been done. Layn discovered that the entire In the cockpit, Lieutenant Judy was waging a desperate battle with of inspection. It looke« _ plane was riddled; several small fires were burning, and electrical his damaged controls, and it was beginning to look as if he might win. the bomb shelter bel« — sparks were jumping from the broken ends of the battery cables. The besieged Fortress continued to fly : dejection. He wascony — When he reported to Judy, they agreed the time had come to abandon Among the German pilots attacking the B-17s was Lt. Hans  ruined, that his plant \ ship. Judy had also noticed the rudder and elevator cables were father had begun and __ severely damaged and the aileron trim tabs were jammed in the “up” beyond redemption. sition. With the partial controls left to him, it was doubtful that he could keep the plane in level flight much longer: Layn again went to the rear to make sure the crew members bailed out safely. Lts. Edward DeCoster and Lewis Allen (the navigator and bombardier) dropped through the nose hatch, and all the enlisted men escaped without difficulty except T. Sgt. Earl Cherry, the engineer, who could not jump for two reasons: he had been badly injured in one foot, and his parachute had burned in one of the fires: When Layn reported the situation to Judy, the pilot decided there was only one course. Rather than doom Sergeant Cherry to certain death, he would try to get the ship back to England. But there was no need for all three of them to die. Lieutenant Layn, he said, was free to bail out or stay,  Langer of 2 Gruppe Jagdgeschwader 51 , who had brought down two of the big bombers on their way to the target. Langer was not so fortunate this time. Taking off from Frankfurt where he had refueled and rearmed, he attached himself to the first unit he could find in the air since his own unit was scattered. With two other planes he made two passes at the returning Fortresses