on his right; too this composite hig not possibly give high group was n in tighter, but he cluded six planes such heavy losses was determined t planes go downn high group remai  Preston’s fears high squadron of from the rear. Th when it hit the gi  Five minutes I:  By this time, Eagle’s Wrath was shredded with holes and its crew members did not expect it to fly much farther. Yet they continued iring at the onrushing Germans. The radio operator-gunner, Sgt.  elmar Kaech, who was on his fifth mission since transferring in  June from the Canadian to the U.S. Air Force, had brought a double supply of ammunition aboard this morning when he learned that the day's target was Schweinfurt.!3 He now had plenty of time to use it ecause the plane's entire communications system had been shot out, leaving him no radio to operate. He was firing his gun when he noticed that Sgt. H. K. Michaud, the ball-turret gunner, had been killed. As Kaech was trying to get Michaud’s body out of the turret, word came back from Arcaro that the plane was no longer fliable. By the time Kaech groped his way back to the radio compartment where ad left his parachute, the plane was in a dive. He put on the chute as best he could, went ont the hatch, and pulled his rip-cord as soon as e had fallen clear of the plunging bomber. Unfortunately, he’d had only enough time to get one leg into the harness, part of which was also still unhooked. When the chute opened, the jolt twisted and dislocated one of his vertebrae, sending him to earth with his back in ain, but he had little time to think about that. He was holding on for dear life to his unfastened harness  When Lt. Hans Langer and his comrades in 2 Gruppe Jagdge- schwader 51 caught up to the Fortresses, the bombers were already east of Frankfurt. Langer’s group, after taking off from Neubiberg near Munich, had been vectored toward Frankfurt, which German Homeland Defense officials considered the probable target right up to the moment the bombers began p