nd may not by itself have brought down any of the bombers, but it had punctured many of them with shrapnel. Some of the German fighters were using the clouds as cover, darting out for sudden attacks, then back in before the B-17 gunners had time to react. The German guns were so accurate and the assault so persistent that the men in the Flying Fortresses began to realize they were in the most critical situation they had ever faced They hadn’t even penetrated as far as Frankfurt and their planes were falling in such numbers that they had left a trail of wreckage across western Europe. On some previous missions they had taken severe losses but never at this rate. Most important, never had the German fighters and antiaircraft guns been able to turn them back short of the target. Never before, however, had they attacked so ferociously. With the battle continuing at this intensity, the B-17 crews could no longer ignore the possibility of total annihilation  The lead group, the 91st, had suffered only a few rocket attacks, but it was bearing the brunt of the mass attacks by ME-109s and FW-190s. They approached in line astern, sometimes twenty-five strong, from twelve o’clock high or level, while smaller packs of three to eight kept pecking from the rear or from below  One plane in the 91st, Eagle’s Wrath, piloted by Lt. Anthony Arcaro of Brooklyn, had been under constant attack from Antwerp to Frankfurt. As soon as the bomber showed signs of damage, ME-109s singled it out and besieged it four at a time from such close range that on one occasion Arcaro expected a collision. An exceptionally daring German pilot went into a roll after emptying his guns and crossed the nose of the B-17 upside down, so close that Arcaro could stare into his face.  50  to go off either on contact or after a fixed time, exploded in quick succession—pomp! pomp! pomp!—close enough to put holes in the side of the plane but just far enough from Algar to leave him unscathed.  The 384th, in the coffin