lay right into Germany’s hands. . . . It is imperative, if we hope to win the war, . . . to concentrate our air power against the enemy’s weakest spots.”’  Harris asked the Prime Minister to give him command of all the British bombers now in the Coastal Command and in the Middle East and to get ‘‘every possible bomber from the United States’’ for a campaign of devastation against all important German cities.  Spaatz and Eaker would go a long way toward sharing Harris’s views, but with the modification that such a campaign would be more successful in the daytime against crucial targets. Spaatz was so confident about day bombing that when he was in England as an observer during the Battle of Britain, he had told newsman Drew Middleton, ‘“The British are winning. They forced them [the Ger- mans] to bomb at night. The Germans won’t beat them that way.’”!  134  executive officer there at the time and Colonel ‘‘Hap’’ Arnold was the commandant. Arnold had been in France only a few months during the war, but Spaatz had been there for a year and a half, as commander of a flying school. Near the end of the war he joined a fighter group and shot down three German planes.  Because of the general demobilization at the end of World War I, the most important job Arnold, Spaatz, and Eaker had to do at Rockwell Field was to reduce the garrison from about four thousand to four hundred men. Eaker was ready to get on with the job im- mediately in the most direct possible way, by resigning his own commission, but the other two talked him out of it. The friendship among the three men, which began at Rockwell, had continued through the years. Eaker, after two years of study under Air Corps auspices at Columbia University Law School, served under Arnold in 1924, when Arnold was Air Corps Chief of Information. Eaker served with Spaatz on the Air Staff from 1925 to 1927, and in 1929, when Eaker was chief pilot on the Question Mark endurance flight, Spaatz, who was five years his senior, comm