t did not represent the ruling attitude in the R.A.F. He was also making it clear that the Americans had not yet seen the end of the British resistance to daylight bombing.  Spaatz and Eaker were aware that some high British authorities were less enchanted by the early successes of the 8th Bomber Com- mand than the press and public seemed to be, but the two American commanders knew nothing about this ominous exchange of views between Sinclair, Slessor, and Portal. Indeed, Spaatz and Eaker had begun to think British opposition to American policy was softening because of the apparent success of the Flying Fortress. They knew, however, that the British would not be fully convinced until Fortress- es in significant numbers could penetrate Germany’s West Wall defenses, drop bombs on important targets, and return home without prohibitive losses.  Though Eaker was destined within less than three months to lose three groups (97th, 301st, and 93rd) to the African invasion, plus a fourth scheduled for England but diverted directly to Africa, he was at the same time receiving four other groups from the States. The ground echelon of the 306th reached its base at Thurleigh, six miles north of Bedford, September 6, and the air echelon flew in a week later.  Construction of barracks and other facilities was not yet completed when the 306th arrived at Thurleigh under the command of Col. Charles B. ‘‘Chips’’ Overacker. The place was in such a mess that  158  Tentirely agre able to pick off : by day would ¢ serious doubts t whether the Ar particularly dub  First, althoug when you are 1 matter when yo flaks.. ..  Secondly, the when unescorte: the American fi have 200 miles involve 700 mi with uncontroll defend themsely the ammunition  My own prop able to get as fa ties than we no They will in eff will ever be abl perhaps Hambu  On the other t had a force of 3 erly trained for1 could pulverize power of Germ morale of the C  In a slight con Sinclair he agreec ‘confining thems: going off