eminded him of one of the key arguments that had sold the U.S. Congress on providing lend-lease aid for besieged countries like Britain and Russia. Congress had been persuaded partly by the assurance that lend-lease arrangements, while furnishing planes to other countries, would be building production capacity against the time when the United States would also need military aircraft. That time had come, and the American people wanted an American Air Force now. They wanted quick action in Europe just as much as Mr Churchill wanted it. But how could the American Air Force be built up if at the same time American production had to meet all the cur- rent needs of Australia, China, Russia, Great Britain, and the U.S Navy?  In subsequent conversations at staff level, when specific aircraft quotas were under discussion, Admiral Towers, speaking for the U.S. Navy, declared that too few transport planes were being built The Navy, he pointed out, was sacrificing production of some capital ships because the need for cargo ships and planes was so great. He Suggested it would be in the best interests of both nations if the Boeing plant in Long Beach, California, which was producing sixty Flying Fortresses a month, were converted to the production of large transports. Some combat planes, he said, were being overproduced at the expense of cargo planes.  Arnold was not enchanted by this proposal. Speaking in his usual rapid-fire style and calling upon his amazing ability to quote statis- tics, he said 8,320 cargo planes were now under order in the United States, including 5,600 large ones. The U.S. airlines had another 200 of them if they were needed, and if an acute shortage developed, combat planes could be used for transport whereas transport planes could never be used as bombers  127  What he did not say to the assembled British and American military men, but did say to himself, was that it annoyed him to have to keep defending the U.S. Air Force against the U.S. Navy, espe- ci