ker of Athol, Massachusetts, the ball-turret gunner, who had been told of his promotion that morning, got out of the plane safely, but his chute did not open. The Belgians found his body near the debris. Lieutenant Hargis, the pilot, was still in the plane when it exploded  As Winslow descended, the wind continued to buffet him so severely he feared his parachute might collapse. Approaching the ground, he heard dogs bark, which he supposed were German police dogs, and saw what looked like farm buildings scattered across the countryside. He also noticed with some alarm that the wind was carrying him sideways toward a long row of trees at the edge of one of these farms, and it seemed that even if he missed the trees, he might be impaled on one of several sharp poles sticking up from a hay wagon. To change his course he pulled a shroud line and slipped sharply leftward. This maneuver also took some air from his chute and quickened his descent. He missed the trees and the wagon, landing instead in a beet field. The beets, already dug up, were spread on the ground. Winslow came down hard. His right leg hit one of these beets and twisted sideways with such force he could hear bones snap.  Before he had time even to try standing, a farmer near the haywa- gon ran over to him. Looking up, Winslow asked, ‘‘Belgian?”’  “‘Qui, oui,’’ the man said. ‘‘Et vous?”’  “‘American.””  Motioning for him to stay down, the man warned, ‘‘Cachez! Cachez!’”  67  Understanding enough French to realize he had been told to hide, Winslow hid by gathering bits of foliage around him while the man went away, presumably to get help. A few minutes later a German patrol party passed by, probably looking for the fallen Americans, but Winslow was now sufficiently hidden. Shortly after the Germans disappeared, the Belgian returned with a tan civilian suit and helped Winslow put it on. Several other Belgians gathered around, some of them asking for souvenirs. He gave them his parachute and harness, his Mae