officers outline the opposition.3 The fa August 17 mission The August missio: If this backgrou: also had the heav During a recent Bc and Fourth Combz redesignated as the three newly createc 96th Group comm Bombardment Wii against Schweinfui the division’s lead  drab pants and shirts—beneat  did  offi  bus ani “y  an W. Teal the  mis  quarters and told he was expecte  wal exc gro Se  unt nav  5  Mi  leader, Lt. Col  their flying suits  hey decided they  not want to be captured or killed in the nondescript fatigue clothing they wore on most missions. Maj. William E. ‘‘Pop’’ Dolan, the 384th Group intelligence  ly bad time.’’6 What bothered  sions, had been awakened al  ig lea  icer who conducted the briefing at Grafton-Underwood, began by telling the men: ‘‘You’re in the h leagues any more.”’ After describing the ball-bearing factories referring to the August attack against them, he concluded, ou're going to have to get them this time or you'll go back again.” Capt. Philip Algar, who had flown the first Schweinfurt mission would be piloting the 384th’s lead plane today (with Maj. George . Harris, the group leader, as copilot), decided he was ‘‘in for a  gue now. You're not in the  him most was his realization that  P-47s could escort them for only a Capt. Edwin Millson of the 379th Group, a veteran of twelve  out 3  itifully short distance  30 a.m. by the charge-of-  at the operations building.” As he  ked along the dark streets of the Kimbolton base, he felt an ‘‘odd itement”’ in wondering what the target would be. As one of the  weinfurt for several weeks, but  il he walked into Operations vigator, looked up from a map plan. “You sure picked a nice one  llson. They were both schedul Louis W. Rohr.  tor  Capt on w  for y  e $0-called ‘*Bloody One Hundredt  its name so appallingly during t  danger of extinction. At Bremen fifteen Fortresses; at Minster two days later it had lost twelve of  thir  commander, Col. ters to ask that all  teen. These disasters had so  e pre