ch to be e would never be  ceptionally well- id, was fortunate Division. Adopt- ; south, the Third  minutes behind | delay, radioed ous with the 56th  on encountered a ne high squadron yn soon got back ction, with crews bursts, when, at would escort it as  , its escort, fifty rtook it in mid- 1ot for very long. ork very well and wuld be able to fly  Peaslee had displaced and who was acting as his rearward observer. “No, sir,”’ he said. He did not see any unattached groups.  They were now at 20,000 feet and approaching the Channel coast. After one final circle to tighten the entire First Division formation, the task force would be moving eastward across the water toward the continent. But Peaslee could not lead the force with only two groups in his wing. The lead group was required to have three groups for maximum defensive firepower because the Germans in recent weeks had been concentrating on frontal attacks against leading elements. As the division began its final circle, Peaslee ordered the bombardier to fire a signal flare every twenty seconds in the hope of attracting the errant 305th, but even as he gave the order, he felt it was futile. While he could see in the distance the two other wings of the First Division, he could not see any single groups. After finishing the circle, he gave the order to his pilot, Capt..James K. McLaughlin, to set a course for the continent. ‘“‘Maybe they’re waiting for us over the Channel,’’ he said hopefully.  At the English coastline the clouds ended abruptly, revealing the blue Channel waters below and the dark-green continent ahead but no loose B-17 group searching for its wing. Peaslee had to decide quickly what to do. On the radio he called the leader of the Ist CBW, Lt. Col. Theodore Milton in the high position to the right.  “I’m short one group,’’ Peaslee said. ‘*You will take over the lead. I'll fly high on you, and I'll retain air command from that position.’*!2  While Peaslee’s 40th Combat Bombardment Wing was executing