frica in another week. (The North African : 2 i" ot. isnot eb thee a invasion was to begin November 8.) Shortly thereafter, two more . yee be vi = more Lancaste igiy sill chahste ing ..C groups would follow, leaving him nothing but four groups of rookies. re ie Smash ic| ave been trying 1 =a ae Lil sabia And he was beginning to wonder how long these groups would have ‘ohne ret ioe to wait before getting their chance to become veterans. The weather mean pelea te Administra the pliy proved : : eee = > ; _ This short, offhand note from the Prime Ministe jy ee aieneih proek cto bse < _ bret po sear patti little room for a reply. He and Portal agreed that, 4 Malev ine pny ons aie ae ee ae a am Gi hill ; ahave® Hide that “no reply is called for.” But they could not resis jy i nree missions. (By this time Churchill must have begun to think tha  even his six-missions-a-month prediction was too optimistic.) Final- 171 fe ly, on November 7, Eaker was permitted by the weather to send his  174  cities excessively, the planes under his command never dropped a bomb that Churchill (and indeed the entire British and American nations) did not approve and applaud. Every mission Bomber Com- mand launched was covered by Churchill orders. Stung by the pun- ishment of British civilians in the Battle of Britain and painfully aware of how close the people in east London came to rebellion as a result of the German bombs they had to absorb at the height of the blitz, Churchill was convinced that the punishment of German work- ers would greatly diminish their industrial output, eventually paralyze the German war effort, and perhaps even give rise to a rebellion against Hitler. Churchill did not intend ever to suspend this offensive. Under Portal’s inadvertent influence, however, he had come to the conclusion that the American contribution to it was likely to be almost worthless. In a letter to Portal (November 2, 1942), he bluntly said so, citing some of Portal’s earlier words to strengthen h