he fighters during the attack on Schweinfurt, and these people did not find them aggressive enough. ‘‘In a word, the popula- tion is very embittered about the action of the day fighters, and they are right. The good name of our air force has been damaged very much by the fighters, not only with the people but also with the Fuhrer. And most of all with the enemy. He scorns you, and he shows it by attacking in daytime, in clear weather.”’  It was particularly galling to Goering that these enemy bombers flew, not over the Baltic Sea or over neutral countries ‘but right over the middle of Germany, under everyone’s nose.”’ And this they did because they had no respect for the German fighters.  “‘On that day,”’ he declared, ‘‘it was almost impossible for me to endure the scorn of the enemy [and the fact] that he flew so imperti- nently all the way across Germany . . . without having been destroyed.”’  Even taking Goering’s histrionic tendencies into account, the severity of this scolding indicated that he was now deeply disturbed at the Schweinfurt result. No doubt he was unfair in blaming the fighter pilots. According to their commander, General Galland, they had flown 800 sorties that day. They had not destroyed the 139 American  337  aircraft the German press claimed, but they had shot down more four-engine bombers than had ever before been destroyed in a single engagement. (Galland also said that only 35 German fighters had been lost, a figure much smaller than the Americans had claimed, and surprisingly small in light of the Neubiberg controller’s disclosure to Lt. Gunther Stedtfeld that only one of the 60 planes which flew from there had returned undamaged. Even after the war it was impossible to determine any official count of German fighters lost that day. Some Americans who took part in the battle still believe an accurate count would be closer to 100 than to 35. General Eaker in a recent conversation asked pointedly why there were no German planes left to resist