enetrations, we have been badly fooled and our planning is extremely faulty. . . . The large number of fighters we have allocated to the U.K. are not paying their way if their participation in the bomber offensive comprises escort across the Channel only. This in effect simply insures the bombers’ safe delivery into the hands of the wolves.’”  O'Donnell attached to this memo a cable that he suggested Arnold send to Eaker. But Arnold was not inclined to take action that day on the fighter-command issue. He was thinking about bombers, and he was convinced that with the number of B-17s now available, 8th Bomber Command should be sending out more planes per mission. The previous day, June 11, 252 Fortresses had hit Wilhelmshaven, but this was the first mission since May 29. It would seem that after a thirteen-day hiatus, a greater number of planes should have been ready to go. From Arnold’s viewpoint in Washington, it was hard to accept explanations for all the difficulties developing day by day in England, especially since they were of a size and type never before encountered by an American air combat unit. He was convinced the maintenance problem was basically a personnel problem and that the men under Eaker were to blame.  On the 12th, Arnold fired off to Eaker a cable *‘further relative to”” a previous cable on the ‘‘low percentage of airplanes your organiza- tion has been able to keep in commission.’’ If Eaker was already having maintenance trouble with his present force, he asked, how much more trouble would he have when he received “‘the very large additional number of ‘airplanes assigned to your theater within the next few months?’’ What Eaker needed, he insisted was a ‘‘clearcut supply and maintenance plan’’ and ‘‘an air service commander with sufficient initiative, force, and executive ability to carry out this plan.”  Within the next three days, Arnold had received an answer from Eaker explaining once more why he could send out only 250 planes in one day, how