ve to explain to mision that day, The plane he flew was shot down, butGrenierwas 1S. He would cruise above a formation and if people the rest of my life why I didn’t finish it. I may regret it, but I’ve never forgoten, He was always refered to thereafter as “The Man. right down through it, ‘*chewing ass’’ on his got to fly that last mission.”” Who Came to Diner.” tightened up again. When Old went to wing,  Chauncey laughed and sent him on his way. Smith’s last mission Wo oer members of the 100, Sets, George anos and Frank OOK Over a well-disciplined group.  was the October 2 Emden raid. He was so nervous when he took off he could just manage to hold the controls steady. But fortunately for him, the port of Emden was such a short run that the P-47s could accompany the bombers all the way. The 351st Group was virtually  2, biled out over Germany that same day and were mached OUPS, Was receiving a slow but steady stream he tet of Frankfurt with ifty other prisoners whleangry 2placement crew that arrived in September shouted at them in English, “Son of bitch Roose stil: bert H. Bolick, pilot, and Lt. Edward F.  Vhen Jans and Dannella reached prison camp theGemun < Was a flier with such natural skills that  unmolested, and for Smith, that last mission was *‘a piece of cake.”” officer who interrogated them aeady knew heir roupandsquaon. | Strong admiration for him even before they The next day he reported to Eaker’s headquarters numbers as welaster ames, Hesmiledandsai,“Howis Thope to Downs that Bolick handled a plane as if it  The men of the “‘Bloody 100th’’ Group, so named because of its Abbots?” ien they flew across the Atlantic and reached atrocious loss rate, had little cause for laughter, especially after the 1 Emet Warsaw ofthe 10h, who bad been shot down Auguwt. «Completely covered by clouds. They were  August 17 mission in which they lost nine planes. Life looked so 7 and had thrown away his dog tas to prevent the Gestapo ftom :stwick tower by radio, but they cou