lnerability. Parachuting enemy airmen were fortunate if they came down among policemen or soldiers because many civilians were eager to vent their rage against these killers from the sky. The average German was too furious about the destruction of his own cities to think about the populations of Polish, Czech, Russian, Rumanian, Yugoslav, Greek, Norwegian, French, Belgian, Dutch, and English cities whom German fliers had bombed. It was enough to know that innocent Germans, many of them women and children, were being killed by these terrorists  When the sirens continued, the people of Schweinfurt began to believe them and moved toward the shelters. At the ball-bearing factories, now back to almost full production as a result of the two-month respite, the workers moved unhurriedly toward the under- ground bunkers, some of which had been built for them since August Still they saw no approaching bombers  At VKF Plant II, an artisan named Heinrich Weichsel went into a bunker, then ran back to his work bench because he had *‘a funny feeling.’’ Gathering up his precious measuring tools, he took them with him. As he again approached the still-open door of the shelter he could see clusters of silver dots in the distant air to the southwest. The flak batteries in the southern hills began to fire. Shortly after Weich- sel entered the shelter, its door closed and he noticed in the dim light that many of the men around him were becoming pale, perhaps from fear. He sat down next to a young woman and tried to make himself comfortable. At least he had chosen VKF’s best bunker. While the concrete was only twenty inches thick, it had the added advantage of being under a ramp. It should be safe enough  310  303rd Group, which had not previously lost a plane, lost its first. In the 91st Group, Lt. Harold Christensen, still struggling to stay in formation with one propeller windmilling and the three others at top speed to compensate for its drag, was beginning to accept the fact that he