s liaison man, Spaatz testified for him, and Eaker was an aide on his defense staff. All three championed the views not only of Mitchell but also of other early air advocates such as Gen. Guilio Douhet in France and Gen. Sir Hugh Trenchard in England.  One reason Eaker got on so well personally with Harris and Portal in England was that as young R.A.F. officers they had championed these same men, especially Trenchard, who insisted even during World War I that air power would dominate any future wars. Harris still believed this so passionately that on June 17, 1942, he sent Prime Minister Churchill a letter that began like a trumpet blast with the words: “‘Victory, speedy and complete, awaits the side which first employs air power as it should be employed.’’ Germany, he con- tended, had made a disastrous mistake by getting bogged down in land campaigns, but England, not presently engaged on land, could “‘knock Germany out of the war in a matter of months’’ by devoting its full strength to his bomber offensive.  “Involvement in land campaigns,’’ he wrote, “‘serves but to teduce us to the level of the Horde. We are not a Horde. We are a highly industrialized, underpopulated, physically small nation. Our lead is in science, not spawn; in brains, not brawn. To enter upon a continental land campaign, other than on a mopping up police basis, is to play right into Germany’s hands. . . . It is imperative, if we hope to win the war, . . . to concentrate our air power against the enemy’s weakest spots.’”  Harris asked the Prime Minister to give him command of all the British bombers now in the Coastal Command and in the Middle East and to get ‘‘every possible bomber from the United States’’ for a campaign of devastation against all important German cities.  Spaatz and Eaker would go a long way toward sharing Harris’s views, but with the modification that such a campaign would be more successful in the daytime against crucial targets. Spaatz was so confident about day bombing t