d swollen in a few hours, purple and macerated in a few days, then black and dry.’’ One man who suffered a head wound on a mission, was saved from death by a quick-thinking buddy who gave him rapid first aid. But his buddy either didn’t think about his hands or had no way to keep them warm. They were so badly frozen by the time the plane returned home that they had to be amputated.  The physical miseries caused by the cold and lack of oxygen were only small factors, however, in creating emotional disorders among the crews. While the men might gripe about physical conditions, they could endure them and, after gaining experience, could counteract them. But fear of combat was a factor that few men ever completely overcame. For some of them it was an ordeal with which they never learned to cope. And it included a new kind of horror, never before experienced by men in battle: the horror of confinement. A ground soldier, no longer able to endure the carnage, could at least turn and tun, whatever the consequences might be. In a bomber under attack at 20,000 feet, there was no place to run. At the end of *‘Blitz Week’’ (July 24 to 30), 80 percent of the 8th Air Force squadron and group surgeons mentioned in special reports to headquarters that their men had developed ‘‘undue fatigue’’ as a result of the six missions in  244  all crewmen suffe1 of oxygen) during The A-8-B oxy; available, tended | form in the bag, complete stoppage realize what was t men on their first oxygen system w¢ malfunction. If st fighters, it might available in ‘‘bott! tion and descend ; In some crews, checks by callinge someone near hir breathing properly The dangers of misery created by zero. One flight s watch the returnir saw that none of t! watch with horror with frozen hands gated the most co factors. Dampness the rain to their air games in their fly were casualties w might get no opf periods of combat sity of urinating w frozen backs, butt The heavy, leat not warm enough two or three key gineer