t him in a mood to be soothed. In distress again at the prospect of being stripped of his planes just as he launched an offensive, he called upon his British friends for elp once more. Portal immediately wired a protest to Washington and at the same time sent a letter to General Devers, for circulation, praising the work of the 8th Air Force during ‘“Blitz Week.’’22 A few days later, Portal flew to Washington for a Combined Chiefs of Staff meeting, at which time Eaker and Anderson stimulated a wire to him rom Harris on that old familiar theme, the horrors of diversion:  . . lam certain that given average weather and concentration on the main job we can push Germany over by bombing this year. But to do so we must keep diversions cut to the bone. On every front but this one the United States and ourselves now regard it as reasonable, as well as necessary, that we should vastly outnumber our opponents locally in the air. . . . But here we and the U.S. 8th Bomber Command still remain as residuary legatees in air re- sources while charged with the execution of the first, most difficult  for the B-17s. The colonels and majors kept promising that with the arrival of auxiliary tanks, the P-47s would soon be going all the way with the bombers. But as the weeks passed without the development of a satisfactory tank, the fighters kept turning for home just when they were most needed, and the bomber crews became more cynical every day.  At Molesworth, the men of the 303rd were getting to know their new commander, Col. Kermit Stevens, and he was getting to know them.'9 He had taken over the group at the worst possible time, July 19, just before ‘*Blitz Week.’’ He had led the 303rd on three of the six missions that week—to Hamburg, Norway, and Kassel. When he wasn’t preaching his ‘‘tight formation’ gospel to his men, he had one other strong piece of advice.  “*Don’t look at the flak coming up at you,’” he told them, ‘‘and don’t look into the muzzles of their guns.”  On his first m