ched. The four men marched Winslow and Tucker off to St. Giles Prison. The girl, supposedly a member of the ‘Armée Blanche,’’ had betrayed them to the Gestapo.  In mid-November, the 354th Fighter Group moved from Greenham Common to Boxted, near the English Channel about fifty miles northeast of London, and continued its transition training in P-5S1s, which were arriving by ship, a few at a time. As soon as they had all of their twenty-four planes, the rookies of the 354th began intensive training under Lt. Col. Donald Blakeslee, at that time the  343  8th Air Force’s most experienced fighter pilot. On December 1, Blakeslee decided the new men were ready for a little action. He led them in their sleek and shiny Mustangs across the Channel to Calais and the Belgian coast, just far enough to give the Germans a good look at them. The German antiaircraft gunners got too good a look at some of them, perforating their bottoms with flak but doing no serious damage. On December 5 they accompanied the bombers for the first time in a shallow penetration of France, and on the 1 1th they made their first trip to Germany, escorting the bombers to Emden. A few German fighters appeared in the distance but did not engage them. Five days later, on the 16th, after their first combat, with ME- 109s and JU-88s, the Mustangs claimed their first victory. Their young pilots still had a lot to learn, and the plane itself still had a few bugs to be eliminated, but day by day its performance was becoming more impressive.  As additional Mustangs arrived, the veteran P-47 pilots would begin flying them. Swarms of them would soon be surrounding the bombers, and the Germans would have a long time to wait if they continued to hold back until this escort ran short of gas and turned for home. The P-51s would not turn for home until the bombers were teady to do so. And if the German fighters decided to attack the bombers anyway, they were not likely to enjoy the experience with the quick and well-arm