s merits, it might have appeared in the skies over Europe, protecting the American bombers, during the early months of 1943.  Though Eaker knew about the British modification of the Mustang and realized it was a superior plane, he needed fighters so badly he took what he could get. To wait now for P-51s would cause another  179  intolerable delay. And to suggest that American factories convert from Thunderbolts to Mustangs would be to court an even longer delay. It would create an uproar within an already harried American aircraft industry. The Thunderbolt was undoubtedly a good airplane. Eaker therefore welcomed it despite its short range. He had antici- pated the range problem the previous October when he asked the British Ministry of Aircraft Production about manufacturing aux- iliary fuel tanks for the P-47. He now renewed this inquiry and asked if such tanks could be made in England.’ He did not receive an immediate answer.  Eaker was less friendly with the people at the Ministry of Aircraft Production than he was with most of his British associates. In a December 6, 1942, letter to Arnold, he had complained that M.A.P. representatives had made disparaging remarks about U.S. airplanes to a group of American manufacturers visiting London.* One of these manufacturers had returned home to proclaim that the B-17 was unsuitable for combat in Europe and that the Lancaster was a better bomber. The campaign to convert the Americans to the night- bombing Lancaster was still in progress, and Eaker resented it. **This sounds like Masefield talking,’’ he wrote to Arnold. He was referring to Peter Masefield, the London Times aeronautical correspondent who, Eaker said, ‘‘represents the M.A.P. view of British aircraft.’’ He accused Masefield and the M.A.P. of misleading the Americans. ‘*Naturally the British manufacturers are thumping the drum for their own products,’’ he concluded. *‘The British operational people have no such ideas.”  As this conclusion proves, Eaker was st