- cate procedures, and high tolerance for discomfort. Because of the bitter cold at upper altitudes, the men had to wear their thick gloves even while operating the B-17’s complicated machines and guns  This handicap alone required a dexterity far above average. The waist gunners, at their big, rectangular open windows, had to swing their guns forward or backward, upward or downward fast enough to track  26  To Williams it was simply a matter of hoping the fo esis go el  enough for him to see the fence at the end of the runway. F ye jhy do so would be only slightly diminished by the fact that jp,  one eye while serving as an American observer during jyuayytn\ihyweaienth  blitz against London. With his one good eye Williams St jij yo enough to fly an airplane. A man of serious purpose and jij,;, Mt expression, he was famous among his men for his in military discipline. But they also thought of him, pe fondly, for his courage in overcoming his handicap y,j individual style. He wore a mustache and carried a swags », Albany, Texas, native and graduate of Texas A. & M.,, ni his wings and commission in 1923 when the Air Force wa the Army Air Service Corps. No one knew more than t B-17 bomber. In 1936, at Langley Field, Virginia, he h operations officer of the first group to fly it  The B-17 had grown directly out of the American , strategic daylight precision bombing. By the early thirtie 4, Corps planners realized that, to make such a concept ro Bae would need the toughest, best armed, longest ranging jo) tint complicated warplane ever devised. In 1934 they had fhgiii Boeing Aircraft Company a contract to develop such a pl n graceful, four-engine Flying Fortress of 1943 was the di dant of the bomber Boeing undertook to design. But in ni 4 many changes had been made in it that only the 104-foc remained the same.  The original length of 68 feet had been stretched to original height of 18 feet had been raised to 19 with the < |  ce  it  rahi’ ek bi  long, gradually rising t