g, the evening was a standoff. As Arnold later wrote, they hadn’t yet dropped a bomb. They didn’teven have an airplane. It  “‘Of all the moments in history when I might have tried to sell Mr seemed at times as if the planes would never arrive; yet mountains of  Churchill and his R.A.F. advisers on the future of American preci- work still had to be done in preparation for them.  sion bombardment by daylight, I had picked the night when they were In the midst of this frantic preparation, Eaker received a phone call  selling their own kind of bombardment to the world.”’ from the mayor of the neighboring town of High Wycombe, who During his London stay, Arnold also visited Eaker’s stately new wanted the general to attend a dinner, June 5, with him and the town  headquarters at Wycombe Abbey, where he found most of the staff council  playing touch football on the lawn. When Eaker showed him through Eaker, swamped with work, begged to be excused. Eaker learned in mid-June  the building, Arnold noticed some of the British WAAFs who were A short time later, the mayor called again to press the invitation. © 2wer, now anew three-star  doing the typing, telegraphing and general office work, and even “It won't take long,” he said, “because we don’t have much food.  2ater commander. Though keeping the ‘‘Secret’’ files. Eaker explained that Harris had very You'll be able to get away very shortly and return to your work, Butler knew that if Arnold had generously loaned these girls to him. think since we're your neighbors, it would help both sides if you | me ground-force generals,  “*How are you getting along with them?’’ Arnold wanted to know. came over and met my council and had dinner with us.”  “No problem at all,’’ Eaker assured him, ‘‘but you know, these Eaker finally said, ‘All right, but with the understanding there'll ’ to greet his immediate people are right out of Bert Harris’s hide, and he’d like to get them be no speeches.”” Air Force commander, on back. I think you o