secret jy, reservations about those costly operations? In spite of the kind words ,, in his cablegram, was he dissatisfied with Eaker’s management of the  8th Air Force? Or were there other, as yet unexplained, reasons for jj hi transferring him? ne  On the 19th, after Eaker recovered from his shock, he decided not to surrender without a struggle. He vigorously protested his removal ,  ams have been set up tentatively are as follows: Spaatz to command the jij  fog bee  Malema  in a cable to Arnold, which he first wrote by hand to make sure it was }, worded strongly enough:  Believe war interest best served by my retention command 8th Air Force: otherwise experience this theater for nearly two years ™ wasted. If I am to be allowed any personal preference, having ih started with the Eighth and seen it organized for major task in this ™ theater it would be heart-breaking to leave just before climax. If * my services satisfactory to seniors, request I be allowed to retain a  command 8th Air Force. bike Not content with bombarding Arnold alone, Eaker then fired off ,;,  sant wiileonhia:a0  sittin  similar salvoes of protest to General Eisenhower, who was about to wel  345  policy. Just as on that previous occasion, the sun was shining through the tall glass windows and the trees in the garden outside were laden with oranges  Churchill said to him:  I can understand your disappointment, young man, at having to leave the 8th Air Force just when it’s achieving its maximum effect in the war effort. But as for your new assignment, I want to remind you that we’re entrusting to you two of our favorite British units, the Balkan Air Force and the Desert Air Force. If we didn’t have great faith in you we wouldn’t put them under your charge. You’ll also have the R.A.F. Coastal Command, the French air forces, and your own very considerable Twelfth and Fifteenth Air Forces. All in all it will be a much larger command, with more responsibilities, than you had in the United Kingdom.  E