came down hard. His right leg hit one of these beets and twisted sideways with such force he could hear bones snap.  Before he had time even to try standing, a farmer near the haywa- gon ran over to him. Looking up, Winslow asked, ‘‘Belgian?”’  *‘Oui, oui,’’ the man said. ‘‘Et vous?”  ““American.’”  Motioning for him to stay down, the man warned, ‘‘Cachez! Cachez!”’  67  Understanding enough French to realize he had been told to hide, Winslow hid by gathering bits of foliage around him while the man went away, presumably to get help. A few minutes later a German patrol party passed by, probably looking for the fallen Americans, but Winslow was now sufficiently hidden. Shortly after the Germans disappeared, the Belgian returned with a tan civilian suit and helped Winslow put it on. Several other Belgians gathered around, some of them asking for souvenirs. He gave them his parachute and harness, his Mae West (inflatable vest), and whatever else he didn’t think he would need. Suffering the pain of a broken leg (it proved to be fractured in three places), he asked for a doctor, but no one under- stood him. A small boy gave him cognac, and then the farmer carried him piggy-back to a shed behind his barn  When Winslow asked about a toilet, someone, understanding only the French meaning of the word, and supposing he wanted to wash himself, went into the house and brought him a face cloth with a basin of water. He finally managed to convey his actual need and they carried him to a pile of straw outside the shed. Then they took him back inside and laid him down on a bed of straw. His rescuer and several other people began to question him in French, but since he could understand little of what they were asking, communication remained minimal  Again he asked for a doctor. They brought him a country priest who wanted to know whether he was a Catholic or a Protestant  Winslow, grasping this question, said he was a Protestant.  The priest stayed only a short time before bidding h