chievous propagan- da. . . . Would it be possible for you to get one of your staff to give me some notes on the limitations of the Fortress as we have found them? What has gone wrong with it and why we are not able to make all the use of it which the Americans think we ought to be able to?”’  The R.A.F. at that time already had two B-17s but didn’t like them well enough to order any more. On November 3, 1941, Saundby sent Peck a Bomber Command memorandum dated November 1 which listed the faults the British had found in these early-model Fortresses.  The plane was so ‘‘dependent on suitable weather conditions,”’ this memo stated, that there was a ‘‘severe limit’’ on the frequency with which it could operate. ‘‘Even when clear conditions exist, the formation of condensation trails [from its engines] still further limits the occasions when the aircraft can penetrate to their targets without risk of interception.’ The bomb load was ‘‘uneconomical in relation to the crew and technical maintenance required.’’ The armor was inadequate. ‘‘An armoured bulkhead is now being fitted but the additional weight will tend still further to reduce the operational height.” To fire the plane’s heavy waist guns ‘‘the large blisters must  111  be opened, with the result that internal temperatures lower to the order of minus 50 degrees centigrade.’’ The plane admittedly had ‘‘a ceiling considerably in excess of any other bomber in service,’’ but, the memo contended, ‘‘prolonged flights at heights above 30,000 feet impose very considerable physical and mental strain on the crew, with the result that they are incapable of making the fullest use of their equipment.”’  Since Saundby was now Harris’s chief deputy at Bomber Com- mand, the air marshal knew all these arguments and could supply a few others. He had told General Arnold in Washington that the B-17’s hand-held guns would not do in combat. The plane would have to be equipped with turrets, and it would also need fighter escorts. Even t