t Schweinfurt attack. This time they would have to go through with the dispersal despite the temporary disruption it would cause and despite the reluctance of the gauleiters to welcome potential target factories into their communities. Speer had already told Hitler that ‘‘fresh attacks on the ball-bearing industry will bring production to a standstill.”’  **You’re the one who must settle it,’’ Hitler had said; and Speer was convinced he must settle it quickly because the Americans had now found the best technique to use against ball-bearing machinery The B-17s would almost certainly return soon with more of their fire bombs. And for the next several months, even if dispersal plans proved effective, the industry would continue to be woefully vulnerable.  Speer had now seen enough bombing of Germany to reach some dismal conclusions about it—conclusions he was to disclose after the war to Allied intelligence officers.? He believed that the American daylight attacks on key industrial targets were even more dangerous to Germany than the British night attacks on the cities. He was convinced that strategic bombing alone might be enough to force a German surrender if the bombing were concentrated on the chemical industry, the electric power stations, or the ball-bearing plants.  339  0 alarmed at the proportions of the ball-bearing crisis ‘  Concentration on the ball-bearing industry, for instance, would ren- der Germany defenseless within four months if all the ball-bearing factories (at Schweinfurt, Erkner, Steyr, and Cannstatt) were at- tacked at the same time, if these attacks were renewed at two-week intervals, and if reconstruction attempts were met by a pair of heavy attacks every two months.  What Speer did not know was that despite the success of the October 14 attack, General Eaker couldn’t possibly repeat it within two weeks. The sixty bombers he had lost that day, added to the eighty-eight he had lost in the previous week’s operations, were a prohibitive depleti