oup, Lt. Harold Christensen, still struggling to stay in formation with one propeller windmilling and the three others at top speed to compensate for its drag, was beginning to accept the fact that he couldn’t keep pace with his companions. Gradually he fell back, but he was not alone for long. The Germans soon found him, pumping bullets into his fuselage and wounding his ball-turret gun- ner, S. Sgt. Walter Molzon. After announcing on the interphone that he had been hit, Molzon walked forward, had the bombardier dress the wound, then returned to his gun. Christensen and his crew were not yet ready to surrender.  At 3:00 p.. the First Division reached its rally point and reassem- bled its depleted ranks. Its bombs had created so much havoc in Schweinfurt that the crew members, now twenty miles away, could still see the smoke and flames rising there. But as one after another of their planes fell, they were not certain they had inflicted as much damage as they had suffered.  Less than an hour earlier, Schweinfurt had been enjoying the loveliest day of the entire autumn. The trees were in every color from yellow to purple to red.4 Dahlias and asters were still blooming Lorries were bringing in the grape harvest from surrounding vineyards. Boats floated lazily on the Main River. The streets were full of people, especially around the vegetable market in the town square. The scene was idyllically peaceful. Yet many Schweinfurters were nagged by a continuing worry they could not put from their minds. The expression, ‘‘Schweinfurt weather,’ was making its way into local usage. People had noticed that the American bombers attacked only on clear, sunny days, like the day in August when they had come to Schweinfurt. This realization was almost enough to make everyone pray for clouds. On nice days they would look up at the sky and say, uncomfortably, ‘‘Schweinfurt weather.’’ Today was just that kind of day. The sky was cloudless, the air crisp, and the visibility almost unlimit