se sixty bombers every day; then hastened to add it was not losing that many. He noted that Germany's apparent loss of one hundred fighters did not involve as great a crew loss as when sixty bombers went down, besides which fighter planes could be produced much faster than bombers. But he concluded, on the credit side, that an important German war plant, or plants, had been put out of action. He didn’t sound as if he were thoroughly convinced of any of this. Roosevelt was at all times an astute politician. If he was going to praise any operation that had cost the mothers of America six hundred of their sons (whether killed or taken prisoner), he would want to know more about it than he could ossibly learn within one day after it, and he would want to make some judgment about probable public reaction to it. The President’s disjointed press conference remarks were less than reassuring. He left the impression that he was not necessarily persuaded the Schweinfurt* results had been worth the cost.  General Arnold, perhaps disappointed by Roosevelt’s reaction, hastened into print with a statement of his own about Schweinfurt.? No one could accuse him that day of withholding support for Eaker. After explaining the importance of ball-bearing factories and the difficulty of reaching them so deep inside Germany, his statement tried to convey the enormous scope and success of the operation:  This attack on Schweinfurt was not merely a spectacular air raid. It was an engagement between large armies—a major campaign In a period of a few hours we invaded German-held Europe to a depth of 500 miles, sacked and crippled one of her most vital enterprises  We did it in daylight and we did it with precision, aiming our explosives with the care and accuracy of a marksman firing a rifle at a bull’s-eye  We moved in on a city of 50,000 people and destroyed the part  ’ 334  losses on both sides as well as the apparent damage to the factories, he was careful to reassure Armold that ‘‘this d