before,  members suffer luring, or after a lous problems t  altitudes where  feet, the men ha  isabled by frost  six missions in seven days, 100 pl were either dead, mated the pricehe would have to pay  pressurized airplane. There was no s  when several ofits guns had to be result was that for every three men wounded in combat, four were  FW- 190s. Fifteen  the next day, butt  missing, of WOU!  mission, But fear ¢ bomber crews er  Ne ait was as frig  lant at Oschersleben, After bad. weather Castle found that he had behind him lanes from the 96th, Moving pesis-  ye Forts returned to Wamemiinde and Kiel (where they dropped 200 tons of bombs and three quarters of a million propaganda leaflets over the shipy only 186 B-17s took off, and 12 didnot return,  ¢ clouds were even heavier on the 26th, completly frustrating more than 200 of the planes that took off. But 92 others attacked a rubber factory at Hanover with such recorded and smoke arose toa height of 22,000 feet. Unpromising weather gave the crews a rest on the 27th, The following day 302 B-I7s went after aircraft factories in Kassel and Oschersleben. Clouds held the First Wing to limited success at Kassel, but the Fourth Wing, led by Col. Fred Castle, one of Baker's original six staff officers and now commander of against a Focke-Wulf ed the Wing's formations, y his own group plus a few tently forward, they managed to fin approached the target, and their bombs caused a month's production  accuracy that 21 directhits were  the 94th Group, had better luck  breakin the clouds justas they  B-17s failed to retum home that  ards), and on the 30th, it was  he 8th Ait Force was quiet, Ate anes were gone and 1,000 men inded, Eaker had not underest- for this offensive. The survivors  them suffered emotional break- the basic cause, Nearly all crew  ‘was only one of several horren- ncountered,  Almost as hazardous was the need to avoid flak by flying a high asitwasthin. The B-17 wasnota  uch thing at that time, At 20,000  to