otten the four groups taken from him for the African invasion (including also one B-17 group), but his request for their return was pro forma. He must have realized by now that he would have to go to Africa if he ever wanted to see them again. The Regensburg-Wiener Neustadt operation was, at least, a way of get- ting some good out of those lost groups. When Spaatz approved the joint project, Col. Curtis LeMay flew to North Africa and the Re- gensburg-to-North Africa shuttle mission went into the planning phase. August 7 was the date set for it  On July 24, the 8th Bomber Command began the offensive that led to Schweinfurt. Since July 4, the B-17 groups had been almost totally defeated by the weather. Germany was cloudy for the entire month. A July 10 thrust at Villacoublay was wasted when a blanket of clouds moved in at the wrong moment to shield the target. On Bastille Day, July 14, the bombers reminded France that the Americans were coming when they hit Paris and Amiens airfields effectively, but this was not a very strong reminder to Germany. With a promising weather forecast on July 17, a record 332 B-17s (including two new groups, the 385th and 388th, which were making their debuts) took off for Hamburg. But the weather closed in before they arrived, and the mission achieved only minor results.  Tired of waiting for the skies to clear over Germany, General Anderson, on the 24th, sent 324 Fortresses against harbor installa- tions and German factories in occupied Norway. The mission was an outstanding success, closing for three and a half months to come a large factory at Heroya that made nitrate for gunpowder. Because the Germans had not expected a strike against Norway, only one B-17 was lost, and it managed to land in neutral Sweden. This raid began what soon came to be known in the 8th as “‘Blitz Week.”’  The Forts returned to Germany the next day to hit Kiel, Hamburg, and Warnemiinde. This time the Germans were ready. Nineteen  241  bombers were lost, and cl