n as the plane’s fuel tanks were filled, they took off again for the  hour and twenty minutes later. The loss of bombardiers could greatly increase their accuracy, But how, in 91st Group’s base at Bassingbourn.  381st Group the hardest hit that day, with cloudy England, coud the bonburdis gt enough practice to make At American air bases throughout East Anglia, the B-17s began  out of twenty-six. any difference? It was one ofthe many problems the 8th Air Force returning about 5:30 p.M. From then onward, the men awaiting them The 91st, however, with ten losses, was had noyet been able 10 sol on the ground began to grasp, with alarm and then anguish, the extent  the 381st. When Lt. James Judy’s rava  Asforthe horendous caalles his armada had suffered today, of their losses. One after another the groups limped home, the gaps in  continental coast, it was alone with onl Villansdid notyetknow the extentofthe devastation, Hecouldsee their formations immediately apparent to their anxious ground crews.  injured) and flying on two engines at an alt only the lad groups. He did know tha the 9lt andthe 381t had Some of the missing were not actually lost. Several stragglers landed  Judy, his copilot, Lt. Roger Layn, and | teenblyhit and he wasnotsuprisd Cherry, were amazed that it was flying at 10 be the most hiadous any Ane Judy had groped his way northwest acros_ alempled, And despite theloses, whic dodging airfields that might send fighter. he wiscertinithad been asuoess might send up antiaircraft shells. The hy settupevery plane they could inoperative as well as the electrical systerm 517s they had not been able itself out. All the controls to the tail surface plants ftom the bombers, andthe  at other bases because they couldn’t make it all the way. Some simply came in late, on two or three engines, or, nursing their meager gas supplies, had been forced to leave their formations because they could not keep pace. One pilot, Lt. Elton Hoyt of the 379th, was on his final approac