0, a DC-3 could not escape it. Eaker and his companions could do nothing but wait. As they soon observed, the German plane was having troubles of its own. Black smoke began pouring out of its port-side engine. As it came nearer, the engine continued to smoke. Finally, before it was close enough to fire a shot, it turned away from the airliner and headed back toward the coast of France. Eaker felt certain that this German fighter’s mission had been to shoot down his plane, and his conviction was strengthened when,  94  General MacA 1940, Eaker be in California. England as an Shortly after appointed con Arnold called | announce that England, Eake “T’'ve been *“*That’s wh fighter spirit ir Arnold also staff. Because Harbor, and bi class career oft well-qualified “You can e officer,’’ Arnc make him a sm and I'll comm This advice taking off fron 1942, had beer oldest man on Fred Castle hi Island, New Y pilot. And Lt. ranking officer regarded caree when the Arm) fighter pilot un was a Yale gra wings in 1933 writing career. seemed immin a corridor at 4 upon Eaker, w Eaker said,  shortly after he arrived in London, he was told that the airliner following his on the same route had been shot down.  It was after 5:00 p.m. when Eaker and party reached London, having landed first at Bristol, then transferred for a short flight to Hendon, where they were greeted by Air Vice Marshal J. E. A Baldwin, representing the R.A.F. Bomber Command. After check- ing in at the Strand Palace Hotel, Eaker went immediately to the Whitehall headquarters of Maj. Gen. James Chaney, who, a month earlier, had been appointed commander of all U.S. Army forces in the United Kingdom. At Chaney’s office, Eaker was told to ‘*be present for a conference’’ the next morning.”  When Eaker introduced his six-man staff to Chaney and his much larger staff the next day, he was expecting only that Chaney would offer him whatever help he might need in procuring a headquarters for Bomber Command and launching his mis