cation of how badly the men needed a rest can be found in the fact that about seventy-five of them suffered emotional break- downs during July 1943. Fear was the basic cause. Nearly all crew members suffered some degree of fear at one or more stages before, during, or after a mission. But fear was only one of several horren- dous problems the bomber crews encountered.?  Almost as hazardous was the need to avoid flak by flying at high altitudes where the air was as frigid as it was thin. The B-17 was nota pressurized airplane. There was no such thing at that time. At 20,000 feet, the men had to use oxygen masks. Nor could the plane be heated when several of its guns had to be fired through open windows. The result was that for every three men wounded in combat, four were disabled by frostbite. Flight surgeons estimated that more than half of  242  engage. We have here complete target data on each of these. My proposal is, therefore, that I send two officers, one especially qualified on the Intelligence side and the other on the Operations side, for conferences with you and your staff to work out the joint plan for doing this job.  As an afterthought, Eaker also asked Spaatz to send back ‘‘as soon as possible our three Liberator (B-24) groups now with you.’’ He hadn’t yet forgotten the four groups taken from him for the African invasion (including also one B-17 group), but his request for their return was pro forma. He must have realized by now that he would have to go to Africa if he ever wanted to see them again. The Regensburg-Wiener Neustadt operation was, at least, a way of get- ting some good out of those lost groups. When Spaatz approved the joint project, Col. Curtis LeMay flew to North Africa and the Re- gensburg-to-North Africa shuttle mission went into the planning phase. August 7 was the date set for it  On July 24, the 8th Bomber Command began the offensive that led to Schweinfurt. Since July 4, the B-17 groups had been almost totally defeated by the weat