‘‘the ass shot away.”” They took a ‘‘Cook’s tour’’ of Cologne, which was a ‘‘huge mass of tubble”’ as a result of R.A.F. raids. Bodies were still strewn on the streets, and the city seemed in a state of paralysis. Warsaw’s escorts,  274  he still had something else hanging over his head. **But sir,”” he said, they were, was indoor bicycle racing around the lounge Inthe , ‘Oh yeah, the Bloody One Hundredth. “lve got one more mission to go.”’ barks the mn dt elev their combat presue by puling 2€p firing after your wheels are down.’’ He  “Oh forget that.’” outrageous gas on each oe and composing songs with les lke. how right they were.  Smith realized he would be happy to forget it. He hated missions as “You Rear i lik Sovpie, Nelle Dating” and “'m in te igher in the 96th Group at Snetterton Heath much as any man, but he thought about all the other men in his group NodeforLove,”Thelatergarersetoanoer:“T'mnotintheNude artly because the group’s losses had been who would have to finish theirs, and he wondered how they would for Love, 'm Selling This Thing for Money.”* ly because of the leadership of Col. Archie feel if he didn’t do the same. ‘‘That’s a great temptation, sir,”’ he said A sergeant named Walter Grenier became famous inte 0h >°S COmmiander until September 6, when he to Chauncey, ‘‘and I’m no hero. But may I think about it over although he belonged to it for only a few hous. Ariving as a der. Old was the kind of commander who ate lunch?’” replacement the moming of September 6, he wasat bl inthemess. MMOst as often as he did with the officers. He  When Smith returned to Chauncey after lunch he said, ‘‘Sir, I hal when be wastoldtofillinforasck crew memberontheSutgat. he base that he flew as an observer when the came over here to finish a tour, and I don’t want to have to explain to mision that day, The plane he flew was shot down, butGrenierwas 1S. He would cruise above a formation and if people the rest of my life why I didn’t finish it. I may regret it, but I’