he end of the runway on the rise above Kimbolton awaiting  30  jeep.’ He had good news for one crew member, Sgt. Star A. Tucker, whose promotion to staff sergeant had just been approved.  Sheeler also noted that this crew, ready for its eighth mission, would be flying a substitute plane, named Dame Satan, because the crew’s regular plane was still being repaired.  “One good thing about Dame Satan,’’ he remarked. *‘She always comes back.””  Winslow thought to himself, I wish he hadn’t said that  Capt. William R. Smith, a tough, shrewd coal miner’s son from Kingston, Pennsylvania, who had been a miner himself before work- ing his way through the University of Pittsburgh, felt a tightness in his stomach as he waited with his 351st Group crew at Polebrook.® He had made a bet that there would be a big mission today because it was the anniversary of the first American foray over Europe. Though he now had the satisfaction of winning the bet, he was wishing he had lost it. He figured the German fighters would finish ripping up the Fourth Bombardment Wing just in time to come after the First. He had a premonition that he and his comrades were about to get *‘the living daylight’’ beat out of them.  At Molesworth, Col. Kermit D. Stevens from Eugene, Oregon, commander of the 303rd Group and an Air Force pilot since 1936, expected that this would be an especially bad day for himself and his men because they were scheduled to fly in the *‘Tail-end Charley”’ or “‘Coffin Corner’’ position—the low group in the last combat wing.7 Nobody would be behind to protect their rear. Though Stevens was a new commander (this was only his sixth mission), he had learned quickly that for a bomber formation, one flying rule was more important than any other.  “If you want to live,’’ he told his men, *‘keep the formation tight. It’s the straggling, raunchy groups they go after.’”  The 379th Group at Kimbolton was to lead the rear combat wing (of which Stevens’s 303rd was the low element), and the 3