s again three thousand miles away in Washington, under the equally persuasive influence of other commanders with needs as urgent as Eaker’s. Arnold spent nine days in England and left with the impression that, aside from the disastrously muddled September 6 mission against Stuttgart and despite the desperate need for more bombers and fighters, the 8th Air Force was doing a good job.4 He was especially impressed by something Portal confided to him. Either the R.A.F. radio monitoring section or the Ultra people had intercepted a message in which Hermann Goering told his fighter pilots that ‘‘the Fortresses must be destroyed, regardless of every-  264  having been led to expect that the R.A.F. would follow their day effort with a night attack on Schweinfurt, were disappointed to learn that the R.A.F. had bombed Peenemiinde instead on the night of the 17th. They ‘‘felt they had been let down,”’ Williams observed, ‘‘after their bloody fight to pave the way.’’ But however much the men might gripe, they would fly again when they were commanded to do so. To get their planes into the air would require more than a command. ‘‘Four groups of this Air Division were so decimated by losses during this week,’’ Williams reported, ‘‘that a total of only six combat boxes [15-18 planes per box] can be flown until suitable replacements are made operational.”’  Not until August 27, ten days after Schweinfurt, could the 8th Bomber Command launch another mission, and it was one of the shortest of the war, to Calais, where the Germans were building concrete bunkers for the V-rockets they planned to launch against England. On August 31, September 2, and September 3, the big bombers went to thé Paris area, where they were relatively safe. On the 6th, when 338 of them, many manned by rookie crews, set out for Stuttgart, they were belabored by a combination of bad weather, inexperience, and German fighters. In one of the most dismal and unproductive missions of the war, another 45 aircraft went