atch hell.  In Germany, the Central Defense Headquarters’ monitoring ser- vice had picked up signs of heavy air activity over England before 11:00 A.M. Whenever a flight of planes took off from East Anglia airfields and reached a height of five hundred feet, the monitoring service would broadcast the report, ‘Assembly has begun in En- gland.’’!6 The Twelfth Air Corps in Zeist and other western air- defense installations had been notified immediately, and more than a score of fighter bases, with four hundred to five hundred planes standing by, had been alerted. At 12:20, when the American force began crossing the English coast, the Germans already knew its size and direction. The one thing they didn’t yet know was its final destination. By 12:50, when the First Division crossed the Dutch coast, German planes from such bases as Antwerp and Abbeville were in the air to meet them.  Over the Walcheren Islands, twenty of these planes, all ME-109s, attacked, at 32,000 feet, the fifty P-47s of the U.S. 353rd Fighter Group under the command of Maj. Glenn E. Duncan. The second battle of Schweinfurt had now begun. These first German planes ignored the American bombers and concentrated on the fighters in an apparent attempt to break up the escort and send it home immediately rather than wait until its short range forced it to go home. This attempt failed. After a series of dogfights above the bombers, the ME-109s had managed to knock down only one P-47. The American pilots claimed ten Germans. Many of these were undoubtedly duplicates, but the Thunderbolts had proven that they would not be driven away until they ran short of gas.  Some of the early German pilots in the air were not so quick to attack. Lt. Heinz Knoke and his eleven ME-109s of the Fifth Squad- ron, 11 Gruppe Jagdgeschwader 2, out of Jever, approached the First Division over Antwerp. But because the Fortresses were still accom- panied by fighters and because Knoke’s planes were carrying wing rockets that restrict