27  What he did not say to the assembled British and American military men, but did say to himself, was that it annoyed him to have to keep defending the U.S. Air Force against the U.S. Navy, espe- cially at a time when he was hard-pressed to defend the Air Force and its potential airplanes against the British. As he later wrote:  When asked what solution they might have for getting greater production and making more planes available to the British, or for securing more air transports, the answer of the Navy representa- tives was, ‘‘Stop manufacturing B-17s at the Long Beach plant, and build cargo planes.”’ . . . When [Air Marshal Sir W. R.] Freeman asked what the Navy was able to give up to help, if the Army Air Forces stopped manufacturing B-17s, our Naval officers said, ‘‘Nothing—there is nothing the Navy could give that would help any.’’ . . . The Army Air Forces was expected to give every- thing to everybody. . Naturally, from then on, I had to take a much more hard-boiled attitude.¢  Arnold never did come to an agreement with Admiral Towers on this matter, but eventually he worked out an aircraft quota agreement with Churchill and Portal, which they didn’t like but had to accept because he was giving and they were receiving. It promised them 480 fighter planes, 100 heavy bombers for the Near East, 108 medium bombers for North Africa, and large consignments of other planes that were being phased out of the American Air Force. The British would receive no other heavy bombers except for a few to be used by the Coastal Command. Most important in Arnold’s mind, it officially settled the issue as to who would fly American bombers from English bases. Only Americans would fly them.  Unable to prevail against Arnold in the matter of aircraft alloca- tion, the British accepted this defeat with good grace and prepared for one more battle in what had now become a six-month campaign. They were still determined to convert Arnold to night bombing, and this was their first op