hese two forces alone rest our hopes of bringing the war home to civilian, economic and political Germany. On these two forces alone rest our chances of crippling or destroying the sources of submarines and Panzer divisions. . .  With every day that the western sky has shown us only the sunset of another hope, the German has strengthened the fortress of Europe... i  Some day the Navy and Ground Forces may give us back our planes to pave the way for their well-covered approach to the heart of the enemy.  But neither they nor anyone else can give us back the time with which the German has tightened his stubborn grip on the Aerial Supremacy over Europe. That is the rising price, the daily increas- ing forfeit we have yet to pay for the unkept promise of the 8th Air Force. . . . It is respectfully requested that the 8th Air Force be given sufficient planes to redeem its unkept promise.®  Even if Eaker had achieved no other purpose, he had put on paper an eloquent rationale for the existence of the 8th Air Force. Arnold was sufficiently moved by Eaker’s anger to write in return an essay of praise for the men of the 8th. After saying he wished he could send them more planes, he told them they had been pioneers. They had continued the best traditions of the Army and had established *‘splen- did new traditions for the Army Air Forces.’’ They had proven their ability to fend off fighters and drop their bombs with precision. *‘No bomber attack of the 8th Air Force has ever been turned back by enemy action.’’ The experience they had gained would make it possible to *‘build rapidly and soundly for the death blow which we surely will deliver the Axis.’’  It sounded good, but it amounted to nothing more than words. Where were the planes?  In fact, Arnold was as concerned as anyone else about the stunted growth of the 8th Air Force, and he was at work on an elaborate documentary scheme to do something about it. On March 24 he wrote  203  to Portal through Andrews and Eaker a lette