t to go.  The most ardent M.E.W. supporter at the Air Ministry was Air Commodore Sidney O. Bufton, Director of Bomber Operations on the Air Staff. It was ironic that a man with such a title should have been almost without influence at Bomber Command, but Bufton, as an advocate of selective strategic targets, was anathema to Harris, who didn’t even want Bufton visiting the bomber squadrons or trying to influence them with his views about strategic bombing.  Bufton’s ideas were welcomed, however, by such American intel- ligence officers as Col. Richard Hughes and Col. Harris Hull. Bufton took an active part in preparing the 8th Air Force for its thrust against Schweinfurt, which was scheduled to take place on the first day of favorable weather after July 17. Together with the M.E.W., his office provided 8th Bomber Command with all the information necessary to prepare special maps and build plaster mock-ups of the  238  enough damage to delay the flow of Spitfire fighters and Lancaster bombers. They created a ball-bearing shortage in England that was overcome only after a large purchase from the United States. The M.E.W. believed that if the partial destruction of one ball-bearing factory could hurt England that much, the destruction of the five plants at Schweinfurt could be catastrophic for the Germans, since those plants made up to two-thirds of Germany’s ball and roller bearings.  When Air Marshal Harris and his Bomber Command associates belittied this idea, insisting that their bombers at night wouldn’t be able even to locate a town of fifty thousand people deep in Bavaria, the M.E.W. planners had turned eagerly to the day-bombing Ameri- cans, among whom they had found all the enthusiasm lacking at Harris’s headquarters. From then on, Eaker and his target-selection specialist, Col. Richard D. Hughes (a British-born American citizen) had been eagerly awaiting the day when a Schweinfurt mission would be practicable.  In Washington, General Arnold became almost eupho