utely prohibitive losses.  On the other hand, I have no doubt that if by the end of 1943 we had a force of 3,000 American heavy and medium bombers prop- erly trained for night flying to our standards, we and they together could pulverize almost the whole of the industrial and economic power of Germany within a year, besides utterly destroying the morale of the German people.  In a slight concession to Slessor’s view, Portal went on to tell Sinclair he agreed that there was some danger of the Americans’ ‘confining themselves to bombing of Occupied Territory or even going off to other areas’’ (i.e. , the Pacific) if their daylight bombing failed. But he stuck to his contention that they should be persuaded to alter their course:  I think it is essential that they should be induced to insure to some extent against this [probable daylight failure] if only to the  157  extent of 20% of their force. To do this they would have to develop an efficient night bombing aircraft and to study on a relatively small scale the problem of night training. . . . I am prepared to wait until the end of the year before taking this matter up, as I realize that it would be difficult to get the Americans to listen at the present time. . . . I thought, nevertheless, that I should let you know that my doubts about the feasibility of the day bombing of Germany are a good deal stronger than those held by A.C.A.S. (P) [Slessor].  Portal’s concluding lines made it evident that the whole purpose of his letter to Sinclair was to counteract Slessor’s letter to Sinclair the previous day, which Portal had not read before it was dispatched. While the Chief of Air Staff carefully avoided rebuking his presti- gious assistant chief, he wanted to make it clear that Slessor’s sym- pathy for the American viewpoint did not represent the ruling attitude in the R.A.F. He was also making it clear that the Americans had not yet seen the end of the British resistance to daylight bombing.  Spaatz and Eaker were awar