’s war industries The Thunderbolts were actually on their way.} The 353rd Fighter ped its tanks in would soon be paralyzed because without bearings, no airplanes, Wing, with thirty-two P-47s under the command of Maj. Loren G. ,000 feet and trucks, trains, tanks, ships, or submarines, no artillery gun emplace- McCollom, overflew LeMay’s three combat wings at 10:00 A.M., Antwerp.) But ments, no precision machinery of any kind could be produced. Both circled leftward, and took up an escort position at 23,000 feet as the mly five days British and American war planners believed that the destruction of bombers crossed the coast at Haamstede. But Colonel LeMay never ion with them. the Schweinfurt factories, if it could be accomplished, would be sighted Major McCollom’s formation, possibly because his lead ed them.¢ The disastrous to Germany. plane was too far forward. The 96th Bomb Group, with which he y awkward and  rode, was about fifteen miles ahead of the 100th Group, which occupied the last and lowest position in his Fourth Bombardment Wing.  Lt. Col. Beirne Lay, Jr., a member of the 8th Air Force Headquar- ters staff, was an observer that day. Riding as copilot in one of the rearmost planes of the 100th Group, he noticed that the lead planes of the 96th looked like ‘‘barely visible specks’’ when he squinted forward into the bright sun. To Colonel Lay, flying his sixth mission, the ‘‘loose-linked column’’ of B-17s still looked too long, the gaps between groups too wide. He was uncomfortable and he had rea- sons.4 As a headquarters representative and one of the six original officers who had accompanied General Eaker when he arrived in England to launch the 8th Air Force Bomber Command a year and a half before, Lay could have flown today with any group he might choose. He had chosen’ the 100th because its commander, Col. Neil B. Harding, was an old friend. When LeMay tried to convince him he should go with one of the other groups, Lay had insisted on the 100th. Though L