5 percent were damaged to some degree. For the first four and a half months of the 8th’s operations over Europe, August through December of 1942, the average had been 4 percent lost and 34 percent damaged. The Germans were now showing how much more aggressively they would defend their fatherland than France and the Low Countries.  233  When General Eaker studied these loss trends, he realized his predicament. First of all, even though he now had fifteen heavy groups under his command, he was running short of bombers. And General Arnold in Washington didn’t seem to realize it. Arnold, in his June 15 letter, had stated flatly that the 8th then had ‘‘a total of 851 B-17s and B-24s.’’ This figure was apparently reached by subtracting the number of planes reported lost from the number he had sent to England. It did not measure with any accuracy the number disabled by serious damage. Actually only 275 heavy bombers were opera- tional July 4, when they hit Le Mans, Nantes, and La Palisse after a five-day weather lull.  Combat was not the only threat to the strength of the 8th. Its growth had been slowed by the two-hundred-plane lag in delivery of bombers promised (or at least projected) under the terms of the Combined Bomber Offensive Plan. None of its four groups ‘‘temporarily’” diverted to Africa had been returned. And now talk in high circles suggested diverting several B-17 groups to an operation against the German navy. Eaker fervently petitioned Arnold to resist such a move.  The increasing losses and shortage of planes heightened Eaker’s realization of the dire need for long-range fighters.» Though the 200-gallon American drop tank had proven less than satisfactory on the P-47, he entertained hopes for a 110-gallon British paper tank that had been tested satisfactorily on the Spitfire. The British had agreed to give him 1 ,500 of these tanks by mid-July. But an extra 110 gallons would hardly be enough fuel to make the P-47 a long-range fighter.  At the same time, Ro