ommand—or rather the lack of it:  The two heavy groups we were supposed to get in February have, as you of course know, been sidetracked to the Twelfth Air Force [in Africa). We have been told that there will be no shipping in March or April. This makes it appear that we are not to build up an increased force of heavy bombers to be available this spring . . « There is only one thing that we require here to do a job—the job that will hurt the enemy most, and that is an adequate force  We have, to date, received but 24 replacement crews and 63 replacement aircraft, We have lost 75 planes and crews in 2,206 sorties. We feel, therefore, obliged to save our force for days when we can deliver maximum effort under favourable conditions, until we can get a larger force, and until the flow of replacements matches expenditure. We never have, and never will, let one of these days pass without operating at maximum effort.  One outcome of the Casablanca conference was the appointment of Lt, Gen. Frank M. Andrews, a highly respected senior Air Force officer, to replace General Eisenhower as commander of all Ameri- can forces in the European Theater of Operations, Eaker, who had worked under Andrews on several occasions before the war, wel- comed him happily to London and began immediately to enlist him in the 8th Air Force build-up campaign. The paper bombardment began February 27 with a letter to Andrews that included an apparently solicited letter from one of Eaker's preenlisted advocates, and, in addition, a ready-made cable that Eaker hoped Andrews would send to General Marshall over his own signature, Eaker’s letter said:  193  Enclosed is a personal letter to me from Brigadier General Frank Armstrong which I commend to your reading. It reflects the very serious depression in morale of our bomber forces, due to the failure to build them up. . . .  I have done a lot of thinking on this situation and I urge that a cable such as the enclosed be sent by you to the War Department