y hand. Fischer if, ded a company that was bought a few years later by another tvinckivtey -Dearing manufacturer, Georg Schafer, who merged it with his at elk at 1 firm to create Kugelfischer & Co. The growth of this company, v Germany’s largest ball-bearing producer, had encouraged three sce raed ipetitors to settle in Schweinfurt, making it Europe’s most impor- (amie ball-bearing center. One company, a Swedish-owned firm ‘arava ed ied Vereingte Kugellager Fabrik (VKF), had two factories here, ile just east of Kugelfischer, the other just south of it. Adjoining the ‘lal mii th WKF Werke, near the railway yards, were the Fichtel & Sachs 4 "ke and the Deutsche Star Kugelhalter Werke  | (ugelfischer and VKF each employed almost ten thousand work- ini While the other two employed at least half that many. Some of the akin Kers were foreigners, French, Belgian, and Polish, conscripted ened oye he German government and housed in labor camps just south of hibit  1 buildings around it dated from the 17th and 18th centuries. In  factories  wks Secause of war-time needs, all five plants were producing at  j 58  over to his group bombardier, Capt. Joseph Brown, and hope for the best.  The outstanding landmarks Brown could see were a white water tower and the railroad yard. With these check points, both familiar to him from the plaster mockup, he felt he needed no others. Ignoring a new swarm of fighters, he picked out his aiming point and dropped his bombs, all incendiaries, with reasonable confidence. On the intercom he asked the ball-turret gunner, ‘“How did they look?’’  “‘On target,”’ the gunner assured him.  “Okay, we’re fighting for us now,’’ Brown shouted into the microphone. ‘‘Let’s get out of here.’  They cleared the target without mishap, but some of the men behind them were less fortunate. Lt. Elton ‘‘Pete’’ Hoyt and his crew, flying a plane called Battling Bobbie, were hit by flak over Schweinfurt and forced out of formation. No chutes appeared as the plane descend