ome big, reliable names into the letter:  Portal feels that this has a much higher priority than the oil attacks, and General Devers and I do also. Nothing we can do is as important as destroying German aviation. It will be absolutely impossible to execute a successful invasion next year unless we break up the German Air Force.  Eaker on the following day, July 19, wrote a letter to Spaatz outlining his plan of attack against the two factories and asking for Spaatz’s cooperation:  I believe the best way for us to do this is for us to take on one and you the other, each wiping out the one closest to him. This will take a lot of coordination. If either makes his attack first, it will make a tremendous difference in the defenses that the other will have to  240  target area. And on July 15, British Bomber Command Schweinfurt a few hours afte  \\ British bombers would be abl set it afire. But Harris was another very important target laboratory and factory at Peer knew very well that the Gerr weapons against England, ar time indeed unless we could g industries.’’8  Among these destroyable ball-bearing factories at Sch so-called ‘*bottleneck’’ indu: contemptuously of the hope t however essential, would pa attacking ‘‘panacea targets’’ such things. He was convince pensable supplies and that th mad’’ in their enthusiasm fc Schweinfurt. But while he ex him, he did not dwell on it Eaker was irrevocably comn Schweinfurt.  The planning for Schweinf that a more immediate nece: industry had expanded its c fighter planes that it posed an ers. The B-17s would have li Schweinfurt unless they first fighters that were giving the:  Intelligence reports indicat ing 48 percent of all Germany bly plant at Regensburg and th in Austria, thirty miles south « plants were far from Englai within the range of the B-17, more than seven hundred mil: was not, however, outside th  engage. We have here complete target data on each of these. My proposal is, therefore, that I send two officers, one esp