at Casablanca  Our efforts in the past to build up a large bomber force in the United Kingdom have been disappointing. Bombers for that Thea- ter have too often been regarded as a reservoir from which the demands of other Theaters could be met. As I see it, a definite program of operations from the United Kingdom must be initiated without delay. This is the best answer to a plea for diversions.  The Casablanca Directive, to which Arnold referred, had been helpful in establishing the respectability of daylight bombing, and it had implied some kind of day-night cooperation between the R.A.F. and the A.A.F. It had not, however, stipulated specific programs or methods of cooperation between the British and the Americans, nor did it list specific targets, how or in what order they should be attacked, or by whom. The vagueness of the Casablanca document didn’t bother the British because Harris, at Bomber Command, already knew exactly what he wanted to do; he was already doing it—attacking German industry by bombing its workers in their homes at night. What this meant was the destruction of German cities. It was primarily a mat- ter of deciding which cities contributed most to the German war effort and which were easiest for the R.A.F. to find and hit in the dark  The American commitment to destroy specific military and indus- trial facilities, some of which were very small, hard-to-find targets, necessitated much more careful planning. The targets had to be  &  204  The purpose of the 8th Air Force was, and is, to strike the chief Axis enemy in his heart. No other American military or naval force was capable of this at the outset of the war. No other one will be capable of it this year. Nor is any other Allied force except the Bomber Command of the R.A.F. capable of it.  On these two forces alone rest our hopes of bringing the war home to civilian, economic and political Germany. On these two forces alone rest our chances of crippling or destroying the sources of submarin