ly the leading combat wing, with which Colonel LeMay was riding, remained relatively unscathed, perhaps because, unlike the other two wings which were composed of two groups each, the lead wing had three protecting one another. The 96th was flanked by Col Edgar Wittan’s 390th in the high position on the right and Col. William B. David's 388th in the low position on the left. None of the three groups had yet lost a plane.  The 100th Group in the far rear continued to absorb the most bruta punishment. Near Cologne, Lt. Ernest Warsaw, navigator of a B-17 piloted by Capt. Robert Knox, saw an ME-109 coming up from  13  wert ain it was not to fly formation. The stricken B-17 now took salvo itvitveih2it - Sa1yo of cannon shells. In less than a minute it was so hopelessly utxdittibultt Jeg that someone rang the bail-out bell. Warsaw did not know had rung it. Through all the action, he hadn’t heard another word (') the pilot or copilot. Perhaps they were both dead iving bombardier Edwin Tobin a bang on the shoulder to make he had heard the bell, Warsaw crawled along a little catwalk that arable & an escape hatch under the pilot’s compartment. He was wearing eatigtEniticHE 99) parachute in a chest harness. With a reflex action, he opened ibe tl atch and fell out. As he floated to earth, the plane from which he escaped was shattered by explosions, yet three more men \\ rged in parachutes before it plunged toward the ground. Tobin, was one of them, had been thrown out of the plane by an wr Wet’ osion HM" Tarsaw, hanging from his parachute, felt a draft from the rear and oki!’ me aware not only that the seat of his flying suit had been blown "ha ad y but also that his buttocks were beginning to sting, apparently veypiibribtds shrapnel wounds. He didn’t think the wounds could be very achvit"! sys if it had taken this long to notice them. Anyhow, they didn’t witlth’ stitute his most immediate concern. On the roads below him he d see crowds of Germans, probably angry at the bombing