rrived, as everyone had expected, four of them, attacking from the rear.  At this moment, Nettles’s top-turret gunner ran out of oxygen. As he stooped down to pick up a spare bottle, a 20-mm. shell hit his turret and knocked out one of his two guns. The copilot, Lt. Jerry LeFors, coming back to see what had happened, noticed that the gunner was now idle but didn’t know why.  “‘What the hell do you think you’re doing?’’ LeFors demanded. “‘Get back to those guns.”’  The gunner climbed back into the wrecked turret, where he would have lost his life three minutes earlier if he hadn’t run out of oxygen, and began firing his one undamaged gun. Three FW-190s came at him. The first two he missed, but on the third he scored a direct hit.  By this time, however, the fighters had knocked out another of the B-17’s engines and had started a fire in the third. The plane was about to expire. Nettles ordered the crew to prepare to abandon, then he rang the bail-out bell.  Everyone except the two pilots had jumped, and the plane was on automatic pilot when they decided they would exit through the still-open bomb-bay doors. Since neither man wanted to go first, they agreed to close their eyes and go together after counting to three. At the count, Nettles did jump but LeFors did not. When he opened his eyes, he found Nettles dangling from the bomb bay, his chute harness caught on one of the racks. The copilot finally freed the pilot, and the two men, like the rest of the crew, were soon floating earthward toward captivity in a German prison camp.  With the Third Division absorbing heavier attacks on the way home, its planes were dropping out at a more rapid rate. A 95th Group Fortress fell near the rally point after its pilot, with wheels down,  316  waved goodbye to his companions. Ten chutes appeared. Ten min- utes later a Fortress from the 96A Group dived earthward and man- aged to crash land with FW-190s still firing at it. Three minutes after that, another from the 96th went down