to the airfield where the 384th dropped its bombs as did the one other group that hadn’t already done so. When the three groups reached home, Peaslee didn’t yet know which of the other two had committed the unspeakable offense or who was responsible for it He didn’t even want to know who had done it, but General Williams wanted to know. Two days later, all the commanders and the key men (pilots, bombardiers, and navigators) of the lead crews were sum- moned to his headquarters at Brompton. The gray-haired general ooked stern as he entered the room where these men were assembled. With his one good eye, he glanced at them sharply. A critique of the St. Nazaire mission came first, then it was time to talk about Brussels A young major stood up and came to the rostrum, his face pale and his fists clenched. Addressing General Williams and staff, he said, ‘*Gentlemen, our part of this mission was flown as planned until, on the bomb run, our bombs were released prematurely and we bombed the city. My bombardier will tell you how it happened.”’  A slight, blond first lieutenant who looked barely twenty years old stepped forward and explained the dreadful mistake as best he could. All of his switches had been on as they should have been. To check his drift, he had sighted on the park at the center of the city. Then he  232  Eaker’s precisic fifty pl the airf Nazaire on the ¢ acute. courts-1 Dutch ¢ howeve batterie artillery since th Reali der of t! groups As tl B-17s « Germai  had looked up from his instruments toward the airfield target ahead. Suddenly he felt the lift that accompanies a bomb release, and when he looked down, he saw his bombs falling. Then he saw the bombs of his whole group, also falling.  “‘T was panic stricken,’’ he said. ‘‘It was like a bad dream, but I could not wake up. I wanted to die. It’s still a bad dream and I still can’t wake up.”’  When General Williams arose from his chair he said, ‘‘Gentlemen, you are all aware of the seriousness of what has ha