ncern at the  ssibility of other German cities suffering the same fate  out again,”  one and a half or two years we have been on the defensive  roduction to be assigned to home defense. That very evening, Goering answered Milch’s plea by  they  face WI attack, Hitler, by early evening, had already heard enough {ill him full of wrath. If that many American bombers ha  more fighters than they would have faced a mont  to fly all the way across Germany to attack a city in Bavaria, there must be something wrong with his fighters. It didn’t matter how  many B-17s had been shot down. The important fact was t two hundred of them had survived to drop their bombs. earlier, when the Americans bombed the Focke-Wulf fight at Wiener Neustadt, Hitler had severely scolded the Luftw  to Speer’s prediction he had said simply, ‘*You'll straighten all that  Speer was not the only high German official alarmed by the lamburg catastrophe. At a conference in Speer’s office July 27, Marshal Erhard Milch, the German Air Force armaments chief, said pessimistically, “We are no longer on the offensive. For the last  the last three months I have been asking for one month's fi  with Hitler’s approval, that home defense be given top priority i uftwaffe. This did not stop Hitler and the High Command from insisting on the continued manufacture of heavy bombers with which  ped to retaliate against England and even the United States, but it did stimulate some increase in fighter production. And more immediately, it brought back to Germany some front-line fighter groups. The result was that the American bombers on August 17  le Speer was awaiting more information about the Schweinfurt  Th answer  For ter  orderi  ng, the  theatlier.  aboutitto been able  at almost ‘our days er factory affe chief  of staff, Gen. Hans Jeschonnek. Now he summoned Jeschonnek once more and intensified his castigation. Though Jeschonnek may have  felt that Goering, the Luftwaffe commander in chief, was t whom Hitler should b