ted. The only Nissen huts at Bassingbourn were briefing rooms and storage buildings. The barracks were solid, sub- stantial R.A.F. dormitories. Winslow, who was assigned to the senior officers’ mess, found himself bunking in a handsomely fur- nished room with a wash stand, mirror, white sheets, bedspreads, and, best of all, an orderly to keep the place clean.  The first time Winslow went to London, he got an immediately favorable impression of the British. As he came out of the Under- ground station at Piccadilly, he saw some British officers and asked them to recommend a cafe. One of them said, “‘Come along with us, old chap,’’ and they took him to an excellent restaurant in Leicester Square.  For the enlisted men, Bassingbourn was slightly less luxurious but better than they had expected. Sgt. Douglas Gibson, a clerk in the 401st Squadron orderly room, ate well because he lived in the same barracks as the squadron cooks, who took special care of themselves and their friends.!2 But Gibson felt the ordinary mess hall food was poor, for which he blamed the mess officers. He knew the cooks could do better. The mess officers didn’t seem to care how well the enlisted men ate, perhaps because they themselves ate quite well at the officers’ mess.  Gibson’s job was to fill out the statements of effects for all members of lost crews. Under an officer’s supervision, he had to go through the personal property of every missing man, as soon as it was determined that his plane would not return, and make a list of every item—socks, 6 ea.; shirts, 4 ea.; mirror, 1 ea.; photographs, 3 ea.;  250  uninjured but stuck in the tail section, plunged earthward with ii lyi)j;ssplinyghgnine Fairfield nurses began organizing dances and sending blanket invita-  over end. Pal ya ae tions to Bassingbourn. The boys came by the truckload with canned Unable to smash his way through the rear plexiglass bubb] trihenithurtition hig goods and chocolate and great expectations.  attacked the metal fusel