r him, Eaker could well ask himself that question. He decided he had better, in effect, ask it of Arnold:  Averell Harriman talked to me the day after his return about his two conferences with you. His conversations, plus your own  On casual reading this sounded like a forthright statement, but  recent letters, lead me to make the following comment quite ee sare i ae what exactly did it mean? It didn’t actually say Eaker’s position was  frankly and after careful consideration.  Regarding our personal relation, I have always felt the closest secure. It simply reaffirmed their close personal relationship and bond of friendship between us as two individuals. I have never promised that if he were ever to be dismissed, he would hear it from thought that you placed quite the confidence in me officially as an Arnold first. In other words, Arnold was still his friend, but their officer, as you did as a friend. I sometimes thought that you were friendship would not save him if he failed to deliver.  tough on me officially in order to make certain that nobody had a feeling that I got the positions I held through our personal friend- ship, and to make doubly sure that you did not allow that friendship to influence you unduly toward me officially.  . . . I shall always accept gladly and in the proper spirit, any advice, counsel or criticism from you. I do not feel, however, that my past service which has come under your observation indicates that I am a horse which needs to be ridden with spurs. I think you know that I will do my best, not only for you but because I realize  : the importance in this War and to our Air Force of the job I have to th do here. Naturally, I am working pretty hard and under consid- a erable strain. . . . We have been through a very dark period and fe we are not entirely out of the wood yet, but I think we will make the h grade in one of the toughest spots imaginable if I can maintain your d confidence and backing.  Vv  si A week later Arnold sent Eak