er and said so. He also believed  220  Royce Merlin engine, was destined to become in the air war over Germany.  Lovett’s second memo to Arnold (June 19) listed what he found to be the most urgent needs of the 8th Air Force. These included more replacement crews and more forward firing power for the B-17s. The new crews should receive better training in gunnery and in formation flight above 20,000 feet.  “If these urgent needs are promptly met,’’ Lovett told Arnold, “the operational efficiency of the 8th Air Force will, in my opinion, increase by at least 50 percent.’’!4  Even such an operational improvement, however, would not suf- fice to see the 8th Air Force safely through the year. In conclusion, Lovett referred again to the most urgent requirement of all: ‘“There is an immediate need for long-range fighters. This may be met by proper tanks for P-47s, but ultimately P-38s and P-51s will be needed.”’ :  It is difficult to measure accurately Amold’s reaction to Lovett’s memoranda. In his postwar book, Global Mission, Arnold wrote: “‘It may be said that we could have had the long-range P-5S1 in Europe rather sooner than we did. That we did not have it sooner was the Air Force’s own fault.’’!5  Initially this fault lay with the Matériel Division, which was indifferent to the Mustang when the plane was being developed for the British, and then with the Wright Field experts who believed the plumbing of liquid-cooled engines would be too vulnerable to bul- lets. In the autumn of 1942, both the British and the Americans had conducted tests that established the splendid capabilities of the Mer- lin Mustang. But by this time the American Air Force fighter budget and most of the available fighter manufacturing facilities in the United States were committed to the P-47 and P-38. (Though the P-38 also had liquid-cooled engines, it was considered less vulner- able than the P-51 because of its two engines. It could survive even if one failed.)  In the early days of the war, A