ritory to the last ditch. I told him he would be preaching not only to the converted but to the very leader of the sect, but that I would nevertheless inform you. He implores your backing in the fight against diversions and that my assurance that he has it will be backed by reiteration on the highest levels that the bomber plan still holds the field as the agreed war winning Strategy. ;  Despite the thorough understanding of the American position that Harris exhibited in this letter, he could only partially agree with it. He completely agreed that the Flying Fortresses should not be used on coastal patrol. He wanted them used against German cities, and the quicker the better. If the 8th Air Force was to operate as a separate unit, in the daytime, it would take several months before it became strong enough to launch a significant campaign. By contrast if the B-17s could be incorporated into the R.A.F. night-bomber stream, they should be able to get into action against Hitler after a very short orientation period. Would it not be best, therefore, to settle the new B-17 groups right into operational R.A.F. bases as they arrived?  Eaker, already concerned about the possibility that Chaney, his American superior, would swallow up his command, now had to worry about the British doing likewise in a different way. If Eaker agreed to any plan of absorbing his B-17s into British bases and into the R.A.F. night-bomber stream, he would be acquiescing to the rapid dissolution of the 8th Bomber Command as a separate Ameri- can attack unit. It was easy to imagine the reaction back home to daily news stories about R.A.F. raids against Germany that would men- tion, perhaps down toward the last paragraph, that ‘‘ American Flying Fortresses also took part.’’ Eaker had no authority, from either General Arnold or General Spaatz, to accept such a plan. If he did  103  accept it in his official capacity as 8th Air Force Bomber Comman- der, they might then have to go along with it. But the