g the 231 that did reach England, 142 were damaged. Once again the Germans had failed to turn back the American daylight bombers. The B-17s had accom- plished their mission against Hitler’s most zealously defended target. They had dropped over 500 tons of bombs on the ball-bearing plants But the cost had been the highest the American Air Force had been forced to pay in its entire history. Many people were certain to ask whether the damage at Schweinfurt had been sufficient to justify this cost.  To the people on the ground at Schweinfurt it was evident im- mediately that the Americans had done much more damage this time than in August. The center of town was still burning and Mayor Ludwig Posl was already aware that the death toll would be in the hundreds. (Actually the total was 276 dead—106 men, 66 women, 26 children, and 78 foreign workers—but these figures had not yet been determined.) Posl, besides disposing of the dead and seeking medical care for the injured, had to organize rescue squads to help free hundreds of other people trapped in shelters by falling debris  About sixty high-explosive bombs aimed at the factories had fallen on the city, as well as countless incendiaries. Many fires were still burning unchecked and were likely to continue to do so until long after nightfall because the firemen were too busy to get to them  Despite this number of errant bombs—actually a small percentage of the approximately fifteen hundred that were dropped—the damage to the factories themselves was much greater and more concentrated than the damage to the community. American bombardiers, because of steadily improving techniques, were much more accurate now than two months earlier. In addition, the American tacticians, learning from their previous mistake, had sharply increased their ratio of incendiaries with the result that huge fires were raging in all five of the target factories. Kugelfischer had taken at least fifty-three direct  325  hits, and all but one of its ma