ig bombers flew south toward the kind of fear that attacks ‘he Brenner Pass. Within a few miles, LeMay had lost three more special ability to overcome fe: -17s, raising the total so far to a staggering eighteen, with North enced it. Being killed, or eve Africa still far away. Many of the Forrsses were already so badly happen, but he didn’t really amaged or so short of fuel that their crews had little expectation of gave it very little thought. I making it. But as they reached the Alps, these surviving men of the rather enjoyed it ‘ourth Bombardment Wing had at least one reason to be thankful  When the Phartzac crew be The German fighters had finally turned back, leaving them un- to bail out, he talked to them « _M0lested for the first time since they had crossed the Belgian coast- The airplane, as he pointed _ litt. The worst of the day’s ordeal had apparently ended. They had  almost unanimously certain t could now take them was str: the time had come to abandon to the pilot on the intercom. Cleven knew these men onl squadron commander he did went on a mission, he chose seat and sent the copilot to 1 could fire one of the guns.) T missions as a unit and they \  rudder pedals were useless. . their men, Smith, who was  Under these circumstance seemed justified, and one m But Cleven was an extraordi1  21  22  was now so clear over south-central Germany that he could see twenty-five miles in all directions.!8 And as LeMay’s plane began its straight-and-level bomb run from the Initial Point a few miles north- west of Regensburg, he had the satisfaction of seeing distinctly before him the mile-square complex of factory buildings that com- prised the Messerschmitt plant.  He was surprised to find no German fighters over Regensburg as he approached the target, and he saw only two antiaircraft bursts, both ineffective. The 96th’s lead bombardier, Lt. Dunstan T. Abel, with- out any opposition to distract him, dropped his load of American high explosives and British incendiari