r in fighters had spanned only a year and a half, he had a  skies for their pinpoint bombing. But on some days the forecasters were wrong, and as they approached Walcheren Island off the coast of Holland, it began to look as if this might be one of those days. Below them were only a few soft puffs of cumulus, and ahead they  37  i 40  more than three hundred pilots, already standing by their planes at a score of bases, received takeoff orders. Since the Americans were headed southeast toward Antwerp, Frankfurt still seemed to be the probable target. Ready to intercept the Americans was the largest force Hitler’s homeland defense had ever assembled.  39  The two large American task forces, each almost ten miles long, one with 116 Flying Fortresses, the other with 114, droned through the clear air of the North Sea. Looking to the rear, beyond the white vapor trails, the B-17 crews could still see the deep blanket of clouds covering England, clouds they had distrusted as they climbed blindly through them, but from which they had nevertheless emerged with trepidation, envisioning the brutal hostility they expected to encoun- ter in bright sunshine over the continent ahead  Most of these men were veterans. They had made the trip before out of England’s protective gloom into Europe’s dangerous daylight. They had learned to cope with the experience, but they would never become accustomed to it. The very thought of it was fearsome enough to make them love clouds and hate the sun. Whenever they flew, they assumed the sun would be shining over Europe because they would not be sent if clouds were expected. They needed clear skies for their pinpoint bombing. But on some days the forecasters were wrong, and as they approached Walcheren Island off the coast of Holland, it began to look as if this might be one of those days. Below them were only a few soft puffs of cumulus, and ahead they  40  more than three hundred pilots, already standing by their planes at a score of bases, re