l the aborted mission a week earlier, he had scarcely been awate that Schweinfurt was a ball-bearing center What had impressed him at this morning’s briefing was the distance they were expected to fly today, plus the news that he was scheduled to fly in his group’s ‘‘Tail-end Charley’’ position—low plane, low squadron. He sensed his blood pressure rising at the realization that they would be penetrating so far into Germany without fighter sup- port, but when the man said go, you went. So Algar had performed all his preflight preparations with outward calm, acting, in front of his crew, as if this were just another mission.  At the same time, he was determined to minimize his vulnerability, and the only way he could do that was by making sure the planes in front of him stayed close together, offering him a tight nest on which to affix himself. If the rest of his squadron were to string itself out, he would be virtually alone at the extreme edge of the ‘‘wheel,’’ racing his engine to hold position each time the combat wing made a turn of two or three degrees. In the hope of preventing this problem, he decided to put his fellow pilots on notice. At the end of their briefing, he had warned them, ‘“‘If you don’t stay in formation, I'll go around you.””  Staff Sergeants L. Corwin Miller of Stockton, California, and John F. Schimenek of Superior, Wisconsin, Algar’s waist gunners, spent much of their waiting time arranging their ammunition and checking their machine guns.!! They were pals as well as partners, and today they were switching positions because Miller found it easier to fire from the right side than from the left. Like everyone else, they had  31  ben ai a  igs du hi can len bla hems  he hae beni  pes je  fa  hk bin digi wash  totem  extn al  til)  ld  fe 0 ee he da  th i ema bey i tisisinvwlty the bombers at Eaker’s disposal were being used in wn\Mlttulit ~=a June 15 letter, he had enlarged on that theme:  a,  ha ee  He had sent two cables in early June complai