soon observed, the forces in the Philippines that at this very waa Yale ale wha ol ei Casa ons German plane was having troubles of its own. Black smoke began MacArthur, the U.S. commander, was pre, "i! i 3; thn the sevice ach a very ues pouring out of its port-side engine. As it came nearer, the engine  In London, Prime Minister Winston Chur tigre, Hefad resumed ave ty in uly 191, when var continued to smoke. Finally, before it was close enough to fire a shot, war cabinet the previous day. And in the Simi! Andinlat Jmury 142, Lay wa waking eng it turned away from the airliner and headed back toward the coast of marines were sinking thousands of tons of all ! ioral Ait Fore heaquares in Wastngon ven came France. Eaker felt certain that this German fighter’s mission had been  On the outskirts of Lisbon, in neutral Por wpon Ele, om ea known for three yas to shoot down his plane, and his conviction was strengthened when, morning of February 20, two taxicabs carry Faker said, “Bei, you want to go with me?”  94  91 %  General MacArthur when he was Army Chief of Staff. In December 1940, Eaker became commander of the 20th Fighter Group stationed | in California. And in August 1941, he made a six-week trip to  England as an observer of the Battle of Britain.  Shortly after the U.S. entered the war, Gen. Carl Spaatz had been appointed commander of the new 8th Air Force. When General Arnold called Eaker into his Washington office January 18, 1942, to announce that he was to organize the 8th Bomber Command in  | England, Eaker was astonished because he was not a bomber man.  “‘T’ve been in fighters all my life,’’ he reminded Arnold.  **That’s why I chose you,”’ Arnold said. ‘‘I want you to put the fighter spirit in our bomber effort.”’  Arnold also had some advice for Eaker that day about selecting his staff. Because the Air Force was still small a month after Pearl Harbor, and because the war was large, Arnold had very few first- class career officers to spare. He suggested th