action was rare. Most of the breakdowns came gradually, after an accumulation of difficult experiences or a period of brooding apprehension.  One first lieutenant, a pilot who ‘‘broke down’’ during “‘Blitz Week,”’ had flown sixteen missions before succumbing to the pressure = His first, to Lorient April 16, had been a rough introduction to combat. Two of his engines were shot out and he had a difficult time getting home, but he made it without injuries to any of his crew. The next day he went to Bremen, where the Germans put a lot of holes in his ship, but again he brought it home safely. Most of his missions were rough. He went to Bremen twice and Kiel twice, as well as Lorient, St. Nazaire, and Wilhelmshaven. But he seemed to hold up well until his fifteenth, to Paris July 14, when he again lost two engines and again managed to bring his plane home. He now became aware of his nervousness and tried to do something about it. He spent a week at a luxurious rest home the 8th Air Force had opened for tired crews, a place called Stanbridge Earls on a large estate near the south coast. The week there made him feel so much better that he returned to combat  His sixteenth and last mission was the July 24th raid against  246  seven days. This ‘‘undue fatigue’ was, of course, a manifestation of fear.  Psychiatrists found that most men went through three phases in handling their fears during a tour of combat duty. New arrivals in England, insecure and defensive, covered their apprehension by acting ‘‘either overly self-assured or particularly diffident, usually the former.’’ They were either ‘‘loud and continuous’’ or ‘‘mouse- quiet.’ They either sought advice excessively or refused to take advice. They drank more than usual and, above all, they denied that they were afraid or that they would ever be afraid. Many of them were contemptuous when they heard experienced men speak of their fears. (The veterans often launched cruel psychological attacks upon this overconfidence amo