nd Clark agreed that Eisenhower would be the ideal man for the job. Arnold decided he would speak to General Marshall about it when he returned to Washington.  After Arnold’s departure, Eaker and his men settled down once more to the painstaking task of getting ready for the arrival of their first bomb groups. They had been in England for more than three months now trying to bring about the birth of a bombing force, but they hadn’t yet dropped a bomb. They didn’t even have an airplane. It seemed at times as if the planes would never arrive; yet mountains of work still had to be done in preparation for them.  In the midst of this frantic preparation, Eaker received a phone call from the mayor of the neighboring town of High Wycombe, who wanted the general to attend a dinner, June 5, with him and the town council.  Eaker, swamped with work, begged to be excused.  A short time later, the mayor called again to press the invitation. “It won’t take long,’’ he said, ‘“‘because we don’t have much food. You'll be able to get away very shortly and return to your work. But I think since we’re your neighbors, it would help both sides if you came over and met my council and had dinner with us.””  Eaker finally said, ‘‘All right, but with the understanding there’ll be no speeches.”’  As the mayor had promised, the dinner took only an hour. But after it was finished he said to Eaker, ‘‘It just happens that a lot of our serving men and women are having a dance across the street. The member of Parliament from this district will be there, so I think we ought to go over.”’  Eaker, taking a poor view of this development, said, ‘‘I hope you’re aware, that’s breaking our agreement.’’ But he did accom- pany the mayor, and when they entered the huge community hall across the street, he was faced with a crowd of two thousand British service men and women in uniform. During an intermission in the dancing, the mayor got up on a platform and spoke for fifteen  130  the Prime Minister’s officia