his titular superior, would soon take over actual if not official control of Bomber Command. This was hardly what Eaker wanted, and it was obviously not what Arnold and Spaatz wanted Spaatz had written in his organizational memo: ‘‘As much as possible of the Theater Commander’s functions and responsibilities should be delegated to the commanders of his Air Force, Ground Force, Service of Supply and Naval Forces.’’3 Those words could almost have been in specific anticipation of the delicate problem Eaker faced. But  95  subject  walked to church with him.‘ By ecoming bomber commanders  fied with the R.A.F. bomber o ondon and other British cities during the Battle of Britain, an  letely agreed with him.  be a soldier, was born in Eng!  son should not become the so  except that the boy was stubbornly unwilling. Young Harris was s  Eaker neither embraced nor rejected the opportunity to place himsel! under Chaney's wing. As quickly as possible, he changed the  Next morning, Sunday, February 22, Eaker met the R.A.F.'snew omber commander, Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris, an  just been appointed as part of the shakeup that also saw the reorgani- zation of Winston Churchill's war cabinet. Churchill was not satis- fensive against Germany as it had so far developed. He wanted to see Hitler's cities treated the same way  Harris, the son of a civil servant in India who had always wanted to  ome on leave. Though deafness had deprived the elder Harris of hi cherished military career, he could see no reason why his growing  coincidence, the two men were both at exactly the same time. Harris ha  iad been treated by German bombers  d in Harris he had a man who com-  and in 1892 while his parents were  ldier he himself had wantedato be.  “dead set against’’ going into t  age of sixteen, to Rhodesia, where he became, among other things, a coach driver, gold miner, and farmer. It took World War I to fulfil  Army that he went instead, at the  his father’s fondest ambition for him.5 A