still had to prove to his British colleagues and to a lot of important people back home that the daylight bombing strategy of the American Air Force was both effective and practical against Hitler’s Germany. He had hoped to prove his point beyond doubt at Schweinfurt and Regensburg. And he felt he had proven it to the Germans. He had struck mighty blows against the ball-bearing plants and the Messerschmitt factory. But the critics of daylight precision bombing might be less impressed by Germany’s losses than by the 8th Air Force losses. Besides the sixty Flying Fortresses that went down during those two missions, Eaker now knew that forty to fifty others would never fly again, and perhaps one hundred more would need significant repairs. Gen. Robert Wil- liams, who led the First Bombardment Wing to Schweinfurt, had reported that four of his groups were so badly depleted he would be  89  able to put only six combat boxes in the air if called upon for an immediate mission. And LeMay’s Fourth Bombardment Wing was in an even worse situation due to the lack of repair facilities in Africa.  It was almost catastrophic to lose more than fifty crews and more than one hundred planes in one day. Eaker had not expected to lose so many. Yet he had expected the operation to be the most perilous and most expensive in the history of American air warfare. Why then had he launched it? Why had he felt compelled, without the benefit of long-range fighter support, to attempt such a dangerous mission? In order to understand his reasons it is necessary to go back at least as far as that earlier flight, on February 20, 1942, when he and his six original staff members arrived in England to organize the 8th Air Force Bomber Command.  home. And there were strong reasons for hoping he co civilian suits honked their horns in front of the barred gate of Cintro  Eaker did not want to let the Germans think they he Airport. When no one arrived to open the gate, a man in the second LeMay’s force to i