was no better and safer duty for a pilot than flying a general. He mumbled some- thing about being honored. Then he said, *‘I’m not in that much hurry to get home.”’  Eaker, dismissing him, said, ‘‘Fine. Go out and tell General Chauncey about our conversation.”’  When Smith approached the chief of staff’s desk, Chauncey asked, “*Well, how did it go?””  “I guess I’m it,’’ Smith said.  “All right, get on up to Polebrook, pack your things, and come back down. We’ll have a billet for you.”’  Smith enjoyed another moment of elation before remembering that  272  bicycle up the narr« fe still had something else hanging over his head. “*But sir,” he said,  were dances at the were in no mood t barracks, listening Crosby, or the sk Network. They of British diction, del network. Haw Hav activities of the An of any importance cans think there w were. But if so, the Haw Haw’s major war, they were not’  The barracks at there wasn’t enoug to raids on the coal 379th found that h was no more disco seemed to him that the verge of sleep t ing in the distance. ing towns would awake.’’ The loud: red!’’ which was m were closed. If the ment would be **A take shelter. To do the cold. Most of | German gunfire at couldn’t get very € from 10,000 feet. expected to die a difference did it m sacks?  Capt. William § pleted twenty-four ing out his last o September 27 Emc  “T've got one more mission to go."”  “Oh forget that.”  Smith realized he would be happy to forget it. He hated missions as  much as any man, but he thoug! who would have to finish their:  eel if he didn’t do the same. “*  to Chauncey  junch?”” When Smith returned to Cl  got to fly that last mission.”” Chauncey laughed and sent was the October 2 Emden rai  came over here to finish a tour, eople the rest of my life why I didn’t finish it. I may regret it, but I've  t about all the other men in his group  s, and he wondered how they would  ie could just manage to hold t!  hat’s a great temptation, sir,”’ he said “and I’m no hero. B