ssed him now. The Americans were not only bombing important factories; they were doing so with increasing accuracy. Field Marshal Milch, after the October 9 Marienburg attack, had said to Goering: ‘The Americans certainly know their business. At Marienburg not one bomb hit the town—every one landed on the target area.’’5 At Schweinfurt they had been only slightly less accurate despite the unprecedented harassment by Goering’s fighters and flak—the great- est air defense any bombing force had ever faced.  It is possible that Hitler, after learning from Speer what had actually happened at Schweinfurt, had blamed Goering for it. The Reichsmarshal liked to pass along any blame that came his way. In any case it was evident that Goering no longer considered the colossal air battle of October 14 a German victory.  On that subject he was now in agreement with Albert Speer, who often disagreed with him. Speer’s aides, together with the factory managers, had carefully compiled the results of the American bomb- ing and had concluded that the October 14 attack had destroyed 60 percent of Schweinfurt’s total production capacity, based on a com- parison with the undisrupted July output. As expected, the incen- diaries had been most devastating. A member of Speer’s staff told  338  mann Goering assembled the day-fighter pilots of the Third Division in the auditorium for a lecture.4 Standing before them, tightly corset- ted into his carefully tailored uniform, the fat, hard-faced Reichsmarshal looked stern. He wanted to talk to them again, he said, about the failure of Germany’s day fighters. They had failed because “‘they were not clear about certain things and because they were also tired and somewhat cowardly.’’ He wanted these men to know he was not pleased. He had thought that after he had brought the majority of Germany’s fighers back from the fronts to use in home defense, the day attacks of the enemy would soon be ended. He had thought his fighters would have a feast shooti