out of them.  At Molesworth, Col. Kermit D. Stevens from Eugene, Oregon, commander of the 303rd Group and an Air Force pilot since 1936, expected that this would be an especially bad day for himself and his men because they were scheduled to fly in the *‘Tail-end Charley’’ or “‘Coffin Corner’’ position—the low group in the last combat wing.? Nobody would be behind to protect their rear. Though Stevens was a new commander (this was only his sixth mission), he had learned quickly that for a bomber formation, one flying rule was more important than any other.  “If you want to live,’’ he told his men, ‘keep the formation tight. It’s the straggling, raunchy groups they go after.’”  The 379th Group at Kimbolton was to lead the rear combat wing (of which Stevens’s 303rd was the low element), and the 379th’s commander, Col. Maurice A. Preston, a Californian from Los Angeles, had some serious concerns as he prepared for the flight. After twenty missions, his group had lost about 75 percent of its original crews, thus earning an unfortunate distinction as the biggest loser in the 8th Air Force. This situation so distressed Preston that he was developing a program of innovations that would one day earn for  29  the 379th the lowest loss rate.8 Like Colonel Stevens, Preston was devoted to tight formations. In this respect he agreed with Colonel LeMay, who had devised the combat wing formation now in use. But he was beginning to question the size of the LeMay formation, which ideally was composed of three twenty-one-plane groups, stacked in altitude with the left group below the leader and the right group above  Preston believed this sixty-three-plane formation was too big and too loose. Planes at the outer edges and lower altitudes had to make extreme adjustments in speed and direction to compensate for small adjustments by planes in the center. The outside bombers often had to strain their engines, simply to keep pace. Preston thought this stress might explain the great number