‘yoda va avin wily a  a tei tii ond ic ahhlon  (tc tion  ‘ith wee "heohin ita crak wiht hoon stat ‘pba bets iia sie ea lt a slain: siti sheng  when it was developing enough force to make an impression, he was also aware that any planes he helped Eaker keep would have to come out of the force he himself was going to need in Africa. Eaker was beginning to feel lonely in his campaign to hold his 8th Bomber Command together. And he had been so outspoken in his arguments he sensed that Eisenhower was becoming annoyed at him.? Despite all this difficulty, one consolation came his way. On September 17, 1942, he was promoted to major general.  Winston Churchill, who had originated the threat to foreclose the 8th Air Force when he insisted on the African invasion, now came unexpectedly to Eaker’s aid, perhaps because he had second thoughts about the possible long-term results of an 8th Air Force hiatus. The increasing pressure from certain elements in the United States to concentrate the American war effort in the Pacific made it uncertain that the 8th Air Force, once removed from England, would ever return. It may have been with this prospect in mind that Churchill wrote to President Roosevelt on September 16. After observing politely that ‘‘the results of the first operations by your Flying Fortresses have been most encouraging,’’ he set out, without men- tioning Eisenhower, to undermine Eisenhower’s plans:  In spite of the fact that we cannot make up more than 32 squadrons of bombers, instead of 42 last year, we know our night bomber offensive is having a devastating effect. . . . If we can add continuity and precision to the attack by your bombers’ strik- ing deep into the heart of Germany by day the effect would be redoubled. To do this effectively and without prohibitive loss they must have numbers to saturate and disperse the defences. I hope you may consider it wise to build up General Spaatz’s strength. . . . We must make TORCH [the North African inva- sion] a succe