d they were standing in almost total darkness under a Piccadilly awning when Downs felt a hand on his shoulder. Was he about to be robbed? He turned but could see absolutely nothing behind him. Then he smelled perfume. A girl’s voice said, ‘‘Would you like to come home and sleep with me, lieutenant?’’ She had touched his shoulder to ascertain his rank from his insignia. At the same time, another girl was doing likewise with  276  who were polite and frien Bolick. It was their first encounter with the easy ladies of Piccadilly several months. and they were titillated, but they were not accustomed to choosing After twelve hours of s: gitls sight unseen. They declined with thanks. the Cologne airport, whic When Bolick's crew reached Snetterton Heath after going through cell. Here Warsaw let his transition training and being assigned to the 96th, most of his men had fascinated them so much | never heard of Schweinfurt. They had been in Grand Island, Ne- to the control tower. He vw braska, when the costly August 17 mission took place. They soon never before seen an Amy heard about Schweinfurt from the older crews, but it didn’t make a And none of them had ev strong impression. On October 2 they flew their first mission to in their own language. Emden, and that frightened them sufficiently. Though it was not One day while Warsz considered a difficult mission, they thought it was rough enough captain, a flier wearing ar Still rookies, they couldn’t yet imagine the kind of experiences in in drunk to see ‘‘the Ami store for them. apparently friendly with Staff Sgt. Leo Rand, a big, persuasive-looking gunner and former bitch’? who had ‘‘shot m steelworker from Youngstown, Ohio, who joined the 94th Group at As the captain loudly Bury St. Edmunds as a member of a replacement crew in early down and then opened fir October, was less reserved than Bolick and Downs around British uncomfortably if the mai Women He learned quickly that the kind of girl he might meet at that as he loo