r’s s ands with every member of Smith’s crew, then sai Due to the German fighters that patrolled the Atl of France, their route would not be direct. Like lanes at that stage of the war, Spare-ball had to fly Land’s End in Cornwall, at the western tip of En, waiting until dark, along a southwesterly course  tic, skirting France widely enough to be outside U-88s. Despite Eaker’s outward composure, his mind v  some heavy concerns as he took off for Africa. enough information to evaluate fully the results 0  momentous operation he had ever launched from reports that the bombing had been quite effect  nt Wing (a B-24 Col. Richard D. taff. Eaker shook id, “Let's go." antic off the coast all Africa-bound first to afield near gland, then, after lown the Atlan- the range of the  was occupied with fe still didn’t have the Schweinfurt-  egensburg mission, which was without doubt the biggest and most could take comfort  ive at Schweinfurt  and very effective at Regensburg. The Regensburg reports were still  sketchy, but preliminary analysis of the Schwein  cated that extensive damage was inflicted on all the plants and on the  town. While he had no way of knowing how  Germany's production chief, Albert Speer, considered this damage  to be, Eaker had no doubt that Schweinfurt ha according to indications from LeMay, the M Regensburg had been almost destroyed. It was fair  raids had been highly successful in damaging the German war effort.  But that conviction could only partially comfort E: living painfully with the knowledge that he had lo  B-17s in the two attacks—a prohibitive 16 percent of those dis- patched. In addition, early reports indicated that twenty-seven of the Schweinfurt planes had been so badly damaged they might never fly again, and ninety-five of the surviving planes had sustained lesser  damage.  Eaker did not yet know how many of LeMay’s planes would have to be junked as a result of the Regensburg raid. This was one of the  unpleasant facts he would discover w