or the job that you now have. I give you full credit for having the inherent ability—the knowledge and judgment that goes with the command that you now hold. That being the case, I see no reason in the world for any fears or suspicion as to our relationship entering your mind. But you must know me well enough by this time to know that I am very outspoken. I say what I think and do what I think best, so when you hear these rumors, comments, criticisms, or what-have-you, always remember that if there is anything serious you will be the first one to hear of it and it will come from me direct.?5  229  0  ubdtathidiods yy, attacking the St. Nazaire force. With Col. Budd Peaslee and it’ 384th Group in the lead and two other groups in a column of i nations behind, the Fortresses flew directly across the center of  pciiiuanattaet: ssels on their bomb run. The bomb-bay doors of all the planes aittstijuledsi e open. The bombardiers in every plane had taken control and  dita  e carefully checking their bomb-sights, ready to release their is the moment the lead bombardier in each group released his 1.  ust ahead now, in one of Brussels’ better residential districts, was zautiful rectangular green park surrounded by fine homes. The th Group passed this park and Colonel Peaslee, in the lead plane, looking back at it when he noticed a terrible mistake in progress. > of the two groups behind his had released all of its bombs, sumably on the signal of that group’s lead bombardier. The park the houses at its edge suddenly exploded ‘‘in a mighty series of ib bursts.’’ Peaslee’s bombardier shouted over the interphone, y God! Someone has bombed the city!”’  Vhile smoke and flames arose from the stricken area, the B-17s tinued on to the airfield where the 384th dropped its bombs as did one other group that hadn’t already done so. When the three ups reached home, Peaslee didn’t yet know which of the other two committed the unspeakable offense or who was responsible for it. didn’t even wan