ed to ignite smoke pots in an attempt to obscure the ball-bearing factories. Air-raid wardens in the factories and all over town herded people to the less-than-adequate bomb shelters. On their way to the shelters, residents could see the American bombers approaching from the southwest, their silvery fuselages glistening in  the bright sunlight. The flak ba  es south of the city began to  ire at full speed, filling  the skies around the bombers with smoke and shrapnel. These were  were in immediate danger of death, yet they didn’t dare leave it. The ground was a garden of explosions. The men huddled anxiously around their sand-bagged guns while Wehner went into his ‘‘com- mand post’’ hut and dived under the bed.  During the breaks between waves of bombers, Wehner got up and looked out. Dense smoke and dust were rising around all the factories and throughout the northern sections of the city. The southernmost parts of the Kugelfischer plant and the surrounding area seemed to be demolished. Hundreds of bombs had fallen. And though many of them had gone astray, it was astonishing to see how many others had hit the factories, even from such a height. The bombers were still at their original altitudes as they passed overhead and disappeared. Wehner’s antiaircraft guns hadn’t even been able to take a shot at them  For twenty-four minutes the attack continued. Throughout the town, people who could not find shelters ran from building to build- ing, trying to dodge the bombs as they looked for a doorway, an archway, or a wall that might afford some protection. Several build- ings in the business district were blown apart or set afire, and in the northwest section, more than a hundred bombs, dropped too late by  launched a massive smoke _ §8-mm., and 105-mm. guns, easily capable of lofting their shells to the already obscure factor: the B-17 altitudes of 17,000 to 20,000 feet. The guns on the factory plant was the 303rd’s prim  90fs were smaller, 20-mm. cannon, able to fire at