nd the other pilots on his staff—Armstrong, With all of this on his mind, Eaker managed nearly every morning Lady Harris did likewise Castle, Lay, and Cowart—flew British Spitfires to maintain flying to attend Harris's operations conference. Never having beenabomb- arshal, lest Eaker forget proficiency. er commander until now, he was able to learn important lessons about him. He gave Eaker a Lay and Lieutenant Hull, who was already up for promotion, the job ahead of him simply by watching Harris. In addition to the damage photos in three conferred with a group captain (equivalent of colonel) in charge of aily decisions about the next night's mission and the problems self had in his ‘‘conver- R.A.F. Bomber Command Intelligence, about plans to establish an arising from the previous night's losses, Harris had to deal witha > assembled company in 8th Bomber Command G-2 organization. Although the British op- succession of even larger difficulties, some of whichhehadinherited ttle of whisky Harris had posed these plans, the group captain was cooperative, explaining when he took over the R.A.F. Bomber Command. TheGermanshad ym Eaker’s first commis- how his section had developed, what methods they had found best, recently set up anew radar box defense system that made it easier for where they got their most reliable information, and what kinds of their night fighters to find his bombers. They had also set up a ing the American view- people made the best intelligence officers. Escapees from the Nazis, continuous searchlight belt over the Ruhr that exposed the vulnerable + when Gen. George C. he said, were their most useful sources. Newspapermen were no good bellies of his bombers. He had worked out a method of partially ited England with Presi- because they tended to be too dramatic. Women were poor inter- lefeating these defenses by concentrating his stream of planes in spkins, the week of April rogators, but lawyers and school teachers were quite good. As for closer succes