rom their moorings, and all other articles he hadn’t previous- ly jettisoned. Using a hand crank, he tried to close the bomb-bay doors, which had been open since the bombs were salvoed. The doors were hopelessly jammed. As the plane approached the English shore, struggling along slowly just above the waves, Layn realized that without hydraulic power he would have to crank down the wheels by hand. He did so while hanging onto the catwalk above the open bomb-bay doors. He tried to free the ball turret below the plane because its guns were pointing straight down and might drag and cause them to crash when they landed. He found the turret so firmly stuck he couldn’t budge it  Sergeant Cherry couldn’t help Layn with any of this because, in addition to his injured foot that was now throbbing with pain, Cherry had severely burned both hands putting out the fires in the electrical system.'4 Layn, fearing that the helpless Cherry might be further  73  injured if the landing proved rough, carried the wounded engineer forward to the cockpit and strapped him into his own copilot’s seat. They were over land now and approaching a British airfield, which they later learned was the R.A.F. base at Manston.  Judy, using his last reserves of strength, began landing prepara- tions. He tried the flaps but found they wouldn’t go down. He tested the foot brakes and found he didn’t have any. The emergency brakes seemed at least partially workable. On his first pass over the field he noticed there was construction work in progress. The only runway that might possibly accommodate a plane as heavy as a B-17 was closed. He would either have to find another airfield or land on grass, which was something the young American bomber pilots had not been trained to do. He didn’t have enough fuel left to look for another field, so he decided to try the grass  Plotting a wide traffic pattern because he had neither the engine power nor the controls for normal turns, Judy, with Layn’s help, brought the p