letely agreed that the Flying Fortresses should not be used on coastal patrol. He wanted them used against German cities, and the quicker the better. If the 8th Air Force was to operate as a separate unit, in the daytime, it would take several months before it became strong enough to launch a significant campaign. By contrast if the B-17s could be incorporated into the R.A.F. night-bomber stream, they should be able to get into action against Hitler after a very short orientation period. Would it not be best, therefore, to settle the new B-17 groups right into operational R.A.F. bases as they arrived?  Eaker, already concerned about the possibility that Chaney, his American superior, would swallow up his command, now had to worry about the British doing likewise in a different way. If Eaker agreed to any plan of absorbing his B-17s into British bases and into the R.A.F. night-bomber stream, he would be acquiescing to the rapid dissolution of the 8th Bomber Command as a separate Ameri- can attack unit. It was easy to imagine the reaction back home to daily news stories about R.A.F. raids against Germany that would men- tion, perhaps down toward the last paragraph, that ‘‘ American Flying Fortresses also took part.’’ Eaker had no authority, from either General Arnold or General Spaatz, to accept such a plan. If he did  103  accept it in his official capacity as 8th Air Force Bomber Comman- der, they might then have to go along with it. But they would never forgive him for it. Nor would he forgive himself. He was as commit- ted as they were to the concept of daylight bombing.  American crews wouldn’t even be qualified for night raids, be- cause pilot trainees, in the stepped-up wartime program, would receive only a necessary minimum of night flight experience. Eaker could picture with horror the confusion these boys would create, groping their way home to unfamiliar British bases in the dark after raids against Germany. Even the British pilots, with all their experi- e