nsburg justified this great expense, and whether such enormous  259  losses could be sustained even if the results were excellent. Recon- naissance photos showed that the Regensburg results were perhaps even better than excellent. The British were astonished by the bomb- ing accuracy of LeMay’s task force. Vice Chief of Air Staff Slessor, in a report to Portal, called it ‘‘outstandingly successful. Probably the best concentration on target yet seen.’”!  The photos showed that nearly all the craters were within the Messerschmitt factory. All six main workshops were destroyed or badly damaged; also damaged were the final assembly shop, the gun-testing range, a large new shop, a boiler house, main store and workshops, plus several other facilities. A hangar was more than half destroyed, and thirty-seven aircraft—presumably ME-109s just off the assembly line—seemed to have been damaged by bomb blasts  At Schweinfurt, where the target included five factories and was therefore less concentrated, the results were more difficult to inter- pret. Photos taken directly after the attack were virtually useless because the area was still obscured by smoke and fire. Subsequent photos showed that General Williams’s task force had scored eighty direct hits on the two largest factories, Kugelfischer and VKF. And the mission report said bombing results were very good:  Considerable damage was inflicted on a number of buildings of the Kugelfischer Works (ball bearings), Fichtel & Sachs (aircraft components) and the Vereingte Kugellager Fabriken (ball bear- ings) Works I and II. Communications, including the main railway station, also suffered very heavy damage as well as a number of residential areas At the Kugelfischer Works the power house, a single-story machine shop, a multi-story machine shop and a large group of office buildings and stores received hits. At the Fichtel & Sachs plant at least two bombs burst directly on a single-story machine shop, with three more on adjoining bui