switch from the B-17 to the Lancaster was still with him:  The Americans will not get a night bomber force by the beginning of 1944 unless they start now. Are they going to start or are they going to persist in an attempt at 100% day effort?  The danger seems to be that if they suffer heavy casualties with 5 or 6 groups they will merely say that the job requires 15 or 20 groups and by the time they have 20 groups they will probably be committed to 40 or 50. In the end they may find themselves no more successful with 50 groups than the Germans were with the same numbers in the Battle of Britain.  Is it not therefore essential to persuade the Americans to lay the  155  foundations in aircraft production and in training for at least a substantial part of their off  On the production side, neither the B-17 nor the B-24 appear to be ideal night bombers and the obvious course of action would seem to be that they should build a very large number of Lan-  casters.  lensive to be by night bombing?  Slessor’s reaction to Portal’s note came within hours, and it was entirely negative. Always an outspoken man, Slessor was as vigorous in disagreeing with the Chief of Air Staff as with the Secretary of State for Air. He attached a copy of his reply to Sinclair, then  enlarged upon it in his response to Portal  u  be  n very different. have talked abo American friends. ahi setting about it in a ing all allowances f will do it.  e  convinced they can  ink it can be sai  ethaps | am unduly optimistic, but Ihave always felt that when e get large numbers of bombers we shall be able to go in by day. I nk if the Germans in the Battle of Britain, even with the same number, had had aircraft with the performance, armour, armament and precision bomb-sights of the B-17, the answer might have  ut this a great deal to Spaatz and to others of my  Tealistic  Slessor’s pro-American alti  appalled him. And the fact t le upon Sinclair (their official channel to Chur- chill) was so alarming that on t