o fly. A self-disciplined man, not easily perturbed, he remained surprisingly calm during the long wait, giving no evidence that he was worried about the time lag. He conferred only a few times with General Anderson.? They had talked often enough in recent days; they both knew what they wanted to do and what it would take to be able to do it.  24  ever, supervised bombardier instruction at the Air Corps Technical vith two tons School, and he had been deputy director of bombardment at Air Force aded of 241/2 headquarters in Washington. Today he was facing the most important .30-caliber. and difficult operational decision he had ever been called upon to quipped with make ideal condi-  Since mid-July, General Anderson and his superior, General lay a bomb Eaker, had held this operation in abeyance, waiting forclear weather ‘he most ad- over central Germany so that the bombardiers could see their targets. ks were self- On August 10, just one week earlier, the mission had proceeded asfar iselage were as preflight briefings before the weather in Germany forced its 3t armed and cancellation. Today, with favorable forecasts for Germany, the it was one of weather in England was threatening the venture on of most of  When LeMay’s groups managed to get in the air, Anderson even- oad as it was tually sent them to the continent alone because he believed he hadno iaged or with choice.! If he had recalled them, they would have had a hard time  = finding their way down through the dense clouds to their bases. And early 1940s,  first they would have had to jettison their bombs over the English 1ed for max-  Channel, where they might have hit British ships. If LeMay’s groups | comparable  were to go, they had to move while they still had enough fueltoreach een it and an  their North African destinations, preferably before dark since they /hen the men  Since the early hours of August 17, long before the Regensburg task were unfamiliar with the bases at which they hoped to land yarachut