ise.6  Even if Eaker had achieved no other purpose, he had put on paper an eloquent rationale for the existence of the 8th Air Force. Arnold was sufficiently moved by Eaker’s anger to write in return an essay of praise for the men of the 8th. After saying he wished he could send them more planes, he told them they had been pioneers. They had continued the best traditions of the Army and had established ‘‘splen- did new traditions for the Army Air Forces.”’ They had proven their ability to fend off fighters and drop their bombs with precision. “No bomber attack of the 8th Air Force has ever been turned back by enemy action.’’ The experience they had gained would make it possible to “build rapidly and soundly for the death blow which we surely will deliver the Axis.””  It sounded good, but it amounted to nothing more than words Where were the planes?  In fact, Arnold was as concerned as anyone else about the stunted growth of the 8th Air Force, and he was at work on an elaborate documentary scheme to do something about it. On March 24 he wrote  203  to Portal through Andrews and Eaker a letter that included a report by his operations analysts about strategic targets in Europe. This report, from three thousand miles away, probably contained nothing that Portal hadn’t already learned from a British Cabinet agency called the Ministry of Economic Warfare, which had been compiling informa- tion about German targets since the war began; but the American report, of itself, was not important. Arnold simply used it as an introduction to what he was about to propose. After commending the report’s data to Portal, he wrote:  In view of the new facts we now have, I believe we should review the bombing priorities set out in paragraph 2 CCS/1/D, approved by the Combined Chiefs of Staff at Casablanca  Our efforts in the past to build up a large bomber force in the United Kingdom have been disappointing. Bombers for that Thea- ter have too often been regarded as a reservoir from which