t only the 104-foc remained the same.  The original length of 68 feet had been stretched to original height of 18 feet had been raised to 19 with the < |  ce  it  rahi’ ek bi  long, gradually rising tail section that included a rear gu partment below the rudder. This sleek, modern, and ver Amy’ Pe fy-al tail, however, was only the most obvious of the change: jy ic aye trig mds: Fortress had undergone during its development. The orig 4 te Model 299 had four 750-horsepower engines, a speed c per hour at 14,000 feet, a ceiling of 28,000 feet, a ran miles, an empty weight of 12 tons, and a fully loaded v tons. It carried five .30-caliber machine guns. The B-17 iq} : General Williams and most of his men were waiting to ta 4 sine (a few crews were in B-17Es), had four 1,200-horsepowe jy iu speed of 325 miles per hour (maximum) at 25,000 feet, iu nw hi  25 4  tv ii es wo, it  names like ‘‘Miss Behavin’,’’ Annie.””  Some twenty-three hundred of these young American fliers were waiting at the nine First Bombardment Wing bases as the morning of August 17 dragged on and the fog hung low. Clad in their heavy, sheep-lined leather suits, they sat in their planes or sprawled on grass nearby, smoking, joking, or griping—about the war, about the Air Force, about the British weather. Some were eating—chocolate bars from the Post Exchange or fruits or doughnuts from the mess hall. But appetites were not high on a morning like this. Some crew members went off by themselves for a few minutes to vomit away their breakfasts and at least a bit of their nervousness. If and when the weather lifted and the planes began to take off, some other airmen would wet their pants in fear, but these men, too, would be on the planes when they left the ground. An already bemedaled bombardier in the 91st was known throughout the group for his inability to contro his bladder just before a mission; he was equally well known for being one of the calmest and bravest men in the air when the fighting began.  On