xpected, the incen- diaries had been most devastating. A member of Speer’s staff told  338  mann Goering assembled the day-fighter pilots of the Third Division in the auditorium for a lecture.4 Standing before them, tightly corset- ted into his carefully tailored uniform, the fat, hard-faced Reichsmarshal looked stern. He wanted to talk to them again, he said, about the failure of Germany’s day fighters. They had failed because “*they were not clear about certain things and because they were also tired and somewhat cowardly.’’ He wanted these men to know he was not pleased. He had thought that after he had brought the majority of Germany’s fighers back from the fronts to use in home defense, the day attacks of the enemy would soon be ended. He had thought his fighters would have a feast shooting down enemy bombers, but he had been wrong.  “*The German people have suffered immensely under the terror of enemy bombers, day and night,”’ he said. ‘‘The people can under- stand that it is difficult to fight at night. But they cannot understand why, in the daytime, our fighters do not fight as they should.””  He had received many letters from German people describing the activities of the fighters during the attack on Schweinfurt, and these people did not find them aggressive enough. ‘‘In a word, the popula- tion is very embittered about the action of the day fighters, and they are right. The good name of our air force has been damaged very much by the fighters, not only with the people but also with the Fihrer. And most of all with the enemy. He scorns you, and he shows it by attacking in daytime, in clear weather.”’  It was particularly galling to Goering that these enemy bombers flew, not over the Baltic Sea or over neutral countries ‘‘but right over the middle of Germany, under everyone’s nose.’ And this they did because they had no respect for the German fighters.  “‘On that day,’’ he declared, ‘‘it was almost impossible for me to endure the scorn of the enemy [and the