seventh to fall since leaving Schweinfurt.  Help for the Americans was on the way. Fifteen miles east of Eupen, forty-six P-47s of the U.S. 56th Fighter Group, led by Col. Hubert Zemke, made contact with the homecoming bombers,* but the arrival of the escort was ironically disastrous for one Fortress in the  64  con ploc eart  atta: mis: Des and shel larg four the mer The and figh pun But flan des} out plar spat Wh ship seve posi cou.  out  bon escz whe foot  was deat nee: bail  305th Group. This plane, flown by Lt. Rothery McKeegan, the group’s operations officer, was limping along on two engines and holding its place in formation only because the group’s flight leader, Maj. J. C. Price, had slowed to 150 miles per hour, the highest speed McKeegan could maintain. Three German planes, an ME-110 and two ME-210s, were circling the 305th and had moved around ahead of it when the first P-47 to appear on the scene dived at them from 27,000 feet.  The Thunderbolt’s guns scored such a devastating hit on the ME-110 that it exploded, breaking up into so many metal chunks that the oncoming Fortresses could not avoid all of them. One chunk hit McKeegan’s plane, further increasing its damage and decreasing its speed.’ Though this latest wound may have been enough by itself to doom the Fortress, an FW-190 moved in for the final blow. As the Focke-Wulf sped away, McKeegan’s plane burst into flames. It began a gradual descent, still apparently under the pilot’s control long enough for eight parachutes to appear. Then, after a gigantic explo- sion, it simply disintegrated and faded from sight. Of its eight crew members dangling from parachutes, only seven were destined to reach the ground safely. One man’s chute, perhaps struck by a piece of burning debris, burst into flames, plunging him to certain death  The P-47s proved more helpful to their big brothers on the way home than they had been on the route to the target. Zemke’s group was effective in diminishing enemy frontal attack