t this of all times that the great bomber force they are planning to build up is no good except for coastal work and perhaps ultimately for night bombing. They are convinced that they will be able to bomb Germany by day and they are determined to do so. They may be wrong—indeed we think they are unduly optimistic on the subject  We fully agree that we should advise them to address them-  selves to the difficult problem of night-adapting their bombers and adjusting their training programme in case they find the daylight policy too costly. But if we go any further at this stage we may find ourselves confronted with an abandonment of the policy of an all-out air offensive against GERMANY, and a swing to the PACIFIC where their heavy bombers have already shown them- selves capable of taking on the Japanese by day. We are not sure whether you realize the extent to which General Spaatz has suffered setbacks in fitting his bombers for their true role against Germany. Squadrons [groups] which were scheduled to come to his Command have been diverted to Hawaii and to the South-West PACIFIC; the first squadrons to be operationally fit, on which he was depending to leaven those that came after, are being diverted to TORCH. . . . Are we now to press him to divert them to the anti-submarine work in the ATLANTIC?  Churchill was so deeply involved with the African invasion and so worried about the possibility of the U-boats dooming it to failure that he would not have been able to accept the counsel of his air advisers even if he had completely agreed with them. He did agree with them on the importance of the bomber offensive against Germany. Though Harris was destined to be blamed after the war for bombing German  172  insofar as U.S. assistance is concerned, will  bees apis seas, th plas ud is omand meter ped a playing very little part in the war and, what is much graver, fatally prejudiced within the very near future £0 jy curl like ee Bhd Aion American Air production will be ca