way,’’ and though he remained unconvinced that day bombing could be sustained without prohibitive losses, he genuinely hoped he was wrong. The thought of bombing Germany on a twenty-four-hour schedule pleased him mightily.6 He and Eaker talked often now about how they could help each other get more planes, and how they could both avoid losing any more of them to the North African ‘‘diversion,’’ which they both deplored.  The autumn of 1942 was so dark and rainy in England that on October 7, Spaatz told Eisenhower the weather was the one weakness he could see in the American daylight-bombing program.’ There was no mission that day because the bases were ‘‘socked in,’’ and there hadn’t been a mission for five days. The B-17s had flown only one mission since September 7, exactly a month earlier. The weather did not weaken Spaatz’s enthusiasm for daylight operations, but he knew it was causing restlessness among other people. Some hitherto strong supporters of the American policy were developing doubts. And some were becoming openly convinced that the 8th Air Force, or whatever was left of it after the African invasion began, should join the R.A.F. on night raids, which did not require precision. In an effort to answer these people and to prove that night bombing suf- fered from even more serious limitations, Spaatz asked Eaker to prepare a paper on the subject. On October 8, another dismal day that  161  stat ‘ov at rt  enn ai iyo Ai jicaly ng  teria Ts i) don dtnuca  IM  Mois ‘oe ta  teeta vlan  tod  Sao  wali  we feta  oy ivy  of the air, self-sufficient for both offence and defence. The pursuit ship is becoming obsolescent and will be replaced by the many- gunned air cruiser."*  The New York Times said: ‘There are suggestions from En- gland, reluctant at first, but now more enthusiastic, that the big bombers of the United States are all right. They always were.  In time, with equal numbers, our large bombers may be able to accomplish just as much destruction with fe