availability went up in a straight line today from 100 to 215. That is because the five new groups have finished their two weeks’ training and are off this afternoon on their first mission.’’? Eaker was full of enthusiasm for these new groups: ‘‘They tell me the five group commanders seem to be excellent men, and the groups possess a much higher state of training than did the earlier groups. If these groups prove to be superior in combat to the old ones, it will scarcely be a fair fight!’’  The commanders of whom he wrote were Col. John Moore, 94th Group; Col. Alfred Kessler, 95th; Col. Archie Old, Jr., 96th; Col William Hatcher, Jr., 351st; and Col. Maurice Preston, 379th  The 94th, 95th, and 96th made their debuts that day against the airfields at St. Omer, a comparatively easy target. The next day (May  215  14), they and the 35 1st joined the older groups in the 8th Air Force’s biggest operation to date when, for the first time, more than two hundred planes invaded the Continent. Anderson led two of the new groups against German installations at Antwerp while the two others bombed the airfield at Courtrai. The older groups that day took on a tougher assignment, returning to Germany to bomb the shipyards at Kiel  Though losses were light in these raids, the Germans were now augmenting their western fighter squadrons. Eaker expected much fiercer resistance to his bombers in the near future. In a letter to Maj. Gen. Oliver P. Echols at Matériel Command in Washington (also May 13), he wrote about improvements then being made in the engines and radios of the P-47 fighter plane, which had so far been less than satisfactory in combat. Despite the plane’s problems, Eaker wanted as many of them as he could get.10  **It seems to me the P-47 situation has worked out all right with one exception,’’ he told Echols. Then he referred once more to a need that was almost as great as his need for the fighters themselves. ‘‘That [exception] concerns the early supply of auxiliary f