ght formation’ gospel to his men, he had one other strong piece of advice.  “*Don’t look at the flak coming up at you,’” he told them, ‘‘and don’t look into the muzzles of their guns.”  On his first mission, to Huls as an observer June 22, Stevens had almost made himself a laughingstock. Standing between the pilot and copilot during a fighter attack, he had occasion for the first time to look down the cannon barrel of an FW-190 coming in from the front. When the cannon fired, he instinctively ducked his head, as if he were actually quick enough to dodge a shell. At that moment he was twice-blessed. First, the shell missed the plane; second, no one in the crew saw him duck his head. He would never have lived it down. He still felt foolish about it, but he also remembered the horror of staring Straight into the mouth of a firing cannon. As a mental-health mea- sure, he advised his men against it.  In the historic pre-Norman town of Kimbolton (where King Harold II kept a hunting lodge until he lost the Battle of Hastings, and all of England with it, to William the Conqueror in 1066), a teacher at the local boys’ school had found a new way to help his students develop a sense of history.20 When the B-17s of the 379th Group took off in the morning, it was usually so early that only a small percentage of townspeople were up to watch them go. But when they returned, it was midafternoon, and everyone wanted to watch them land, see how many gaps the formations had, how many planes were limping home with dead engines or with ripped wings and fuselages.  Kyffin Owen, like the other teachers at Kimbolton School, found it difficult to hold the students’ attention after they heard in the distance the first sounds of the returning planes. A few boys would glance  255  toward the windows, then, as the sounds grew louder, all of them would look that way out of the corners of their eyes. Finally, though they might still pretend they were listening to Owen’s history lecture he would n