ntingent arrived in England a year and a half earlier, Churchill and his air men had been trying courteously but persistently to persuade these inex-  10  apparent, and the bomber crews abandoned hope that the attacks against them might diminish. The German homeland defenses had recently been reorganized and augmented to meet the growing American daylight threat.? In July, two fighter groups had been brought back from the Russian front and several squadrons from the Mediterranean. On any given day now, the German Air Force could pit as many as three hundred fighters against the invading force.  But even more important than the number of fighters was the newly conceived strategy of deploying them in depth rather than in mass. No longer did the Germans concentrate their fighter strength near the English Channel in the hope of repulsing the bombers quickly before they could reach the German border. That strategy, once stubbornly championed by the Luftwaffe’s commander in chief, Reichsmarshal Hermann Goering, had failed because only a small fraction of the B-17s could be stopped over France and the Low Countries. The rest, having exhausted the range of the attacking coastal fighters, enjoyed a relatively free run to their targets. To correct this neglect of the invaders, the G.A.F. had now distributed its fighters among a score or more of fields along the 150-mile-wide corridor through which the bombers would have to fly from the continental shores to their most likely German targets. The fighters stationed at each field took off only as the bombers approached; and as each group emptied its guns and exhausted its fuel against the passing invaders, a fresh group from the next field would arrive to replace it. The system was designed to harass the bombers all the way to their target and all the way back. By the time the B-17s turned for home, the fighters that had met them on the way in would be refueled, rearmed, and ready to hit them on the way out  It was this new stra