, the man responsible for directing the whole formation precisely to its target, deep within Germany, four hundred miles away. Born in Chicago, Illinois, and raised in Valparaiso, Indiana, Williams had enlisted the day after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and had graduated first in a class of two hundred at the Mather Field, Sac- ramento, navigation school. After sixteen missions he had already become group navigator, not only because of his ability but also, as he realized, because he had been fortunate enough to survive while others around him were going down. On his first mission, to Bremen, April 17, six of the nine in his squadron had been lost. Williams’s own mathematical likelihood of continuing survival seemed slim.  Another young lieutenant at Bassingbourn, a bombardier named Edward P. ‘‘Ted’’ Winslow from Springfield, Massachusetts, was sitting on the grass with the rest of the crew beside their plane when their squadron commander, Capt. Donald Sheeler, drove up in a  28  fighter planes coming on at speeds of four hundred miles an hour or more. When the two waist gunners stood back-to-back at their posts, they were so close they had to be careful to avoid bumping each other’s rumps or elbows. Yet they were quite mobile compared to the turret and tail gunners, who fitted into their plexiglass bubbles like pickles in a jar.  The navigator and bombardier shared a snug, glass-windowed nose compartment that also had to accommodate the navigator’s work table and stool, the bombardier’s Norden bomb-sight, and a pair of machine guns. The pilot and copilot, above and slightly behind them, shared a cockpit so crammed with dials, levers, cranks, instruments, pedals, throttles, compasses, and control yokes that anyone seeing it for the first time would wonder how they could keep track of so many things. The pilot’s compartment also had two very pleasant features: it was heated, and its leather seats were as comfort- able as a first-class airline chair. The cockpi