ve one crisis after another in various war theaters, and I am never sure as to when somebody who cries longer or louder will bring about sufficient pressure to cause diversion from the main effort. That I cannot take care of, although I try my darnedest. . . .  At this writing, [George C.] Kenney from Australia, [Nathan] Twining and [Millard] Harmon from the Solomons, together with various and sundry naval officers from places in the Pacific are here endeavoring to straighten out plans and policies for operations in the Pacific. Each and every one of them is doing his best to get more airplanes for his particular theater. If we can withstand this blast, I think that we are safe for a while at least in assuming that we can continue to build you up.  On the basis of this less-than-absolute assurance, Eaker expanded his plans and stepped up his operations. Ninety-seven bombers (seventy-three B-17s and twenty-four B-24s) returned to the sub- marine yards at Vegesack March 18 to score the 8th Air Force’s greatest victory to date. At the expense of only two bombers, they damaged seven submarines and destroyed about two-thirds of the shipyard that had built them. (These estimates were derived from British reconnaissance photos.) American gunners that day claimed fifty-two German fighters destroyed plus twenty probables and nine damaged. Four days later, in another successful raid against Wilhelmshaven, they claimed twenty-eight more fighters for the loss of three bombers.  197  Such claims of success against German fighters were somewhat embarrassing to Eaker because, compared to R.A.F. claims, they sounded outlandish. Though the R.A.F. bombers were not so well armed and flew at night when it was almost impossible to see German fighters, the discrepancies were so great that the British couldn’t believe the Americans were that good, and Eaker was inclined to go partway toward agreeing with the British. He knew that several gunners, shooting at the same fighter and seeing it