e interesting experiences on his odyssey across Germany to the camp. After one day with the Gestapo, he had been handed over to a Luftwaffe sergeant and two privates who were to escort him to his destination. Because there was no other transportation available, they had to travel from Aachen to Cologne by streetcars, seven of them, transferring from one to another; and Warsaw was conscious every moment of how conspicu- ous they were—three well-dressed German soldiers with one ragged, disheveled American in a flying suit that had ‘‘the ass shot away.”’ They took a ‘‘Cook’s tour’’ of Cologne, which was a ‘‘huge mass of tubble”’ as a result of R.A.F. raids. Bodies were still strewn on the streets, and the city seemed in a state of paralysis. Warsaw’s escorts,  274  he still had something else hanging over his head. ‘*But sir,”” he said, “I’ve got one more mission to go.””  “Oh forget that.’”  Smith realized he would be happy to forget it. He hated missions as much as any man, but he thought about all the other men in his group who would have to finish theirs, and he wondered how they would feel if he didn’t do the same. ‘‘That’s a great temptation, sir,”’ he said to Chauncey, ‘‘and I’m no hero. But may I think about it over lunch?”  When Smith returned to Chauncey after lunch he said, “‘Sir, I came over here to finish a tour, and I don’t want to have to explain to people the rest of my life why I didn’t finish it. I may regret it, but I’ve got to fly that last mission.””  Chauncey laughed and sent him on his way. Smith’s last mission was the October 2 Emden raid. He was so nervous when he took off he could just manage to hold the controls steady. But fortunately for him, the port of Emden was such a short run that the P-47s could accompany the bombers all the way. The 351st Group was virtually unmolested, and for Smith, that last mission was *‘a piece of cake.”” The next day he reported to Eaker’s headquarters  The men of the “‘Bloody 100th’’ Group, so named because of