ri Germ: about unvoi: Britis! were had sf behav times establ they ¢ sibilit Yanke a me develc  Ear Hunti After 92nd the in devise most cours¢ side t enthu: groun Frano  London to Seattle, where his father was a baker and chef. His grandmother still lived in Hammersmith, but he got only a few chances to see her because Preston put his planes in the air on practice missions as soon as they reached Bovingdon and kept them there, day after day, until his men were exhausted. He wanted them to learn immediately about the complications of flying in England, where they might meet another plane around the corner from any cloud, and where contact navigation was difficult because English towns, if you were fortunate enough to see them through breaks in the clouds, tended to look alike. Landmarks were not easy to distinguish. Preston also wanted his pilots to come to terms with the English weather. It was a new experience for them on takeoff ‘‘to start down the runway in sunshine and before clearing the ground to be in the midst of a downpour.’’s  When the air echelon of the 384th Group reached Prestwick, Scotland, May 24, its commander and flight leader, Col. Budd J. Peaslee, was three hours behind some of his planes. His own plane had lost its No. 4 engine four hundred miles out of Newfoundland. A few days earlier on takeoff from Kearney, Nebraska, en route to England, his plane had lost both the No. 4 and the No. 3 engines. After an immediate forced landing, both were repaired, whereupon the No. 4 died a second time between Kearney and Newfoundland. When it died the third time over the Atlantic, he decided to fly on without it. His decision was vindicated when he reached Scotland safely.6  Peaslee’s was not the only plane in the 384th to develop trouble over the Atlantic. Battlewagon, piloted by Lt. Philip Algar, lost its ball-turret door, possibly because one of the crewmen inadvertently hit the latch; then Battlewagon’s No. 3 engine sprang an oil leak, eventually spewing o