s had sustained lesser  damage.  Eaker did not yet know how many of LeMay’s planes would have to be junked as a result of the Regensburg raid. This was one of the  unpleasant facts he would discover when he reac!  86  sserschmitt plant at  urt bombing indi-  perilously severe  een hard hit. And toassume that the  aker. He was now ost a total of sixty  hed Telergma.  »tnote in the history of the ch three famous generals and pare-ball, still spewing oil, e base at Telergma, where nem. He had set up a head- id their staffs retired to con-  “*Curt, when will you be able  bs and put some fuel in these uld not be that easy. For the \s for the bombing results, lis men, that the Regensburg estroyed.’’ The losses, how- -four B-17s that had failed to wn in Italy or the Mediterra- : would never fly again. And ly damaged that they needed  igures because there was no t base. His own crews were scouraged, nor did he spend  he did wish that Colonel bout the change in conditions ival LeMay had directed his alizing the derelict planes for le ones. Hard-nosed as ever, allations at Bordeaux on his couldn’t say for certain was  subsequent inspection of the d with LeMay’s qualities of cumstances. But Eaker could n combat condition.  to LeMay. *‘Your men will m to England. We’ ll see to it the Bay of Biscay at night.” ‘ration. He still believed that, ld hit Bordeaux on the way  By the time Captain Smith landed Spare-ball at Marrakesh at 7:00 A.M. on the morning of the 19th, the plane’s oil-spewing engine had splattered the whole wing behind it. But the engine was still operat- ing. Its condition did not seem to worry Eaker. He asked Smith how quickly they could take off again for Tunis. Smith was worried about the engine, and he knew his crew was as tired as he was. He found that on top of the Schweinfurt mission, this long journey to Africa where he had never before been, the added responsibility of piloting the 8th Air Force commanding general, and the fact that it was now almost twent