ive. Weichsel summoned the medics, who freed him and carried him away  Weichsel now walked through the factory in a daze. Some of the fires were still unattended. The desolation was so general it was impossible even to know where to begin attacking it. He didn’t want to look at any more of it. Passing the remains of one building, he glanced through a hole into the basement. A bomb had apparently fallen neatly down the elevator shaft and exploded at the bottom, where several women workers were huddled for shelter. Their twisted bodies were mixed with the debris.  Weichsel left the plant and ran to his home on the outskirts of town, hurrying past more dead bodies in the streets. He found his house untouched, his wife and children unhurt. Together they stood and looked down on Schweinfurt. Clouds of smoke still covered it.  326  later. His condition was so serious he was quickly transferred to a hits, and all but one of its main buildings were damaged. When _ide was strewn British civilian hospital where he began a painful recovery that would Wilhelm Stenger came out of the command shelter after the bombers  take more than six months. had gone, he found that a phosphorous fire bomb had ignited a n Goering and The 8th Air Force’s second mission to Schweinfurt was now petroleum tank in front of the factory's highest building (five stories), ating victories completed. Of the 291 planes dispatched on the morning of October and the flames had leaped to the building itself. The company’s out for himself 14, 227 had survived mechanical difficulties and German guns to outmatched fire brigade was battling both blazes with no help be- onths since the attack the target. Sixty Flying Fortresses and the 600 men they carried cause the city firemen were more than busy in town. As workers much to ward would not be coming home tonight. Among the 231 that did reach emerged from the shelters, they wandered back and forth in bewilder- ersal plan had England, 142 were damaged. Once again t