ed with a crowd of two thousand British service men and women in uniform. During an intermission in the dancing, the mayor got up on a platform and spoke for fifteen  130  the Prime Minister’s official country residence thirty miles northwest Arnold's mind about Chaney. Late that same night in his hotel room,  of London. Also present were Portal and Harris. Tonight Harris, who discussed with General Eisenhower and Major General Mark  had already subjected Arnold to a session in his ‘‘conversion room,”’ Clark, who had also accompanied him, “the need for a theater  was staging something even more persuasive—the R.A.F.’s first % commander who could meet the British senior officers on even  1,000-plane mission against Germany. In the largest raid ever terms,” Eisenhower and Clark both agreed that a change was advis-  launched, 1,046 aircraft (376 of them snatched temporarily from able. When Eisenhower left, Arnold and Clark agreed that  operational training units) were taking off to drop 1,455 tons of Eisenhower would be the ideal man for the job, Amold decided he  bombs on Cologne as Churchill and his guests sat down to dinner. would speak to General Marshall about it when he returned to  Since Churchill’s social evenings always lasted far into the following Washington  morning, Harris was able to announce before the guests retired that After Amold’s departure, Eaker and his men settled down once  the raid had been smashingly successful. more to the painstaking task of getting ready for the arrival of their Though the details were fragmentary, Arnold was indeed im- irst bomb groups. They had been in England for more than three  pressed. However, he was not converted. On the issue of day versus months now trying to bring about the birth of a bombing force, but  night bombing, the evening was a standoff. As Arnold later wrote, they hadn’t yet dropped a bomb. They didn’teven have an airplane. It  “‘Of all the moments in history when I might have tried to sell Mr seemed at