cans hit Schweinfurt again? If so, when and how often? One consideration comforted Speer. He believed the Ameri- cans had made a grave mistake in dividing their forces, sending only slightly more than half their planes to Schweinfurt while the others hit the Messerschmitt plant at Regensburg. This plan indicated to him a flaw in American strategic thinking. If the Americans had attacked only Schweinfurt, he would have been much more concerned be- cause it would have indicated that they really knew what they were doing. But while he understood their desire to knock out German fighter production, it seemed to him that if they had realized the full importance of ball bearings, they would have concentrated their entire force upon Schweinfurt. Since they apparently hadn’t consid- ered it worthy of the hardest blow they could strike against it, he concluded that ball bearings were not a top-priority American target.  Hitler was quite calm now about the Schweinfurt matter. He seemed to derive some comfort from Speer’s appraisal and also from the great number of American planes shot down. In any future raids,  82  rocket laboratory and factory at Peenemiinde on the Baltic. At least rocket base commander. From there he flew directly to Schweinfurt 750 people were killed, many of them almost indispensable scien- on the morning of the 18th to inspect the damaged factories, gather tists. Because of a mix-up in signals, most of the German night photographs of them, and talk to the managers. The following day he fighters were looking for the British over Berlin while the flew over Regensburg to look at the bombing results there, then on to Peenemiinde attack was in progress. When Jeschonnek learned about a meeting with Hitler who was at his East Prussian headquarters near this fiasco, he decided he wasn’t going to face Hitler again the next Rastenburg.*4 day. He wrote a note that said, “‘It is impossible to work with Goering When Speer was ushered into Hitler's presence, he did n