mself felt some responsibili- ty because he had directed the task force to avoid flak by flying over the city. But that did not make the matter less serious. It was so serious, he said, that it had been investigated by a higher command “‘through agents in Belgium and other intelligence sources.’’ He paused, and his audience listened as if awaiting a verdict.  ““Gentlemen,’’ he said, ‘‘we find the results are not so bad as had at first been feared. We are informed that the German occupation command considered the park area and the better-class adjoining residences an excellent locale for the billeting of troops. The entire circumference of the park was used for this purpose. We are informed there were 1,200 casualties among these forces and only a few Belgians were injured or killed. Across the Channel this accident is being called a remarkable exhibition of American precision bomb- ing. Such are the fortunes of war. This meeting and the incident are now closed.”’  The ‘‘fortunes of war’’ were seldom this generous to the men of the 8th Air Force. Their task was rigorous and becoming more so. The loss rate for the first six months of 1943 offered an ominous hint of the troubles the 8th could expect. From the beginning of January to the end of June, an average of 6.6 percent of its attacking heavy bombers were shot down, and 35.5 percent were damaged to some degree. For the first four and a half months of the 8th’s operations over Europe, August through December of 1942, the average had been 4 percent lost and 34 percent damaged. The Germans were now showing how much more aggressively they would defend their fatherland than France and the Low Countries.  233  Nb a eb vas pea Fil et ee ey anus Manila nl ota  att ao  r  sk  eh  ut ails nl ne a  and bit va i i ea be ‘glean bleak nil glen hd ebb ii wn gs vA igmie  Anant oa deh  ue i Take fc ie fe rn  ivi  nad based his estimate of German reaction on the ever- : fighter resistance against his bombers and on intelligence the