e seemed doomed, the tail section snapped off, throwing several of them free. Reports differed on whether four or five more chutes opened.  At 2:45, between Koblenz and Frankfurt, the group lost its eighth Fortress. This one had salvoed its bombs and its No. 2 engine was smoking when it dropped out of formation. The 381st had taken off with twenty-six planes. Now, with only eighteen left, and most of them badly battered, the stricken group had still to go the rest of the way to the target, then all the way back to England.  Just as the 381st Group was losing its eighth plane, the 92nd Group, several miles to the rear near Aachen, was losing its first. Two of its B-17s, those piloted by Capt. Roland Sargeant and Lt. J. D. Stewart, had been struggling to stay in formation since they sustained rocket damage near the Dutch coast. Both pilots had done well to keep their planes in the air, but Stewart’s luck now ran out. His Fortress began falling. He gave the bail-out order and the whole crew escaped. Ten chutes opened before the plane crashed.  Near Koblenz, Lt. Philip Algar, pilot of the last plane in the 384th Group’s low squadron, heard his left waist gunner, S. Sgt. John Schimenek, call out a warning that a German fighter was on their tail, firing his 20-mm. cannon. (Schimenek was now dividing his time between his own machine gun and that of the wounded right waist gunner, S. Sgt. L. Corwin Miller, who needed frequent attention.) A moment after hearing Schimenek’s warning, Algar looked out his side window in time to see a string of cannon shells from the rear, flying past his face at a distance of less than six feet. These shells, set  48  It had seem he wished th of an assaul once, was : formation gi flying suit a: tactics. Tim of shrapnel } intercom an minutes pas Fortresses ei thrived on b Several g battle, launc of these was radio operat approached in awe at the fill the sky. FW-190s. 1 different tac with its four tions from 1 rockets, thei escape the thrusts, t