. ‘‘It was the only thing I could see that resembled the target as described.’’ When the group was almost over the target area, Baggs, peering down through the smoke and flame, could see enough to convince him unhappily that he was to the left of the factory complex, and that if he continued on this course he would probably bomb an open field, thus wasting all the effort spent in getting here. With only a short distance in which to correct his course, he made a maximum adjustment to the right. But was it too late? As his plane brought him to the point of decision, it seemed to him he was ‘‘not completely over the target’’ and ‘‘probably would not hit it.’’ He hesitated a fraction of a second, then dropped his bombs. He did not see them descend or explode. Because of the thick smoke, he could see neither the target nor the city just beyond. If any of his bombs had hit the target, they would have had to hit the northeast edge of it, where the ball-bearing factories met the rest of the city. But he wasn’t sure. And this uncertainty was disturbing because the entire group had bombed on his signal.  When the Third and Fourth Combat Wings, under the command of Col. Howard M. ‘‘Slim’’ Turner, arrived over Schweinfurt, the target area was a mass of smoke and fire. The bombs of the Third Wing, led by Maj. William S. Raper and his 306th Group, added so much more smoke and flames to the scene that when Col. Maurice Preston arrived with his Fourth (and last) Combat Wing, what he saw looked like the bed of a gigantic furnace. '! He had no idea where his bombs would do the most good. All he could do was turn the plane  56  of the target, dropped his bombs. On his signal all the other planes in the 91st Group did likewise. As the group banked westward toward home, its crews could see the first cluster of explosions among the factories.  For the groups behind the 91st, precision would be more difficult. By the time they arrived, smoke and fire would be spreading a cover over the ta