at Bomber Command, couldn’t help feeling some uneasiness when he learned that the Schweinfurt mission, despite the long delay, was on. He didn’t, however, question Anderson’s judgment in sending the two armadas. He understood Anderson’s dilemma because he had once been Bomber Commander himself and had faced similar problems.  Eaker had found that it damaged morale to cancel a mission at the last minute when you had a force of men and planes all ready to go. !3 It was easier for the men to go through with a mission, however difficult, than to return to their barracks with nothing accomplished after such emotional and psychological as well as mechanical prep- aration. Since only the completed missions counted toward the twen- ty-five required in a combat tour, the crews were eager to complete them and have done with their perilous assignment  For a commander in Eaker’s position, there were also other consid- erations. The weather in central Germany was one of them. For two weeks it had been foul. Today, according to all reports, it would be clear over Regensburg and Schweinfurt. With the end of summer approaching, the weather in general wasn’t likely to get any better, so there was no time for delay in fulfilling his most immediate responsi- bility: to prove the effectiveness of daylight precision bombardment by destroying some important and difficult German targets. The pressure upon Eaker to accomplish this objective, and quickly, came not only from his British allies but also from his Air Force superior in Washington, General Arnold, who was up against the same pressure from his U.S. Army and Navy colleagues.  Arnold had expressed his impatience sharply in recent correspond-  33  cuit Ee Farndon  pe kal  (dll bmx ti  ng neg. A dtd gn bah be tglwot  ly - nna  rman fighters, after harassing LeMay, had landed to refuel with the intention of harassing him again on his way home d. When his force turned south from Regensburg toward 2 German defenders had little time to e