ws. When Eaker was admitted to the foyer, he looked out through these windows to a cluster of orange trees in the garden. While he was still gazing at this exotic view and enjoying the warm sunlight that came through the high windows, he became conscious that the British Prime Minister was descending the graceful staircase in an air commodore’s uniform. Eaker had heard many times that Churchill liked to wear his Army uniform when he entertained a general and his naval uniform when he was seeing an admiral. It seemed a good omen that he should be wearing an airman’s uniform this morning.  Churchill did not wait until he was all the way down the stairs before speaking. As he reached the landing he said, ‘‘Young man, General Arnold tells me you are most unhappy that I’ve suggested to your President that your 8th Air Force discontinue its daylight efforts and join the R.A.F. in night bombing. I want you to know and  187  remember that I am half American. My mother was a U.S. citizen. And the tragic loss of so many of your gallant crews tears my heart. Marshal Harris tells me that his losses average 2 percent while yours are at least double that and sometimes higher.’”!9 By this time Churchill had reached the ground floor and was ushering Eaker into a spacious living room. Eaker’s statistics did not agree with those Churchill had just quoted; indeed he had figures indicating the exact opposite—2 percent losses for the Americans and 4 percent for the British. But this was no time to argue about that. “*Mr. Prime Minister,’’ Eaker said, *‘I’ve learned from a year’s service in the United Kingdom that you always listen to both sides of an issue before making a decision. And I’ve set down here in a memorandum less than a page long the reasons why, in my judgment, it would be most profitable to the war effort if we were to continue our daylight bombing while the R.A.F. continues its night bombing.”’ Churchill took in hand the piece of paper and sat down on a long couch, motion