ng back across the North Sea together, and they were destined to suffer further losses before reaching England. Lt. Eugene Lockhart had managed to keep his crippled B-17 in the 91st formation on three engines all the way from the target. But when he reached the coast, where he could feel relatively safe from enemy fighters, he decided he had better do something about his serious fuel shortage. !? Leaving the formation at 18,000 feet, he put the plane into a slow glide in the hope that he might have just enough gasoline to reach an air base on the English coast. In case he didn’t have quite enough, he also sent out a continuous S.O.S. on a medium frequency for five minutes.  71  About a third of the way across the North Sea, still fifty miles from England, Lockhart learned that he wasn’t going to make it. When his No. 2 engine used up its last drop of fuel and sputtered to a stop, he ordered the crew to prepare to ditch. As all eight men other than the pilot and copilot took their ditching positions in the radio compart- ment, the No. 4 engine went silent. Lockhart was just above the waves now, flying on only the No. 1 engine at eighty miles an hour, slightly downwind. Moments later, that engine died. The plane, with full flaps down, stalled, then dropped a few feet into the water, tail first. Though the waves proved rougher than they had looked, the plane’s nose came up quickly and the crew began scrambling out: Lockhart and his copilot, Lt. Clive Woodbury, from the side win- dows of the cockpit; the others from the radio hatch. They dragged out their rubber dinghies, inflated them with oxygen bottles, and were scrambling aboard as their plane sank from sight, thirty seconds after touching the water. It was now 5:20 P.M  Settling into the dinghies, the airmen tried to operate the radio with which one raft was equipped, but they couldn’t raise the kite designed to serve as its antenna. Neither could they raise the dinghy’s distress balloon nor get its battery-operate