Eaker, ‘‘It has taken me many years to get to know the things I should know to be bomber commander. Portal and the Secretary for Air [Sir Archibald Sinclair] would relieve me if they knew I contemplated it.’’  Spaatz was persuaded by these arguments. Eaker, though he might agree with them, felt a strong obligation to go because he was bomber commander. He said to film star Ben Lyon who was planning to join the Air Force to become a member of his staff, ‘‘I don’t want any American mothers to think I’d send their boys someplace where I'd  138  be afraid to go myself.’’> When Spaatz announced he would not be flying the first mission after all, Eaker decided to fly it himself. It was at this time (August 8, 1942) that he issued his directive suggesting his staff officers fly ‘‘sufficient operational missions in order to be cognizant of the problems facing combat crews  The 8th Air Force by now had its first sample of one kind of combat-crew problem. On July 25, a gunnery sergeant who had flown the A-20 mission July 4 against German airfields committed suicide, possibly because he could not face the strain of continued combat. As if in anticipation of such battle-induced psychological crises, the previous day, Spaatz had ordered the establishment of a facility called the 8th Air Force Provisional Medical Field Service School, designed to teach medical officers as much as possible about the problems peculiar to fliers in combat.  Eaker was also taking an important step to safeguard the mental health of his bomber crews. At the suggestion of Air Marshal Harris, he directed that no-one be required or even allowed to fly more than twenty-five missions. Harris had said to him, ‘We made a mistake under the emergency pressures of the Battle of Britain. We let crews go until they were killed. We have found out you must give a combat crew a chance for survival. We learned in the long run that you must set a [fixed] number of missions.’*  On August 8, after arranging for his own p