e; bad weather and necessity for more training—one thing stands out brightly. Our combat crews have the heart and stamina, the keenness, the will to fight and the enthusiasm which will make them the toughest air fighters . . . in this theater.”’  Perhaps because of the intensive extra training to which Colonel Armstrong was now subjecting these combat crews, Eaker was feeling much more optimistic even about their gunnery skills. ‘“The other day I flew with one of our B-17E crews on a gunnery and bombing mission,’’ he told Arnold, ‘‘and I wished many times that you had been aboard. Every time the tow-target came within 1,000  139  tne bovnl ht  Vg iy auelat; conta  vy tena  iy py cei wa ite Seah wri Dest  «ila  Ahh L}  ‘apie i fesidth bh, finan iran wait  snactiny  ativan  i  while waiting for the weather to clear that there wasn’t much to say now except, ‘‘Do it.””  After the conference, Eaker himself flew to Polebrook where twelve crews of the 97th Bomb Group had been on alert for a week. Their morale, according to the 8th Bomber Command diary for the day, was ‘‘wearing thin from repeated ‘dry runs,’ bad weather and impatience to get at the Hun.’’ Eaker, however, was impressed by “the nonchalance of the crews’’ when he arrived in early afternoon and announced that he would accompany them. He found ‘‘evident enthusiasm”’ and ‘‘could detect no nervousness or anxiety—they seemed quite like veterans.”  At 3:14 p.M., the first engine of Col, Frank Armstrong’s B-17 kicked over, emitting a puff of blue smoke, and twelve minutes later, at 3:26, the Group commander got off the ground followed by the five other planes in his flight. Eaker, riding as an observer, took off in the seventh plane, named Yankee Doodle, which was to lead the second flight of six. The twelve planes assembled over the field, climbed to 22,500 feet, and turned toward France. They did not constitute a very impressive armada, but they were the first American Flying For- tresses to attack Hitler’s Europe