e G.A.F. had now distributed its fighters among a score or more of fields along the 150-mile-wide corridor through which the bombers would have to fly from the continental shores to their most likely German targets. The fighters stationed at each field took off only as the bombers approached; and as each group emptied its guns and exhausted its fuel against the passing invaders, a fresh group from the next field would arrive to replace it. The system was designed to harass the bombers all the way to their target and all the way back. By the time the B-17s turned for home, the fighters that had met them on the way in would be refueled, rearmed, and ready to hit them on the way out  It was this new strategy that had given rise to the gloomy joke among the bomber crews that they were escorted all the way. Until today, the joke had been an exaggeration. Today it appeared to be an understatement.  At his headquarters in Bushy Park, fifteen miles southwest of London, Gen. Ira Eaker, the square-jawed, tough-looking, but soft- speaking Texan who commanded the 8th Air Force, kept steady communication with his Bomber Command in High Wycombe, thirty miles north, hoping to hear that the First Bombardment Wing would soon be off the ground on its way to Schweinfurt. The fog had  9  begun to lift at Bassingbourn, the base of the 91st Group, nine miles southwest of Cambridge, but would it lift at all the other bases in East Anglia? Eaker fervently hoped so because he knew that this might be the most crucial day in his twenty-five-year military career. He hoped that today he could prove conclusively to the critics of American Army Air Force strategy the feasibility of the concept upon which the Air Force had been developed: daylight precision bombing  Among these critics were some very important people. Here in England they included Prime Minister Winston Churchill, Air Minis- ter Sir Archibald Sinclair, Chief of the Royal Air Force Staff Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal, and R.