ither General Arnold or General Spaatz, to accept such a plan. If he did  103  accept it in his official capacity as 8th Air Force Bomber Comman- der, they might then have to go along with it. But they would never forgive him for it. Nor would he forgive himself. He was as commit- ted as they were to the concept of daylight bombing.  American crews wouldn’t even be qualified for night raids, be- cause pilot trainees, in the stepped-up wartime program, would receive only a necessary minimum of night flight experience. Eaker could picture with horror the confusion these boys would create, groping their way home to unfamiliar British bases in the dark after raids against Germany. Even the British pilots, with all their experi- ence, had enough trouble. Navigation at night was still so difficult in wartime blackout conditions that the R.A.F. sometimes wasted whole missions because they failed to find big cities and dumped their bombs harmlessly in nearby rural areas.  The B-17 itself presented obstacles to night bombing. Not only was it designed and equipped as a day bomber, but equally important, it left behind it in flight a glow from its engine exhausts that would make it easy for the German night fighters to see and attack. Some kind of device might be developed to dampen this glow, but that would not change the American Air Force commitment to daylight bombing  The British perhaps could bomb only at night because their planes were lightly armed and did not have the Norden bomb-sight, which would make even the smallest of targets vulnerable to precision attack. But the B-17s would have the Norden, and they would also have as many as ten .50-caliber machine guns with which to defend themselves.  Though neither Harris nor Eaker raised his voice during the discus- sion, both were aware of its almost global importance. Both believed firmly that the outcome of the war depended on the proper use of air power. Harris received Eaker’s arguments sympathetically but could not