way from the target into the path of 160 FW-190s and ME-109s, which attacked the lead group in waves of 10 and 20. Only one of the planes in Old’s 96A formation had gone down so far,  314  In the 94th ¢ Rand, on his how wrong with the leas shit. P-47 es squadron aft way to the In his less than bullets he wz upon throug! of German f A few mi Fortress fror burst hit the not apparent open his can just as he ck firing. Anotl torso, cuttin  and two in the 96B formation on his right wing, but the prospects for the homeward journey didn’t look good. The bulk of the German fighters, which had been concentrating on the First Division, now turned their attention to the Third. And at the same time, barrages of flak continued to jolt the planes as they flew over the hills north of the city Another heavy blast hit the front of Old’s Fortress while it was still in its gradual turn from the target. Once again shrapnel flew through the navigator’s and bombardier’s station. This time a fragment hit Major Hodson and killed him instantly. The Fortress shook and shuddered under the impact of the explosion but did not fall off course. Group after group followed Old and the 96th, dumping their leadly cargo into the witch’s brew below. The smoke was so heavy that it became the target, since it was impossible to make out the landmarks beneath it. After the last bomber group passed over, the fighters chased it north and Schweinfurt’s torment was apparently at an end. Then one more B-17 appeared out of the southern sky, flying on three engines, and approached the target alone. A 94th Group plane, which had been part of the 96B Group formation, it was flown by Lt. Silas Nettles of Montgomery, Alabama, and it was bidding now to become the last of all the bombers to hit Schweinfurt that day. This plane reached the target as a lonely straggler because a German fighter had gotten to it near the Initial Point. Unable either to keep pace with the formation or to maintain altitude with one of its en