ercent of all Germany’s fighters—the Messerschmitt assem- bly plant at Regensburg and the Focke-Wulf plant at Wiener Neustadt in Austria, thirty miles south of Vienna. Unfortunately, both of these plants were far from England. Regensburg might be just barely within the range of the B-17, but Wiener Neustadt, at a distance of more than seven hundred miles, was far outside. The Austrian plant was not, however, outside the range of the heavy bombers, mostly  239  B-24s, that had been taken from the 8th Air Force and were now in Africa under the command of Eaker’s friend, General Spaatz. Eaker decided that with the help of Spaatz, he might be able to do something right away about those two worrisome fighter factories.  After working out a plan, he sent a copy of it July 18 to General Arnold, with a covering letter that explained its urgency:  The Germans are struggling mightily and squirming to beat hell to figure some way of stopping our bombers. They have tried air bombing from fighters, long-range cannon fire, head-on attacks and rocket-equipped fighters. None of these systems has yet been tried in sufficient force or with sufficient skill and accuracy to be alarming. I am convinced, however, that there is grave danger that some one of these systems may eventually be tried in such force and with such good equipment and highly trained crews as to increase greatly the cost of our bombing.  To counteract this danger he had two suggestions. First, he wanted Arnold to test all the new German methods of attack at a special Air Force proving ground and develop the best possible measures against them. Secondly, and more immediately, he wanted permission to go ahead with his plan of attack against the two huge fighter factories. In the hope of winning approval, he again dropped some big, reliable names into the letter:  Portal feels that this has a much higher priority than the oil attacks, and General Devers and I do also. Nothing we can do is as important as destroying Germ