s. And a flexible gun in the nose would be desirable  These" were comparatively small problems, however, and most of them were correctible. Events so far had done nothing to diminish his enthusiasm for the B-17, especially in bombardment results. The accuracy of the bombing, he said, made it safe to infer that even with “*young inexperienced crews such as those we have had to use, small point targets can be hit.with precision in daylight bombing from altitudes between twenty-two- and twenty-four-thousand feet.’”  Two days later, Eaker had received a set of aerial photos taken by British reconnaissance planes (the 8th Air Force didn’t yet have a reconnaissance unit) of the first two American targets. These British photos indicated such an astonishing degree of accuracy by the U.S. daylight bombers that they gave Eaker even greater reason to praise his men and planes. In another report to Spaatz August 27, he said:  The 97th Group have demonstrated that their bombing will have the order of the following accuracy: 10% of the bombs dropped will be dead on the aiming point, considering it to be a rectangle 100 yards on the side; 25% of the bombs dropped will be within a circle with a radius of 250 yards from the aiming point; 40% of the bombs will be within an area included in a circle with a radius of 500 yards from the aiming point; 90% of the bombs will be within a circle with a radius of one mile from the aiming point; the addition- al 10% of the bombs will be strays due largely to defective bomb telease mechanism.  Compared to night area bombing, information from the actual plots of British Bomber Command indicates that about 5% of the bombs will be dropped within a circle of a one-mile radius. The best of their bombing has shown 10% of the bombs within a circle with a one-mile radius from aiming point. It is safe and conserva-  145  tive to say, therefore, that high level day bombing will be at least ten times as effective for the destruction of definite point targ