known throughout the group for his inability to contro his bladder just before a mission; he was equally well known for being one of the calmest and bravest men in the air when the fighting began.  One young man at Bassingbourn, twenty-two-year-old Lt. David Williams (not related to the general), spent the waiting hours careful- ly studying aeronautical charts and aerial photographs of the Schweinfurt area.4 He was to be the navigator on the task force’s lead ship, the man responsible for directing the whole formation precisely to its target, deep within Germany, four hundred miles away. Born in Chicago, Illinois, and raised in Valparaiso, Indiana, Williams had enlisted the day after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and had graduated first in a class of two hundred at the Mather Field, Sac- ramento, navigation school. After sixteen missions he had already become group navigator, not only because of his ability but also, as he realized, because he had been fortunate enough to survive while others around him were going down. On his first mission, to Bremen, April 17, six of the nine in his squadron had been lost. Williams’s own mathematical likelihood of continuing survival seemed slim.  Another young lieutenant at Bassingbourn, a bombardier named Edward P. ‘‘Ted’’ Winslow from Springfield, Massachusetts, was sitting on the grass with the rest of the crew beside their plane when their squadron commander, Capt. Donald Sheeler, drove up in a  “Ima Vailable,’’ or “‘Any-Time  28  fighter planes coming on at speeds of four hundred miles an hour or more. When the two waist gunners stood back-to-back at their posts, they were so close they had to be careful to avoid bumping each other’s rumps or elbows. Yet they were quite mobile compared to the turret and tail gunners, who fitted into their plexiglass bubbles like pickles in a jar.  The navigator and bombardier shared a snug, glass-windowed nose compartment that also had to accommodate the navigator’s work table and stoo