8. (Though the P-38 also had liquid-cooled engines, it was considered less vulner- able than the P-51 because of its two engines. It could survive even if one failed.)  In the early days of the war, Arnold, like Eaker and others, had no doubt underestimated the eventual need for fighters. The success of the first B-17 missions seemed to provide convincing evidence that the plane could take care of itself. But after only two months of combat Eaker had begun asking about auxiliary tanks to extend the  219  ch sully  ite a diy aarti  at whl thud edie inked "nl eden Me auch shai) me  wba vit siti  iti atin Aten long hokead ipsa frac  oil briapa nh hh cul  the big bombers on the ground. If the maintenance and repair prob- lems could be solved satisfactorily, Arnold might gradually forget his determination to have Longfellow replaced.  Eaker, while reluctant to lose Longfellow, was now becoming almost eager to lose his fighter commander, Brig. Gen. Frank Hunt- er, whose dismissal Arnold had never suggested. Eaker had de- veloped a truly substantive problem with Hunter. In fact he was having almost as much trouble with his fighter commander as he was with his less-than-adequate P-47 fighter planes. He and Hunter pro- foundly disagreed about the best use of fighters. Hunter, a World War I fighter pilot and a highly respected tactician, believed the most effective tactic for fighters was to sweep an area and clear out the opposition, thus enabling the bombers to fly through unmolested. Eaker, though once a fighter man himself, was now so much con- cemed about his bombers that he believed the fighters should accom- pany them in close formation, above, to each side, and below, in an effort to hold off the Germans en route to and from the target.2  Eaker’s argument was slightly hampered by the fact that the P-47s available to them lacked the range to penetrate more than a few miles into the continent. But even though this fighter couldn’t go all the way with the bombers, he ins