ky Thirteen, S. Sgt. Corwin Miller, gravely wounded over Holland more than an hour and a half earlier, still lay bundled in blankets on the bomb-bay catwalk. Lapsing into and out of consciousness, he would stare at the ceiling when he was awake and listen to the gunfire around him. He could see the bursts and feel the whoomph as flak exploded beneath the plane, tossing it upward and lifting him off the floor. S. Sgt. Kenneth McKay, whose ball-turret gun had been disabled, was now at Miller’s gun, and the air above Miller’s head was filled with .50-caliber casings as McKay and S. Sgt. John Schimenek fired back at the Germans.  During one of Miller’s conscious periods he tried to stand up but couldn’t make it. Whenever there was a lull in the fighting, Schimenek would bend over him, chipping the frozen blood and saliva from his oxygen mask. Though Miller was getting all the  55  oxygen the rest of the crew could spare, he kept motioning for more. He couldn’t seem to get enough air. Neither he nor Schimenek realized that the blood coming out of his mouth was only a fraction of what he was losing. His lungs were gradually filling up with it, and so was the inside of his leather flight suit as the wounds in his back continued to bleed  In the 384th’s lead plane, Major Beckett turned control over to the bombardier, Lt. Joseph W. Baggs, when the group reached the Initial Point.!8 They were strangely unmolested by fighters now, but flak barrages were exploding uncomfortably close. As they started down the bomb run, Baggs could distinguish the general target area ahead by the rising smoke clouds. He could see, however, that it would be difficult to pinpoint the factories for which he was aiming. ‘‘I picked out what I thought was the target and synchronized on it,”’ he said later. ‘‘It was the only thing I could see that resembled the target as described.’’ When the group was almost over the target area, Baggs, peering down through the smoke and flame, could see enough to con