mber, it would then distribute its shrap- nel fragments in all directions—enough of them for every man in the crew.  Of the twenty-one rockets fired by Knoke’s squadron, nineteen were wasted on the air, but two scored direct hits. The two stricken B-17s, probably from the 40th CBW, exploded and plunged earth- ward in fragments.  Lieutenant Knoke, unable to lead his squadron’s follow-up cannon assault, broke away and landed carefully at a fighter base near Bonn, where he learned that the main spar of his left wing was indeed broken and his plane was out of action. He had to stand by while other fighters landed, refueled, rearmed, and took off again to rejoin the battle, which was moving quickly eastward.  One ME-109 dropped a bomb into the 351st and 38 1st formation, but it exploded harmlessly, too far away. Several of the twenty-five B-17s in this formation had been hit, yet none had gone down or fallen back. In the most severely mauled groups, the 30Sth, 92nd, and 379th, one B-17 after another had begun to smoke, or had lost engines, burst into flames, fallen backward or downward. Bouquets of white American parachutes floated toward earth, sometimes with one or two yellow German chutes among them, like buttercups among daisies. The ground to the rear, along the flight path, was dotted with flames from crashed aircraft, both American and Ger- man. And there was no sign of let-up in the German attack. As soon as one group of fighters ran out of ammunition and fuel, another would arrive to replace it.  299  Captain McLaughlin, watching the carnage around him, turned to Peaslee and said, ‘‘Colonel, I don’t think we’re going to make it.”’  The air commander looked at his pilot and nodded. Though equally pessimistic, he didn’t want to admit it.  The Third Division, running on schedule now about thirty minutes behind the First, came under attack even before losing its fighter escort. Over Aachen, the forty-eight Thunderbolts of the 56th Fighter Group, led by Maj. David C.