e prob- ably exaggerated three fold (see minute from C.A.S. [Portal] attached). A reasonable estimate is that they have actually shot down twenty-eight enemy aircraft for the loss of eight Fortresses and one Liberator. Not a bomb has been dropped on Germany  Meanwhile the American public has been led to believe that a teally serious contribution has been made by the American Air Force. It is not for us to undeceive them, but there can be no doubt that they will find out for themselves before very long. . . . Con- sidering the American professional interests and high reputations which are engaged in this scheme, and the shock it would be to the American people and to the Administration if the policy proved a glaring failure, we must expect most obstinate perseverance in this method. . . . [That] leaves us in the position that for many months ahead large numbers of American Air personnel will be here  173  playing very little part in  the war and, what is much graver,  American Air production will be cast ever more deeply into an  unprofitable groove.  The difficulties which confront the American planes are most  serious. The first is the dan, thus becoming easy prey. . ran out of ammunition woul  ger of running out of ammunition and What would happen if the Fortress id be a massacre. The accuracy of their  bombing depends upon their not being harassed while over the target. The days when the weather is suitable for this form of high  level bombing are few and On an average, conditions a a month in Germany... . days before being able to m is a very grievous situation  Churchill's low opinion of t! now hung like a sword over t Roosevelt what he had written American President could har was no longer welcome in  far between, especially in the winter.  re likely to be suitable on only six days they frequently have to wait for ten  ake a sortie. Everyone must admit this What ought we to do?  ie American air effort and its potential e 8th Air Force. If he were to write to t