ed from head o foot with Bolick’s blood. Making his way  ack, A  toward t  copilot  aid no is own  is body erson t AF riddled  jergstrom, the youngest man in the crew. The color jerpstrom’s face as he stared at the ghastly sight ofthe wounde  As soon asthe British ambulance men got look at more attention to his insistence that he could proceed under  68880," Rand said, “Tod  [found out forthe fir  time that  thing stil disturbed him deeply, and he decided to get it off  his chest atthe interrogation, He walked upto the “full-bir who was in charge of debriefing and said, Sir, I guess thi  colonel said, “What do you mean, sergeant?”” jw it's gonna be reported, ” Rand said, ‘so Lmay, illed @ guy in a parachute.”  idn’t do it on purpose, did you?” assured him it was an accident  onty about i.” ttered 96th Group Fortress to a stop at Ford  owns, despite his wounds, said, “I can make it,” ts asked if he needed help. They therefore remove  ‘om the cockpit to the rear  iece of shrapn  as dripping from his face and from his whole rig  e reat, he passed one ofthe waist gunners, 5, Set  ad this bloody mess been flying the airplane?  ower. They placed him ona stretcher and hurie  eld hospital, where the shrapnel was removed from various part of  re next day by Winston Churchill, who happened fighter base on an inspection tour and noticed t ane. But Downs would know nothing about that  34  the pilot, Lieutenant Bolick, since it was blocking the  y. The other members of his crew were to be commended in  colonel” sistheend  as welltell  ¢ colonel listened while Rand described the whole incident  colonel put an arm on his shoulder. “Thats all right, Sarge  Field neat  ” when the  je fist the  fell off his  It side, He  Theodore faded from  wns, they  him tothe  tobeatthe cir shell- unt muc!  ain buildings were damaged. When e command shelter after the bombers osphorous fire bomb had ignited a >tory’s highest building (five stories), the building itself. The company’s attling both b