, dangling from the knee, was twisted grotesquely, but none of these people seemed to grasp the importance of straightening it and trying to set it as quickly as possible. So Winslow asked for some slender boards  @  68  away, they vs kept them keep out the .e windows. ieir outdoor > would sur-  reached the erbolts from British Spit- 42, 403, and The British ‘0 at the cost  hen the blue »ypeared. But n the 384th the gravely zaining con- ae knew that ther hour.!! Schimenek  nim. *‘Just a  coast, Algar, 1e group and « Celentano, irect, Algar ky Thirteen  not knowing i groups for : ducked the raced for the miles north- mosphere as dly was ex- r  When he got them, he tried to straighten the leg and bind the makeshift splints around it. Then he lay back in the straw hoping the doctor would come soon. The pain was difficult to bear.  Winslow was not the only member of the Dame Satan crew whom the Belgians had been able to reach before the Germans found them. Of the eight who parachuted safely, only one, Sgt. Victor Ciganek, the wounded radio operator, had been captured. He was on his way to a German hospital. The rest, including another injured man, waist gunner Sgt. Gerold Tucker, who had broken an arm and a foot, were now ‘‘en sécurité’’ among members of the Belgian resistance move- ment. But the German occupation forces and their Belgian col- laborators could also count parachutes, and they knew that someplace in the countryside, around the little town of Wannebecg, seven fallen American airmen were being hidden.  Most of the Americans who had parachuted into occupied Europe during the Regensburg and Schweinfurt missions were less fortunate. The majority landed in Germany, where there was no underground organization to help them. Lt. Ernest Warsaw of the 100th Bomb Group, who had been captured by the Gestapo that morning when his plane fell near Aachen on the way to Regensburg, was now confined in a small building a few miles from Aachen, wondering how long he had to l