ies. They were the core of his Nazi constituency. And they were not likely to welcome into their towns or cities factories that might attract American bombers. For the present, Speer could only launch a tentative move toward dispersal and try to find some gauleiters who would accept ball-bearing fac- tories. At the same time, he would have to hasten the reconstruction of the damaged plants and hope the Americans, not fully aware of the importance of what they had done, would forgo any attempt to do it again  83  At the 351st Bomb Group’s base on a hill outside Polebrook, about sixty-five miles north of London, Capt. William Smith and his crew, like most of the men who had flown to Schweinfurt the previous day, were sleeping in on the morning of August 18. They had no reason to get up early. A stand-down had been ordered for the entire 351st because, after the Schweinfurt mission, none of the group’s planes would be in shape to invade German territory today, even though only two of them had actually been lost. Smith’s own B-17, perfo- rated with bullet holes, needed patching. But fortunately, neither he nor any of his men had been wounded.  Smith was “‘in the sack”’ at his officers’ barracks when a sergeant from group headquarters knocked on the door.! ‘‘Captain, you’ve got to get up,’” he said, speaking with that easy informality that was common in the Air Force between officers and enlisted men. ‘*You're going to Africa.”  Still half asleep, Smith said to the sergeant, ‘‘No, you’ve got that wrong. They went to Africa yesterday.’”  After the men of the First Bombardment Wing returned from Schweinfurt the previous day, they had been told about the Fourth  84  he believed, the Americans would not find it as easy to get through by daylight as the British did at night  When Speer left the Fiihrer that morning, no drastic measures had been decreed. Even the question of ball-bearing-plant dispersal, though agreed upon, was not completely settled. Speer was certain that va