ation either the American or the British bombers could inflict. And after the British destruction of Hamburg July 24 to 27, his respect developed into alarm. At a Central Planning conference July 29, Speer said: ‘‘If the air raids continue on the present scale, within three months we shall be relieved of a number of questions we are at present discussing. We shall simply be coasting downhill, smoothly and relatively swiftly. The urgent question is simply, can we produce more single- and twin-engined fighters? And what can we shut down for that purpose? Otherwise, we may as well be holding the final meeting of Central Planning.”’  Three days later, Speer told Hitler essentially the same thing. If six  719  more cities were attacked as severely as Hamburg, he warned, it would bring German armament production to a total halt.  Hitler, who had refused even to go and look at Hamburg, to  comfort the survivors there, showed remarkably little concern at the ossibility of other German cities suffering the same fate. In answer to Speer’s prediction he had said simply, ‘‘ You'll straighten all that out again.’” Speer was not the only high German official alarmed by the Hamburg catastrophe. At a conference in Speer’s office July 27, Field Marshal Erhard Milch, the German Air Force armaments chief, said pessimistically, ‘“We are no longer on the offensive. For the last one and a half or two years we have been on the defensive. . . . For the last three months I have been asking for one month’s fighter production to be assigned to home defense.’’  That very evening, Goering answered Milch’s plea by ordering, with Hitler’s approval, that home defense be given top priority in the Luftwaffe. This did not stop Hitler and the High Command from insisting on the continued manufacture of heavy bombers with which they hoped to retaliate against England and even the United States, but it did stimulate some increase in fighter production. And more immediately, it brought back to Germany som