d Groups were carrying extra fuel in belly tanks. (The 56th dropped its tanks in the estuary off Woensdrecht before climbing to 26,000 feet and overtaking the Third Combat Wing ten miles north of Antwerp.) But the tanks they had were new and unsatisfactory. Only five days earlier, on Augusf 12, the 56th had flown its first mission with them. The ground crews as well as the pilots already despised them.° The mechanics complained that the fittings were hopelessly awkward and  6  rode, was about fifteen miles ahead of the 100th Group, which occupied the last and lowest position in his Fourth Bombardment Wing.  Lt. Col. Beirne Lay, Jr., a member of the 8th Air Force Headquar- ters staff, was an observer that day. Riding as copilot in one of the rearmost planes of the 100th Group, he noticed that the lead planes of the 96th looked like ‘‘barely visible specks’’ when he squinted forward into the bright sun. To Colonel Lay, flying his sixth mission, the ‘‘loose-linked column’’ of B-17s still looked too long, the gaps between groups too wide. He was uncomfortable and he had rea- sons.4 As a headquarters representative and one of the six original officers who had accompanied General Eaker when he arrived in England to launch the 8th Air Force Bomber Command a year and a half before, Lay could have flown today with any group he might choose. He had chosen’the 100th because its commander, Col. Neil B. Harding, was an old friend. When LeMay tried to convince him he should go with one of the other groups, Lay had insisted on the 100th. Though LeMay had finally agreed, Lay realized now why the Wing commander had been so reluctant. The 100th, flying at the absolute tear of the armada and at the lowest altitude (17,000 feet), would be the most vulnerable both to flak and to fighter attack.  When the twenty-one planes of the 100th Group crossed the Dutch coastline at 10:08, they were ‘‘tucked in’’ as close as possible to the twenty-one planes of the 95th Group (led by Col. John K. G