his one of his six original staff members. The previous August, when ks iy ii ui rity and discretion when he received a visit from an troubles developed in the 97th Group, Armstrong had taken charge of Paco engbepte slug,“ named Group Capt. Frederick W. Winterbotham. He it, led it on the 8th Air Force’s first mission, and soon made it the ‘natitin € behest of the Prime Minister, Winterbotham said, to Bomber Command’s best group. After the 8th had five missions to its signi) ivy to the most closely guarded secret of the war—the credit, Eaker, addressing Spaatz on the importance of leadership, had a ely fit! British cryptographers had broken Germany’s most said, ‘‘It is not accidental that the three operations which Colonel whektelivs’wmahtuique,’ ONmunications codes, enabling them to intercept and Armstrong has led were completely successful, while the two opera- ue lle ome teitind 2sSages between Hitler and his top commanders. The tions led by other officers resulted in one aborted mission and one ce hr igstor goa! =, aware that information gained by Ultra would be with serious injuries to two aircraft.’’ Eaker thought so ott on ed ate ib  cal  , lusion proves, Eaker was still unaware of the exchange : een Churchill, Sinclair, and Portal. He didn’t know ‘nya; 2y still distrusted the strategy and equipment to which  hi  y ng a,  te  lab kv! Mace  180  177 Hf  British. When Air Marshal Harris was in America with an R.A.F. purchasing commission in April 1940, James H. **Dutch’’ Kindel- berger, president of North American, had said, **‘Why don’t you let us design a new fighter plane for you?’’ The British said, ‘‘Go ahead,’’S and by the end of the year the Mustang was in production. But when R.A.F. test pilots flew it, they noticed what Eaker had noticed—its Allison engine wasn’t powerful enough, especially at high altitudes. The British at first could think of nothing to do with the Mustang except to put it in the R.A.F.’s Army Cooperation Com- mand for use as an infan