r had achieved no other purpose, he had put on paper an eloquent rationale for the existence of the 8th Air Force. Arnold was sufficiently moved by Eaker’s anger to write in return an essay of praise for the men of the 8th. After saying he wished he could send them more planes, he told them they had been pioneers. They had continued the best traditions of the Army and had established ‘‘splen- did new traditions for the Army Air Forces.’’ They had proven their ability to fend off fighters and drop their bombs with precision. “‘No bomber attack of the 8th Air Force has ever been turned back by enemy action.’’ The experience they had gained would make it possible to *‘build rapidly and soundly for the death blow which we surely will deliver the Axis.’’  It sounded good, but it amounted to nothing more than words. Where were the planes?  In fact, Arnold was as concerned as anyone else about the stunted growth of the 8th Air Force, and he was at work on an elaborate documentary scheme to do something about it. On March 24 he wrote  203  thie  NRA fhecu dhvcleta  aah  pot dau Atl thet  ices {adn  tweietht della wea  ‘tan idea close to General Arnold’s heart.’’? Eaker’s letter was more specific than Arnold’s about the true purpose of Arnold’s initiative:  General Arnold believes that in order to build up an American Air Force of sufficient size in U.K. he must be armed with two needs: first, a list of the industrial targets in Germany which, if destroyed, will cripple her ability to wage war; and secondly, the size of the air forces required for the accomplishment of this task. If armed with this evidence General Arnold will then be in a position to present it to the Combined Chiefs of Staff and obtain from them, we hope, an agreement and directive which will make the build-up of our air forces in this theater to that size first priority of the U.S.  Portal was receptive because he understood sympathetically Ar- nold’s need for such a document, and because he knew it would