ir Force operations their “‘primary mission’ and were ‘‘not willing to surrender it.’”  For Eaker, the time had come to bang a few heads, whatever the result might be. He insisted that his request for Wycombe Abbey be submitted forthwith to the Air Ministry. Three days later, Chaney’s chief of staff, Brig. Gen. Charles L. Bolte, assured him that the  107  foul fhiteaaee  ip neue  veloiecada iene beet ov  ay fudewnrlayeh voli sydgrdned. nig iningt areiainohnat  lob hid  Aolin ‘ove ‘ivi emchvdl a Wit eoa {crit  by British reconnaissance planes as soon as the smoke cleared the day after a raid. In some, there were buildings with flames still flickering. An observer of these photos could peer straight down into the empty, gutted shells as if from only a few hundred feet directly above.  It was such an impressive display that people spent hours looking at it. South African Premier Ian Christian Smuts had spent the whole evening at it when he visited the Harrises. The air marshal, usually wearing his favorite plum-colored, velvet smoking jacket and waving one of his favorite Lucky Strike cigarets from the end of a holder, provided a running commentary with the pictures to prove the R.A.F. strategy was the one that would win the war against Hitler. Harris had already ‘‘converted’’ several American war correspondents by treat- ing them to this performance  In his discussions with Eaker, Harris persuasively stressed the time element. Weeks and months could be saved if the newly arriving American heavy-bomb groups would simply affix themselves to the R.A.F. for night raids. The Americans, after all, were just getting started at this job of fighting Hitler. They didn’t realize how clever the Germans were. The British had been at the job for more than two years, and it was only natural that they had learned a few things. They had now got their system working pretty smoothly, and the most effective contribution the American bombers could make toward winning the war would be simp