rauihalwalt’ twice, in the fuselage and in one wing. He was out of ammunition ini:a'nt Yq d low on fuel. Forced to land, he did so with a heavy heart because xittkiengrihit was leaving what had to be the fiercest air battle of all time and he tximeuleniv’tkti :uld not be able to rejoin it. His plane was about to fall out from t der him just when he needed it most. Even though great clusters of avukeiardiif nerican bombers had gone down, greater clusters were still com- iil hukalttibi ». Despite the heroic efforts of more German fighters than had ever icaitkati fore accepted an enemy challenge, the air was still full of For- aici, sses, and he could do nothing about it. He and his comrades had ‘wht; i led to stop them. Schweinfurt would soon be punished again for its failure. tt Lt. David Williams, lead-plane navigator to Schweinfurt in Au- itt st and lead-plane navigator again today, proved that his precision } nitrite d not been accidental on that earlier occasion by bringing the First vaigeintesiohl vision, or what was left of it, to its predetermined Initial Point west  304  firing and moved closer to take better aim. Until now he had seen no gunfire from his bomber, and as he pulled within 150 feet of it he could see why. The tail guns were hanging downward uselessly and there was a large hole in the tail assembly. His aim had not been so wild after all. He must have hit the rear gunner. But if so, he asked himself, ‘‘Why the hell doesn’t the bird react?’’  Slipping to the left, he fired again at the wing section between the two engines. He was so close it was ‘‘impossible to miss.’’ The wing exploded; the plane rolled left and disappeared straight down.  In his elation, Stedtfeld shouted to himself, ‘‘I made it! I made it!’’ But he now found himself flying between two other American bomb- ers. In his haste to get himself ‘out of this mess,”’ he rolled leftward and became aware for the first time of heavy gunfire coming at him from all directions. He heard a dru