me  That night in a British barracks the tail gunner lay sweating, shaking, and sleepless. Next morning, when his commanding officer arrived and they inspected the wreckage, he saw the charred remains of his crew. Thereafter, he slept poorly and dreamed of plane crashes. He had to force himself to get into an airplane. Whistling and whining noises reminded him of the sound of the tail section hurtling toward the ground. Enclosed spaces heightened his anxiety. Yet in spite of all this, he embarked with another crew on his tour of missions. He didn’t want to be considered ‘‘yellow’’ or a ‘‘quitter.’’  On one mission, his plane was badly battered by flak. It came home from another on two engines with holes in one wing and the fuselage. On this mission, which he flew as a waist gunner, some control wires broke loose and wound around his neck, while chunks of canvas covered his head and got into his mouth. He had a sudden urge to bail out but overcame it and stayed at his post. On another, flying again as a tail gunner, he saw his tracer bullets explode the oxygen bottles in an FW-190 that had closed to within fifty feet of him. The German fighter burst into flame, and as he watched the pilot go down inside it, he thought again about himself in that plunging tail section  Eventually, other crew members noticed his worsening condition, and he was sent to the Central Medical Board though he had never asked for relief from flying duty. To one of the doctors he was finally able to admit that he never wanted to get into an airplane again. The doctor granted his wish.  249  Taking into account the ever-increasing ferocity of the air battles over the continent, nervous breakdowns among U.S. fliers were not surprising. Yet less than 2 percent of the crew members on active duty at the time had such breakdowns. !° The rest of the men flew their missions, absorbed their punishment, griped about conditions, but at the same time found some pleasure in their lives.  The men of the 91s