picture with horror the confusion these boys would create, groping their way home to unfamiliar British bases in the dark after raids against Germany. Even the British pilots, with all their experi- ence, had enough trouble. Navigation at night was still so difficult in wartime blackout conditions that the R.A.F. sometimes wasted whole missions because they failed to find big cities and dumped their bombs harmlessly in nearby rural areas.  The B-17 itself presented obstacles to night bombing. Not only was it designed and equipped as a day bomber, but equally important, it left behind it in flight a glow from its engine exhausts that would make it easy for the German night fighters to see and attack. Some kind of device might be developed to dampen this glow, but that would not change the American Air Force commitment to daylight bombing.  The British perhaps could bomb only at night because their planes were lightly armed and did not have the Norden bomb-sight, which would make even the smallest of targets vulnerable to precision attack. But the B-17s would have the Norden, and they would also have as many as ten .50-caliber machine guns with which to defend themselves.  Though neither Harris nor Eaker raised his voice during the discus- sion, both were aware of its almost global importance. Both believed firmly that the outcome of the war depended on the proper use of air power. Harris received Eaker’s arguments sympathetically but could not embrace them. It was essential that the maximum force be brought to bear against Hitler as quickly as possible. The Nazi dictator now controlled the entire European continent, and it was not impossible that he might yet find a way to invade England or to destroy it with rocket bombs. Couldn’t the 8th Air Force join the R.A.F. in night raids, Harris wondered, at least temporarily, until it was strong enough to launch its own day raids?  Eaker had anticipated this proposal also, and he was wary of it. He  104  tic  dared not sett