ack.  When the twenty-one planes of the 100th Group crossed the Dutch coastline at 10:08, they were ‘‘tucked in’’ as close as possible to the twenty-one planes of the 95th Group (led by Col. John K. Gerhart), which was at the front of the Third Combat Wing. Colonel Lay’s B-17, named Piccadilly Lily, led the very last element of the 100th He found himself remembering ‘‘just a little affectionately’’ the headquarters desk he had forsaken when he applied to General Eaker for combat duty.  Nine minutes into the continent, as the task force passed the small town of Woensdrecht, the first few cloudlike puffs of antiaircraft fire burst harmlessly at some distance from the nearest plane. (Flak bursts looked so much like puff clouds that one rookie bombardier, after his first mission, had said his bomb pattern would have been better were it not for those turbulent little clouds above the target.) About eight minutes later, over Diest, someone on the interplane VHF radio, probably a gunner in one of the lead planes, called out, ‘Fighters at two o'clock low!’’ (Under the clock-face system of designating direction, ‘‘twelve o’clock’’ means straight ahead; ‘‘six o’clock,”’  5  straight behind. *”  the right.)  When Colonel  above the horizon, he entertained  might be from one ofthe two P-47 groups he had expected but hadn't  yet seen, Before he could take much  planes sped throug Col, Elliott Vandevanter’s 385  Groups  metal flying of wings of the formation.  By this time,  distance they ci German planes Lay had seen), P-475 and deci bombers were and lead his f  stray ME-109,  mand of Col,  s70up, but they miles, as faras they, too, wou  ighters back toward later, flying west away from the bomber and he personally sent it Victory was small considering the nee The Soth Fighter Group, forty mor ubert Zemke, had now arrived torelieve McCollom’s would beable to escort the bombers only another fifty uupen, near the German border city of Aachen, before have to turn back. Both the 56th