ilitary career, he had taken time out to study both law (at Columbia University) and journalism (at the University of Southern California). He had de- veloped a knack for condensing arguments, and more than ever before in his life he would now be called upon to demonstrate it. He was acquainted with enough of Churchill’s associates to know that the Prime Minister did not react well to lengthy presentations.  It was to be three days before Churchill had time to meet Eaker Meanwhile, the 8th Air Force commander, with the help of Capt. James Parton, the aide he had brought with him, got right to work.!7 As a first step, at Arnold’s request, Eaker wrote a two-page report entitled ‘‘Why Have U.S. Bombers Not Bombed Germany?’’ This was a question for which Arnold needed answers not only against the British but also against his critics in the U.S. Navy. He had created “‘an explosion’’ at a recent U.S. Chiefs of Staff session by asking for top priority in the build-up of heavy bombers in England.'* Adm. Ernest King had been openly contemptuous, declaring that it was useless to bomb Germany and that the available heavy bombers should go to the Pacific. Arnold was at a disadvantage in trying to answer such arguments because his English-based planes had not yet ventured inside the German border.  185  Eaker could give Arnold no new ammunition to fire at the Navy, because there wasn’t any. He dutifully listed all the problems Amold already knew—the submarine pen priority, the loss of the best groups to TORCH, the weather, and the lack of escort fighters, which were just now arriving and would not be ready for action until March. But his men were ready, he said, as soon as weather permitted, and they were eager because they thought it might be easier than what they were doing. The antiaircraft defenses over the submarine pens were tougher than in many parts of Germany, and there were one hundred day fighters protecting the sub-pens but fewer than thirty-five in the Bremen area o