ng i  letter to President Roosevelt, had plea  send the first groups “Can you not manage 0 expe  here and there are targets ofall kinds,  bombers before July, at which time Amol  at had already been built and uirements, were almost still had no planes to land on impatient forthe arrival of his  itst B-17s, and he was not alone. Winston Churchill, in a March 29  led  for the arrival of American expected to be able to  ite this?" Churchill asked  Roosevelt. “Never was there so much good work to be done and so few to do it. We must not let our summer air attack on Germany Aecline into a second-rate affair Everything is ready for your people  fromeasy tohard. . . . Evena  hundred American heavy bombers working from this country before  theend of May would lis sic] ourar o Amold couldn’t send the planes an  Mfensive tothe proper scale.” crews, however, until he had  them, In a letter to Portal (April 16), he reaffirmed the July shipment  Schedile with the assertion: “We are  ending every effort to provide  a powerful air force to collaborate with the R.A.P, in offensive operations this summer and fall. However, itis apparent that the  13  summer will have passed before we can build up a force large enough to carry our share of the burden.”  Arnold used this same letter as an opportunity to reaffirm his determination to practice daylight bombing: ‘‘In addition to night bombardment, which I do not believe can be counted upon alone to wear down German air power, daylight offensive operations must be resumed.”’  But however often Arnold, Spaatz, and Eaker reasserted the American intention, it was not often enough to induce the British to accept it. Plans were now underway to send the first American fighter planes to England. The R.A.F., convinced that these planes would do more good in Northern Ireland where they could be assigned to submarine patrol, asked their chief representative in Washington, Air Marshal Douglas C.S. Evill, to try out the idea on Arnold and associates.