riding was sheared off shortly after bombs were dropped. U.S. Air Force Photo  Wounded airman is removed from B- fter safe landing at base in England.  raids shows hits on machine shops (A and B) and powerhouse for shops (C). Arrows in left part of photo show where camouflage is used to confuse damage assessors. U.S. Air Force Photo  Close-up of battle damage to the nose of a B-17 that nev fought its way back to and and landed s Photo  Pilot and co-pilot inspect damage in which tail-gunner’s compart- ment in which gunner was riding was sheared off shortly after bombs were dropped. U.S. Air Force Photo  ithin the Anfa Hotel compound just outside Casa- ‘img vas in the bathroom shaving, but he didn’t allow that ting with Eaker. He still had lather on his face when eeted each other—not enough lather, however, to " iness of his expression. Eaker, who had often enough MMM en he was angry, had seldom seen him this deeply r sensed immediately that some kind of serious trou- \rnold wasted no time telling him what it was. sterday,’’ he said, ‘*I heard the Prime Minister ask discontinue daylight bombing. And he got an agree- ‘resident that your 8th Air Force will join the R.A.F. g. What do you think of that?’’!6 very well what Eaker would think of it but apparently im express it. Eaker said: ‘*General, that is absurd. It lete disaster. It will permit the Luftwaffe to escape. nel operation will then fail. And our planes are not tht bombing. Our crews are not trained for it. We'll 3 landing on that fog-shrouded island in darkness than er German targets. The million men standing on the z0 back to work in the factories or make up another or the Russian front. Every time our bombers show " workman in the Ruhr takes to the shelters. If our stupid, count me out. I don’t want any part of such  ay (SS  Reconnaissance photo of Schweinfurt, Germany, after raids shows hits on  machine shops (A and B) and powerhouse for shops (C). Arrows in left part i Me abthtee of photo show where camouf