ft init if Weitenfeld could prisoners. But the 8th Air Force did know that at least 340 of its men ly jettisoned. Using a hand crank, he tri "tel gauges (the crews of 34 planes) had fallen into enemy territory. Since the doors, which had been open since the bom Willan was inthe cockpit withthe young captain when they average number of parachutes seen to emerge from falling Fortresses  d jst ength did ted to feel the weight of a B-17  were hopelessly jammed. As the plane app_ spot a tinyaisip fr ihtes, probably an alin was 5,!7 it was fair to assume that about 170 American airmen had  struggling along slowly just above the v iidMutstun Ih uy adits sho died on the Schweinfurt mission while an equal number had become without hydraulic power he would have to_ ‘ina th it eve ep prisoners of war. And so far the results were not in from that hand. He did so while hanging onto the Wiliams,havingbeen th operation office othe fis group ever morning’s arduous Regensburg battle. bomb-bay doors. He tried to free the bi t0flyB-17s,wasqute experienced at landing them on grass because because its guns were pointing straight ¢ inthose days (1936) there were few paved runways, Kn cause them to crash when they landed. He Weizefeld had probably never landed aB-17 on grass, stuck he couldn’t budge it tapped him onthe shoulder and offered to take contol Sergeant Cherry couldn’t help Layn w_ The yong caplin flyin command of himself and his ship, addition to his injured foot that was now th umedtothe general and declined with hanks. He woul ahr doit had severely burned both hands putting o1 tinsl system.'4 Layn, fearing that the helpless Thereupon he made perfect approach anda perfect nding. As  Just as the Schweinfurt armada was returning to England, Col. Curtis LeMay’s Regensburg armada was arriving in Africa at two desolate desert bases—Bone and Telergma—about one hundred miles west of Tunis. The first Schweinfurt bomber crossed the English coast near Felixstowe at 5:31 p.M. The first R