d out.  At 3:15 p.M., the first task force under Colonel Gross circled over Meiningen to reassemble and tighten its formations before heading westward. Ten minutes later the second task force under Colonel Turner did likewise. With the smoke and fire of Schweinfurt behind them, the American airmen, deeper inside Germany than they had ever been, could enjoy their first relaxed look at the beautiful German landscape with its wide, winding rivers and green, tree-covered hills. But the respite did not long endure. A few miles west of Meiningen, the ME-109s, ME-110s, ME-210s, and FW-190s began to reappear, first in twos and threes, then in packs of ten and twelve.  The first victim of the renewed attacks was a previously damaged B-17 in the 92nd Group, flown by Capt. Roland L. Sargent. After a  62  greatest threat to the s concentrated assault, Sargent’s plane caught fire, then quickly ex- Layn decided to stay.  kept to a minimum. loded. Only three parachutes opened among the fragments falling to In that case, Judy said, he would try to manage the plane himself  Dr. Georg Schafer, —earth.! while Layn tried to put out the fires and fight off the German was the principal own As the 91st Group approached the Frankfurt area under sustained attackers gone to Bamberg on t _ attack, one of its pilots, Lt. James D. Judy, who was on his fourth As Layn returned to the rear, Judy put the ship into a gradual afternoon when he le __ mission, saw a German fighter coming at him “level on the nose.”” descent, zigzagging to avoid the bullets which were still arriving. At Because the railway st Despite Judy’s attempts at evasion, the enemy pilot held his course one hundred feet above the ground, he leveled off. He had no stopped about a mile n and ina remarkable display of accuracy, landed at least three 20-mm navigator, so he simply pointed the plane in the general direction of elegant home in the no _ shells in the B-17’s nose section near the root of the left wing.? A England their she