can Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington (which body, it was hoped, would present it to the Combined Chiefs of Staff), Arnold decided that since Eaker had argued so effectively with Churchill in Casablanca, he should come home for a few days and argue with the Joint Chiefs.  208  the battle against Germany. Eaker wrote into the text that ‘‘300 heavy bombers is the minimum operating force necessary to make deep penetrations,” and that *‘at least 800 airplanes must be in the Theater to dispatch 300 bombers on operations.”’  Six specific target systems were singled out for bombardment. But to accomplish their destruction, the plan pointed out, the 8th Air Force would need a steady flow of airplanes. The minimum re- quirements would be 944 heavy bombers in England by July 1, 1943: 1,192 by October 1, 1943; 1,746 by January 1, 1944; and 2,702 by April 1, 1944.  The six major targets listed were submarines, aircraft, ball bear- ings, oil, synthetic rubber, and military vehicles. The plan promised that with the required number of airplanes, the 8th Air Force could knock out 89 percent of the submarine construction; 43 percent of the German fighter and 65 percent of its bomber production; 76 percent of its ball-bearing manufacture; and 50 percent of its synthetic-rubber capacity. Its oil supplies could be disrupted and its military vehicle supplies seriously depleted.  The plan carefully stated, however, that unless the 8th Air Force could achieve daytime air superiority in the skies over Germany, none of those goals could be accomplished. Eaker himself inserted a strong warning when he wrote: ‘‘If the growth of the German fighter strength is not arrested quickly, it may become literally impossible to carry out the destruction planned.’’  Eaker had been confident in September 1942, after a few missions, that the B-17 could defend itself in the skies over Germany. But soon thereafter he had begun to realize that fighter protection would be urgently needed to hold down losses,