alerted the antiaircraft crews, the fire department, and the brigade of men assigned to ignite smoke pots in an attempt to obscure the ball-bearing factories. Air-raid wardens in the factories and all over town herded people to the less-than-adequate bomb shelters. On their way to the shelters, residents could see the American bombers approaching from the southwest, their silvery fuselages glistening in the bright sunlight.  The flak batteries south of the city began to fire at full speed, filling the skies around the bombers with smoke and shrapnel. These were 88-mm. and 105-mm. guns, easily capable of lofting their shells to the B-17 altitudes of 17,000 to 20,000 feet. The guns on the factory roofs were smaller, 20-mm. cannon, able to fire at the planes only if they dropped lower for their bomb runs.  Leo Wehner, a Kugelfischer employee who was also a reserve lieutenant in charge of the factory’s antiaircraft guns, hurried to his command post on the roof of its largest building and inspected the gun crews there.?4 At various locations around the one-square-mile plant he had nine guns, all manned by steel-helmeted Kugelfischer co- workers. When Wehner saw the bombers coming, he ordered his men to prepare to fire, but not to do so unless the Americans came down to the 8,000-foot maximum range of their guns. Through his binoculars he watched the planes approach. It seemed to him they were more than 30,000 feet high  Soon the B-17s were overhead and the first bombs fell on a large bearing shop. Balls, rings, and sharp chunks of metal began flying through the air. More bombs fell among the buildings, shattering glass, collapsing walls, starting fires, and creating a staccato of booming, painful noise. Wehner realized he and his men on the roof  59  were in immediate danger of death, yet they didn’t dare leave it. The ground was a garden of explosions. The men huddled anxiously around their sand-bagged guns while Wehner went into his ‘‘com- mand post’’ hut and dived und