in sight of the Rhine River, flying at 23,000 fede and still climbing, Stedtfeld and the other pilots in the Fifth (hivdebiabliy adron got their first glimpse of B-17s when one of them exploded tiny Ttueht;iea, 2tal miles ahead. Moments later he saw his first ‘‘big box of Forts ‘70 llicaitl:g) BZ Close together,’ and a few minutes after that his squadron was tiW’ncMddlyd ag directly parallel to them, side by side though at a safe distance, :idillT;c4hal OMpliance with a radio order to gain more altitude before attack- atta As Stedtfeld passed the Fortresses and rose above them, he saw tke “ane 2¢ Units attacking them. From a cruising position a few thousand }krinletkids «higher and less than a mile behind, where his squadron and cd 2ral others formed a line astern awaiting their turn, he watched wvikhirt tresses burst into flames and parachutes appear as ME-109s darted xriath, nd out of the boxes. When black puffs of flak began exploding ini ¢ the bombers, he noticed they were now approaching Frankfurt.  ;: felt as if he were sitting in a theater, watching a movie about an air le.  iven after the order came for his squadron to attack, Stedtfeld felt tix ear. Still flying on Captain Rubell’s right wing, he dived toward  iit tear of the bombers, contemplating not their guns but their  {in uty. He admired the lines of their gigantic tails and their silvery  ait minum fuselages shimmering in the sunlight. Closing fast on  Witivakauhgak 5€ gigantic tails, Stedtfeld saw Rubell’s cannon and machine guns  rin in to spit. He pushed his buttons, and his own guns fired. But the  iy aber at which he was aiming showed no sign of being hit. The one  i dell attacked now had two engines in flame, and the captain was  ing away, apparently confident of his success. Stedtfeld stopped  I  302  Stedtfeld, who had only recently joined the Molders Wing and had not yet seen a moment of combat.?  Stedtfeld, a Dortmund University student when the war began in 1939, had volunteered immediatel