ce at Frankfurt, placing 755 single-engine fighters plus 680 twin-engine fighters in the western defense corridors.6 These 1,435 planes, he was informed, were 65 percent of the total German fighter strength. If the figures were accurate, they did indeed indicate the Fortresses were hurting the Germans. They also suggested that the Germans were preparing to hurt the Fortresses, perhaps prohibitively unless the Americans stormed the defenses in sufficiently large numbers. Eaker, maintaining the principle that his force must never be allowed to dwindle, that it must always be a growing force, chose for the moment a prudent course.  On September 7, one flight of B-17s hit Watten in France while another hit Brussels. On the 9th, 15th, 16th, 23rd, and 26th, they hit more French targets, some in support of a mock invasion operation  265  code-named STARKEY. Even if the 8th had been ready during this period to return to Germany, the weather would have prevented it. September, which meteorologists had expected to be the clearest month of the year over Germany, turned out to be the worst. But the number of Fortresses was rising again, and the skies had to clear sometime soon. Perhaps October would be sunnier.  While awaiting improved weather, Eaker had to contend once more with the impatience of Arnold, who was back in Washington wondering why the 8th was flying so few sorties after he had sent it so many planes. Eaker could dono more than explain the conditions and repeat the same old story about bad weather and damaged aircraft. That was not what Amold wanted to hear. He wanted action. On September 27 the Fortresses returned to Germany, 305 of them this time, in the hope of bombing the port of Emden through an almost complete cloud cover with the aid of a newly developed British radar device called H2S. The results were indifferent, and for five days thereafter the 8th flew no missions. On October 2, when an even larger force returned to Emden in another attempt to use H2S,