ong before jumping because once the damaged plane went into a dive, it soon built up so much speed that bailing out was impossible.  Langer had learned all this quickly in an aviation career that began with the Heinkel Aircraft Company in 1940. The son of an East Prussian landowner and newspaper publisher, he had left the Univer- sity of Breslau at age eighteen to work for Heinkel because he wanted to become an aerodynamics engineer. After a year with Heinkel, during which he found time to qualify as a pilot with a commercial rating, he was advised by the company that he should enter the Luftwaffe, and he had gladly done so. He believed in Germany’s war aims and had always been enthusiastic about Adolf Hitler’s leader- ship. Early in the summer of 1943, he had been decorated personally by Hitler for his air victories, and he considered his country’s dictator ‘‘a great person, the greatest I had ever seen.”  Langer’s early days as a fighter pilot had been unpromising. He had thought at first he would never master the skill, partly because it took awhile ‘‘to overcome the fear of having something so foreign in your hands,’’ and partly because fighter action was so fast it took awhile to learn to see it clearly and comprehend it. On his third or fourth day of combat, at El Alamein in Africa, he had been shot down for the first time, by an American P-38. Thereafter he had caught on to the necessary techniques rapidly enough not only to survive but also to compile an impressive record in the most dangerous of occupations. His group was alerted at eleven o’clock on the morning of August 17. The Twelfth Air Corps headquarters was guessing that the second American attack might be against Frankfurt. Langer and the eleven other pilots in his squadron stood by their ME-109s.  At 1:15 p.m., German radar indicated that the second American task force had gathered and was crossing the English coast. The First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth German Air Divisions at Deelen, Stade,