ot indicate that it ever expected to feel the weight of a B-17 Mio hin Williams, having been the operations officer of the first groug ites nnd ba to fly B-17s, was quite experienced at landing them on grass be: Mtl ahi in those days (1936) there were few paved runways. Knowing "i Weitzenfeld had probably never landed a B-17 on grass, the ge sli tapped him on the shoulder and offered to take control. ania  nen cay i siya  turned to the general and declined with thanks. He would rathe himself. Aino thn ne Thereupon he made a perfect approach and a perfect landin;  75  there were no repair facilities available here, their situation was indeed critical, especially since General Eaker was expecting them to bomb another target the next day on their return flight to England.  As one after another of LeMay’s groups landed (some at Telergma, some a few miles away at Bone), and the squadron commanders made their preliminary inspections, it became apparent that Colonel Lay’s alarming analysis was correct. Though LeMay did not yet have an exact summary of the situation, he sent a message to Eaker indicating that the condition of his force was not good. Then, like his men, he watched hopefully for the arrival of stragglers, ate sparingly at a primitive canteen that had been built by the French when they owned this base, and eventually settled down to sleep, with his parachute as a pillow, under the wing of his plane. By this time he was aware that he had lost 24 of the 146 planes with which he had left England  When LeMay’s message arrived at 8th Air Force headquarters in England, General Eaker already knew it had been the worst day the 8th had ever suffered. He knew he had lost at least fifty planes on the double mission. Now it looked as if he had lost many more than that, depending on the exact situation in Africa. While he had expected heavier casualties than on any previous mission because of the deep penetration of Germany, the lack of fighter cover, and the crucial impor