ked out. There must be some salvage and from this salvage we should be able to make up crews which can operate.  In a handwritten afterthought, he threatened that if Eaker had no partial crews to build around, if all new crews had to come from the States, then such crews would be sent piecemeal, and no new heavy- bomb groups would come as units from August to December. He did not mention what this policy would do to his own creation, the Combined Bomber Offensive, which was behind schedule because Eaker had received only seven hundred of the nine hundred planes already due him under the original plan. Arnold concluded this letter with a fatherly lecture that could hardly have pleased Eaker or heightened his sense of job security:  226  hand, they hadn’t shot down many enemy planes. After describing the situation as he found it, he said, ‘‘If the P-47 airplane does not actually have the ability to escort on fairly deep penetrations, we have been badly fooled and our planning is extremely faulty. . . . The large number of fighters we have allocated to the U.K. are not paying their way if their participation in the bomber offensive comprises escort across the Channel only. This in effect simply insures the bombers’ safe delivery into the hands of the wolves.””  O'Donnell attached to this memo a cable that he suggested Arnold send to Eaker. But Arnold was not inclined to take action that day on the fighter-command issue. He was thinking about bombers, and he was convinced that with the number of B-17s now available, 8th Bomber Command should be sending out more planes per mission. The previous day, June 11, 252 Fortresses had hit Wilhelmshaven, but this was the first mission since May 29. It would seem that after a thirteen-day hiatus, a greater number of planes should have been ready to go. From Arnold’s viewpoint in Washington, it was hard to accept explanations for all the difficulties developing day by day in England, especially since they were of a size and type ne