uiring. Yester- day’s effort was not, as might at first appear, contrary thereto. I class it pretty much as the last final struggles of a monster in his death throes. There is not the slightest question but that we now have our teeth in the Hun Air Force’s neck.  Before concluding, he again pleaded with Arnold to help him put more bite into those teeth. ‘‘Nothing is more critical to our big battle here than the early arrival of P-38s and P-S1s, and particularly the earliest possible delivery of three to five thousand 100- and 150-  333  famidy ova tye one iG Shaw Jot (pu  few ‘opto sen ‘als Abn  mmol  alin Iho fe dat since cepa nv ipa nia  denaina Nin en Vestn ania  ak da (fino i  ‘hihi  planes were approaching Frankfurt, indicated an expectation that Frankfurt would be the target.) Arnold then concluded his press conference with an overoptimistic remark. ‘‘Now,”’ he said, ‘‘we have got Schweinfurt.’’ These words might haunt him if his men ever ad to return there.  When Eaker and Anderson read in the British papers what Arnold had said, they were both disturbed. On October 19 Eaker gently remonstrated with him in what may have been an imprudent letter to write to his commander. There was nothing in the enemy reaction, he said, that would indicate previous warning. And as for the 25-percent oss figure, he thought it might be well to remember that *‘our overall osses are still below 5 percent. From the standpoint of maintaining crew morale, I am anxious that our crews do not feel that their leaders anticipate enormous losses.’  Eaker and Anderson were clearly displeased by Arnold’s state- ments, but whatever damage his remarks may have done was uncor- rectible. As the days passed after the second Schweinfurt mission and there was no announcement of new missions, people began to wonder if the 8th Air Force losses had been even worse than Eaker had admitted. Why was nothing happening? Was the 8th reduced to impotence? Dispatches from England blamed continuing bad weath-