on to the bodies of several others. They could do little for two of the three survivors who had been injured. These men were captured as soon as German soldiers reached the scene. But the third man, unhurt, was soon lost in the crowd, later to be passed along to the Belgian undérground in the hope that he might be smuggled back to England. The Belgians hissed and booed the German sol- diers, first when they took personal belongings from the dead Ameri- cans in the wreckage, then when they carried away, presumably to a prison hospital, the two injured men.  Colonel LeMay’s beleaguered task force, despite its continuing losses, held to its course toward Regensburg. Near Kaiserslautern, the commander’s own lead formation sustained its first casualty when a B-17 piloted by Lt. S. W. Tyson of the 390th Group fell out of formation with its left wing in flames.!5  Back in the Third Combat Wing’s 95th and 100th Groups, so many German fighters were swarming through the eviscerated formations that Colonel Lay felt trapped. Since the attacks were continuing without relief even though the bombers were already through what had been considered ‘‘the German fighter belt,’’ he was certain that the enemy had brought in several new fighter groups to try out the concept of defense in depth. But how deep could this defense be? How many fighters did they have?  There was no sign yet of a shortage. A dozen ME-109s were coming at him in pairs from twelve to two o’clock. He had to resist an impulse to close his eyes when he looked at the nose cannons pointed at him. A shiny rectangle of metal sailed past the right wing of the Piccadilly Lily. He recognized it as the main-exit door of a Fortress  17  ahead. Then *‘a black lump”’ hurtled through the formation *‘barely missing several propellers.’’ As this lump approached his plane, he could see that it was a man “‘clasping his knees to his head, revolving like a diver.’’ The man flew past so close that Lay saw a piece of paper blown out of h