‘keep the formation tight. It’s the straggling, raunchy groups they go after.’”  The 379th Group at Kimbolton was to lead the rear combat wing (of which Stevens’s 303rd was the low element), and the 379th’s commander, Col. Maurice A. Preston, a Californian from Los Angeles, had some serious concerns as he prepared for the flight. After twenty missions, his group had lost about 75 percent of its original crews, thus earning an unfortunate distinction as the biggest loser in the 8th Air Force. This situation so distressed Preston that he was developing a program of innovations that would one day earn for  29  ‘edi  nm) Voll I aiermng vlad sity wnt athe ene  nytt  Wey dono iia  taithan wap thot  Upa ‘yibntn t Shiny nani wiley  (boi  iia ia:  Satiig's ‘iia  been astonished at the briefing to learn how far into Germany they were going, but they couldn't imagine that this mission would be worse than some of the others. After eleven missions, Miller had few illusions about his chances of surviving the required twenty-five. Ina letter to his bride of three months he had written: ‘‘It isn’t so terrible over here in England. Fact is, it’s rather pleasant. The only terrible part is on the other side of the Channel.’’ He had written that August 13. Now, four days later, he was sitting in a damp, cold B-17, ready to make his twelfth perilous journey to ‘‘the other side of the Channel.”’  By 10:30 the fog at Bassingbourn and at some of the other bases had begun to clear, bringing General Anderson at Pinetree to his moment of ultimate decision. Was it too late to send the Schweinfurt force? He had to take into account that right now, with the English fog clearing, ‘‘weather conditions over the entire route and at the target areas were the best which had been forecast for a period of over two weeks.”’  Another consideration bore down upon him as he later explained: “‘Inasmuch as the importance of these targets increased almost daily, the risk involved in dispatching the two bomb di