mand that illustrated the then-current R.A.F. attitude toward the B-17. :  “A pernicious article has appeared in a recent issue of the ‘Satur- day Evening Post’ in America,’ Peck wrote to Saundby. ‘‘It takes the line that the Boeing Fortress is the finest bomber in the world and that the stupid British have refused to take advantage of its qualities, tefused to order it and cannot make effective use of it. I have been tequested to produce a counter to this mischievous propagan- da. . . . Would it be possible for you to get one of your staff to give me some notes on the limitations of the Fortress as we have found them? What has gone wrong with it and why we are not able to make all the use of it which the Americans think we ought to be able to?”’  The R.A.F. at that time already had two B-17s but didn’t like them well enough to order any more. On November 3, 1941, Saundby sent Peck a Bomber Command memorandum dated November | which listed the faults the British had found in these early-model Fortresses.  The plane was so ‘‘dependent on suitable weather conditions,”’ this memo stated, that there was a “‘severe limit’’ on the frequency with which it could operate. ‘‘Even when clear conditions exist, the formation of condensation trails [from its engines] still further limits the occasions when the aircraft can penetrate to their targets without tisk of interception.’’ The bomb load was ‘‘uneconomical in relation to the crew and technical maintenance required.’’ The armor was inadequate. ‘‘An armoured bulkhead is now being fitted but the additional weight will tend still further to reduce the operational height.’’ To fire the plane’s heavy waist guns ‘‘the large blisters must  be opened, with the result that internal temperatures lower to the order of minus 50 degrees centigrade.’ The plane admittedly had ‘‘a ceiling considerably in excess of any other bomber in service,’’ but, the memo contended, *‘prolonged flights at heights above 30,000 feet impose very considerabl