as looking it up in an atlas. Winslow said, ‘‘About 100,000.”’ It was close enough to satisfy the man. (He must have had an old atlas. The 1940 population of Springfield was actually 148,000.)  Eventually Winslow was moved to a house in Wannebecq, where he still remained. His leg was healed now. He could move if he wished, but where would he go? Belgium was full of German secret police, looking for downed American fliers and the people who were hiding them.  Winslow’s old buddies in the 91st Group at Bassingbourn, who had led the August 17 mission against Schweinfurt and had lost ten planes including Winslow’s in the process, were very much aware of  278  Bolick. It was their first encounter with the easy ladies of Piccadilly and they were titillated, but they were not accustomed to choosing girls sight unseen. They declined with thanks.  When Bolick’s crew reached Snetterton Heath after going through transition training and being assigned to the 96th, most of his men had never heard of Schweinfurt. They had been in Grand Island, Ne- braska, when the costly August 17 mission took place. They soon heard about Schweinfurt from the older crews, but it didn’t make a strong impression. On October 2 they flew their first mission to Emden, and that frightened them sufficiently. Though it was not considered a difficult mission, they thought it was rough enough. Still rookies, they couldn’t yet imagine the kind of experiences in store for them.  Staff Sgt. Leo Rand, a big, persuasive-looking gunner and former steelworker from Youngstown, Ohio, who joined the 94th Group at Bury St. Edmunds as a member of a replacement crew in early October, was less reserved than Bolick and Downs around British women. He learned quickly that the kind of girl he might meet at Piccadilly considered all Americans rich. He had been told by an Englishman he met that when the Canadians came, the British “‘was gettin’ a piece of ass for a shilling.’’ But the Canadians “‘gave ’em two shillings. And w