e time had such breakdowns. !° The rest of the men flew their missions, absorbed their punishment, griped about conditions, but at the same time found some pleasure in their lives.  The men of the 91st at Bassingbourn were, in one respect, the envy of all the others. The permanent R.A.F. base on which they resided was luxurious in comparison to other bases. When Lt. Ted Winslow reached England as a replacement in June, he and his crew requested they be sent to the 91st because he had been told Bassingbourn was “the country club of the 8th Air Force.’’!! They got their wish and were not disappointed. The only Nissen huts at Bassingbourn were briefing rooms and storage buildings. The barracks were solid, sub- stantial R.A.F. dormitories. Winslow, who was assigned to the senior officers’ mess, found himself bunking in a handsomely fur- nished room with a wash stand, mirror, white sheets, bedspreads, and, best of all, an orderly to keep the place clean.  The first time Winslow went to London, he got an immediately favorable impression of the British. As he came out of the Under- ground station at Piccadilly, he saw some British officers and asked them to recommend a cafe. One of them said, “‘Come along with us, old chap,”’ and they took him to an excellent restaurant in Leicester Square.  For the enlisted men, Bassingbourn was slightly less luxurious but better than they had expected. Sgt. Douglas Gibson, a clerk in the 401st Squadron orderly room, ate well because he lived in the same barracks as the squadron cooks, who took special care of themselves and their friends.!2 But Gibson felt the ordinary mess hall food was poor, for which he blamed the mess officers. He knew the cooks could do better. The mess officers didn’t seem to care how well the enlisted men ate, perhaps because they themselves ate quite well at the officers’ mess.  Gibson’s job was to fill out the statements of effects for all members of lost crews. Under an officer’s supervision, he had to go throu