, came back on one engine. General Eisenhower, aware that this mission was the first American air action against German-held territory, awarded the Distinguished Service Cross to Kegelman and Distinguished Flying Crosses to his three crewmen. As Spaatz and Eaker personally presented these awards at Molesworth July 11, they could take some satisfaction in the fact that they had finally begun to fight, but their minds were on bigger deeds. The Flying Fortresses of the 97th Bomb Group had begun arriving at their Polebrook base July 6, and serious preparation was in progress for the first U.S. heavy-bomber mission against the Germans.  As Eaker greeted the crews of these B-17s and flew with them to watch them work, he developed a sinking awareness that they weren’t quite ready. However well they may have been trained, they now had to cope with conditions they had never before encountered .? The weather alone was:a serious factor. The British Isles were so often covered with thick, low clouds that for fliers of limited experi- ence it could be difficult just to get off and back onto the ground They also had to learn a whole new set of procedures for use of the crowded airspace over England. And the pilots had to be drilled in the absolute importance of flying tight formations for mutual protection.  Eaker quickly became concerned about the qualifications of the gunners. They were much less accurate on their first practice mis- sions than they would have to be. On July 6, he directed one of his  135  aides, Col. Claude Duncan, to make certain the 97th Group inten- sified its gunnery practice.  Eaker was now so busy making final preparations for the debut of his 8th Bomber Command that he no longer had much time to spend with Air Marshal Harris. On July 14, he moved all his belongings from the Harris home to his quarters at Wycombe Abbey, leaving Lady Jill Harris a note that indicated the depth of his feelings for her and her husband: ‘*Very few abodes have I left during m