rce as an instrument against Germany, these men were now alarmed because he had gone beyond them and was using their ideas for a purpose they opposed. Their position was delicate, however, because they could not openly proclaim their opposition to TORCH. They had, therefore, to shift their argument carefully. Sinclair, who had impatiently asked Slessor in late September what the Americans were doing and when they  168  The thoriti Liberz “*TOF the ide Fortre have 1 They: Wem work, Biscay Hopki they c unpari adopt than c them urge tl Parts « urge tl right ¢  InChi subjects Staff. A bombers Rolls Re anything Hopkins B-17:  intended to prepare for night bombing, wrote a minute to Churchill October 23, 1942, in which he sounded almost like an advocate of American daylight bombing:  American opinion is divided; some want to concentrate on the Pacific; others against Germany; some want an Air Force which would be mainly ancillary to the Army, equipped with Army support aircraft; . . . others want to build up a big bomber force to attack the centre of German power. It is in your power to crystallise American opinion and to unite it behind those schools of thought which want to attack Germany and want to do it by building up an overwhelming force of bombers in this country  Instead, however, of uniting those schools of thought, . . . you will throw these forces into confusion and impotency if you set yourself against their cherished policy of daylight penetration  In the opinion of the Air Staff, and in my own inexpert opinion, this policy of daylight penetration has a chance of success, if only they can get the numbers and if only they are not rushed by impatience into taking on heavy opposition with half-trained gun- ners.  If it succeeds it will be possible in the earliest months of next year for us to send a thousand bombers over Hamburg one night, for the Americans to follow up with 500 or 600 bombers the following day and, if the weather is kind, for us to follow up w