, he decided he wasn’t going to face Hitler again the next Rastenburg.*4 day. He wrote a note that said, “‘It is impossible to work with Goering When Speer was ushered into Hitler's presence, he did not any longer. Long live the Fiihrer.’’ Then he put a bullet in his head minimize the seriousness of the ball-bearing situation. The American At Schweinfurt, Kugelfischer owner Georg Schafer was still sit- attack would cause an enormous loss of production. (Though he ting dejectedly in his bunker at 10 p.M. when Wilhelm Stenger, the couldn’t yet cite any figures, the Short Statistical Report on War comanager of his ball division, returned from a trip to Marienthal and Production, January 1945, indicated the August 17 raid had caused found him there. Schafer was disconsolate. The entire ball plant had an immediate drop of 34 percent in ball-bearing output.) He showed been knocked out. It looked as if everything of value had been Hitler the photos of the damaged plants and pointed out that in most of destroyed. It would be difficult to salvage anything.?3 them (Kugelfischer excluded) fires had been disastrous because great “T’'ll get a lamp,”’ Stenger said, ‘‘and take a look around.”’ quantities of oil were used in the manufacture of ball bearings. It He went first to the ball plant that he considered the core of the flowed through the machines and drenched the floors around them entire enterprise. Without balls there would be no ball bearings. This When the oil ignited, the machines, delicately calibrated, were dam- plant was a two-story building. The upper floor had collapsed and aged beyond salvation. fallen onto the lower floor. The place was a mess, but fortunately it Much of the other damage to the factories could be overcome, and had not burned. To Stenger, about half the machinery looked as if it much of the lost production could be restored unless the Americans could be repaired. He returned to Schafer and said so. kept renewing their attacks. That was the most i