tally assaulted and drastically reduced, it would not be stopped. As the first bombers approached Schweinfurt, a high cirrus layer covered half the sky and the air was clear. At the southwest edge of the city, where the railroad tracks converged into a large marshaling yard, Williams could see the passenger station and freight depots, two ‘‘half-moon’’ locomotive roundhouses, and around all these rail facilities, the five factories so precious to the Germans. There was no doubt now that these factories would be bombed. Williams’s lead groups were so close they couldn’t possibly be turned back. Despite the fiercest defense any bomber force had ever faced, the Fortresses had once again prevailed.  In the lead plane just ahead of Williams, Colonel Wurzbach and Lieutenant Williams, his navigator, could take satisfaction in the jobs they had done so far. Wurzbach had held his front position despite constant attacks that had taken a chunk out of his left wing and lodged an unexploded shell in his left wing fuel tank. Williams, on this deepest American penetration of Germany to date, had guided the armada precisely to the target. Now, at the Initial Point, it was time for the bombardier, Lt. Sam Slayton, to take over for the bomb run  Five miles southwest of the city, a fairly intense flak barrage came up to jolt them, but Slayton held a steady course and with a clear view  54  American armada was too far east for him to catch it. He would have to wait for its return from the target.  As the Americans approached Schweinfurt, they had already lost twenty-one bombers and the German fighters were still swarming around them like wasps, but the surviving Fortresses continued their relentless path toward the target. The 91st Group, still in the lead, was about twenty-five miles from the Initial Point (the spot at which the bombardier takes over for the straight-and-level run to the target) when another of its planes, piloted by Lt. Eugene M. Lockhart, faced a crisis.!5 This Fort