t Old’s plane had been forced to abort on the August 17 mission increased his resolve to see Schweinfurt today The August mission was the only one on which he had ever aborted.  If this background hadn’t provided enough incentive, today Old also had the heavy responsibility of leading an entire task force. During a recent Bomber Command reorganization, the former First and Fourth Combat Bombardment Wings had been expanded and redesignated as the First and Third Air Divisions, each composed of three newly created combat bombardment wings. Old, who had been 96th Group commander, was now in charge of the 45th Combat Bombardment Wing, which was to spearhead the Third Division against Schweinfurt. He would command from the copilot’s seat of the division’s lead plane unless Curt LeMay showed up at the last  283  minute to bump him out of the job, as LeMay had done August 17. Since LeMay was now a brigadier general and commander of the Third Division, he should no longer be flying missions, but no one could predict what that man might or might not do at any time. Old’s crew today would be the same one which carried LeMay in August. Lts. Robert Bolick and Edward Downs had arrived for this same 96th Group briefing without any inkling of their destination, and they did not react immediately when the map curtain was drawn back and Schweinfurt was revealed as the day’s target.4 Bolick and Downs were still relative newcomers, preparing for their sixth mission. While they had heard about Schweinfurt, they hadn’t given it much thought. They realized the place was special, however, when groans arose from the men around them, and they were even more deeply impressed when the briefing officer read a message to all groups from General Anderson at Bomber Command:  This air operation today is the most important air operation yet conducted in this war. The target must be destroyed. It is of vital importance to the enemy. Your friends and comrades that have been lost and that will be lost