rned in comfort for the remainder of the war. Knox quickly canvassed the crew. Did they want to try for Switzerland or for Thorpe Abbots, their base in England? The consensus was Thorpe Abbots.  ‘Okay, Ernie,’’ Knox said. ‘‘Give me a heading for home.”  Warsaw said, ‘‘All right, but first let’s get down on the deck.’ He thought that by flying as close as possible to the ground they would be less noticeable and therefore attract fewer fighters. For Warsaw, the prospect of parachuting and being captured in Nazi Germany was especially chilling because he was Jewish. He had been a first-year law student at DePaul University in Chicago when the United States  14  chances of success? Could he have chosen a better strategy? Were his men well prepared for whatever they might encounter? These were the kinds of fear with which he had to cope today after putting into motion what was conceived as the biggest single mission in the history of the U.S. Army Air Force.  It would be easier for him if he were in the cockpit of one of those bombers ready to take off for Schweinfurt. Then he could do more than sit helplessly at his desk awaiting reports from his bomber commander (Brig. Gen. Fred L. Anderson), wondering if the Re- gensburg diversionary strategy was doomed by the weather, wonder- ing if LeMay’s force should have been recalled instead of being sent on alone, wondering if the Schweinfurt planes would ever get off the ground, if the big mission against Germany’s vital ball-bearing factories, planned since the previous autumn and already postponed once, would have to be postponed again. It was now after 11:00 A.M The Fourth Bombardment Wing had been gone an hour and a half, but no First Bombardment Wing plane was yet off the ground.  As the great air battle between LeMay’s Flying Fortresses and the German fighters moved across the skies of west Germany, the odds against the Fortresses seemed to lengthen. The Germans were com- ing in swarms, concentrating on the already batte