difficulties with Chaney. They had known each otherfor ~ ccepted so universally many years. Chaney was several years older and militarily more d. In the minds of most conservative than Eaker, who was then forty-six and full ofnewideas ary or civilian, Adolf about the role of air power in the war. But EakerconsideredChaneya ; of the war to simple friend, even though the two had never been closely associated. Baker  2en treated too harshly would have to be carefully diplomatic in the days and weeks tocome But all the privations if he wanted that friendship to endure. Fortunately, he hada natural + 2d, could not excuse or gift for diplomacy. It was one reason Amoldhad puthiminchargeoffitler’s men were now what was expected to be the first full-scale American military cooper- 4 million people Hitler E ons he had eliminated,  ation with England—the aerial bombardment of Hitler’s Europe.  knew what that mission was to be and how he was to approach it. General Arnold had spelled it out verbally. And General Spaatz, who would not be arriving in England until summer because he was busy with organizational details at Bolling Field near Washington, had spelled it out even more precisely in a six-page organizational memorandum.  But it was quickly apparent that General Chaney, a senior Air Force officer himself, had some ideas of his own about the develop- ment of Bomber Command. He could see no compelling reason why it would need a separate headquarters. He floated the suggestion that Eaker and his small staff would fit nicely into these Whitehall offices he was occupying.  Aside from the danger of Eaker’s tiny nucleus being swallowed up by Chaney’s already sizable apparatus, the suggested arrangement might also create a situation in which Chaney, who outranked Eaker and was also his titular superior, would soon take over actual if not official control of Bomber Command. This was hardly what Eaker wanted, and it was obviously not what Arnold and Spaatz wanted Spaatz had writte