vie, don't ever bao cl on  loin  safely.6 CnMay3, Baer wasting hel hut deepen  Peaslee’s was not the only plane in the 384th  lenmieadmostcapboriletero Gener Amol  over the Atlantic. Battlewagon, piloted by Lt. Pb daylorbeSth Aco,’ hei, “Ou conbu cr ball-turret door, possibly because one of the crew wtolupinstig ine yom 00215, Tha hit the latch; then Battlewagon’s No. 3 engine [iene gupshav ine ito weeks tai eventually spewing out all of its thirty-seven qui thidemon bi The plane was landing at Prestwick, however, b [wise wen gos: “Tey ell me the five  sisal ew avait isc he  i an ae lt  is iso, ake was lof ens  commanders  drop leaked away. The engine hadn’t stopped runt ‘eobeetten ne, adhe grup pss aebhighr ae  no sign of damage. Ot ng tn i  crew, landing in Prestwick was like landing on a g__Theonmanlasl whom e wie wre ol hh never seen grass so green. Miller and two of his | iy, Ale! Kes, (ul, ie Schimenek and Sgt. Casmir Majewski, as soon as Vil Hath, $a Cl Mae Ps base, took a tram ride into the nearby town of Ayr. Th i, ba Soh mde ti es noticed about the people on the tram was that they “iia, ne, cnpuat  213 Hy  ps hse groups rv oe To Sgt. L. Corwin Miller, one of the waist ; speiincimbu ote clone wal be afar fh!”  ba Moore Sh J, 9 Cl in, STA  heen May  14), they and the 35 1st joined the older groups in the 8th Air Force’s biggest operation to date when, for the first time, more than two hundred planes invaded the Continent. Anderson led two of the new groups against German installations at Antwerp while the two others bombed the airfield at Courtrai. The older groups that day took on a tougher assignment, returning to Germany to bomb the shipyards at Kiel  Though losses were light in these raids, the Germans were now augmenting their western fighter squadrons. Eaker expected much fiercer resistance to his bombers in the near future. In a letter to Maj. Gen. Oliver P. Echols at Matériel Command in Washington (also May 13), he wrote about improvements then being