wvtatio  ‘tdignt beni tbl selevnit weds theta xWhidlh urdinin nd  taint cece (init  hl Ign vs  riggs  addi waitin  below.!3 Since the Knox plane was the very last in the armada, it was also the most vulnerable. Warsaw watched in horrible fascination as the Messerschmitt ascended in a steep climb, closer and closer to the Fortress, firing all the while despite the machine-gun bullets the American gunners were sending back at him. Within a few yards of the Fortress, the German plane rolled over and stalled.  Warsaw, looking out the navigator’s window, found himself for a moment staring into the cockpit of the enemy fighter. The pilot seemed to be staring back. But his eyes looked vacant. He had obviously been hit by a bullet, perhaps just seconds earlier, and it seemed to Warsaw he was already dead. Yet his finger still squeezed his firing button, and bullets were still pouring from his wing guns.  The plane quickly fell off after its stall, and Warsaw watched it plunge downward. But he had little time to follow the course of the doomed fighter. One of its bullets had struck an oil line in the Fortress. The big bomber’s No. | engine faltered, sputtered, and died. Though Knox quickly feathered its propeller (a procedure to minimize drag by presenting the edges rather than the faces of the blades to the airstream) and advanced the throttles on the three other engines, the plane lost airspeed so fast that the entire formation was pulling away from it.  Captain Knox called Warsaw on the intercom. ‘‘Ernie, what do you think?’’  “We have no choice,’’ Warsaw told him. *‘We can’t keep up, and we certainly can’t make it to Africa. We’ve got to turn around and go back.”’  It would be easier, of course, to head for nearby Switzerland, where, if they landed safely, they would be interned in comfort for the remainder of the war. Knox quickly canvassed the crew. Did they want to try for Switzerland or for Thorpe Abbots, their base in England? The consensus was Thorpe Abbots.  ‘Okay