were less fortunate. Lt. Elton ‘‘Pete’’ Hoyt and his crew, flying a plane called Battling Bobbie, were hit by flak over Schweinfurt and forced out of formation. No chutes appeared as the plane descended, but there was no crash either. When Hoyt’s com- rades in the 379th got their last glimpse at Battling Bobbie, it was on the deck, alone, still flying, westward toward home.2°  By the time Col. Kermit Stevens approached Schweinfurt with his 303rd Group, the very last in the armada, the city’s defenders had launched a massive smoke screen to intensify the black clouds over the already obscure factory area.?! Though the huge Kugelfischer plant was the 303rd’s primary target, neither Stevens nor his pilot, Maj. Kirk Mitchell, could hope to locate it precisely in the inferno ahead. Because they were the low outside group in the Fourth Combat Wing, their wheeling turn into the Initial Point put them off course, and as they passed it, they had to execute a slight ‘‘S’’ to the left to straighten themselves out and establish bombing interval.?2 When the lead bombardier, Lt. Lawrence McCord, took control of the plane, only a minute and a half remained before he would have to telease his load. McCord was not destined to have even that much time to sight his target. About a minute before release time, a piece of antiaircraft shrapnel burst through the nose of the plane and into McCord’s stomach. The navigator, Lt. R. F. McElwain, and another crewman sprang into action immediately, moving the wounded McCord away from his Norden bomb-sight. But before McElwain could release the bombs, the entire 303rd Group had passed the Kugelfischer plant and was over Schweinfurt. Ironically, the city was now being bombed because its antiaircraft gunners were accurate. If  S7  McCord had not been wounded by flak, these clusters of bombs would have fallen two or three minutes earlier, upon factories rather than houses.  As the last American planes turned west for home, explosions rocked the enti