y would have to come ck clear air of the North Sea. Looking to the rear, beyond the white the B-17s than eight hundred yards. Bringmann had never had | vapor trails, the B-17 crews could still see the deep blanket of clouds the combined firepower of a B-17 formation, but he had hear covering England, clouds they had distrusted as they climbed blindly about it. Like most of his comrades, he was not happy at the pro through them, but from which they had nevertheless emerged with Galland also had at his disposal, in addition to the regular div trepidation, envisioning the brutal hostility they expected to encoun- stationed within the daylight defense corridor, several ‘‘schwai ter in bright sunshine over the continent ahead (four-plane units of ME-109s or FW-190s) piloted by instruc Most of these men were veterans. They had made the trip before Luftwaffe flying schools and several industrial ‘‘schwarme out of England’s protective gloom into Europe’s dangerous daylight aircraft-company test pilots.'? But such pilots had little comt They had learned to cope with the experience, but they would never perience. Their casualty rate was high, and their successes become accustomed to it. The very thought of it was fearsome  unimpressive. More reliable reserves for an emergency like tc  : . : enough to make them love clouds and hate the sun. Whenever they were the fighter groups stationed in southern Germany, outsi  flew, they assumed the sun would be shining over Europe because  limits of what might be considered the American bombing th they would not be sent if clouds were expected. They needed clear One such group was 2 Gruppe Jagdgeschwader 51 (Group 2, F  Wing 51), stationed in Neubiberg, forty miles northwest of Mt Lt. Hans Langer was a veteran pilot in this group. Thou career in fighters had spanned only a year and a half, he had a  skies for their pinpoint bombing. But on some days the forecasters were wrong, and as they approached Walcheren Island off the coast of Holl