ast for the first g one of these England but south to Africa in a shuttle experiment designed to show haired! miles or so into’ the continent at Colonel Hitler that almost all of his ‘‘Fortress Europe’’ was vulnerable to 8th Riding as a copilot in the lead plane of his armada (a 96th Group umption of his PeiRarce bombs B-17 piloted by Capt. Thomas F. Kenny), he looked back in vain, just when the Perhaps even more significant was the function of LeMay’s force and perhaps in some ace or the Thunderbolts; or Jugs,” that eluctantly a today as a decoy. The men who planned this operation hoped that the should have been cruising 5,000 or 6,000 feet above and behind him three munutes planes of the Fourth Bombardment Wing would lure most of the LeMay was not patient with what he considered inefficient perfor- i did catch one German fighters to the Regensburg area so that an even larger force mance. He was such a tough and irascible commander that his men umes. But this scheduled to take off nine minutes later, 230 B-17s of the First called him “Iron Ass,” but discreetly and with respect. While they Bombardment Wing, could slip through the German defenses. The might fear him, they also believed his methods and demands ad inder the com- objective of the larger force was to attack one of the most crucial Savelmany.o} pee Lapse et ide cares e Meco targets in Europe: five ball-bearing factories clustered around the innovations, including the protective box formation in which they y another fifty railroad yards in the Bavarian town of Schweinfurt, where almost were now flying, had become standard operating procedures in the \achen, before two-thirds of Germany’s ball and roller bearings were manufactured. U.S. Air Forces 353rd Groups If these plants could be destroyed, most of Germany’s war industries The Thunderbolts were actually on their way.} The 353rd Fighter ped its tanks in would soon be paralyzed because without bearings, no airplanes, Wing, with thirty-two P-47s under the