be no hope for the enemy in Europe, who could not long stand against such a weight of com- bined offensive.  The whimperings of the German propagandists at our opening blows in the campaign of 1943 show that the enemy now strives to win the sympathy of the world in his misfortunes. When the Devil is sick, the Devil a saint would be. This change of tone in itself reveals his fear of what is still to come and increases my conviction that, when you can hit him as hard by day as we can at night, the day of reckoning will set on Hitler’s Germany.  The British air marshal’s strong sentiments about the need to bomb Germany into complete submission were now so well known that people were beginning to call him ‘‘Bomber’’ Harris, but he didn’t mind. He hated Hitler and the Nazi cause so passionately that he felt fully justified in bombing the people who had made Hitler their leader. He was not the least bit self-conscious about it. One day in 1942, when he was hurrying from the Air Ministry in London to his headquarters at High Wycombe, he had been stopped for speeding. Though he had a ‘‘priority’’ sticker on his car, it was attached to the front bumper and the pursuing policeman didn’t see it. When the policeman realized whom he had stopped, he decided not to issue a citation, but he did say, ‘‘I hope you will be careful, Sir. You might kill somebody.’’ To this, Harris replied, ‘My dear man, I’m paid to kill people.’’2  On March 4 it began to look as if Eaker’s campaign for more planes was about to be answered. A cable from Arnold announced that three heavy-bomb groups (94th, 95th, and 96th) plus one medium group were ‘‘being prepared for immediate movement’’ to England, and that each month thereafter, he hoped, two more heavies and one medium would be sent. Replacement aircraft in March would total  196  by the 8th Air Force. Their recent attacks have been strikingly Harris, a quick man to pick up a cue, sent Eaker (March 5) exactly newhat successful considering the limited