is tas! " the clouds unless the ceiling descended further and dro ™ into the flak fields below 17,000 feet. \ This was a fateful decision for which Gross wo criticized, but with no enemy aircraft yet visible, with tons of British Spitfires (ninety-six planes) pulling up escort his bombers almost to Antwerp, and with tv ! fighter groups scheduled to escort them as far as Aache " ently felt the risk at 17,000 feet was acceptable. With 1 approaching the clouded coastline, the descent to 17,( h When the lead group, the 91st, crossed the Dutch coa '™ aircraft had arrived. The 384th Group, the lowest ¢ element in Colonel Gross’s task force, was not so for Thomas P. Beckett, air commander of the 384th, founc as the task force descended to 17,000 feet, ‘‘the fight: ' Although we had fighter escort (the Spitfires), enemy ' hitting us anyhow.’’2 Lt. Philip Algar’s plane, Lucky Thirteen, in the lov tail-end position, was already taking frontal attacks as tl fem  ua  slat nr  41  hr Stink pe ih  apprehensively at several projectiles, each about three inches thick, which were flying into their formation at a high speed but slowly enough to be followed by the human eye. A second or two later, several “‘large black bursts,”’ half again as big as ordinary flak bursts, appeared among the bombers. These explosions occurred in midair, without benefit of impact. But their effect was so powerful they caused extensive damage to two Fortresses, one flown by Capt. Roland L. Sargent and the other by Lt. J. D. Stewart. Both pilots, however, managed to keep their aircraft in formation.  Between Antwerp and Eupen, more German fighters arrived on the scene, and these began concentrating on the lead formations of the First Task Force—the 91st and the 381st Groups. Lt. Ted Winslow, bombardier in Dame Satan, the ‘‘always returning’’ substitute plane to which his crew was assigned that day, noticed that most of the enemy planes attacking his 91st Group were FW- 190s, and he had to admire the courag