n, to Rhodesia, where he became, among other things, a coach driver, gold miner, and farmer. It took World War I to fulfil  Army that he went instead, at the  his father’s fondest ambition for him.5 After enlisting in the First  %  y possible means. The ognize was the ethical resented. 1e, but the bombing of i the practice on a vast and England. If the enters could foreclose constitute justification ler himself recognized the enslaved people of i have to accept their bomb Germans? shine was accepted by vand by all British and d Harris. They were and bombing Germany ears to come, bombing e Allies could launch  took a two-hour drive in the East End around | St. Paul’s Cathedral, was a tour that made y were entering. They  Rhodesian Infantry Regiment, he eventually went to England and got into the Royal Flying Corps (forerunner of the R.A.F.) as a second lieutenant on probation. This began a career that was now reaching its zenith as Harris took command of the R.A.F.’s bombing campaign against German cities, the only military offensive Britain had yet been able to take against Germany during two and a half years of war.  Churchill had every reason to believe that Harris would add punch to the bomber offensive because Harris was dedicated to it as some- thing that, by itself, could destroy Hitler and end the war. He had already won Churchill’s heart by talking about his dream of sending a thousand bombers a night against Germany. Harris’s determination to repay the Germans for their destruction of British cities, and in the process prove the irresistible power of aerial bombardment, had earned for him a reputation as the toughest, most hard-headed, most committed man in the R.A.F. Positive in his convictions, he was quick to assert them and uncompromising in his resolve to enforce them. Unlike Ira Eaker, he had never been described as a tactful, diplomatic man.  These two generals had met a few times when Harris visited the United States on R.A.F. missions to buy airpla