y about selecting his staff. Because the Air Force was still small a month after Pearl Harbor, and because the war was large, Arnold had very few first- class career officers to spare. He suggested that Eaker seek out some well-qualified civilians who were willing to join the Air Force.  “*You can easily take a smart civilian and make him into a smart officer,’ Arnold observed, ‘‘but you can’t take a dumb officer and make him a smart officer. So you find yourself some smart civilians and I’ll commission them for you.””  This advice accounted for the fact that three of the six staff officers taking off from Lisbon with Eaker on the morning of February 20, 1942, had been civilians a few weeks earlier. Maj. Peter Beasley, the oldest man on the staff, had been an airplane manufacturer. Capt Fred Castle had been working for the Sperry Company on Long Island, New York, though several years earlier he was an Air Corps pilot. And Lt. Harris Hull had been a Washington newsman. The ranking officer on this staff, Lt. Col. Frank Armstrong, was a highly regarded career man who had been under Eaker’s command in 1934, | when the Army carried the U.S. mail. Lt. William Cowart had been a fighter pilot under Eaker’s command in 1940. And Capt. Beirne Lay was a Yale graduate who had joined the Air Corps and won his pilot’s wings in 1933, then left the service to launch a very successful writing career. He had resumed active duty in July 1941, when war | seemed imminent. And in late January 1942, Lay was walking along a corridor at Air Force headquarters in Washington when he came | upon Eaker, whom he had known for three years.  Eaker said, “‘Beirne, you want to go with me?”’  93  Captain Lay said, ‘Yes, sir.’ Before he could ask where they were going or in what capacity, Eaker had hurried down the hall to his next appointment. But Lay was one of the six men with him as he took off in a regularly scheduled KLM airliner from Portugal to England.  The fact that the new 8th Air Force Bomb