at he had ied that his bombardiers were as accurate as they n't bad, but with more training, more practice, If a man accepted the American concept of mbing of military targets, he had to admit that issed its target, by even a few feet, might as well  74  their inflated dinghies when the R.A.F. arrived to rescue them an hour and twenty minutes later. The loss of Darrow’s plane made the 381st Group the hardest hit that day, with total casualties of eleven out of twenty-six.  The 91st, however, with ten losses, was still in danger of matching the 381st. When Lt. James Judy’s ravaged Fortress reached the continental coast, it was alone with only three men aboard (one injured) and flying on two engines at an altitude of one hundred feet. Judy, his copilot, Lt. Roger Layn, and his engineer, T. Sgt. Earl Cherry, were amazed that it was flying at all. Without a navigator, Judy had groped his way northwest across Germany and Belgium, dodging airfields that might send fighters after him and cities that might send up antiaircraft shells. The hydraulic system was now inoperative as well as the electrical system, which had finafly burned itself out. All the controls to the tail surfaces had been shot away, and when Layn tried to splice the broken cables he had found them beyond repair. The electrical system’s main inverter had been de- stroyed, and the aileron trim tab was still jammed. With the ship in this condition, it had taken all of Judy’s strength to keep it in control across western Europe. Now that they had reached the coast, he was nearing exhaustion. But Layn couldn’t help him, because he still had too many things to do in the rear  With the threat of German fighters diminished, Layn threw over- board all the remaining boxes of ammunition, any guns he was able to detach from their moorings, and all other articles he hadn’t previous- ly jettisoned. Using a hand crank, he tried to close the bomb-bay doors, which had been open since the bombs were salvoed. The doors were