r the Flying Fortress, he was convinced it had ‘‘excellent defensive firepower.’’ He didn’t think it should be used extensively above 25,000 feet ‘‘due to extreme crew discomfort’’ from the cold. But he considered it a great credit to the aircraft that pilots ‘‘less than six months out of flying school’’ could handle it so satisfactorily.  “‘T think it is a great airplane,’ he concluded. *‘It is too early in our experiments in actual operations to say that it can definitely make deep penetrations without fighter escort and without exce: es. I can say definitely now, however, that it is my view that the German fighters are going to attack it very gingerly.””  The following day, Air Chief Marshal Harris, taking cognizance of the fact that Eaker had ridden in a plane called Yankee Doodle, sent him a congratulatory telegram which read: ‘* Yankee Doodle certain- ly went to town, and can stick yet another well-deserved feather in his cap.”’  Two days after the Rouen mission, on the 19th, a formation of twenty-four Flying Fortresses, escorted partway by Spitfires, at- tacked a German airdrome at Abbeville in support of the costly British commando landings at Dieppe. The Fortresses again returned without a loss, and General Eisenhower was at Polebrook with Eaker to welcome them home.  On August 20, twelve Fortresses hit the marshaling yard at Amiens/Longueau and all came back. On the 21st, the Fortresses got off the ground sixteen minutes late for their rendezvous with the Spitfires. As a result, they were without escort when a flight of FW-190s attacked them near the Dutch coast. Though one B-17 copilot was killed and his pilot wounded, all the planes returned to base. On August 24, 27, 28, and 29, the Fortresses of the 97th Group invaded the continent without even meeting a challenge from German fighters.9  On August 25, Eaker wrote a report to Spaatz about the lessons learned as a result of the first five missions. Crew training, which he called ‘‘the essence of success,