bombers. It was an exciting  le in the R.A.F. became so enthusiastic about the : Flying Fortress that they began leaking information to ss. As a result, aviation writer Colin Bednall wrote a le about the big American bomber for the September jon Daily Mail. Bednall seemed to think the Flying  " ;oing to revolutionize the war in the air:  i) cable has been the success of the new Flying Fortresses  the United States Army Air Force from this country ely to lead to a drastic resorting of basic ideas on air Many experts had grave misgivings when the Ameri- )perations in Europe with Fortresses, which compared with our own heavy bombers.  F culations, however, made no allowance for two vital ' t: instead of the 10 .30-calibre machine guns carried by +r, the new Fortresses are armed with no fewer than 12  ibre machine guns. Second: in daylight it could bomb 1e accuracy from great heights and therefore avoid : ground flak which night bombers have to penetrate y must come lower to sight their target. ng Fortress . . . had won a fine reputation in the it had to prove itself in the much more highly de- war of Western Europe. . . . Just how well it has itself within the short space of a fortnight is now the slose study by startled experts on both sides of the annel.  146  said, ‘‘will concentrate on any airplane which falls back in the formation.’’ Crew comfort, he believed, would have to be improved At 23,000 feet, the temperature was sometimes as low as forty-four degrees below zero, cold enough to freeze the oxygen masks and to cut the efficiency of the men by 50 percent.  The oxygen supply system was not entirely satisfactory, because the hose connections were too short to allow the gunners full freedom of movement. Turret guns were definitely more accurate than any of the others. And a flexible gun in the nose would be desirable  These" were comparatively small problems, however, and most of them were correctible. Events so far had done nothing to diminish his enthusiasm fo