got everything they had been told about conserving ammunition. Future moments would have to take care of themselves. The moment of peril was now. More enemies than they had ever seen were upon them, and their only possible response was to spend more bullets than they had ever before fired.  So many German planes were in the air that even with this concen- tration on the 30Sth, the other groups were not neglected. There were enough enemy fighters for everybody today. The small, seven-plane contingent of 91st Group Fortresses, which led the First Division was “getting the hell shot out of’’ it when Lt. Bruce Moore, navigator in Lt. Henry G. Evers’s crew, was nudged by the bombardier who was manning one of the forward guns.! He motioned toward Moore’s metal, bowl-shaped compass cover and Moore handed it to him. Quickly he unzipped his leather flying suit and emptied himself into the bowl.  At that moment, someone shouted over the interphone, **Fighter at twelve o’clock level!””  The bombardier turned back to Moore, handed him the bow] full of urine, then began firing his machine gun at the German fighter coming at them from straight ahead.  When the fighter dived to avoid collision, the bombardier, his lower face covered by his gas mask, glanced back at Moore with laughter in his eyes. Moore, after resisting the temptation to dump the contents of the compass cover on his head, also began to laugh and laid the cover down near their escape hatch, where it soon tipped over. The urine spilled and almost immediately froze around the door joints. If they were forced to bail out today, they would have to find another exit.  Colonel Milton, commanding the Ist CBW from the lead plane of the 91st, sat helplessly in the copilot’s seat, looking out at as fierce a fighter attack as he had ever seen. He had been on many previous missions, but mostly with the 351st Group from which he had transferred a few weeks earlier to become the 91st executive officer. A 1940 West Point graduate