nd into them if more fighters ap- eared. Lt. Miles McFann, the navigator, and Lt. Harold Edelstein, the bombardier, both of whom had hurried to the cockpit after the losion, removed the dying Bolick from the copilot’s seat. Downs,  ju  e who was becoming weak from  sition degrees.”  ii  t  ass out. He was the only pilot emembering that he had an a engineer, S. Sgt. John Rourke, ackside, to find it and feed it to  elped him remain conscious.  formation was now far above and to  are of multiple wounds on his rig! Bolick off t!  ¢ as an indication that Downs shou!  his wounds, asked McFann where  they were, and the navigator showed him ona map their approximate ‘Get in the copilot’s seat,”’ Downs said, “‘and fly aheading of 270  Jowns now had time to assess his own wounds. His right arm was pped from elbow to shoulder. His head, his right side, and his right leg were also gashed. Because he was in great pain, Edelstein wanted administer morphine, but Downs refused it because he didn’t dare  in the plane  ipple in his flight jacket, he asked the who was slightly wounded in the him, Though the apple was covered  with blood, Downs chewed it slowly, bite after bite, and found that it  320  cFann’s hand forward. : cleared the trees, and ore air speed. As the big in brought the throttles e toward his belly for a igth. McFann, sensing e B-17 hit the ground,  1 Brennan had lost two and flak, but it was still ‘h Channel just above * flak bursts hit it and ith full crew fly on one d to find out. To help it rything in it that was letached and jettisoned ts single motor at full continental coast and orator, T. Sgt. Willard sea rescue service that ‘ew could make out the 1er. They might yet get ing. But now the plane ennan just enough time +s, he was able to get its and at the same time let inan and his entire crew  yrtresses over England 2ries they had suffered es of planes landed at 1em, after struggling to iroup plane crashed at sar Riseley. Three from 3latherwycke, one near t Gr