an effort to wipe out Hitler’s war-making capability. But it would be costly. Eaker knew that, as he said in his June 29 letter to Arnold:  One of my principal worries now is that our official supporters in the highest levels, and our supporting public, may not be able to stand our losses in combat. I want you to know that we can stand  them and that we are doing everything possible here to keep them  at the minimum. I hope you can keep everybody in line there so that we can go through with this battle, which is a necessary prelude to any future effort against the Germans on the continent. . . . It is perfectly evident now that the Germans admit that our daylight bombing against their industry is the principal threat, and they are marshaling their strongest and best defenses to cope with it. We may as well frankly admit that it is going to be a bloody battle.  235  Eaker had based his estimate of German reaction on the ever- increasing fighter resistance against his bombers and on intelligence reports of the German fighter build-up in northwest Europe. After the war, German sources indicated that their fighter strength in France and the Low Countries had increased from 270 in April 1943 to 630 by the end of July.4 Eaker may have been premature in his assertion to Arnold that the Germans now considered the 8th Air Force ‘‘the principal threat.’’ But there was no doubt that the Germans were deeply impressed by the U.S. heavy bombers.  In mid-July, Eaker made one more effort to counter the German build-up. Another of Amold’s envoys, Gen. Delos C. Emmons, came to England to inspect the 8th Air Force, and Eaker told him exactly what he most needed. Emmons then sent a cable to Washing- ton making several suggestions, with special attention to the fighter situation:  German fighters are not being interfered with to much extent by [U.S] fighters in close and area support and are operating with near maximum effectiveness. One of the best ways to support our bombardment in th