d falle e ae  "QM amona”  ii ah eg le es ld traci ly ho  el wi ie of ep, aa  i ah  lei  in the cockpit of the Fortress flown by Lt. Robert Bolick and Lt.  .Edward Downs.!  Though Bolick was the pilot, he had taken the copilot’s seat a few minutes earlier to relieve Downs, who had been doing most of the flying. Because their plane was on the left side of the 96A Group formation, it was easier to manage from the right-hand copilot’s seat, which was closer to the plane on whose wing they were flying. Downs had just bent over to adjust a trim tab when the explosion occurred. He blacked out for perhaps a minute or more. When he regained consciousness, he saw that Bolick, his body blown open by the blast, had fallen forward onto the control column, putting the plane into a dive. The rest of the formation was now far above and to the left  Since Downs himself was aware of multiple wounds on his right side, he had to reach across with his left hand to pull Bolick off the control column. The mortally wounded pilot regained consciousness, sat up, and tried to take hold of the controls. When he realized he could not do so, he patted the yoke as an indication that Downs should take over. Then he slumped in his seat.  Downs, noticing clouds below, brought the plane out of its dive just above them, ready to descend into them if more fighters ap- peared. Lt. Miles McFann, the navigator, and Lt. Harold Edelstein, the bombardier, both of whom had hurried to the cockpit after the explosion, removed the dying Bolick from the copilot’s seat. Downs, who was becoming weak from his wounds, asked McFann where they were, and the navigator showed him ona map their approximate position.  “‘Get in the copilot’s seat,’ Downs said, ‘‘and fly a heading of 270 degrees.’”  Downs now had time to assess his own wounds. His right arm was tipped from elbow to shoulder. His head, his right side, and his right leg were also gashed. Because he was in great pain, Edelstein wanted to administer morphine, bu