in their planes. At 10:45 the battery booster cart was plugged into the lead plane of the 9ist, to be flown by the group commander, Lt. Col. Clemens L. Wurzbach; a minute later the B-17’s first four-bladed propeller began to turn slowly, its engine sputtered, coughed, blew a puff of smoke to the rear, then burst into a roar. A smooth roar, loud but not deafening. Even with all four engines running, the Flying Fortress was not an ear-splitting aircraft. The Air Force had several planes that made much more noise, including even one small training plane, the BT-13, whose single engine could drown out the big bomber’s four.  As Wurzbach taxied out to the runway, Col. William M. Gross, air commander of the first two combat wings, settled into the copilot’s seat beside him, studying the revised schedule for the rendezvous of the 91st with his five other groups.  Gross and Wurzbach were off the ground at 11:20. Col. Howard 32  word from the tower. Several times, operations officers came out in jeeps with status reports. This crew had a special interest in the Schweinfurt mission because they had received special preparation for it, and had been waiting two months for it to happen. Once in June and three times since then, each heavy-bombardment group had sent a select crew to General Williams’s headquarters for secret briefings about the ball-bearing factories. Preston had taken this crew to represent the 379th, so they knew better than most of the others what they had to anticipate.  Lt. Philip Algar, a University of California graduate from Mo- desto, was one of the eighteen pilots of the 384th Group waiting to take off from Grafton-Underwood, but he knew very little about the target of the day.!° His crew had received no special training for the Schweinfurt project, and until the aborted mission a week earlier, he had scarcely been awate that Schweinfurt was a ball-bearing center What had impressed him at this morning’s briefing was the distance they were expected to fly