nything organically wrong with it, they simply filled it with oil and wished him luck. Less than three hours after landing at Marrakesh, Spare- ball took off again, east across the top of the Sahara  Several times as the plane droned through the sunny sky , Smith felt himself on the verge of falling asleep at the controls. The desert air was so warm, especially for men accustomed to England’s chilly climate, that Eaker opened the waist-gun windows to catch the breeze. When they landed near Tunis, at the end of another eight- hour flight, Elliott Roosevelt, the President’s son, who had become a brigadier general in command of a reconnaissance unit, was on hand to meet them. In two staff cars, Roosevelt took Eaker and his aides to the headquarters of General Spaatz, Eaker’s old friend and one-time 8th Air Force superior, with whom he now wanted to confer. At last, it looked as if Smith and his crew would have time to eat and sleep. But the mess hall at this desert base was closed. A sympathetic sergeant finally took them to a tent where they found a gallon can of marmalade, several loaves of bread, and some fruit juice.  They were still spreading marmalade on big chunks of bread when someone drove up from the flight line and shouted, *‘Hey, you guys, get back to your plane. They want you to take them to Telergma.””  It was well into dusk when Smith and his crew returned to their plane to find General Eaker awaiting them with a sizable party. In addition to his own aides, he had with him General Spaatz, General James Doolittle (commander of the Twelfth Air Force), General Roosevelt, and Colonel Lauris Norstad. As Captain Smith warmed up his engines, carefully testing his bad one, he came to the chilling realization that if this plane failed to hold up for another hundred  87  1 Pes’ on wer ilk cari thm all aly othe Colonel LeMay was walt 10  uae in a et, Hee the ener nd thar freed oc  fe. Fake’ fist question to Lea  ”y  i  ay assured in,  fit time, Eker armed the convi