nold’s brightest young aides and a member of his Advisory Council, Col. Emmet ‘‘Rosey’’ O’Donnell, had listened to the Eaker-Hunter debate during a visit to England. Back in Washington, he wrote a memo to Arnold June 12 entitled ‘‘Ineffec- tive Fighter Support to Bombardment in the U.K.”  The fighters, O’Donnell said, were not doing the bombers much good. The P-47s hadn’t yet suffered many losses, but on the other  224  altitudes. But Eaker was certain that if used cleverly it could be! helpful than it was. He wanted the fighters to climb to maxi! iui ceiling and fly as far as possible on their drop tanks, even avo combat if necessary until those tanks were emptied and releas 44)j4 1 It was standard operating procedure for Hunter’s pilots to ulate their heavy belly tanks as soon as they reached ceiling, even thi i: juinbide as much as eighty gallons of gasoline remained in them. The f jie fii were in a hurry to get rid of them because they were also eager t' 44.5 up, before going into combat, the fuel in another auxiliary analog which was directly behind their seats. This tank’s proximity t sii ii pilot made him uncomfortably aware of being a potential ht torch, and the weight of the gasoline there altered the plane’s pe , mance unfavorably by shifting the center of gravity. iar Mininniterin While a fighter pilot undoubtedly increased his risk to some de boxkhf ts sin by engaging in combat with the tank behind him full of fuel), j:aritiiy bomber crews were already increasing their risks by flying mis unescorted most of the way. And it was the bombers that were ¢ signin the primary, essential job of attacking important enemy installat autua What was the purpose of the fighter planes if not to protect tl j,, What good were the fighters when the bombers were getting cred almost all of the enemy planes shot down? Hunter, concerned « meet his young pilots, fended off these arguments, insisting that his auHaihs wouldn’t be able to accomplish what Eaker expected of them 44