r realized he and his men on the roof  When the people were finally convinced that no more planes would come, they slowly emerged from their shelters, stunned, begrimed by smoke and dirt, and in some cases covered with blood. A total of 203 had died—70 men, 77 women, 48 children, and 8 foreign workers. In the factories, about 380 thousand square feet of buildings had been destroyed and more than a million square feet damaged.  At the plants, the workers reappeared and numbly began clearing away debris and searching for possible victims. Destruction was so widespread that none of the factories looked as if it would operate again for a long time. Kugelfischer’s Leo Wehner came down from his rooftop gun post and walked through the grounds, inspecting the damage. In one shelter, nineteen people lay dead. A wall had col- lapsed after a direct hit. In many of the buildings there might be other victims, but if so it would take time to find them. At least twenty bombs had scored direct hits on important structures. Wehner noticed one thing with some satisfaction, however. Fire, which posed the  60  capacity. The people on the day shift were busy at their benches or machines when the air-raid sirens began to screech shortly after 2:30 P.M. The people of Schweinfurt had only recently begun to consider the possibility that they might actually be bombed. Their town, with fifty-thousand people, was so small and so deep inside Germany that British night bombers were not likely ever to find it, and the Ameri- can day bombers would have to overcome several hundred German fighters to reach it. Nevertheless, in mid-July, antiaircraft batteries had been set up on the roofs of the plants and on the hills around the city.23  The chief of Schweinfurt’s Air Defense Police, Wilhelm Weger, now alerted the antiaircraft crews, the fire department, and the brigade of men assigned to ignite smoke pots in an attempt to obscure the ball-bearing factories. Air-raid wardens in the factories and all