ted this defeat with good grace and prepared for one more battle in what had now become a six-month campaign. They were still determined to convert Arnold to night bombing, and this was their first opportunity to meet him on their home ground since the war began. They wanted to put on a show that would impress him  On the night of May 30, Churchill invited him, with Tower, Eaker, and American Ambassador John G. Winant, to a dinner at Chequers,  128  Arnold realized that America away only if he gave to the Brit 8th Bomber Command. He qu chill.s The American Air Force available to it, ‘the cream of th planes better than the youngste  Churchill assured him that in idea of American pilots flyin; moment there was a necessit enemy.  Arnold reminded him of one U.S. Congress on providing len Britain and Russia. Congress assurance that lend-lease arran other countries, would be buil time when the United States w: time had come, and the Ameri Force now. They wanted quick Churchill wanted it. But how c up if at the same time America rent needs of Australia, China Navy?  In subsequent conversations quotas were under discussion U.S. Navy, declared that too f« The Navy, he pointed out, was ships because the need for car; suggested it would be in the Boeing plant in Long Beach, C Flying Fortresses a month, wer transports. Some combat planes the expense of cargo planes.  Arnold was not enchanted b: rapid-fire style and calling upc tics, he said 8,320 cargo plane: States, including 5,600 large or of them if they were needed, combat planes could be used fi could never be used as bombe  the Prime Minister's official country residence thirty miles northwest  of London  Also present were Portal and Harris. Tonight Harris, who  had already subjected Amold to a session in his ‘‘conversion room,”” was staging something even more persuasive—the R.A.F.’s first 1,000-plane mission against Germany. In the largest raid ever Jaunched, 1,046 aircraft (376 of them snatched temporarily from  operat