others. He had told General Arnold in Washington that the B-17’s hand-held guns would not do in combat. The plane would have to be equipped with turrets, and it would also need fighter escorts. Even then, he had insisted, daylight bombing with it would be ‘‘very sticky.””  n addition, the plane carried too small a bomb load. The ten machine guns plus ammunition needed for daytime combat would add so much weight that the pay load would be limited to about a ton. The bomb-bay doors were too small, Harris told Eaker, and so were the bombs the Americans planned to drop.  Harris was even more emphatic in warning Eaker about climatic factors. The areas in the United States where American fliers trained, mostly California and Texas, were quite different from the areas they would be bombing in Europe. ‘‘How many days,”’ he asked rhetori- cally, ‘will you be able to see the ground in Europe from 20,000 feet? Damned few.”’  Eaker had too much faith in the B-17 and in the skill of American pilots to accept these arguments. He knew the plane would need certain modifications, and the crews would need extra transition training when they arrived. But he was convinced that when they got into battle they would do as well in the daytime as the British were doing at night. While the bomb load would be smaller, each bomb dropped on a specific military or industrial target would damage the German war effort much more than a larger bomb dropped at night on the house of one or two German workers. The ten B-17 machine guns were heavy, of course, but if they could hold off German fighters so that the bomber could reach an important target in full daylight when the bombardier could see it, they would be worth their weight. The 8th Air Force B-17s, unlike those the British had tried, would have the remarkable Norden bomb-sight, which would enable them to  112  daytime operations? It would be a waste of all that armament and all that extra equipment to use the plane at night.  On the subject o