longings from the Harris home to his quarters at Wycombe Abbey, leaving Lady Jill Harris a note that indicated the depth of his feelings for her and her husband: ‘*Very few abodes have I left during my 25 years of military service,’’ he wrote, ‘‘with the lump in my throat I had this morning as I carried my effects from that comfortable room. . . . If I spent the rest of my life, I could not repay you and Bert for your many kindnesses to me.”’  On July 16, Eaker learned that General Eisenhower would like to visit the first B-17 base at Polebrook. Two weeks passed before the new theater commander had time to do so. But when he arrived, with a party including General Spaatz, a practice gunnery mission had been arranged for his observation.3 Eaker was apprehensive as soon as he escorted Eisenhower and Spaatz onto the base. He believed in the Army doctrine that a disorderly camp was a symptom of sloppy discipline among the men, and in his view, the grounds of this camp were not orderly. The 97th Group had been here almost a month. There was no excuse for the place to be untidy. At the same time, he had a more important reason to be apprehensive. He was not yet confident of the group’s gunnery skill.  The one-and-one-half-hour practice flight confirmed his doubts. The mission was a dismal failure. The gunners were so inadequately trained they seldom hit even the easy targets. What would they do against veteran German fighter pilots? Eisenhower and Spaatz were polite, but Eaker was embarrassed and angry. He reprimanded the wing commander and group commander on the spot and arranged for one of his six original staff officers, Col. Frank Armstrong, to come to Polebrook and take charge of the group.  As soon as Armstrong arrived the next day, the 97th’s practice flight program was increased and the English country people around Polebrook were subjected to the constant din of B-17 formations overhead from dawn to dusk. With R.A.F. fighter planes acting as mock enemies, the Ame