optimistic. The last paragraph of his memo, however, contained a seemingly offhand remark that would one day prove to have greater import than anything else he had said:  High hopes are felt for the P-51 with wing tanks. The 8th Air Force needs from three to five groups of P-38s and some P-51s in order to meet the increasing opposition it is facing and will face on an ascending scale during the balance of this year.  The only miscalculation in Lovett’s prophecy was his estimate of the number of P-51s the 8th Air Force would need. In the early summer of 1943, neither he nor anyone else could foresee just how important this airplane, improved by the installation of the Rolls  218  Royce Merlin engine, was destined to become in the air war over Germany.  Lovett’s second memo to Arnold (June 19) listed what he found to be the most urgent needs of the 8th Air Force. These included more replacement crews and more forward firing power for the B-17s. The new crews should receive better training in gunnery and in formation flight above 20,000 feet.  “If these urgent needs are promptly met,’’ Lovett told Arnold, “the operational efficiency of the 8th Air Force will, in my opinion, increase by at least 50 percent.’’!4  Even such an operational improvement, however, would not suf- fice to see the 8th Air Force safely through the year. In conclusion, Lovett referred again to the most urgent requirement of all: ‘“There is an immediate need for long-range fighters. This may be met by proper tanks for P-47s, but ultimately P-38s and P-51s will be needed.”’ :  It is difficult to measure accurately Arnold’s reaction to Lovett’s memoranda. In his postwar book, Global Mission, Arnold wrote: ‘‘It may be said that we could have had the long-range P-51 in Europe rather sooner than we did. That we did not have it sooner was the Air Force’s own fault.’’!5  Initially this fault lay with the Matériel Division, which was indifferent to the Mustang when the plane was being developed for the Bri