o add to his worries, he suddenly remembered > radio operator, Sgt. ment of the moment, however, he gave no thought to the significance thatthe letter “‘H’” for Hebrew was stamped on his identification tag. ut off both of Smith’s of this condition. (It was understood internationally that an airplane He probably should have had it removed as many other Jewish fliers > electrical system and crew could signify surrender by lowering the landing gear. This ad done before venturing over Hitler's Europe, but he had wanted would explain why all those German fighters had felt safe in ap- the ““H” on his dog tag to make sure that if he were killed, whoever the nose, injuring the proaching the Fortress.) came upon his remains would discoverhis religion. The possibility of shattered a section of  The surviving fighters slid quickly out of range. When they closed is being captured had never occupied his mind as much as the 1.  ossibility of being killed. If he were to be killed and his body found  15  16  in Germany, he wanted it registered in the minds of the Germans who found him that this was a Jew who had given his life fighting Hitler and the Nazis. It would not be healthy, however, to have the Gestapo discover while he was a live prisoner that he was a Jew.  When they loaded him into their car, he took advantage of a moment while no one was looking. With a quick yank he pulled the dog tag from around his neck and flung it to the wind.  A few miles west of Aachen, across the Belgian border near Montzen where another of the Fortresses had crashed, hundreds of Belgians gathered at almost precisely the same time, shortly after eleven, but to display quite opposite sympathies.!* Arriving before the German occupation troops, these Belgians found three American fliers alive in addition to the bodies of several others. They could do little for two of the three survivors who had been injured. These men were captured as soon as German soldiers reached the scene. But the third man, u