g Fortresses and the German fighters moved across the skies of west Germany, the odds against the Fortresses seemed to lengthen. The Germans were com- ing in swarms, concentrating on the already battered Second and Third Combat Wings. More twin-engine ME-110s appeared, and while they were slower and less maneuverable than the ME-109s and FW-190s, they were just as deadly. Groups of five to eleven would arrive from ten o’clock and two o’clock while others would dive out of the sun, to blind the B-17 gunners. Straggling bombers, deprived of the crossfire protection of the tight formations, drew the attention of entire hives of fighters.  Only the leading combat wing, with which Colonel LeMay was riding, remained relatively unscathed, perhaps because, unlike the other two wings which were composed of two groups each, the lead wing had three protecting one another. The 96th was flanked by Col Edgar Wittan’s 390th in the high position on the right and Col William B. David's 388th in the low position on the left. None of the three groups had yet lost a plane.  The 100th Group in the far rear continued to absorb the most brutal punishment. Near Cologne, Lt. Ernest Warsaw, navigator of a B-17 piloted by Capt. Robert Knox, saw an ME-109 coming up from  13  below.!3 Since the Knox plane was the very last in the armada, it was also the most vulnerable. Warsaw watched in horrible fascination as the Messerschmitt ascended in a steep climb, closer and closer to the Fortress, firing all the while despite the machine-gun bullets the American gunners were sending back at him. Within a few yards of the Fortress, the German plane rolled over and stalled.  Warsaw, looking out the navigator’s window, found himself for a moment staring into the cockpit of the enemy fighter. The pilot seemed to be staring back. But his eyes looked vacant. He had obviously been hit by a bullet, perhaps just seconds earlier, and it seemed to Warsaw he was already dead. Yet his finger still squeezed his firi