arfare (M.E.W.) had marked art as a prime candidate for attack since the brutally suc- erman raid, early in the war, against a ball-bearing plant at rd, thirty miles northeast of London.* The Germans had hit at specialized in bearings for aircraft production, causing  236  he had to send the bombers anyway. The war would not wait until conditions were favorable for him. He and Arnold and dozens of other American Air Force spokesmen had promised on countless occasions that if they had enough heavy bombers, they would be able to destroy great numbers of important German targets in daylight attacks. Though Eaker did not yet have as many bombers as he had stipulated in the Combined Bomber Offensive Plan, he had neverthe- less a sizable force. And he couldn’t let those bombers sit on the ground while German industry was turning out more warplanes, more oil, more synthetic rubber, more vehicles, more ball bearings.  The British were still skeptical about the basic U.S. Air Force strategy of daylight bombing, and so were many Americans in high places. If this strategy was not viable, why were all these American planes taking up so much British airspace and airfield space. If they weren’t useful against the Germans, why weren’t they in the Pacific, helping the Navy defeat Japan? The daylight strategy had to be proven, and it had to be proven this summer. Winston Churchill wasn’t likely to wait much longer for proof that it would work, and neither was Franklin Roosevelt, nor General Arnold, nor the U.S. Navy, which had a very legitimate claim to Air Force planes if the Air Force was not prepared to use them.  Eaker had promised an offensive and he had to deliver it. With or without long-range fighter support, 8th Air Force bombers had to plunge deeper and deeper into Germany in an effort to wipe out Hitler’s war-making capability. But it would be costly. Eaker knew that, as he said in his June 29 letter to Arnold:  One of my principal worries now is that our official support