lane reached the target as a lonely straggler because a German fighter had gotten to it near the Initial Point. Unable either to keep pace with the formation or to maintain altitude with one of its engines gone, it had fallen back and downward until it was alone. Though Nettles might have been forgiven for jettisoning his bombs and heading immediately for home, he was determined to fulfill his mission. Plodding slowly forward, he finally reached the target area after all the other B-17s had dropped their bombs and retired. Even the German fighters had deserted Schweinfurt now, to follow and harass the Third Division formations en route to their rally point. And the antiaircraft crews on the ground were apparently so surprised to see this lone, low-flying straggler they couldn't find the range for it. The bombing opportunity was ideal except for one problem: the target was so shrouded in smoke that Nettles’s bombardier, Lt. E.O. Jones, could only drop his bombs into the maelstrom and hope they would hit something worthy of attention. As soon as Jones called out, “Bombs away,”’ Nettles turned for home, realizing that if he was to  315  get there, he would have to do it alone. He now had a runaway propeller on the engine that had been hit, and there was little chance he could catch the formation.  Nettles’s navigator, Lt. Robert E. O’Hearn, plotted the best course for him, then watched helplessly and with growing depression as the damaged bomber struggled westward. O’Hearn’s melancholy was not relieved when he saw in the distance another straggler. It was already under attack, and within minutes it was on its way down. The runaway engine on Nettles’s plane soon began to smoke. The Third Division formations moved farther and farther into the distance. Then the Focke-Wulfs arrived, as everyone had expected, four of them, attacking from the rear.  At this moment, Nettles’s top-turret gunner ran out of oxygen. As he stooped down to pick up a spare bottle, a 20-mm. shell hi