e of the war, Spare-ball had to fly first to a field near in Cornwall, at the western tip of England, then, after | dark, along a southwesterly course down the Atlan- France widely enough to be outside the range of the  aker’s outward composure, his mind was occupied with concerns as he took off for Africa. He still didn’t have mation to evaluate fully the results of the Schweinfurt- mission, which was without doubt the biggest and most operation he had ever launched. He could take comfort that the bombing had been quite effective at Schweinfurt  «lh 2Ctive at Regensburg. The Regensburg reports were still preliminary analysis of the Schweinfurt bombing indi- , tensive damage was inflicted on all the plants and on the > he had no way of knowing how perilously severe sig TOduction chief, Albert Speer, considered this damage ijn had no doubt that Schweinfurt had been hard hit. And wz)! indications from LeMay, the Messerschmitt plant at , had been almost destroyed. It was fair to assume that the  ng Bul :n highly successful in damaging the German war effort.  ta fi en a bee we viction could only partially comfort Eaker. He was now  Sais  he  ag ly with the knowledge that he had lost a total of sixty > two attacks—a prohibitive 16 percent of those dis- ithndiy ty \ddition, early reports indicated that twenty-seven of the ws al als on, planes had been so badly damaged they might never fly tinety-five of the surviving planes had sustained lesser ge, "Ny et : not yet know how many of LeMay’s planes would have doa ig tim fm AS a result of the Regensburg raid. This was one of the phe iui acts he would discover when he reached Telergma  86  Bombardment Wing’s shuttle from Regensburg to Africa. The sergeant said, ‘‘This is different, Captain. This is some kind of a special mission. You'd better get dressed and go see the colonel.”’  Ten minutes later, Smith was in the office of the 351st Group commander, Col. William A. Hatcher, Jr., who said to him, ‘‘Read that twix from 8th A