wagon, piloted by Lt. Philip Algar, lost its ball-turret door, possibly because one of the crewmen inadvertently hit the latch; then Battlewagon’s No. 3 engine sprang an oil leak, eventually spewing out all of its thirty-seven quarts onto the wing. The plane was landing at Prestwick, however, by the time the last drop leaked away. The engine hadn’t stopped running, and it showed no sign of damage.  To Sgt. L. Corwin Miller, one of the waist gunners in Algar’s crew, landing in Prestwick was like landing on a golf course. He had never seen grass so green. Miller and two of his buddies, Sgt. John Schimenek and Sgt. Casmir Majewski, as soon as they could clear the base, took a tram ride into the nearby town of Ayr. The first thing they noticed about the people on the tram was that they ‘‘didn’t speak good  213  English at all.’ The three sergeants had nothing but American money, and after making several inquiries to the Scottish girl who was taking fares, they still didn’t know how much of it they had to pay. It wasn’t that she was uncommunicative. She had a broad smile on her face and seemed to enjoy talking to them, but they couldn’t understand a word she said.  Finally, another American soldier on the tram paid their fares for them and the conductress walked away down the aisle, glancing back at them with a gleam in her eye as she whistled *‘Deep in the Heart of Texas.’’7  The next day, the planes of the 384th flew down to their permanent base at Grafton-Underwood, or Grafton-Undermud as the men were soon calling it. Within a week, Miller, Schimenek, Majewski, and the rest of the gunners were sent for a refresher course to the gunnery training range at Snettisham, up in the Wash. The commanding officer there was a captain so rigidly devoted to discipline that the men decided he was trying to make general in one jump. The accommodations were primitive, and the food was so atrocious that many of the men developed diarrhea. When one man was late for a class because he d