s would be to court an even longer delay. It would create an uproar within an already harried American aircraft industry. The Thunderbolt was undoubtedly a good airplane.  Eaker the pated the  refore welcomed it despite its short range. He had antici- Tange problem the previous October when he asked the  British Ministry of Aircraft Production about manufacturing aux-  iliary fuel  tanks for the P-47. He now renewed this inquiry and asked  if such tanks could be made in England.’ He did not receive an  immediate answer.  Eaker was less friendly with the people at the Ministry of Aircraft Production than he was with most of his British associates. In a December 6, 1942, letter to Arnold, he had complained that M.A.P. representatives had made disparaging remarks about U.S. airplanes toa group of American manufacturers visiting London.’ One of these manufacturers had returned home to proclaim that the B-17 was unsuitable for combat in Europe and that the Lancaster was a better  bomber.  The campaign to convert the Americans to the night-  bombing Lancaster was still in progress, and Eaker resented it. ‘This sounds like Masefield talking,”’ he wrote to Amold. He was referring to Peter Masefield, the London Times aeronautical correspondent who, Eaker said, “‘represents the M.A.P. view of British aircraft.” He accused Masefield and the M.A.P. of misleading the Americans “Naturally the British manufacturers are thumping the drum for their  own prodi no such i  As this of views  personal .AF. of  Ultra sec confident  ucts,” he concluded. “The British operational people have leas.” conclusion proves, Eaker was still unaware of the exchange between Churchill, Sinclair, and Portal. He didn’t know  ow deeply they still distrusted the strategy and equipment to which ie was committed. But he discovered how highly they regarded his  integrity and discretion when he received a visit from an ficer named Group Capt. Frederick W. Winterbotham. He  ad come at the behest of the Prime Mi