le. The American tanks he had received were unsatisfactory, and too litle effort had been applied to develop better ones. At the same time, Baker also blamed the British, Theit Ministry of Aircraft Production had promised to supply him a tank that was fairly satisfactory, but it had not delivered it. He had already remon- strated on the subject with Sir Wilfred Freeman, the director of M.A.P. Today he decided to try another tack, While waiting for news about the Schweinfurt mission, he wrote an uncharacterstically snappish letter to Sit Charles Portal, one of the most cooperative of his British associates:  T think there is no question but that our mission last Sunday (to Minster} cost at least twenty heavy bombers which could have en saved had we had an ample supply of 108-gal, droppable fuel tanks. These tanks had been promised us by the Ministry of Aircraft Production in ample quantity as early as last month M.A.P. has not been able to make good the promised deliveries, ave just received a cable from General Amold which indicates that these long-range tanks cannot be supplied from the Unite States before December |. If we can at once obtain an accelerate supply ftom M.A.P. it definitely would save a minimum of fifty long-range bombers, in my opinion, between now and the arrival of the U.S. produced tanks.  ft was surprising that Eaker should call upon Portal in this matter Since the M.A.P., while under Air Ministry jurisdiction, was outside Portal's control, But Eaker's exasperation had apparently reached its limits. Portal would at least be sympathetic, [t was not so surprising  YI  that Eaker should choose this day to write him, when almost three hundred unescorted Flying Fortresses were on the way to Germany’s best-protected target. Eaker knew they were about to catch hell.  In Germany, the Central Defense Headquarters’ monitoring ser- vice had picked up signs of heavy air activity over England before 11:00 A.M. Whenever a flight of planes took off from East A