ntiaircraft defenses over the submarine pens were tougher than in many parts of Germany, and there were one hundred day fighters protecting the sub-pens but fewer than thirty-five in the Bremen area of north Germany. Before the end of January, he promised, the 8th Air Force would have to its credit at least two or three raids inside Germany.  This prediction assumed that the 8th would not in the meantime have to start retraining its men and reequipping its planes for night missions. Eaker felt that Arnold was ‘‘at his wit’s end’’ and had summoned him to Africa as a desperation measure. It wasn’t as if Churchill had simply put the question on the agenda for discussion. He had already won Roosevelt’s agreement on it. The likelihood that Eaker could talk Churchill out of it seemed slight, but it was worth the try.  Eaker and Parton set themselves up at a table in Arnold’s villa and went to work, trying to overcome the distractions of a steady flow of visitors, including such men as Averell Harriman, a special adviser to Roosevelt, and Harold Macmillan, who had just been appointed assistant to Robert Murphy, the American political representative in North Africa. Eaker and Parton organized their arguments against Churchill by putting them down on paper in an outline called ‘‘The Case for Day Bombing.”’ Parton had got from Maj. Harris Hull in 8th Bomber Command Intelligence a thick stack of reports that told all about the 8th’s first seventeen hundred sorties. From these reports he was able to cull some promising statistics in support of the general points with which Eaker hoped to convince Churchill. It took them several hours to write their paper, and when they were through it came to twenty-three pages in long-hand.  Then Eaker attacked the much more difficult job of boiling it down. After ruthless pruning, there wasn’t much room for statistics, but Eaker had produced a memorandum less than a page long, and it made eight major points:  186  expect. He has said he hac f