s increased and the English country people around Polebrook were subjected to the constant din of B-17 formations overhead from dawn to dusk. With R.A.F. fighter planes acting as mock enemies, the American gunners got an idea what it was going to be like when they had to fire their .50-caliber machine-gun bullets into the mouths of 20-mm. cannons. Eaker was beginning to realize  136  Eaker, who had talked to Harris about the letter before it was sent, appreciated the spirit of Harris’s argument. He too believed that air power, well used, could win the war, but he had told Harris that as far as the United States was concerned, it was daydreaming to think the Army and Navy would be willing to sit back and let the fledgling Air Force win the war. Harris had said the same was true in England, but he was going to tell them what he thought anyway.  The arrival of Spaatz in England presaged finally the beginning of 8th Air Force operations, but on a very modest scale. Though no planes had yet arrived, several crews from the American 15th Light Bomber (A-20) Squadron had come to study R.A.F. methods. On July 4, six of these crews were invited to join six British crews in a twelve-plane mission using American-made but British-owned A- 20s. The attack was against four German airfields in the Low Coun- tries, and two of the six American-manned planes failed to return. A third, piloted by Capt. Charles C. Kegelman, came back on one engine. General Eisenhower, aware that this mission was the first American air action against German-held territory, awarded the Distinguished Service Cross to Kegelman and Distinguished Flying Crosses to his three crewmen. As Spaatz and Eaker personally presented these awards at Molesworth July 11, they could take some satisfaction in the fact that they had finally begun to fight, but their minds were on bigger deeds. The Flying Fortresses of the 97th Bomb Group had begun arriving at their Polebrook base July 6, and serious preparation was in progre