ick-witted, handsome young architect who was now Hitler’s Minister for Armaments and War Production, had been at a meeting of the Ship Building Commission in the Berlin suburb of Wannsee, discussing a serious bottleneck in steel-pipe manufacture, when he was informed of the Schweinfurt attack.?! He had asked one of his deputies to get more information as soon as possible. It was not easy for him to think about a pipe shortage when a  A few weeks earlier, General Eaker had sent him to Tunis to brief the former 8th Air Force Commander but now Mediterranean air com- mander, Lt. Gen. Carl Spaatz, about the plans for shuttle bombing. If the England-Africa shuttle proved practical, it would confuse and spread the German defense system and make a larger part of Hitler’s Europe vulnerable to American bombs. Spaatz’s chief of staff, Col. Lauris Norstad, had offered a ready suggestion to LeMay on that preparatory visit  ‘*Telergma is your field,’’ Norstad had said. *‘It’s both a depot and a combat field. There you'll have supplies, extra mechanics— everything you need. That’s the place to land. You can get well serviced there. All the parts you need, all the maintenance people and support,” "18  Today, however, when LeMay touched ground and taxied to the cluster of shabby buildings around the operation tower, he found the base virtually abandoned. Only a skeleton crew remained to welcome him. The war in Africa had moved eastward, and with it the mechanics, spare parts, and supplies Norstad had assured him he would find in Telergma.  LeMay was still fuming about this unhappy state of affairs when Col. Beirne Lay, the Eaker staff member who had come on the mission with the 100th Group, arrived at Telergma. Lay was also astonished at the condition of the base, but that was hardly in the forefront of his mind. After the soul-shaking experiences he had just survived, he was so happy to be on the ground that even this forlorn place looked good to him.!9 From his copilot’s seat at t