irect and refocus their contribution to the bomber offensive against Germany? Sir Archibald Sinclair, the Liberal Party leader who had been Churchill’s second in command with the Royal Scots Fusiliers in World War I and was now his Secretary of State for Air, was growing impatient with the Ameri- cans. Unlike some people in England, he was not even slightly impressed by the 8th Bomber Command’s early efforts against the Continent. By late September he was so dissatisfied with what he had seen of the Americans so far that on the 25th he decided he couldn’t keep still any longer. That day he wrote a letter to Air Marshal John Slessor, the Assistant Chief of Air Staff  What are the Americans doing? What do they intend to do? I know the number of American aircraft in this country. How many officers and men of the United States Air Corps are here? As far as I know they have not dropped a single bomb in Germany. Is it true that they have not dropped a single bomb outside the range of our single seater fighter cover? . . .  What is their operational policy? . . . When do you think they will drop their first bomb on Germany? Will they start next month?  Is there any possibility that they will join in the night bombing of Germany? Is there any possibility that they will be able to damp the flames of the Flying Fortress sufficiently to bomb Germany? Do they contemplate the use of the Flying Fortress at night? If so, will it be sufficiently modified before the end of this year?  Air Marshal Slessor, to whom Sinclair addressed this letter, was more sympathetic toward American policies than any other high officer in the R.A.F. He had spent time in Washington, and he had spent time at 8th Air Force headquarters in Bushy Park, talking to Spaatz and Eaker about their hopes, problems, and methods. His reply (September 26) to Sinclair’s impatient letter was painstakingly  153  patient. There were, he told Sinclair, six American heavy-bomber squadrons (B-17s) operational. (The British