amaged in an engagement with the Fortresses on their way to Schweinfurt. Now that they were on their way back, he decided that despite the broken spar in the left wing of his ME-109, he would go up and take another crack at them  Over the protest of an inspector, Knoke got his plane refueled and rearmtd, then took off with a group of younger pilots who accepted his command. At 22,000 feet they met a formation of B-17s, and Knoke sent the other fighters in, one by one, to attack. Aware of his own plane’s problems, he himself picked on a straggler that was limping along to the left and below the formation. When he opened fire from five hundred feet behind, the straggler’s gunners replied  317  with a vicious salvo. Bullets flew past Knoke on all sides. He couldn’t avoid them, because with a broken wing he dared not take evasive action. When he closed to three hundred feet, the American gunners got his range. They put several bullets in his engine and fuselage. But he also hit the Fortress, which burst into flames and fell off to the left.  Knoke had now attracted the attention of other Fortresses. They began peppering him with bullets. Flames erupted in his engine, and smoke filled his cockpit. He opened his window and cut the ignition The flames subsided. He dived to 12,000, then 10,000 feet, and tried the engine again. It started, and he decided he might yet make it back to Bonn. But the smoke and fumes returned. He dived to 5,000, then 3,000 feet, and found a level field. Ready to land in it, he tried to start his engine once more. This time his propeller froze rigid. Just above the treetops now, he had no choice left. Putting the plane down ina small open space, he hoped for the best. Chunks of dirt flew up around him. Fence posts snapped as he went through them. He bounced and hit the ground again. He was just beginning to lose speed when a dike loomed up ahead of him. Unable to avoid it, he sped straight into it, bracing himself to await the worst. After a crunc