such  ay (SS  Reconnaissance photo of Schweinfurt, Germany, after raids shows hits on  machine shops (A and B) and powerhouse for shops (C). Arrows in left part i Me abthtee of photo show where camouflage is used to confuse damage assessors. U.S. ‘ thei Ea Air Force Photo i F would be your reaction,’’ Arnold said. **Of course I Close-up of battle damage to the nose of a B-17 that nevertheless i : 1S you’ve given as well as you do, but in my judg- fought its way back to England and landed safely. U.S. Air Force ‘ican Chiefs of Staff will join the British Chiefs in piole urchill’s request. And that will settle it because if es, it'll finish daylight bombing for the 8th Air Force ccurred to me that the only chance we had to get the ‘o change his view was to have you come down and rd him mention you favorably. If you can’t convince 1d continue daylight bombing, I think we’re finished g to try to arrange a meeting for you tomorrow.” chill had not specifically asked Roosevelt for a aylight bombing until the previous day (January 15), ined of his intentions shortly after arriving in Casa- 3th. Perhaps Portal or Slessor, who arrived with hour later, gave Arnold a strong hint of what he could  184  and far between. Thus it may be four or five months before the Americans are convinced one way or the other.  Meanwhile I have never suggested that they should be ‘‘discour- aged’’ by us, that is to say, that we should argue against their policy, but only that they should not be encouraged to persist obstinately and also that they should be actively urged to become capable of night bombing. What I am going to discourage actively is the sending over of large quantities of these daylight bombers and their enormous ground staffs until the matter is settled one way or the other. It is much better for them to work in Africa.  The Air Ministry was now so alarmed about what Churchill might or might not be planning to do that General Eaker was invited the next day (January 1 1) to visit S