ex of buildings in the entire area that could possibly house a command center as large as the one he would need. If he wanted to be within a few miles of R.A.F. Bomber Command, he had no choice.  “I’m afraid you'll have difficulty,’’ Harris warned him. ‘‘Too many of our ministers’ wives are graduates of that school. But you put in for it. We'll make a fight for you, and we’ll hope you get it.””  On March 3, Eaker wrote a letter to General Chaney asking him to secure Wycombe Abbey through the Air Ministry, as quickly as possible, for use as 8th Bomber Command headquarters. To speed this letter on its way, he sent his aide, Lt. William Cowart, to deliver it to Chaney by hand. After three days, he had heard nothing. On March 6, he went to London himself to brief Chaney on what he had accomplished so far, but they did not discuss Wycombe Abbey. Eaker learned the next day, which he spent entirely at Chaney’s headquarters, that the requisition for the facility hadn’t even been forwarded to the Air Ministry.  It was not easy to determine whether Chaney himself had been responsible for sidetracking the request, but it was obvious that several of his staff officers were against it. Perhaps they saw the establishment of a Bomber Command Center in High Wycombe, thirty miles from London, as the decisive step in Eaker’s emancipa- tion from them. He could no longer ignore the growing evidence that many of these officers, most of whom came from the Ground Forces, were ‘‘unalterably opposed to an Army Air Forces [organization] in Britain.’’ They insisted they were ‘‘perfectly able to handle’’ Air Force command responsibilities, and that the development of Eaker’s Bomber Command would make them ‘‘merely rubber stamps.”” Since there were no ground operations in England, they considered Air Force operations their “‘primary mission’ and were ‘‘not willing to surrender it.’”  For Eaker, the time had come to bang a few heads, whatever the result might be. He insisted that his request for