n schedule now about thirty minutes behind the First, came under attack even before losing its fighter escort. Over Aachen, the forty-eight Thunderbolts of the 56th Fighter Group, led by Maj. David C. Schilling, counted forty-four enemy aircraft around the bombers and engaged as many of them as they could catch. The P-47s claimed three kills (two twin-engine and one single-engine) before abandoning the B-17s to their fate. As the American fighters turned for home, their pilots saw two Fortresses of the Third Division already going down in flames, probably from flak. They could see four parachutes emerge from one of them but none from the other.  Major Schilling noticed one other thing about the Third Division before leaving it. The bombers seemed to be ‘‘flying in excellent line abreast formation.’’ Colonel Old, in command of the Third, was also pleased with its formation. The 4th and 13th CBWs were only about two hundred yards behind his 45th CBW, even though they would have been within reasonable distance if they had been two miles behind. The leading 96A Group sustained its first severe attack near Eupen. Its first plane went down a few minutes later, with six chutes emerging.  In general, however, the attacks against the Third Division on the way to Schweinfurt were less severe than those against the First, which had drawn the bulk of the German fighters by arriving earlier. Fewer than one hundred enemy aircraft took part in the initial skir- mishes with the Third Division.  At Neubiberg fighter base near Munich, Group Two of the famous Molders Wing had been alerted shortly after 1:00 p.m. and had been ordered a few minutes later to fly its ME-109s to Weisbaden- Erbenheim. Among the pilots, a rumor circulated that an American armada had just left England via Belgium. To veterans like Lt. Hans Langer this ‘‘news’’ may have sounded routine. The group was often sent on short hops from here to there, just to be in position if the American bombers moved too far eastw