t we did not have it sooner was the Air Force’s own fault.’’!5  Initially this fault lay with the Matériel Division, which was indifferent to the Mustang when the plane was being developed for the British, and then with the Wright Field experts who believed the plumbing of liquid-cooled engines would be too vulnerable to bul- lets. In the autumn of 1942, both the British and the Americans had conducted tests that established the splendid capabilities of the Mer- lin Mustang. But by this time the American Air Force fighter budget and most of the available fighter manufacturing facilities in the United States were committed to the P-47 and P-38. (Though the P-38 also had liquid-cooled engines, it was considered less vulner- able than the P-51 because of its two engines. It could survive even if one failed.)  In the early days of the war, Arnold, like Eaker and others, had no doubt underestimated the eventual need for fighters. The success of the first B-17 missions seemed to provide convincing evidence that the plane could take care of itself. But after only two months of combat Eaker had begun asking about auxiliary tanks to extend the  219  range of the few fighters he then had. By the end of 1942, Arnold was aware of the need for long-range escort. He also knew by then about the problems of the P-47 and the potential of the P-51. Could the shortcomings of the P-47 be solved? It seemed likely. And it was now in mass production. It would be ready for combat long before the P-51 could be produced in numbers. The need for fighters of any kind, especially in Europe, was growing so rapidly by spring and summer of 1943 that it might seem foolish to disrupt or diminish P-47 production in favor of a heavy commitment to the P-51. In any case, there is no indication that Lovett’s memoranda prompted Arnold to immediate action in that direction  June of 1943 was a difficult month both for Arnold and Eaker Arnold had been fighting the Battle of Washington, especially against the