unctured by what looked like a field of needles. He had said, “Doc, if you had any more needles, I guess you’d use em on me.”” Then he had lapsed again into a coma from which he didn’t awake until the next day. It was twelve more days before he was able to eat anything, and it would be several months before he was fully re- covered. But none of his buddies felt sorry for him when they came to visit him. Some of them even envied him. He had been awarded a Silver Star citation, and he wouldn’t have to fly any more missions.  At Kimbolton, the men of the 379th Group were getting acquainted with the town pub, the Jones, where they could get drunk on the wartime British beer if they had stomach capacity for a lot of it. Many a man, ‘‘mild-and-bittered up’’ after an evening at the Jones, would find himself bottoms-up in a hedgerow when he tried to ride his  270  doctors that since Schweinfurt he had been experiencing ‘‘ideas of homicide and suicide.’’ He was introspective and downcast. He had not been sleeping well. He spoke softly. He said that he had ‘‘no desire whatsoever to get near a B-17’’ again and that he was ‘“‘not equal to going’’ on that day’s mission. He felt that ‘‘the odds [were] overwhelmingly against the individual in raids over German territory.””  The doctors who talked to him could not decide whether he was concerned only for his own personal safety or whether he was worried about the responsibility of leading other men into combat. They reminded him of his role as one of the group’s leaders and pointed out that other men looked to him for direction and guidance. They said if he refused to fly it would have ‘‘a disastrous effect upon the squadron and very likely upon the group as a whole.”’  Despite continuing reluctance, the captain finally agreed to attend the briefing for that day’s mission. When Colonel Nazzaro was informed of the man’s precarious condition, he had a talk with him. The captain agreed to go on that day’s mission. The weather inter- v