re killed. We have found out you must give a combat crew a chance for survival. We learned in the long run that you must set a [fixed] number of missions.’*  On August 8, after arranging for his own participation in the debut of his bombers, scheduled for two days later, Eaker sent a three-page letter to Arnold in Washington reaffirming his faith in American air strategy. ‘“The tempo is stepping up as we approach the zero hour,”” he wrote. ‘‘Tooey’s and my theory that day bombardment is feasible is about to be tested where men’s lives are put at stake. . . . Amidall the discouragements—slow arrival of equipment; small numbers available; bad weather and necessity for more training—one thing stands out brightly. Our combat crews have the heart and stamina, the keenness, the will to fight and the enthusiasm which will make them the toughest air fighters . . . in this theater.”’  Perhaps because of the intensive extra training to which Colonel Armstrong was now subjecting these combat crews, Eaker was feeling much more optimistic even about their gunnery skills. ‘“The other day I flew with one of our B-17E crews on a gunnery and bombing mission,’’ he told Arnold, ‘‘and I wished many times that you had been aboard. Every time the tow-target came within 1,000  139  yards, the gunners opened up and cut it to shreds. I would never have believed it was possible to hit a sleeve in quantity a thousand yards away if I had not seen it.’”  He was feeling equally pleased with the development of the rest of his organization. ‘‘We not only have the best collection of officers ever assembled in one place,’ he wrote, “‘but they are all working like one congenial happy family.”’ If Eaker’s assessment was accu- rate, the 8th Air Force Bomber Command was ready for action.  The British press, which until recently had been discouraged by censorship from mentioning American air activity in England (Eak- er’s name did not appear in the London Times until July 13), now began to take notice of