endtoyt Woven  Mt  Noga  the 379th the lowest loss rate.8 Like Colonel Stevens, Preston was devoted to tight formations. In this respect he agreed with Colonel LeMay, who had devised the combat wing formation now in use. But he was beginning to question the size of the LeMay formation, which ideally was composed of three twenty-one-plane groups, stacked in altitude with the left group below the leader and the right group above  Preston believed this sixty-three-plane formation was too big and too loose. Planes at the outer edges and lower altitudes had to make extreme adjustments in speed and direction to compensate for small adjustments by planes in the center. The outside bombers often had to strain their engines, simply to keep pace. Preston thought this stress might explain the great number of stragglers and dead engines in the outer groups. Today he didn’t have to worry about this problem personally. His group would be in the center, or lead position, of a combat wing. But six of his group’s extra planes would be part of a composite group on the outside to his right, and he was worried about them. He did not enjoy being number one in the loss column  In Preston’s plane as a crew member was the group bombardier for the 379th, Capt. Joseph Brown, a man whose achievements were remarkable in light of a childhood accident that had threatened to disable him. The son of a coal miner in the southern-Illinois town of Gillespie, he had fallen from a tree when he was seven years old, shattering his elbow so severely that the doctor decided to amputate his arm. His father adamantly withheld permission.  *‘But he’ll be a cripple,”’ the doctor said.  ‘Just strap it up,’ Brown’s father insisted, ‘‘and I'll take him home.”*  Reluctantly the doctor complied. In the months that followed, Brown’s father massaged, twisted, straightened, and healed the boy’s arm so skillfully that when Brown grew up and went to the University of Illinois, he was able to play football under the scho