ers on the Atlantic war rather than on bombing Germany You will please excuse frankness in this matter. My information is that . . . unless you come down personally and most emphatical- ly on the side of throwing every bomb against Germany, subject only to minimum essential diversions elsewhere, the Bomber Plan,  s  170  ‘ir comments on that Spaatz was ubmarine patrol of the TORCH tteen B-17s and ping. They then terican daylight  st to them at this lanning to build s ultimately for be able to bomb >. They may be con the subject ) address them- eir bombers and ind the daylight age we may find te policy of an a swing to the ly shown them-  )» which General ts for their true were scheduled awaii and to the perationally fit, came after, are ss him to divert ric?  invasion and so it to failure that his air advisers igree with them tmany. Though »mmbing German  insofar as U.S. assistance is concerned, will be hopelessly and fatally prejudiced within the very near future for an unpredictable period if not for keeps.  Some of Harris’s information came from Eaker, who would be taking command of the entire 8th Air Force as soon as Spaatz left for Africa, and who had already got wind from Spaatz that if present plans were fulfilled, he would have not much more than a paper air force left to command. Churchill knew, of course, whose voice was behind Harris’s pen, but he was not much impressed. In his opinion the 8th even now was little more than a paper air force. He made that opinion clear when he wrote a personal minute October 26 answering Sinclair’s detailed defense of the Americans. Churchill declared that he was ‘‘not at all convinced of the soundness’’ of the Air Minister’s October 23 minute on the merits of daylight penetration or ‘‘the tactics we should pursue toward the Americans,’” but that in any case he hadn’t yet raised the daylight argument with ‘‘any American authority.’’ (Though Harry Hopkins was Roosevelt’s closest adviser and personal representative, he had n