, were suitable only for defensive operations within a limited area.104 The transport of personnel and equipment, as well as the formation of new units, had already been severely hampered by Allied air attacks in 1943. In the months preceding the landing the British and Americans stepped up their bombing raids. In mid-May 1944 the number of incursions into and flights through OB West's air space rose to over 2,000 a day. The bomber groups concentrated even more intensely than before on the transport systems of northern France, Belgium, and the Netherlands, targeting railway stations, harbours, airfields, bridges, and railway tracks. Clearing up was a Sisyphean task. Scarcely had the most urgent repairs been carried out when the next attack started. As a result, an ever greater volume of goods was held up in transit, mostly at railway stations in eastern France and Belgium. Four days before the invasion the backlog had risen to 1,700 trainloads. To take only one example, the amount of fuel to be transported for the month of June had to be cut by 30 per cent, with the inevitable serious consequences for the training and deployment of troops. 105 In the opinion of the senior quartermaster of Army Group B, a shift to road or water transport would be of little help; a fundamental improvement could be achieved only by providing more intensive anti-aircraft artillery cover, deploying large numbers of fighter planes, and wresting more transport accommodation from the French economy.106 It was obvious to all concerned that this was scarcely possible in the present state of affairs. In late January 1944 the senior quartermaster proposed a whole series of measures designed to put transport facilities, supply stores, and supply troops of all kinds out of reach of enemy air raids wherever possible, or at least reduce the damage. In particular, he demanded that all depots be decentralized and many supply facilities be moved to smaller towns or villages away from main roads and ra