ne to August, therefore, only something over a third of American and one-sixth of British bombs fell on targets in Germany. Though the success of the air support operation is itself beyond all question, it is not today possible readily to say what shares the heavy bombers with their fighter escorts and the tactical bomber and fighter units had in it. One decisive requirement for the invasion to succeed was the greatest possible neutralization of German radar installations along the Channel coast, and electronic concealment of the actual landing sites. As a first step, the giant 40-m high WASSERMANN early-warning radar at Ostend was bombed on 16 March 1944 and rendered unusable. Several thousand Allied sorties put 76 of the 92 radar stations along the coast out of action, including all of the particularly accurate MAMMUT and WASSERMANN sites. In the area of the landings themselves not a single station was left fully operational. On the morning of the invasion, furthermore, small boats towing tethered balloons fitted with radar reflectors, and bombers flying along a slowly advancing rectangular track while scattering strips of ROPE metal foil, imitated two ghost landing fleets seemingly heading for the coast north of Le Havre and near Boulogne. The verisimilitude of these operations was heightened by the laying of smokescreens and by loudspeakers broad- casting the sound of landings. The effect aimed at was amply achieved. To draw German fighter aircraft away from the parachute drops and the giant transport aircraft bringing in airborne troops, a ghost bomber stream was created by around 30 bombers similarly dropping WINDOW. Over the landing area itself, the German radar stations and radio traffic between German 442 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, iii. 47; Levine, Strategic Bombing, 147; Middlebrook and Everitt, Bomber Command War Diaries, 527-36; Davis, Spaatz, 395 ff .; Murray, Luftwaffe, 272-7.  I.1. The Allied Bomber Offensive 150 I.I.6. From POINT