rcraft in the west; see German Order of Battle, I Mar. 1944, PRO WO 219/278. 57 U-boat situation report, 29 May 1944, ibid., ADM 233/21; Hinsley, British Intellige 49-50, iii/2. 99-100. The establishment of the French Committee of National Liberation (CFLN, 571 Comité Français de la Libération Nationale) in June 1943 under the joint chairmanship of Gen. Henri-Honore Giraud and Gen. Charles de Gaulle, the arming of French divisions with Allied help, and their successful deployment, especially in Italy, boosted French assertiveness. This trend was reinforced at the end of 1943 when Giraud, mainly concerned with military matters, was sidelined in favour of De Gaulle, who was pursuing a political agenda first and foremost.62 The efforts of De Gaulle and the CFLN were directed at restoring France to its former greatness. In their view, this could best be achieved by an independent French contribution to the defeat of Nazi Germany. The formation of a provisional national assembly (Assemblée Consultative Provisoire) in Algiers in November 1943, and the proclamation of a provisional French government a few days before the invasion, were also intended as early markers of France's claim to sovereignty. 63 For a long time the Allied leaders reacted ambivalently to calls for recognition from the Free French. Roosevelt rejected such advances or played for time, doubting that De Gaulle's claims would be legitimized through the ballot box. With regard to the establishment of political organs, he tried to leave everything open until France could hold free elections. Roosevelt long refused to acknowledge that De Gaulle and his movement were winning more and more Frenchmen to their side, both in France and abroad. 64 Churchill vacillated. While he did not want to forfeit the sympathy of his most important ally by supporting De Gaulle's ambitions, he took more account than Roosevelt of the pragmatic requirements of the war in this respect. Both the British Foreign Office and Eisenhowe