ng war against Germany. Known as the 'Casablanca Directive',4 this was to form the successful basis for British and American co-operation in the strategic bombing of Germany. It was also made urgently necessary by the fact that the first sea lord, Sir Dudley Pound, and the American chief of naval operations were pressing for heavy bombers to take part in the Battle of the Atlantic, and the Americans were not ruling out a shift of priorities to the Pacific. Had the two parties stuck to their differing positions, there might well have been either no agreement on the war in the air, 1 See on this the draft telegram from Roosevelt and Churchill to Stalin, 30 Jan. 1943, Library of Congress Manuscript Division, Washington, DC (LoC), Arnold Papers, Box 39. 2 Germany and the Second World War, vi. 87-99. 3 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 10-21. 4 Ibid. iv. 153-4; Army Air Forces, ii. 305-7; combined chiefs of staff (CCS), 166/D of 21 Jan. 1943, LoC, Arnold Papers, Box 274.  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive IO I.I.I. The 'Casablanca' Directive or a let-up in the bombing offensive-something that basically neither of them really wanted. As a result there was an expressed willingness to compromise divergent views were accommodated within the general concept, and a great many questions were deliberately left unanswered.5 The primary goal set in the Casablanca Directive was 'the progressivo destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial, and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened'. The mai bombing targets were, depending on 'meteorological and tactical feasibilin to be-in the following order-the German U-boat yards, the aircraft ind try, the transport system, the fuel-producing installations, and other targets : t the strategic the war industry. This order of priorities might be altered to suit situation, just as further targets such as Berl