y had serious consequences for the occupied countries. For when Hitler and his followers spoke of exhausting all possible resources, what they had in mind was even more ruthless exploitation of the occupied territories, all of whose human and material resources were to be appropriated for the Reich's war effort.10 The methods to be employed for this purpose followed from the second of the two factors determining German policy referred to at the beginning of this chapter, namely racial ideology. A fundamental difference in the treatment of eastern and western peoples was already apparent during the conquest phase. In the east, German behaviour was largely dictated by ideas of annihilation and decimation, with no regard for traditional moral values or the rule of law. From the outset the overriding aims were total military and political domination, and ruthless economic exploitation. 11 In the western and northern European countries, however, the German leadership thought less rigorous methods would suffice; here, some degree of cooperation seemed possible. This did not rule out annexation, even with respect to Germany's western neighbours. In terms of their political structure, all these states would have to be kept permanently dependent on the Reich.12 2. FRANCE AND GERMANY-UNEQUAL PARTNERS In the case of France, which was by far the most important country in Germany's western sphere of influence, Hitler's plans and those of many of his followers were largely conditioned by the Nazi view of the historical 9 See Hillgruber, Der Zweite Weltkrieg, 91, 97; also Weinberg, World at Arms, 308-9. 10 See Jacobsen, Teilung der Welt, doc. 125, 222, and Weizsäcker-Papiere, ii. doc. v, 21 Feb. and II Mar. 1943, 325. 11 See Hillgruber, Der Zweite Weltkrieg, 107; Hildebrand, Foreign Policy of the Third Reich, 106, and Neulen, Besatzungspolitik in Westeuropa, 409. 12 Neulen, Besatzungspolitik in Westeuropa, 404; Jacobsen, Teilung der Welt, 230-1; id., Der Zweite Weltkrieg in Chroni