angriff auf Rotterdam'. 31 Butler, Grand Strategy, ii. 570.  I.III. Attack the Best Form of Defence 362 I.III.I. Reasons by Frankland. 33 This aerial bombardment therefore took place within the framework of the then valid rules of the Hague Convention on Land Warfare of 1907. In particular, its Articles 25 to 27 were respected: Rotterdam was not an open but a defended city, it had repeatedly been called upon to surrender but had failed to comply with these calls within the time limit. Moreover, the Luftwaffe tried, within the realm of the possible, to limit the damage.34 Gen Kesselring even attempted-though with only partial success- -to attack after it had been launched, when he was informed of the belated Dutch prevent the readiness to surrender. Here again the bombing resulted in an immediat military advantage and was therefore, in the understanding of internation law at the time, legitimate-if perhaps in a more precise formulation. That advantage was the capitulation of the Netherlands and the freeing of German forces for the main thrust through Sedan to the English Channel.35 The Royal Air Force meanwhile began its air raids on targets in German east of the Rhine on 5 May 1940, one day after the bombing of Rotterdam though not only for that reason-this served mainly as a pretext, the real intention being to slow down the German advance after its breakthrough at Sedan, by diverting the Luftwaffe from the land front.36 Because of the totall inadequate bombsights of the Bomber Command bombers and the resulting horrendous inaccuracy, these strikes had the effect of terror raids on towns and villages, even though they were intended to be directed against military and industrial targets. The Luftwaffe made its first raids on military and economic objects in England only about seven weeks after the conclusion of the French campaign. The situation with regard to terror bombing was at the time see in this light even by the international-law expert of the British Ministr