f Mission, 15 Aug. 1944, and 'Dragoon'-Planning, 10 July 1944; equipment onto cargo ships in the ports of Tarento, Brindisi, and Oran, and in own army high command. By 5 August the French had begun to load their French units from the outset and later, as we have seen, was given his supreme command-provided, however, that De Lattre de Tassigny led the ANVIL-DRAGOON, De Gaulle agreed to place his troops under American Despite the strong participation of French forces in Operation units, many of which had already gained experience in fighting the Germans, years, with the help of the Allies, to equip and train a large number of French this regard, because De Gaulle had managed over the preceding months and 000 and 60,000 men and 6,500 motor vehicles would 641  II.VI. Landing in South of France 642 II.VI.2. German Defensive Measures Corsica. There, they put a total of 52,000 men and 8,500 motor vehicles. standby for the landing phase of Operation ANVIL-DRAGOON.15 As they did before the Normandy invasion, the Allies prior to the ANT DRAGOON landing operation took various measures to conceal their pren." tions from the Germans and deceive them as to their real intentions. Man the plans were designed to present their opponents with a variety of poter.o areas of operation-the Allies put out reports of possible landings ranging from the Bay of Biscay to Turkey. Since they could not e on sites conceal the final-stage preparations for ANVIL-DRAGOON, t [ entirely that the concentration of divisions for the US 7th Army had to do with formation of a reserve unit for Gen. Alexander's troops in Italy. the Allies pretended As for the landing site, the Allied intelligence services managed to give the German opponents the impression that the Sète region was the most landing zone; thereupon, the German Nineteenth Army immediately reinfor its defences in this area. According to Allied secret service reports, at the end June 1944 there were only 30 German guns per mile in the planned inva