nk 2Ist Army Group would now be guarded by the US 9th Army. SHAE planned to begin these operations in the first half of January 1945. At the the time, however, Eisenhower ordered that the American 3rd and 7th Arm should attack in the direction of the Saar and the Palatinate (the Rhineland) as early as 19 December. Further south, US 6th Army Group to destroy the German bridgehead at Colmar. The US Ist Army was orde upper to continue its assaults and to seize the Rur and Urft dams, in order to prene the ground for the operations against Bonn and Cologne. The Allies had divisions and seven brigades in western Europe that they could deploy fo pare these operations. 34 2. THE ARDENNES OFFENSIVE (OPERATION WACHT AM RHEIN) (a) German Plans and Preparations Initially, the Allied intentions described above were thwarted by Operation WACHT AM RHEIN (Watch on the Rhine). As early as August 1944, after Bradley's troops had broken out in Normandy, Hitler and the OKW began to give thought to launching a large-scale counter-offensive. In mid-September when the Allied advance had slowed down considerably, Sixth Panzer Arm Miriative in the west. Once the Allies had been decisively defeated, the Reich would be in a position to face up to the expected Soviet winter offensive.33 In late September Keitel and Jodl were ordered to draw up plans for the operations in the west. In early October the Wehrmacht operations staff produced a few outline plans for assaults along the entire western front. According to Warlimont, the officers finally concluded that an offensive across the Ardennes between Monschau and Echternach, using two panzer armies, could offer a good opportunity to reach Antwerp rapidly. They believed the Allies (the US Ist Army) were thin on the ground in this section of the front, with its difficult terrain, so that the prospects of an attempt to break through the Allied positions looked very promising. Meanwhile, on 3 September Hitler had once again appointed Rundstedt as O