onstrates in what a thin soil this new fighter system, deemed so important, was in fact rooted. Matters were much the same with the 'Y' control system for 'Tame Boar'. Expansion of the ground stations was by September progressing well; but a shortage of industrial capacity was preventing an equally speedy equipping of the night fighters with the necessary radar sets. Difficulties were still being encountered with the new LICHTENSTEIN SN2 AI radar. 142 Although 300 of these had been delivered by mid-November, only 49 night fighters could be fitted with them, and of these only twelve were operational. The sets were often not ready for use when they arrived at the units, who did not have enough skilled personnel to install them. The close-range definition of only 800 m was insufficient to take the night fighters right up to within firing distance of the bombers; this meant their carrying in addition the old LICHTENSTEIN B/C which, while it was vulnerable to WINDOW, had very good close-range definition and greatly shortened the distance from which the pilot 141 Information sheet on new products, BA-MA RL 2 V/41. 142 Trenkle, Funkmeßverfahren, 108, 110.  I.II. Defending German Skies I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 had to finally close in on the bomber with the naked eye. The problem of al 194 associated PAUKE-A or LICHTENSTEIN C2B aiming device had still not b beer sorted out in March 1944.143 For a night fighter operating in the 'Himmelbe system, having an AI radar that would be immune to jamming and had goga close-range definition was, because of the short contact time available to pilot, more important than it was for a pursuit or single-engined night fighte the for the first of these the bomber stream offered enough unmistakeable target while for the latter the infrared SPANNER, with a range of nearly 3 km an covering a 30-degree angle, was yielding such good results that single-engin fighters were increasingly being fitted with it. 144 The new night-fighter tactics were