pitulation. Despite the German-oriented approach of the series as a whole, it seemed right to give a proper place to this latter aspect of the Second World War, especially since it always had a major importance for the Allies' strategy and substantially affected the way the war was fought in Europe. The German  I.I. Introduction 2 I.I. Introduction reverses and, for the most part, continuous retreat in the east and south-east of Europe and in Italy, and what war at sea Germany remained capable of waging, will form the subject of future volumes. The sequence in which the are treated denotes no judgement on the importance of the various theatres Contrary to his original intentions, Hitler had to fight a war on several fronts. and having too few forces available for it, was forced time and again to shift his of focus, without ever managing to achieve a decisive superiority on any single front. Having to fight on several fronts, while securing a large number occupied territories and using them to its own war ends, presented the German leadership with problems that were by now beyond solving. It was this basic dilemma that brought the German war venture to grief-and not just i the east or the west, in the air or at sea. The interdependence of the various theatres is beyond any doubt. It was the united efforts and sacrifices of the in anti-Hitler coalition, and the final massive upsurge of armed resistance : the occupied territories, that forced the German troops to retreat with enor mous losses to behind their own borders, and that engineered the end of criminal regime. The Allied onslaught on what German propaganda had dubbed 'Fortre Europe' had long been heralded. The Soviet Union was urging its wester allies to open a 'second front'; although that in fact already existed in the Mediterranean, at sea, and most of all in the skies above the Reich, a successful landing in western Europe would bring appreciable relief to the Red Armu 1 to In this respect, however, neither