modest number of 247 operational twin-engined fighters would suffice. The technical equipment of the aircraft, the report said, still left much to be desired. Only 49 per cent of nominal, 85 per cent of actual night-fighter numbers were equipped with LICHTENSTEIN B/Cs or CIs (the version vulnerable to WINDOW interfer- ence). The supply of radar sets was still inadequate, and 80 per cent of new sets were not ready for use when delivered. Only a single Ju 88 C-6 was fitted with a new, interference-immune LICHTENSTEIN SN2 with a wide-angle antenna, and this made it too slow; the problem had still not been solved. The report urged that searchlights, which had already been removed from the target areas, should be replaced since they were needed by 'Wild Boar' pilots for hunting their prey over the target. There was criticism of the aircraft warning service, from whose reports it was not always possible to tell Mosquito nuisance raids apart from large-scale attacks. The British were still successfully interfering with WÜRZBURG ranging by dispensing large amounts of WINDOW, and using jamming transmissions on the FREYA gears that had still not been converted to other frequencies. Controlled dark night fighting in the individual Kammhuber boxes could not be really effective again until the ground and airborne radars had been 'Window-proofed'. Since most of the RAF bombers dropped the greater part of their foil strips on the outward flight, there was less interference as they flew back towards England, and the 'Himmelbett' system could there yield results again once the 'Window-proofing' problem was solved. While 'Tame Boar' still looked promising so long as all the 194 Activity and experience report of Gen.Kdos. XII. Fl.Korps, August 1943, 12 Sept. 1943, 15-16, 80, BA-MA RL 8/88. 195 Ibid. 15-16, 19-27, 31, 34, 38-9, 42, 52.  I.II. Defending German Skies 208 I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 requirements were met, 'Wild Boar' had proved its worth during all the mais raids-albeit a