its front with all possible speed and attack the Germans from southern flank. Patton protested against this because he felt it would jeone his operations to seize the Saar, yet Eisenhower stood by his plans. Pat divisions took only two days to move out of the front and reach the Ge breakthrough area in the south. By 22 December the attack towards Baste had begun. The idea was to relieve the American units in the town. had now been encircled, and secure this important road junction for good In the north of the front the Allied supreme commander followed a sims pattern as in the south. Simpson's 9th Army took over sections of the Army at Aachen, thus giving its troops a means of blocking any e US German advances towards Huy and Liège. Since SHAEF soon realized that the purpose of the German attack w reach the Meuse and then cut off the 21st Army Group from the Eisenhower took steps to prevent the Germans from forming bridgek west of the river. Montgomery was instructed to hold back the Ger east of the Meuse and north of the breakthrough area. On 20 Dec Eisenhower temporarily transferred command of the US 9th and Ist Ar the commander-in-chief of the 21st Army Group, since the German had made it difficult for Bradley to link up with Hodges and Simpson of the Ardennes.57 k was to 12th While the Americans were doing their utmost to attack as quickly as the could, Montgomery took the view that for the time being all that could achieved was to block the German offensive. He thought an Allied d att would make sense only quite some time later, and that this time should used to bring up reserves. Here the British field marshal was remaining tm his tactics of proceeding according to strictly methodical principles, iu German Army Group B officers had predicted. Accordingly, Montgom 57 See Eisenhower, SHAEF, G-3 to AGps, 20 Dec. 1944, PRO, WO 171/38; on the Verde conference see SHAEF, Eisenhower to CCS, 19 Dec. 1944, ibid., WO 219/280; Weinberg, m- at Arms, 768-9; Hinsley, Britis