long-range heavy bombers. 7 Harris, Bomber Offensive, 40-1, 209; Corum, 'Luftwaffe and the Coalition Air War', 71-2. 8 Corum, Roots, 144-68. 9 Boog, 'Douhet'. 10 Heimann and Schunke, 'Geheime Denkschrift'; Boog, 'Knauss'. 11 Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 166. The basic service manual 'Air Warfare' (L.Dv.6)12 of 1935-40 gave the Luftwaffe three main tasks: (1) achieving and maintaining air superiority; (2) next or, as the case may be, simultaneously providing support for the other two services, principally the army; and (3) conducting a strategic bombing war. This latter occupied third place for a good reason, if not necessarily in theory then in practice: in general it would be too costly and would tie up strong forces for too long without immediately producing useful results at the most important (that is, the land) fronts. Bombing of civilians figured in this doctrine only as an exception in the sense of reprisals under international law, that is, to make an adversary desist from any earlier action that was in defiance of traditional humanitarian rules of warfare. These rules were subsequently included in the German principles of air warfare. 13 Thus the British historian Paul Crook observed that the terror component 'had quite certainly not gained the upper hand in German military thinking', and Corum argues vehemently against the legend of terror-bombing that has been attached to the Luftwaffe ever since Guernica. Attempts were indeed made-albeit at the cost of accepting unintended and unavoidable side-effects-to differentiate between civilian and military or economic targets, since 'the will of the nation finds its strongest embodiment in the armed forces. The noblest objective in war is therefore to bring enemy's armed forces to their knees', 14 not the civilian population. It was certainly also from humanitarian considerations, even though mainly from those of economy (which, along with 'military' or 'war needs', played the predominant part in all military and air