o flying on instruments were better suited to the new tactics. Göring particularly prized the contribution they made: 'The whole night-fighter system had become ossified. It's suggestions 148 Viktor von Loßberg, 'Das freie Nachtjagdverfahren mit zweimotorigen Nachtjagdflugzeu- gen im Zweiten Weltkrieg', MS dated 8 Apr. 1967, 13, 15, MGFA. 149 Herrmann, Bewegtes Leben, 274. 150 Goebbels, Tagebücher, Pt. 2, ix. 259(10 Aug. 1943).  I.Il. Defending German Skies 196 I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 from young officers, really all of which had been turned down by those immediately above them, that we can thank for this paralysis now having bes overcome.'151 On 15 September 1943 Kammhuber was replaced as gener commanding XII Fighter Corps by Maj .- General Schmid, and on November he also lost his post as general of night fighters. 152 19 There is no doubt that the crisis that was increasingly facing the Gem fighter force was made critically sharper by the 'war of the radar sets', and the dropping of WINDOW strips in particular. As Kammhuber said after war, the time chosen for introducing WINDOW was exactly right-had it be earlier, the German electronics industry would probably have been able produce a large number of radar sets immune to interference f man the from it. In 1943, however, the industry was so fully occupied, not least by tl the demand the V-2 programme, that there was hardly any capacity left for the needs of th s of air war. In Britain, on the other hand, the manufacture of bombers electronic equipment was reaching a peak, and only now making itself re and felt. 153 It was an area in which action and reaction came in swift successi Every new method or tactic was soon countered. Gaining technical 1 sion. leads short-lived though they might be, brought decisive advantages in the lon term. Radio and radar proved, however, to be two-edged weapons, which. infrequently were their own enemy. This 'war of the radar' started in the first week of December 1942, when during