m a low of 653 to 1,007. Its total strength in the east on 31 May 1943 was 3,415 aircraft of all kinds. 183 Over the previous few months the air formations had exhausted themselves in a 'firefighting' role184 on all land fronts; now, in a period of relative calm, the wish to get back to playing a more independent role became ever stronger. Since, however, there was no com- mander-in-chief responsible for all air forces in the eastern theatre of war, each air fleet at first ran its own air war. Air Fleet I in the north concentrated on severing Soviet supply lines. Some of its weak bomber forces attacked industrial targets in Leningrad, or else supported Air Fleet 6's attacks on synthetic rubber production at Yaroslavl. Air Fleet 4 in the south was pre- dominantly preparing to support the ground forces engaged in close combat. At the centre Luftwaffe Command East, from I May 1943 Air Fleet 6, made reconnaissance flights and raids on Russian rail communications in prepara- tion for CITADEL. The chief of this air fleet, Gen. Ritter von Greim, believed that this would considerably weaken the combat strength of the Soviet for- ces. 185 At the same time, however, he tried to conduct a strategic bombing war. In this he had the support of Jeschonnek, who, at a conference with the chief of Air Fleet 4, Field Marshal von Richthofen, had expressed himself in favour of using long-range bombers against munitions targets in Kuybyshev, Saratov, Astrakhan, and Groznyy186. Lt .- General Meister, chief of Luftwaffe general staff Dept. I (operations) and of the Luftwaffe operations staff, as well as Jeschonnek-as the chief of Dept. 8 (war science), Maj .- General Herhudt von Rohden, later emphasized187-supported all efforts to re-create independent long-range bomber forces in the east. Even the Luftwaffe's close- combat specialist Richthofen insisted that crews and units suitable for long- range operations be used for close-range support only in emergencies. During the next few weeks t