taff had, moreover, replaced its previous concept of making an invasion unnecessary through strategic area bombing of German cities with a new one: this provided for even heavier bombing of those cities, but only after more favourable bases had been gained by supporting the invasion. A document setting out the principles for the strategic bomber offensive paving the way to an invasion said that setting up a secure bridgehead on the continent would deal a first blow to German morale; and this would create the ideal conditions for carrying out heavy air attacks on the German cities. Once it was seen that the Germans' 325 Frankland, 'Some Reflections', 102; Terraine, Right of the Line, 558. 326 Harris, Despatch, 20-1 and pp. xx-xxi (introd. by Cox); id., Bomber Offensive, 188. 327 Middlebrook and Everitt, Bomber Command War Diaries, 488. 328 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 210-11 and iv. 160-2, 164-4; Groehler, Bombenkrieg, 195.  I.1. The Allied Bomber Offensive 102 I.1.5. Crisis Management morale and will to resist were critically weakened, there would be convincing grounds for sending out the British and American bomber fleets with common goal, and for intensifying the raids with the aim of bringing abo Germany's immediate collapse.329 This was attempted with Operati THUNDERCLAP after the invasion. But the primary concern was the American daylight attacks that were already preparing the ground for the invasion (b) The Struggle for Air Superiority over Germany by Day, Winter/Spring 1943/4 While British Bomber Command's night-time air offensive against Germe cities came to an end for the time being after the disaster at Nuremberg , the Americans in the winter of 1943/4 quickly got over their setback at Schwer furt, and by spring 1944 had decisively weakened the German fighter for Supplies were flowing more abundantly (with the Battle of the Atlantic we shipping was now in less danger), the war in Africa was over, the landing Italy had taken place, a