Luftwaffenführung, 98-100, 104-5. 57 Collier, Defence, 261. the outcome of the war.54 This emerges clearly from Hitler's war directive No. 23, 'Guidelines for operations against the British war economy' of 6 February 1994.55 These marked a retreat from 'the former view' that Britain could best be eliminated by destroying her armaments industry and the resultant breaking of the civilian population's will to resist. 'The effect of direct air attacks against the British armaments industry', it says, 'is difficult to estimate . .. The least effect of all (as far as we can see) has been made upon the morale and will to resist of the British people.' The main effort in the air war was therefore switched to operations against British imports, that is, to bombing merchant shipping and ports-which did not, of course, rule out attacks on the air armaments industry. Certainly 'no decisive success can be expected from terror attacks on residential areas' The fact that the Luftwaffe's night offensive against Britain in the winter of 1940/I was not primarily concerned with terrorizing the civilian population, but with destroying military targets with perceptible results on military developments, was confirmed by official British histories after the war. As early as 1957 Sir Basil Collier, commenting on the German bombing war against England up to late spring 1941, stated: Although the plan adopted by the Luftwaffe early in September [1940]56 had men- tioned attacks on the population of large cities, detailed records of the raids made during the autumn and winter of 1940-1941 do not suggest that indiscriminate bombing of civilians was intended. The aiming points selected were largely factories and docks. Other objectives specifically allotted to bomber crews included the City of London and the government quarter round Whitehall.57 These words stand at the beginning of a chapter describing this German air offensive. It is entitled 'The Night Offensive Against British Industry and C