rted their main task would be to hinder the enemy's attempts to move motorized troops to the Normandy front.77 To organize all of this as efficiently as possible, the Allies had stepped up their supply flights to the Resistance in spring 1944 and begun landing small groups of soldiers in western Europe to help the resistance movements. Here, to0, Eisenhower laid great stress on close co-operation with the representatives of the CFLN, since De Gaulle clearly had most of the Resistance behind him. Setbacks to the Resistance in the last few weeks before the landing, however, had made the Allies sceptical about its value. They now saw resistance action as a possible bonus rather than a factor that could be reliably incorporated into the their planning. To the end it remained unclear how and at what point the operations of the approximately 100,000 men in the French Resistance were to be co-ordinated with the beginning of the invasion. Should there be a general uprising or only selective actions timed to coincide with Allied operations? At the end of May the BBC transmitted a warning against pre- mature action, while at the same time SHAEF was calling for blanket operations. In an instruction dated 15 May the CFLN, however, made it clear that, as currently constituted, the French Resistance was suitable for small- rather than large-scale action. Major operations could be envisaged only where occupation troops were thin on the ground. 78 6. FURTHER CONSIDERATIONS ON ALLIED PREPARATIONS FOR ATTACK (SUPPLIES, LEADERSHIP, AND MORALE) Although logistic issues have been discussed in earlier chapters, we return to the subject in the present context because the Allies always placed great importance on armament, transport, and building up stocks. There were two main reasons for this. First, the United States, which was the main supplier of armaments, was far distant from the theatres of war; so long-term planning was essential. Second, the Allies were determined to keep their tro