vey of production in BA-MA Lw 106/41. 347 Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 517. 348 Gen. Karl Koller, quoted in Suchenwirth, 'Göring', BA-MA Lw 21/3, 86. See also Nielsen, 'German Air Force General Staff', BA-MA Lw 19, 161 ff.  I.II. Defending German Skies 258 I.II.I. Luftwaffe Senior Command span the gap between the tactical/operational and technical sides Luftwaffe leadership; a gap that Göring himself had created already before rh war when, feeling Milch to be both too powerful and too competent, he had put a stop to his forming a direct link between them at the highest level of k: arm of the Wehrmacht. Göring's style of leadership was too haphazard, and any case unmarred by technical understanding. He either canvassed other separately for their views and then came to a decision, or launched of the boastful speeches and moral tongue-lashings.349 The older inhabitants of the little town of Neuhaus an der Pegnitz, where Göring often retired to his B. into Veldenstein castle, still remember today how downcast Göring was after vain and certainly not persistent attempt to dissuade Hitler from a war in east, and how he lost his keenness for leading the fight. Now, at all events was again badly shaken by the depressing state of affairs in the Luftwaffe In the knew that the problem was 'wafer-thin resources ... we don't concentro anywhere. We are inferior. We are pushed back all along the line. Air powo . He holds the key ... '350 But instead of forcing himself to come to any decision, such as resignation in the face of the almost insoluble probleme (which would have cost him his life of luxury and perhaps even more), be real merely tinkered around at mending matters. He tired rapidly, fell asleep during meetings, and readily retired into the dream world of his estate at Karinhall, Rominten, or Veldenstein, where he dressed up in ancien Germanic or baroque costume. Another part of this withdrawal into a world od make-believe or wishful thinking was his unwillingness to believe i