as widely as possible; at the same time the impression was to be given that they were preparing to land in the Pas-de-Calais before the end of the year.43 To sum up: by mid-1943 the Allies had agreed on practical details of the planned landing in Normandy that determined the main course of the operation. Two things, in particular, enabled them to go beyond framework arrangements and set specific objectives. One was the spectacular increase in the pace of American armament, the other the Allies' success in keeping the supply lines to Europe open. At the TRIDENT conference, the combination of these factors led to a decision to push ahead with plans for the invasion of western Europe despite the continuing commitment in the Mediterranean. In frequent meetings between politicians and military leaders it became clear that there were still differences of opinion as to how the war in Europe should be conducted. The Americans pressed for direct action against the German- occupied territories, whereas the British urged war on the periphery for the time being. Many Americans, therefore, suspected their ally-especially with regard to the war in the Mediterranean-of being mainly concerned with the preservation of the British Empire. For their part, the British sought to con- vince the Americans that Hitler had to be weakened by constant harassment that allowed him no respite. Given the existence of what Roosevelt called a 'special relationship' between Britain and the United States, the two countries nevertheless managed time and again to find a common denominator. The British persuaded their ally to deal with immediate problems pragmatically in response to military develop- ments, while the Americans succeeded in imposing a firm date for the start of the invasion. 44 42 See Howard, Grand Strategy, iv. app. VI (A), 642-3; 'Axis capabilities', 18 May 1943, Freiburg UL, RJCS (US), E.Th., I, MF 83/71-3, 0209; the American secret service assumed 32 German divisions in the west in s