athfinder aircraft equipped with it. The picture thus painted was extremely optimistic, especially as NAXOS-Z was in late 1943 still only at the trial stage. Allowing freelance  I.Il. Defending German Skies 192 I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 operation at night, of the kind implicit in the 'Wild' and "Tame Boar' metho. was greatly welcomed by the pilots as an almost revolutionary move, since. would amount to letting them off the short rein of the fighter-control static and it would no longer be just the 'old hands' who were given a chance e it combat. 138 At Milch's suggestion, Göring on I August 1943139 order red the gene eral commanding XII Fighter Corps, Kammhuber, to arrange for the pursuit it style of night fighting proposed by Loßberg, and to use for this purpose for unemployed in the ground-controlled box system (which remained in bei he was also immediately to adopt long-range night fighting. Göring - appointed Maj. Siegfried Knemeyer as his radar navigation officer, in charco 3 als all radar matters in respect of day and night fighters; Herrmann's experien was to be put to use. The task of co-ordinating the activities o of the n ing): ge of fighters with the flak fell to Luftwaffe Command Centre. He gave instructi night on I August that, besides the Herrmann fighter units, all other night fight were to operate above the flak's searchlight zones over targets being raide especially in poor weather and when radar was being jammed. Onlyf engined aircraft were to be fired on, as these could be guaranteed to be en y for bombers. Flak bursts were limited to 4,500m when night fighters operating over the target area. Headquarters and unit commands were to constantly up to date on the situation in the air. Supplies of materials to day- and night-fighter defences took priority over all other tasks. Milch, responsible for carrying out the Luftwaffe's radar and radio igation programme, had already on 28 July written to the firm Telefunken saying that it was essential for th