ertens . Martini himse had already, in the summer of 1942, recognized the need to develop . self rad valves for the centimetre bands, but at the same time had had to accept the because of a shortage of staff little could be done about it. Milch, too, had be pressing for copies to be made of Allied radar interception equipment. 161 One reason why, as Milch was aware, the German electronics indust , even though not all scientists and engineers shared this opinion. the amateur radio movement, which had always had great following i Britain. Under the Nazi regime it had always been suspected of espiona 'Anyone ... with a radio transmitter', according to Milch,162 'was 90 per certain to be a Moscow sympathizer.' Now Göring too was complaining 'we smashed up the amateur radio "ham" clubs, and we made no effort to bel these thousands of small inventors. And now we need them.'163 The blame also, however, with the splitting-up of German radar research between various parts of the Wehrmacht, the Reichspost, the universities, and electron! lay the firms, as well as with how the far-too-unwieldy organization of the armed fore Ic intelligence dealt with radio/radar matters164 (in the Luftwaffe at least different offices were involved). Up to July 1943 it seems still not even to ha been clear who in the Luftwaffe was responsible for high-frequency resear and development, even though on 12 May Göring had, in something of judgement of Solomon, given the Generalluftzeugmeister charge of the t of a e tech- nical implementation of the radio and radar navigation programme, while leaving in place the powers of the head of signals communication matters, Ger Martini, as general i/c signals.165 He no doubt felt that Martini did not have the right amount of drive, and naturally continued himself to take a hand in matter. There was furthermore Staatsrat Dr Hans Plendl as Göring's plenipo- tentiary for high-frequency research, who was given charge of the Reich office for high-frequency researc