, Rückzug, 200 ff., and Etat-Major de l'Armée de Terre, 'Ligne Siegfried', Reports 1944/45, H., 7 P 136; on the defence lines in the north (from Aachen to the North Sea) see Klep, 'Wachten op de bevrijding', 61 ff.  II.v. Operation OVERLORD II. v.2. Breakout and Pursuit which were also to be held 'to the last man';161 in the event of an Allies 634 advance into German territory, Hitler had called 'for every German village · become a fortress' and to be 'defended fanatically'. Anyone who was conscious of this commitment was to be 'removed and called to accor All the commands were ordered to ensure, by 'draconian means', that rl troops held fast. This was to be done in cooperation with National Social political-education officers (NSFOs). As a precaution, he passed on the ord. in writing only down to division level; at lower levels, it was to be given officers only verbally.162 A number of soldiers who were picked up on their way y to the border of the Reich and fell victim to the terrible reprisals of the SS and Wehrmacht cou were made all too well aware that Rundstedt's words were more than threats. No-go lines and assembly points had been organized for the emp fleeing troops by mid-August; from there they were put into 'cadre e ma (unless they were handed over to the military courts). The purpose of the units was to integrate soldiers who had lost contact with their units into no e uni ones, arm them, and where necessary, train them. By 19 September more the 160,000 such stragglers had been incorporated into these units and moved back to the front. 163 For all these measures it proved very Of usefu that Rundstedt had been given the powers of Wehrmacht commander 7 September, because until then he had not had sufficient direct power command over the army units. In addition, three days later Hitler also gar him command of the West Wall with all powers necessary to secure it. The meant that in 'matters of directing combat' even the commanders of milito districts east of