ecting a night fight right up to the point of visual contact with the target. Jeschonnek, head of ... Luftwaffe general staff, did not give the programme his wholehearted back. Göring, after much misgiving, found he could not ignore Kammhuber' argument and then gave his unreserved approval. On 24 May, as has mentioned before (see p. 168), Hitler turned the plan down, s saying that beer information on the Allied air strength was vastly exaggerated; f ; for him, kills the night fighters were scoring were sufficient. Neither Göring, , the have seen, nor the head of the OKW Wilhelm Keitel, who was also prese , as the interview, dared contradict him. With the imminent Operation cm in mind, Hitler felt that Russia must be beaten first before the night-fig Kammhuber for putting him in an impossible situation with t the Führe ned defences could be expanded. After this meeting with Hitler, , Göring blam supplying him with false information, and barked at him: " : 'You're a me maniac! I think you want the whole Luftwaffe for yourself- -why don't in my chair straight away?' Speaking to Galland, he described Kammhub t you his 'most costly general'.122 On the day after the meeting with Hitler British Soldatensender Calais (a psychological-warfare transmitter in England masquerading as a Wehrmachtsender station broadcasting to German troo reported that 'Der Wurzelsepp ["Wurzel Joe"-the nickname used for Kammhuber] has put up a proposal for strengthening the fighter defence Jose been chucked out by Hitler for having delusions of grandeur'.123 r, the Kammhuber had devised the 'Himmelbett' system of dark-sky night fight ing, dubbed the 'Kammhuber Line'; 124 but after this his star began to w o wane Quite apart from the system being put out of joint by the bomber stream, , ther were real reasons for the refusal, such as overtaxing of the electronic industm and of manpower reserves. Göring later referred to this in a meeting with his new chief of general staff, Günther Korten, and the