accord with the Japanese general staff worked towards achieving stage-by-stage world peace via a series of separate peace agreements (Germany with the Soviet Union, Japan with China, and the tripartite powers with the British and Americans), had to be seen as out of touch with reality. His activities did, however, have some significance, since the foreign minister was in contact with prominent politicians and military men who, like the former premier Prince Fumimaro Konoe and the ex-diplomat Shigero Yoshida, were in the opposition camp. They pressed for an early peace, and with their pro-western attitude were preparing the ground for the postwar order in Japan in which Shigemitsu and Yoshida themselves were to play a major role. The account given in the present volume, based on a deep knowledge of the relationships within Japan and a thorough assessment of the Japanese-language sources and literature, merits special interest. The government's opponents were given further impetus by the constantly deteriorating military situation. When Japan came within range of US 5 bombers, the cabinet under General Hideki Tojo had to make way for a transitional government. There were fewer and fewer politicians in Tokyo who still harboured illusions as to the outcome of the war. A new government was formed in April 1945, which in July called in vain on the Soviet Union to conclude a peace agreement. The western allies, however, continued to insist on unconditional surrender; this came about, after the Soviets declared war on Japan and atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, through a decree from the emperor. The German head of state was unprepared to make a like decision, although the defencelessness of the Reich against the devas- tating hail of bombs from the Allied air forces, and the dreadful suffering of its civilian population, would alone have warranted it. The course and end of the Second World War was also determined by the defeat in the theatre of war in the