killed near Limoges. On the pretexte 4, in searching for explosives, soldiers from the 'Der Führer' regiment Id the SS-Panzer Division 'Das Reich') drove all the inhabitants into the e ma square. They butchered all the men with machine guns, shut all the wor (2nd and children into the church, and then set fire to it and shot anyone who to flee the inferno. In all, this massacre cost 642 people their lives. houses were looted and then also set on fire. The SS division did not r St-Lô in Normandy until 28 June. On their way to the front the soldiers ho spread fear and terror far and wide, with random shootings, looting, and pillaging. Many inhabitants were also deported to German concentr camps. 21 The breaches of international war conventions committed at Oradour Cra ated concern even in the OKW, as also among a number of German officers i France, who feared this would further strengthen the resistance movement and worsen relations with Vichy. The OKW therefore instructed the German 20 See IMT, xxxvii, doc. 257-F, 12, and Rosh and Schwarberg, Oradour, 41, together with A.C. G, KTB, 9 Aug. 1944, BA-MA, RH 19 XII/5. 21 See Deutschland im Zweiten Weltkrieg, v. 651 (map). 645 asefire commission-although not until late September 1944-to investigate these atrocities and actually reprimanded Rundstedt in March 1945 for now ceplying to the Vichy government's protests against these breaches of inter- Forional law. After the war, during the Nuremberg war trials, the former OD sufest stated that: 'I, together with all the army leaders, condemned excesses such as those that occurred in Oradour, in the sharpest terms.' Rundstedt did not, however, say to whom he had made these protests. At all events, the Germans certainly did not achieve their aim of pacifying che insurgent areas by terrorizing the inhabitants. Increasingly wide areas, above all in the Massif Central, came under the control of the Resistance, a great many of whose fighters headed there precisely because of the ma