d 'Thoughts on the general in charge of pilot training, Maj .- General Werner Kreipe, later chief of something that had been lost under Jeschonnek. This was confirmed by the watered down? Anyway, the Luftwaffe now felt it had a strategic concept, could not either the bombing war or the defence of the Reich have to be of all, at the expense of support to the army; given the resources available, strategic situation in the war, the efforts needed for both resuming a strategic Göring's mills, since they too wanted an offensive and a defensive Luftwaffe at one and the same time. The question was, however, whether, given the geo- bombing war and providing defence in the air could be pursued this vigorously Looking back, this start on reforming the Luftwaffe was grist to Hitler's and what, it now had to be faced, was an air war of attrition, then took place step the major reorganizing of the top echelons of the Luftwaffe to meet the needs ministerial-type departments that were of no direct relevance. The major othinking of a strategic kind (futile though this proved in the end to be), and divide up the wide span of the organization of the Luftwaffe high command in ach a way that all the necessary tactical and infrastructure responsibilities sune together in one unified military staff, and were separated from the asponsibility needed for doing this. To this end Korten and Koller tried to than 5,000 for that in the south of France, and around 7,000 for the 267 Lasse hall VISION ELITE  I.II. Defending German Skies 268 I.II.3. Return to a Strategic Air War Concept 269 SING NOISIA (194 2 .... at least 10,000 German fighters to defend the airspace over the fronts and the Reich itself. Taking as a basis the losses suffered in 1943 of 77 per cent of newl supplied single- and twin-engined fighters392 (10,661 out of 13,854 machines) this would have called for a monthly production of up to 18,000 fighters with growing numbers, own losses dropped. To achieve this would surely have mea