these an offensive was to be opened against London on 20 October 1943. The British thereupon bombe Peenemünde on 17 and 18 August. On 22 August a flying bomb crashed Bornholm, providing the British, via the Danish police, with irrefutable proce of the existence of that weapon.448 The name of the commander of Flak Regiment 155(W) became known to them through informers. At about tl same time they also discovered new building complexes of unfamiliar type unusually high construction along the French coast near Watten, Lottingham . These were Wizernes, Mimoyecques, Siracourt, Martinvast, and Sottevast." sporadically bombed. By mid-September the British therefore believed that German flying-bomb and rocket offensive would be opened in November or December, aimed both at assembly areas of the invasion forces and London, capable of delivering up to 10,000t of high biological weapons each week. Casualties of up to 108,000 killed per mo were expected. The expectation was still based on huge solid-fuel rockets September the British radio interception service, through decrypting, finally discovered the 14th Air Intelligence Trial Company which v explosives, gas, was surveying trajectories on the Baltic coast. As the data were velocities between 560 and 640 km/h, the missiles could only be flying bombs and not rockets, The des ignation of the former as 'FZG 76' had been known since 7 September 1942 Through agents in the 14th Company the British had now tapped into the test programme of the V-I and were able currently to follow its development. 449 From the end of October aerial photographs were taken of many sites: northern France, all of them consisting of ten buildings and not showing a kind of loading gear for rockets of the presumed weight. The characteristic ski shape of some of the buildings earned them the name 'ski sites'. The launching platforms of all the sites pointed in the direction of London, which, together with the door opening of the storage sheds, suggested the