vision of the coastal zone see also Hitlers Weisungen, No. 51 c, 241 [not in War Directives]. 64 See app. to KTB OB West, Evacuations, 21 Feb. 1944, BA-MA RH 19 IV/28, and Ose, Entscheidung im Westen, 67. 65 OB West, app. to KTB, OB West to OKW/WFSt, 5 Apr. 1944, ibid.,RH 19 IV/36.  II.III. The Germans Await an Invasion II. III.3. Defensive Preparations in the West 516 the concerns of the navy, Luftwaffe, and the war economy, flooding operation in the coastal area were to be kept to a strict minimum and only carried out is before the landing. Everything else would remain at the planning preparation stage.66 Even though OB West's original aim of completing the Atla antic Wall by the beginning of March 1944 proved impossible to achieve, the Germans nevertheless managed to build a large number of defence i installations and provide them with effective protection against bombardment, especially in el area in which they expected the landing to be concentrated. The unfinish installations gave continuing cause for concern as they were particularly exposed to attack from the air. The numerous bunkers, obstacles, minefields, and flood areas were one thing; the military effectiveness of the Atlantic Wall quite another. As mo German officers certainly realized, everything would hinge on the fightin quality of the troops defending the fortifications-in the final analysis, on the strength, mobility, and reserves. 67 Pz Group West (Geyr von Schweppenburg) OKW Reserve 1st SS-Pz Div. 12th SS-Pz Div. 17th SS-Pz Div SS Pz Lehr Div Insp .- Gen. Tank Troops (Guderian) OB West (Army Group D) (Rundstedt) Army Group G (Blaskowitz) First Army (Chevallerie) 517 Nineteenth Army (Sodenstern) Army Group B (Rommel) Fifteenth Army (Salmuth) Germ. mil. attaché Vichy (Neubronn) Seventh Army (Dollmannn) OB West (Res.) LXV Army Corps (Heinemann) OB West (Res.) I SS-Pz Corps (Dietrich) Army High Cmd. Ch. Gen Staff (Zeitzler) QMG (Wagner) Mil. Cdr. Belg./ N. France ( Falkenhausen) Wehrm. Cdr Netherlan