while the Canadians advanced westwards from Woensdrecht, British units unded on the southern tip of the peninsula. On 31 October the Allies took couth Beveland after bitter battles and then proceeded to attack Walcheren, the last German bastion along the Westerschelde. British bombers had destroyed the dyke on the island some weeks earlier, which meant that large that, areas of Walcheren were flooded. Nonetheless, the defenders did not give up the fight. Thereupon British commandos, who had sailed from Ostend and e, sin Breskens on I November, attacked the German defensive positions at Flushing and Westkapelle. That same day, British infantry units advanced from South Beveland to Middelburg. On 8 November the battle for the sea approaches to Antwerp came to an end here too and Zangen's Fifteenth Army troops had to withdraw to the northern bank of the Meuse at Zijpe and Moerdijk. Once British troops had also managed to drive the Germans back across the Meuse north of Breda and s'Hertogenbosch, the front extended along the Waal at Tiel y unde and northwards past Nijmegen almost as far as the Lower Rhine. the Perhaps one reason for Eisenhower's unusually direct approach was th his view, MARKET-GARDEN had delayed operations around the approaches by two or three weeks. This was probably an underestimate. British troops did not begin to give seriou Sch rious support to the Canadian Ist A until after Montgomery's change of heart. However, British I Corps had h by late September to widen the corridor secured during MARKET-GARD beg Turnhout, Breda, and Roosendaal. Thanks to this, the British units were . to give the Canadian troops attacking towards South Beveland ades protection to their rear. able According to 21st Army Group's plans, the German Fifteenth Army. Gen. von Zangen was to be attacked from the south (at Breskens) and in east (across the Woensdrecht isthmus) in order to clear the Westersch Crerar's units had managed to drive Zangen's divisions back to the area. o