, Grand Strategy, iv. app. VI (A), 642-3; 'Axis capabilities', 18 May 1943, Freiburg UL, RJCS (US), E.Th., I, MF 83/71-3, 0209; the American secret service assumed 32 German divisions in the west in spring 1944 and 27 reserve divisions on Reich territory. 43 See Pogue, Supreme Command, 105-6; Harrison Cross-Channel Attack, 70; Sexton, 'Phantoms', 109 ff. (simulated preparations for attacks on Denmark and Norway). 44 See Gallo, Strategy Conferences, 124; Kimball, FDR, 23; Stoler, Second Front, 6-7, 82; on the differing aims of the US and Britain, see also: Harrison, Grand Strategy, iv. 421 ff .; Gruchmann, Der Zweite Weltkrieg, 234, and Weinberg, World at Arms, 722-3.  II.III.I. The Overall War Situations III. The Germans Await an Allied Invasion I. WESTERN EUROPE AND THE OVERALL WAR SITUATION MEASURED against previous objectives and the successes of the early years, the situation of the German Reich and its Italian Axis partner deteriorated considerably by mid-1943, with serious setbacks i in the Medi Europe' increasingly destabilized by Allied bombing and the operations of + terranean theatre, further heavy losses on the eastern front, ress , and 'Fortre resistance movements. Given the weakness of the German air and sea for offensive operations beyond the European mainland were now almost out the question. In the next few months the situation grew even worse, with overthrow of Mussolini and Italy's withdrawal from the war in autumn and the spectacular increase in Allied military resources. the At various levels in the Nazi hierarchy attention now turned to ways of or coming these difficulties and regaining the initiative in the medium term course of the discussion up to the Allied landing in June 1944 was character rized by a colourful mixture of plans and ideas, mostly based on little more than pique wishes. In general, the top leadership adhered to Hitler's view that the crisis wo- serious but only temporary, and could be overcome by willpower. Invoking historica