nslating into action. Furtherme he had Churchill's sympathy as well, because-as has been mentioned POINTBLANK directive was unclear and contradictorily worded, attitude was on the whole ambivalent and 'wait and see' (for him, and Portal' were not straightforwardly black and white). Otherwise Harris would Sur too, matte not, given the differences of opinion described earlier, have been able to op his air battle over Berlin more or less on the quiet. The Air Staff had nothin against one or two heavy raids on Berlin followed, over a longer period. k smaller nuisance raids to wear down the resistance of the civilian population It did not, however, want a series of heavy raids that would interfere with the course of the major operations against Germany. Bottomley had again warned on 13 November, against placing too much faith in the belief that German would collapse after a series of air raids on its capital. This was exactly whe Harris did, to this end vaunting his earlier successes with exaggeratedk favourable accounts of them and winning the congratulations of Air Minist Sinclair and the South African premier Jan Smuts.273 Harris's dismissive attitude to advice or recommendations from the intelligence services as to what targets to bomb came from his firm conviction that it was not even possible to define these precisely, let alone hit them precisely.274 The Air Staff could tolerate his obstinacy no longer. Even Portal had by now come much closer to the American view that concentrating on selected industrial targets, where this was tactically possible, had several times more effect than area bombing. The Air Staff drafted a stern instruction to Harris to attack Schweinfurt. Portal tried-and this shows his respect for the man-t make this palatable to him by taking on himself responsibility beforehand for one or two failed attempts; apart from this, he took steps, with Sinclair, to ton down the draft so as to avoid further discussion with Harris. On 14 Januar 1944 Harri