es towards the east and. Two days later Montgomery defined the objectives of all four Allied arm y com Canadian and British troops were to advance towards Flers and Falaise, an attack Lisieux and Rouen. While he ordered the US Ist Army t to take Domf and Alençon, he set the US 3rd Army's next targets as Angers and Laval overall plan, according to the British general, was for the Germans to be de southwards towards the Seine and destroyed there following a broad swing by the US divisions. 81 However, when SHAEF learned, by decrypting Ger radio signals (ULTRA), of the opposition's intention to launch an armoured on Avranches, the Allies had to revise their tactics once again. 82 ed atta (b) Operation LÜTTICH In fact Hitler decided as early as 2 August, with Operation LÜTTICH (Li attack the western flank of US Ist Army with at least four panzer divis E.Th., 7, MF 83/71-3, 1085; Ellis, Victory, i. 385; Pogue, Supreme Command, 200, together Blumenson, Breakout, 309 ff. 79 'Overlord'-General, App D to 21. AGp (plans), 7 July 1944, PRO, WO 205/644; Ord Battle 2Ist AGp, 27 July 1944, ibid., WO 106/4382, and Ellis, Victory, i. 377. order to cut off the supply lines of the Patton divisions that had managed to break through. All in all, more than 140 panzer divisions, 60 assault guns, and 100 fighter planes were to be deployed to this end. On 3 August, following the came approach as Hitler, Warlimont, the deputy chief of staff of the Wehrmacht, urged the commanders of Panzer Group West to hold out at all cost, since there was no chance now of drawing up defence lines 'further to the cear'. He felt it was worth holding out despite the apparently hopeless situ- ation, if only because the British were appearing increasingly battle-weary, and new German weapons-in particular thousands of ultra-modern fighter aircraft-were to be brought into action by the second half of August. He also insisted once again on the importance of Operation LÜTTICH, which his This is a significant examp