iving from largely parallel traditions and multiple economic connections, gave to common strategic goals for the future conduct of the war. e ris At the first Atlantic conference in August 1941 the British prime minister Winston Churchill, and the US president, Franklin D. Roosevelt, united h. a growing personal friendship, laid down guidelines for the future that were enshrined in an 'Atlantic Charter'. The 'final destruction of the Nazi tyrann was to be followed by the establishment of a general peace-and-security syste based on the renunciation of violence and the pursuit of policies of freedos and independence.1 Although the translation of these aims into practical measures occasional- gave rise to differences of opinion that reflected divergent national interests viable position was reached to which other countries in the western hem sphere were also able to subscribe. Military cooperation between Britain and the United States, based on their common political aims, began as early as summer 1940 with an exchange of military delegations. January 1941 saw the first of a series of meetings between the military staffs of the two countries, at which the tendency to give priority the fight against Germany was already apparent.2 At about the same time, London and Washington began to secure the flow of supplies and war material from America to Britain, laying the basis for join conduct of the war against Germany and Italy. In summer 1940 British troo landed in Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, and a year later American units established bases in Greenland. The protection of convoys west of Iceland w 1 Gallo, Strategy Conferences, 153 ff .; Germany and the Second World War, vi. 34 ff., 57-87. Gruchmann, Der Zweite Weltkrieg, 148-9; Jacobsen, Der Zweite Weltkrieg in Chronik and Doku menten, 89, and Harrison, Cross-Channel Attack, 1-2; on relations between Churchill and Roosevelt see Weinberg, World at Arms, 724; on differences and common features in American and British war