sible shifting responsibility for ARP matters onto the Gauleiters, as Gen. Emil Zenetti, commander of Luftgau VII (Munich), attempted to do.732 Goebbels's diaries for the first half of 1944 are full of critical comments from other persons too about the Luftwaffe, and in particular about Göring, whose extravagant lifestyle lethargy, and incompetence were a bone of contention. Hitler suffered from Göring's shortcomings but, despite his outbursts of rage, at times made allowances so as not to upset him. 733 In August he gave him a dressing down in front of Lt .- Generals Alfred Jodl and Guderian: 'Göring! The Luftwaffe' doing nothing. It no longer deserves to be an independent Service. And that's your fault. You're lazy.'734 Göring was soon isolated. He had no links with the Party. 735 'What am I supposed to do?' he said to his friend Loerzer about Hitler's reproaches: 'I can't tell him it's his fault the Luftwaffe can't do it job'. 736 Increasingly bereft of influence, he stood, as Koller put it, 'in fear of the Lord'.737 He broke out in a cold sweat when in Hitler's presence, and tried more and more to avoid being near him. The Luftwaffe was, as Goebbels wrote, in a deep crisis of materials and morale.738 The irreversible numerical and technical inferiority of Germany's defence of the homeland from air attack, from the ground or in the air, was becoming clearly apparent by the early summer of 1944; it was further weakened by the use of its fighters against the invasion, incurring heavy losses. Together with the loss of the early-warning zone in the west and the increasing scarcity fuel, this opened up the way for the Allied bomber fleets, in the final phase of the air war that began after the invasion, to reduce Germany's cities to ruins and shatter the transport routes to vital industrial centres.739 To sum up: with the decision to build only fighters and the like, the bomber-fighter controversy was solved in favour of the defensive effort only so far as aircraft pr