'full effort' is linked directly with incendiary attacks and the 'morale of the enemy civilian population'. 31 precision bombing. He expressed this yet again at the end of his Despatch of October 1945, pointing out that 'the enemy's sinews of war were to be found in his industrial cities' and nowhere else.90 But given the way the Air Staff let him carry on, and the forbearance it showed towards Harris's sceptical attitude to instructions that went against his own ideas, one has to wonder how strong the Staff's intention (within its constraints) to spare the civilian population, by shifting as quickly as possible to selective attacks, actually was. According to Harris,91 there was from the beginning reason to suspect the effectiveness of GEE. Tests on it at the time of the publication of the February Directive and six days later proved unsatisfactory. The Air Staff itself thought GEE would be usable for six months at most,92 and Prof. Reginald V. Jones, the head of scientific intelligence, thought for only three,93 because the Germans would by then surely have perfected countermeasures. How were the methods of attacks to be altered in so short a time? And why, when GEE had after all only a limited range,94 and the more distant targets-which formed the majority-could in any case only be attacked using the normal area targeting? One cannot help seeing an optimism unsupported by the facts in the Air Staff's expression of its intent to move to precision attacks as soon as possible, and the seriousness of this laudable intent has to be doubted. None of the Air Staff's subsequent directives to Bomber Command up to the end of 194395 dealt with the matter of switching to the life-sparing selective method. On the contrary, the point was made on various occasions that thought must be given to the civilian population when attacking targets in German-occupied areas, because they belonged to the Allies, but not in the case of targets in Germany (the main target area). There had e