eatening violence if the French proved obstinate. Subsequent events in many places showed this to be no empty threat.131 Violence had been used before the invasion, especially against anyone actively or passively involved with the Resistance. Since mid-1943 the German intelligence services had been recording a constant increase in attacks and acts of sabotage, motivated to some considerable extent by the state of Franco- German relations, discussed above. There was, however, a whole series of reasons why many people who had at first endured passively now chose the path of the Resistance. The increasing meaninglessness of the Vichy govern- ment was matched by the growing influence of De Gaulle and the French Committee of National Liberation in Algiers. Although the Allies did not officially recognize the Committee as a provisional government prior to the invasion, it was increasingly seen by much of the French population as the symbol of a liberated, independent homeland.132 The reputation of the German Reich, on the other hand, was being undermined by constant setbacks on the Italian and Soviet fronts. The continuous increase in Allied air raids on transport facilities and industrial plants in the occupied countries convinced many people that Nazi Germany's military might was no longer what it had been. It was the indigenous population that suffered most from the widespread destruction of transport infrastructure and production plants. In mid-1944 OB West's traffic officer called a halt to all transports of food and harvest products except those that were absolutely essential. This further reduced the already scant provisions of the local inhabitants, offering the Allies fertile ground for their radio and air-dropped leaflet propaganda. In these circumstances, German propaganda had virtually no effect.133 130 ADAP, E, vii. doc. 157, 307-8 (envoy Cécil von Renthe-Fink to AA, 3 Jan. 1944, including Rundstedt's letter to Pétain). At the end of 1942 the Germans began re