tverteidigung', BA-MA ZA 1/2476, 690-1. 538 Ibid. 692. See also interview with Galland, 20 May 1945, S.R.G.G. 1257(0), LoC, Spaatz Papers, Box 134, 7. May were reaching a line through Stettin-Leipzig-Vienna). The destroyers vere no match for the American fighters, and as the latter were engaging the Werroyers' own fighter screen they were no longer protected as they went in to tack the bombers. 339 Fighting spirit among them nonetheless remained high, though this was always shared and mutually boosted by their having two crew Members; among the single-seater pilots, fighting on their own with inferior craft and inadequate training, morale was sinking. Yet in the summer of of the two destroyer Geschwader had to be converted to single-engined Bohters-the American fighter escorts had made it impossible for them to bring their heavy weaponry to bear on the bombers. It was hoped that the mation for the day fighters would be eased by the introduction of the new DB 605 AS engine, with water-methanol high-altitude Me 109 with the DE injection to give a faster climb to great heights. This was intended to engage the American escorting fighters by diving on them from more than 11,500 m tthus giving their own, now more heavily armed fighters a chance to get at che bombers), and then quickly regain height ready for the next attack. The allots were very enthusiastic about the high-altitude fighter: it 'lent wings to their fighting spirit'.540 But by mid-May only 120 of them had reached the squadrons, and not all of those were ready for combat use. Seen against the strength of the enemy fighter formations at this time-600 to 800 aircraft-this low number looked modest indeed. The German day-fighter pilots, moreover, still lacked the training needed for assembling in bad weather above a ten- tenths cloud-base of which the American bombers and fighters were making full use. The American fighter escorts, now ranging freely almost everywhere, made it hard for the German ground controll