vers both 'fighter aircraft' and 'hunter'), which was now really in no need of help. Milch and Speer shared the chair of the Fighter Staff 697 Goebbels, Tagebücher, Pt. 2, xi. 165 (25 Jan. 1944), 248 (6 Feb. 1944). On Göring's pique at having his powers trimmed by the extension of Speer's control of armaments, see Speer. Third Reich, 349. As both of them had a great many other duties, the actual work of leading it fell to their deputy, the head of the armaments ministry's Technical Office, Hauptdienstleiter Saur. Initially the Fighter Staff was planned to last for only six months, and in practice split the control of air armaments in the two parts since non-fighter production remained with the Luftwaffe-an arrangement that in the long term proved untenable.698 After Speer's order on I March 1944 to set up the Fighter Staff, this body was intended to carry out the reinstatement of the damaged aircraft works, or to evacuate them, by issuing direct instructions unhampered by bureaucratic red tape. This took priority (ahead of such things as repairing damage in bomb-ravaged towns, and ahead of all air-raid protection measures and all other armaments construction works) over everything except ball-bearing production, laying runways for day and night fighters, transport centres, and gas, water, and electricity supplies. As commissioner for the Four Year Plan, Göring specified on 4 March the tasks outlined by Speer; in order to ensure the now urgent manufacture of fighters, these were to include the putting right of air-raid damage in existing factories, the dispersal, decentralization, and expansion of current manufacture, and the creation of better bomb-proofed production facilities. On the same day Milch, in his first address to the Fighter Staff, explained that non-bomb-proof works (that is to say, those not located in caves or bunkers) would in the final stage of the dispersal exercise manu- facture no more than a limited number of aircraft components, and that during