No. 10, 25 June 1942, BA-MA RW 4/v. 612; Basic Order No. 10. 2 July 1942, ibid., RH 19 IV/227. 469 In hundreds of reports from the foreign ministry in the following months and years, German diplomats announced every conceivable variation of Allied attack on 'Fortress Europe'. No stretch of coast was spared-from the North Cape to the Middle East-and no date for a landing seemed impossible. In late February 1943 the head of the foreign intelligence department resigned him- self to the fact that London was probably engaged in a large-scale deception exercise,40 and only three weeks later Foreign Armies West complained of 'the lack of a major military connection in the counter-intelligence and diplomatic feld', that is, a reliable informant in close contact with important persons.ª No wonder that speculation about the place, scope, and timing of Allied landings ran out of all control. Each arm of the service, each government office or department, and each unit in the National Socialist power structure, for- mulated specific conjectures about enemy landings-all of which, taken separately, appeared to make sense. In April 1942, for example, the navy assumed that its U-boat bases might be targeted, because Allied shipping losses were threatening Britain's lifeline. At the same time Hitler was con- vinced that, for reasons of military strategy and the war economy, Britain would strike in Norway, the 'fateful zone' in which Germany's destiny would be decided. A connection was also frequently made between the overall war situation and enemy operational intentions. Thus in July 1942 Hitler believed the Allies might respond to German army's initial success against the Soviet Union by attacking in the west. He was already convinced in March that Britain and the United States would sooner or later be obliged to open a second front for political reasons, even if the military situation was not particularly favourable. 42 Speculation was also fuelled by reports from intelligence age