ish Isles, which were well protected against reconnaissance missions, while the Germans had to prepare their defences in western Europe in constant view of a largely hostile population. Starting in 1941, the RAF used special planes to fly up to 300 reconnais- sance missions a month over the occupied western territories, taking photographs of fortifications, military installations, and coastal features.37 In Britain itself, the intelligence service not only succeeded in permanently paralysing the German spy network; it used turned agents to establish a ficti- tious spy network that fed filtered information to German counter-intelligence. A major factor in confusing the enemy was the strategy of not simply attempt- ing to keep information from the Germans or only feed them false reports. Instead, incorrect information was mixed with accurate reports to increase its credibility and protect the fictitious German spy network from exposure. 37 RAF, Narrative Photographic Record, ii. 141 ff., PRO, AIR 41/7.  II.II. The Allies in the Western Theatre 494 II.II.6. The Role of Allied Intelligence Telephone tapping and the cracking of the Germans' ENIGMA code (the ULTRA project) were of tremendous help in monitoring these decepti measures and gathering information on German defence plans. The Am also received important information from opponents of the Nazi regime Germany who had access to secret material. Evaluation of this informati. was assigned to a body made up of representatives of numerous militar civilian departments, which was again typical of Allied workin ing methods,38 All in all, the information obtained by the British intelligenc service gav fairly accurate picture of German military strength in the occupied west. territories. Although the total number of units could not always be dos mined because of constant transfers of troops between y and the eastern western theatres, it nevertheless succeeded in ascertaining the locatie combat-worthiness, and strength of the