5-6; Golücke, Schweinfurt, 190-I; Aders, Nachtjagd, 387 [not in Night Fighter Force]; BA-MA RL 19/86.  I.II. Defending German Skies 245 244 SITE NOISIA (-> ?.... I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 Centre was on 30 January 1944 renamed as Air Fleet Reich. a Publicly placing this command on a par with the other air fleets made it clear that the over riding importance for the war as a whole of the air defence of the homeland that is to say, of a defensive strategy in the air at least for the foreseeable future had finally been recognized. The elevation of the command was also, however intended to do justice to its new chief, Gen. Hans-Jürgen Stumpff, who had previously already had command of an air fleet (Air Fleet 5, in Norway) and had replaced Gen. Weise on 6 January 1944 as Luftwaffe Commander Cente The replacement of Weise (a flak artillery man) by Stumpff, , who had amassed a great deal of experience in the use of flak and aircraft in attack and defence and as former chief of the Luftwaffe general staff before the war,312 was in lin' with the new thinking-matched to the situation in the air over Germany that attached special importance on the two arms fighting in combination This lent to the fighter force the greater weight in air defence that, now that the inadequate range of the flak and its blinding by WINDOW had become clear, it other tactical capabilities provided. Another important reason for appointing Stumpff was that when he was in Norway the general had worked well with the local Gauleiter, Josef Terboven, and because of the constant criticism levelled at air defence by the Gauleiters in Germany Göring was keen to get on better terms with them, and thus improve his standing with Hitler.313 Stumpff's post as chief of Air Fleet 5 was taken over by Gen. Kammhuber who, following the major reshuffle that had in the meantime taken place in the Reich's fighter defence set-up, had been organized out of a job. Already by Ts October 1943 there had been a reorganization a