onts des Maures. Moreover, at this point only a few sections of 11th Panzer Division had managed cross the Rhône. It would appear that this AOK 19 order was intended for Its con future protection and justification, since it was not consistent either with the mation that had now arisen or with any proper analysis of existing forces. It was no longer possible for the Germans to free the staff of LXII Army Corps. So It hardly surprising that the German counter-attacks over the following two days bad little effect, and that some of the troops that had been deployed were wiped out. Allied air attacks and resistance activity played their part in decimating che relief units. This allowed the Allies rapidly to expand their bridgehead. Meanwhile French II Corps under Gen. de Lattre de Tassigny had also landed on 16 August; its task was to liberate Toulon and Marseilles. By 18 August the French commander-in-chief had a total of four divisions at his disposal, which marched rapidly westwards. AOK 19's plans initially to block che Allied attacks at a line Hyères-Le Luc soon had to be dropped, since American tanks were already advancing towards Brignoles.48 In the meantime, the German leaders had also had a real change of heart. Only a day after the landing Hitler and the OKW decided, in view of the extremely rapid advance of the US 12th Army Group towards eastern France, to withdraw their troops from the south. To that end, all units west of Orléans- Clermont-Ferrand-Montpellier were to retreat to a position running from the Seine via the Yonne to the Canal de Bourgogne, or to march directly towards Dijon (IV Luftwaffe Field Corps and remnants of AOK I). The troops east of the Rhône were told gradually to withdraw along the Rhône valley, in order to build up a new front with Army Group B; and to hold the defensive areas of Marseilles and Toulon (c.31,000 troops) to the last man. The two infantry divisions (148th and 157th) stationed in the Alps were ordered to guard AOK 19's wi