he German jargon-as part of regular bombing raids. A. the same time the true meaning of the term remained hidden, almost up to the end of the war. Where the more and more common incendiary raids German cities were concerned-aimed at destroying their residential centres for which a bomb mix of two-thirds incendiaries and one-third HE (and lat even 80/20 per cent) was seen as ideal-there was a rule that the phrase 'are targets', which would immediately bring to mind cities and residential die tricts, should be replaced with the expression 'large industrial areas'.97 Thi term 'industrial areas' was also later employed in the extensive Americ analysis of the effects of Allied bombing (the United States Strategic Bombi o as to suggest s of Survey, USSBS) to cover attacks on cities. This was obviously so that the attacks did not conflict with the international humanitarian laws war. One statement by Portal is similarly veiled. If, for example, he said, th Milan Duomo were to be given to bomber crews as their target, it would plan a serious and unnecessary strain on the loyalty of every officer who set som ace store by architectural treasures, and who cared about the RAF's reputatie among civilized people now and in the future.98 Naturally nothing like the would be put in an order to attack. The exposing of cultural objects destruction was, however, implicitly included in every operational order, since churches usually lay right in the middle of heavily built-up town centres. It w in this sense that the deputy prime minister, Clement R. Attlee, sought placate critics of the destruction of cultural treasures in the House of Com mons on 28 May 1943 by saying that no 'indiscriminate bombing' was taking place. Only militarily relevant targets were being attacked- a statement the was greeted with applause.99 The air minister, Lord Archibald Sinclair, tola members who had voiced their doubts about the British bombing war-the Marquess of Salisbury and Richard Rapier, on 29 Novemb