MA RH 8/v. 1265. 430 Collier, Defence, 410; Hölsken, V-Waffen, 142-3; BA-MA RH 8/v. 1265; ibid., RH 10 IV/102, 103. 443 stationed in the area of The Hague, as its target, while Training and Trial Battery 444 would continue to bombard Norwich, and Gruppe Süd, located in the Saarburg-Mettlach area, was again to aim at Paris. Fragmentation of forces, however, continued because of the pressure on the land front; at the turn of the month Gruppe Süd moved into new positions near Merzig, in order to fire at Hasselt, Maastricht, Tourcoing, Lille, and Paris, and one battery of Gruppe Nord relocated from The Hague to Burgsteinfurt, from where on 4 October it began to bombard Tournai, Hasselt, Maastricht, and Liège. Although crews had by then familiarized themselves with their task, the launch rate now depended on the number of rockets available. Because of Allied bombing of the production centres for liquid oxygen, production declined to 200t a day-which was just enough for 25 V-2s, but left no margin for test firing as part of further development. Moreover, the well-prepared supply network in northern France had been lost, so that transporting the missiles depended on improvisation. They were now moved by rail straight from the factory to the launch sites, where they were fired within three or four days of their completion. This system was appropriately known as warme Semmel (hot bread-rolls). However, the number of rockets supplied each day was insufficient for any major rocket offensive, while depots holding larger stocks would have been bombed. Eventually the ineffective fragmented-and mainly tactical-use of the V-2 was halted by an OKW directive sent on 12 October to C-in-C West, Field Marshal von Rundstedt. This directive passed on the order from Hitler that from then on all batteries should fire at London and Antwerp; it is clear from this that Hitler had now adopted Dornberger's view that the rockets were best used as terror weapons. To this end the two Gruppen were o