place as the leading world power. Against this, the leading groupe in Tokyo were pursuing a limited war aim. A war of attrition duration against the United States and European colonial powers, followed by a compromise peace, was to provide the basis for Japanese supremacy in the Asian world. Like their political partners in Germany, the Japanese too in 1942 could not escape the realization that they had failed. Quite apart from the inability of the Japanese army and navy leaderships to agree on an overall strategy, the military might of their island empire was already insufficient to defend the front lines they had captured. Since 1942 began the Japanese too had been on the defensive, having to yield ground and using up their armed forces in decisive battles of their own seeking that more and more began to look like acts of despair. In this situation the calls for mutuo on aid between Tokyo and Berlin grew. Japan urged Germany to make a separat peace with the Soviet Union so as to be able to concentrate all her forces the fight against the Atlantic powers, and thus improve matters for her Asian partner. The German leadership asked just as vainly for a Japanese attack on the Soviet Union. The gap between the interests of the two powers was too wide As the Japanese forces were forced back further and further towards the homeland, the camp of those in Tokyo opposed to the government greu stronger. One of the most important differences between the island empire and Germany was that in Japan, unlike the German dictatorship, opposition to the official government line was still possible, and considering political alternat. ives did not constitute high treason. Given the true power relationships, the policy of Manoru Shigemitsu, appointed foreign minister in 1943, who in broad accord with the Japanese general staff worked towards achieving stage-by-stage world peace via a series of separate peace agreements (Germany with the Soviet Union, Japan with China, and the tripartit