ed by the Au bombers. Furthermore, the uncertainty about the site of the Allied . meant that the order to IIth Panzer Division to move its troops had issued very late. At the time of the landing, most units were therefore stiu the way to their deployment areas.41 been The day before the invasion, AOK 19 also specified the tasks of I v Reserve Army Corps (later designated LXII II Army Corps) on its left fla Accordingly, 242nd Infantry Division was to concentrate e entirely on t Toulon-Hyères-St-Tropez area, and 148th Infantry Division was detail. mainly to defend the coastal strip between the Var valley and Nice. Wiesa advised LXII Army Corps to move a weak regiment to the area also a west o Raphaël, not far from Le Muy, where Allied paratroops landed the follows of St- day. But this corps did not have time to follow AOK 19's advice before ving assault began. This incident is worth noting, because AOK 19's war the r dia for 15 August describes it quite differently. According to the diary, two earlier Wiese had not just advised but ordered LXIT Army Corps to deploy regiment west of St-Raphaël. Again according to the war diary, if this o had been carried out the Allied airborne landing would have been a 6 by this This certainly suggests that someone must have played with the facts after el order the event, in order to avoid responsibility for the ensuing defeat and blan on others. 42 Of course the soldiers and officers on the coast knew nothing of all thi They were, however, aware of how weak their defence capability had become after the withdrawal of so many troops and weapons; this was obviously not good for their fighting morale. The 'eastern battalions' felt particularle defeatist-which can hardly be held against them. According to Army Groun G reports in early August, entire units had gone over to the Resistance. The were some 'signs of senility' in the ranks of the German troops, as Gen. Hein von Gyldenfeldt, chief of staff of the army group, put it. Moreover, th