t further parts of the Reich before the German Luftwaffe was in a position to start taking its revenge.'87 There were even rumours that the German people would 'not put up along with it much longer' if this went on for several more months. The SD recorded unhappily that many conversations and remarks h Volksgenossen amounted to a 'heartfelt groan' of 'when is there going to be an end to all these raids?' The SD report continues: Anger and vindictiveness towards the British and Americans are so much a matter course for the west-German Volksgenossen that they waste no words about it. They war the British to be repaid tenfold for what they have done to western Germany, even er of though they have little hope at the moment that this wish can be realized in the fore seeable future. The population has no sympathy for crashed enemy airmen being treated as prisoners of war. 88 The insecurity and unrest that had spread among the public mainly after the heavy raids on Hamburg could, in the opinion of 'sensible Volksgenossen', he most effectively dealt with by early retaliation. The public wanted at long last to see some Luftwaffe successes against Britain. As these had so far been lacking, people had, in addition to his usual nickname of 'Meier', been calling Göring 'Hermann Tengelmann' in Düsseldorf and elsewhere- -the name o a well-known chain store-and 'Hermann Brenninkmeier' in Hamburg, 'a this firm has a lot of branches in many German towns and because the Luftwaffe was experiencing continuous defeats'.89 Gradually the bombing had become an everyday experience. In the circumstances, people seemed to reconcile themselves to their fate. Fluctuating moods had given way to 'attitude'.90 Thus it was said, after the large-scale raids on Berlin, that the attitude of the population there was 'excellent everywhere. There was hardl any bellyaching to be heard, and everybody understood that care for the vic- tims could not immediately be perfect on the first day ... The mood of the