r forces. Instead we find a great many ad hoc decisions being taken, and matters of opinion on even the tiniest detail being discussed when they should have been dealt with in subordinate bodies and certainly not by the commander-in-chief of one of the armed services. Göring waffled his way through the meetings, with constant appeals to National Socialist beliefs and exhortations for fighting spirit, and with the muddled language he used betraying his poor grasp of tactical and technical matters and the extent to which he was trapped within his outdated experience of fighting in the First 71 Reich marshal's conference, 9 Oct. 1943, BA-MA RL 3/61, 6291, 6310. 72 GLM meetings, 2/3 Sept. and 9 Oct. 1943, BA-MA, Sammlung Grabmann, R 074 and 013. 73 Reich marshal's conference, 27 Aug. 1943, BA-MA RL 3/2694, 8. 74 War history of I Fighter Corps, 90, BA-MA RL 8/93.  I.II. Defending German Skies I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 World War. His was a 'romantic' style of leadership. In the outside w nonetheless continued to enjoy the sympathy of wide sections of the 176 publ even-as his visits there showed-in cities in the Rhineland that had sufe particularly badly in the bombing. 75 More and more, however, he directed Luftwaffe like a gambler going for bust. Occasionally he event took over d dire rld he control of the fighter formations, as, for instance, during when he sent the German fighters chasing the sound of their o one American ra r own engines ba and forth all over Germany. The episode went down in the annals of the defence of the Reich as 'the Raid on Fort Köpenick' (in Germ nan, a 'Capt Köpenick' is someone who manages to hoodwink the public); distrusting tain those commanding the fighter force, he had ignored the advice of expert e air It is instructive to consider how the German day fighters went about th 1g eve task. They were often sent up to do battle in the worst possible (though usual for Europe) weather conditions, while the American flying out and back at altit