ir) had just named a whole of extremely important military targets. 312 The MP James McGovern, too accused the government of systematically wiping out the entire city, and. was indignant at Churchill's cynical remark that the Germans did not need to in their cities-they should go out into the country, and watch from the bin as their homes burned. Who would not at once think here of the p practices 'imperial policing'?313 If any other country, McGovern went on, s said some- thing like Churchill, it would be paraded in the press as the personification n of everything that was evil. It was not the policy of a large mass of the people e of Britain, who looked on it as horrible and vile. It was unfair to call on German people in superior tones to rise against their Nazi masters; the Brit n the too would put down any revolt in their empire by force.314 Another tish Mr Hopkinson, was worried whether one would not, because of the bomb in the end have to wonder whether one was morally any better than ing, Germans. Did one really have to become a nasty brute, just because the ener the was one? 'Let us', he said, 'wage the sort of war that all of us in our heart hearts can go into with enthusiasm, otherwise the enemy can in the end that he has won and not us.'315 d sa The most notice was aroused by the way George Bell, the bishop 0 Chichester, urged that even in a war one could not forget the suffering one's fellow human-beings on the other side. During a trip to Sweden he he been told by two German pastors and members of the resistance to Hitler the appalling effects the bombing of German cities was having on the civilian population, and learned from other eyewitnesses of the horrors of the war in Lübeck, Rostock, Cologne, and Hamburg. He was angered by th e air public statements of Churchill and his government that always spoke onl. of military and economic targets. He wrote letters to the government, and planned protest demonstrations. With the wartime emergency regulations