racy of Allied anti-aircraft fire was considerably greater than that of the Germans. 455 During the day, the fighters were flying continuous patrols. Four radar stations with a range of 80 km located the V-weapons along the south- east coast of Britain. Only the latest fighters-the Spitfire XIV, Tempest V, and, from the end of July, the Meteor (the first operational British jet fighter)-could keep up with the flying bombs in daytime, and the Mosquito and the American Mustang III at night. Flying usually in the same direction, they were able to shoot them down from behind. Because of the danger of the V-Is exploding, a distance of at least 90 m was advisable. At first the flying bombs were tipped over by raising or depressing one of their stubby wings either with the wing of the aircraft or by the creation of air vortices, thereby causing them to tumble. Initially the fighters scored three times more kills than AA artillery. Later the figures evened out. In June the persistent bombardment by V-weapons nevertheless prompted a strengthening of British defences, especially as the public was getting restive and demanded that, instead of the launch ramps, German cities should be attacked. The frequent flying-bomb warnings led to a growing absence of workers from their workplaces, resulting to a decline in production. The anonymous nature of the bombardment had a depressing effect. Schoolchildren and mothers with children were evacuated from the capital, and London's Underground tunnels were made available as air-raid shelters. The capital's repair teams were stepped up to more than 40,000 men. Flying bombs shot down by the AA guns often crashed in London-with the same effect as if they had come down 'normally'. After mid-July the British reorganized their defence system in the light of negative experience in order to make it more efficient. The operational zones of heavy AA artillery and of fighters were separated. Starting from the London end, the barrage-balloon belt wa