lebrook and Everitt, The Bomber Command MAP I.I.9. RAF Bomber Command and US War Diaries. 8th Air Force targets, January-August. 1943  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive I.1.5. Crisis Management 122 more of them could be downed. The Luftwaffe rose to the challenge, and pa up the newly formed high-altitude units equipped with Me 109s (since the Americans flew at greater altitudes by day than the British bombers by night Weather conditions made American raids on 3 and 4 March a failure. Th first success against Berlin came on 6 March, when 672 out of the 730 hear bombers dispatched dropped more than 1,600 t of bombs. The fighter con comprised 801 aircraft, mainly Thunderbolts but already including ro Mustangs. Against this armada the Luftwaffe raised only 200 single- and tui engined fighters-including night fighters, which highlighted the e parlous state of affairs in the day-fighter sector. Because of poor visibility the was not hit, and the bomber formations also became split up. The raid brouel the 8th Air Force the heaviest losses of the war, with 1 69 bombers and II fighters shot down, for the most part by flak. A further six bombers and thre fighters had to be scrapped after their return to base; 347 bombers were damaged, again mostly by flak. The Germans lost 66 fighters, and 34 of thei- flyers were killed. It was a severe blow for the Germans, much worse than f the Americans who, despite their losses, were able to carry on with their e main target operations. Two days later, on 8 March, when the ball-bearings factories Erkner could be destroyed in good visibility, only 37 bombers were lost out 623, and only 18 out of 861 escorting fighters; but 87 German fighters wer destroyed, eight of them on the ground. The German fighter defence had been very much weakened. There were seven further bombing raids on Berlin un+ the date of the invasion. 379 The German daylight-fighter force continued to be worn down over the months that followed, and the air-armaments factorie