who, 'without valid reason, fail to close in to the prescribed minin y of the distance' of 400 m when attacking from behind86 and 800 m in an exceptio attack from head-on. If the bombers nonetheless broke through, they u be prevented from bombing their targets 'with all possible means'. Irrespe of which unit aircraft belonged to, they must be made ready for action wer at once whenever they landed to refuel and replenish their ammunition n aga attack on the bombers must be continued 'even during the fiercest fire' the flak. Twin-engined 'shadower' aircraft were put up to maintain su e' from lance of the bombers and constantly pass details of their strength, loca urveil height, and course to the fighter squadrons. One can appreciate what itm to a fighter pilot to tackle a large American formation of 27 Flying Fortress when one realizes that this would have a firepower of around 350 hea 12.7-mm machine-guns, at least 200 of which would have an effective ran of more than 900 m to the rear, from where the German fighters now generallu made their attack. Against this the fighter would have to score hits with many as 25 rounds to bring down a bomber, and this in spite of the escorting fighters that one clearly had to ignore, but that in practice usually stood in the way of a direct assault on the bomber. The only way to break up the defensiva fire was indeed to use mass against mass. If one could leave aside the problem of the fighter escorts, the order to do this was not wrong; but it was precisely these fighters that the German pilots were now meeting in ever larger numbers. 1. The 84 Appendix to I./JG 54 No. 9/43 g.Kdos., BA-MA RL 10/291. 85 Oberbefehlshaber der Luftwaffe-General der Jagdflieger-No. 321/43 g.Kdos., ibid RL 10/291. 86 See Karl-Heinz Langer, notes for the history of of Jagdgeschwader 'Udet', 6 Sept. 1943: 'Erfahrung: Der erfolgreichste Angriff ist der von hinten oben mit viel Fahrt!', BA-MA RL 10/630 On American firepower, see Galland as quoted by Cooper,