heidung im Westen, 227-8, Gundelach, 'Drohende Gefahr West', 327; Price. Last Year of the Luftwaffe, 63-5; Part II of the present volume. How futile the efforts were is clear been impossible with conventional piston-engined aircraft. The Luftwaffe had, moreover, been called on in the meantime to drop supplies to German troops 333 cut off and isolated in the French Channel ports they were defending. That these ports remained in German hands for so long-in some cases up to the very end of the war-was one of the main reasons for the Allied advance into Germany suffering delays for want of adequate supplies. This was perhaps the only worthwhile achievement of the Luftwaffe's operations in the west in 1944. Up to 1 July 1944 Air Fleet 3 had, since the invasion began, flown around 14,000 sorties as against the Allies' 96,000.642 By September it had almost totally retreated into Germany, where it was disbanded and replaced by Luftwaffe Command West, under Air Fleet Reich. The western and home fronts had, with the Allied landings in the south of France as well, become one. Thanks to Hitler's overstretched war policy having led to an emaciated Luftwaffe, Air Fleet 3 had from the outset proved too weak to cope with beating off the invading Allied forces in the air. It did what it could. Though in modern warfare air power may not be the sole deciding factor, it is a sine qua non for success and its absence leads to failure. It was not just a matter of the Reich's air defence being disastrously and irrecoverably weakened by fighters being sent to the invasion front, and of defence aircraft being pointlessly misused in an attack role without anywhere enjoying the benefit of air superiority; giving up France meant losing the homeland air defence's early- warning system, especially precious as this was for the night fighters. The German war industry's supplies of chromium and wolfram from Spain were also now at an end, and the U-boat war had henceforth to be run from new bases set