equest for reinforcements soon proved premature. After 9 July flying bombs were also launched from the air by Heinkel twin- engined bombers specially adapted for the purpose, the He 11IH-22. The bombs were suspended between the aircraft's fuselage and starboard engine. The intention was not only to increase the range of the V-I, but also allow for a choice of targets and confuse the enemy's defences. Moreover, this measure had been made necessary by the destruction of numerous launching sites by Allied bombing. Trial air-launches had yielded about the same target accuracy as catapult launches. It was III Gruppe of KG 3 that was trained for this task; though belonging to Air Fleet 3, it received its operational orders from LXV Army Corps, which was responsible for its supplies and technology. Opera- tions were carried out from Dutch airfields near Venlo and Gilze-Rijen. To evade enemy radar the bombers flew at low altitude and released their flying bombs from a height of about 500 m far out at sea. After pancaking for some 40 m, the missiles then reached greater altitude under their own power. Not until the end of July did the British identify this new method of attack. Despite a generally poor serviceability level of only two to eight aircraft out of a total of 30, some 300 flying bombs were air-launched against London by the end of the first phase of the offensive at the beginning of September, as well as 90 against Southampton and 20 against Gloucester.394 Construction of decoy sites and the clearing up done after every attack at one of the flak regiment's original sites confused the Allies for a very long time about what launch ramps were actually being used. Of these ramps 36 were heavily damaged by mid-July, but only four were destroyed. More serious were bombing raids on their supply lines. Whereas 820 V-Is were fired during the first week of July, there was a marked, though short-lived, drop towards the end of the month for this very reason. After that it was