ck action was repeatedly needed. At the beginning of 1943, therefore, sub-department la/Flak op. Flak of (operations) department I of the Luftwaffe general staff was expanded with group Ia/Flak op. 3, manned by members of the civil air-raid protection working group. This office dealt with the Luftwaffe's requirements in the area of air-raid protection, and had charge of the catalogue of potential targets covered by ARP. The chief of the Luftwaffe general staff, together with the inspector of air-raid protection as head of the civil air-raid protection working group, issued orders or instructions in ARP matters to their own subordinate services such as air fleet and Luftgau headquarters, as well as giving instructions or guidelines to the other branches of the Wehrmacht and civilian agencies who carried out the ARP measures on their own responsibility.292 The Luftwaffe operations staff now concerned itself keenly with raising the efficiency of air-raid protection, and arranged for the setting-up of further ARP departments, already boosted by the transfer to the Luftwaffe of the security and support services. The highly important problem of making adequate ARP forces ready could not, however, be solved satis- factorily for lack of manpower. The motorized ARP units that had so far been 292 Hampe, Luftschutz, 247 ff., Grabmann, 'Luftverteidigung', BA-MA ZA 1/2476, 658 ff .; MGFA, Sammlung Grabmann, R 0407. Source: Golücke, Schweinfurt, 136. DIAGRAM I.II.I. Air Raid Protection command structure, 1943  I.II. Defending German Skies 238 I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 239 SINS NOISIA (->4 2 ... operating in France, the Netherlands, Belgium, and the Caucasus were moved to Luftwaffe Command Centre. The ARP forces stationed in Romania ho even, because of the importance for the overall war effort of the oil-producing facilities there after the American raid on Ploiești, to be reinforced by a mobil ARP brigade and four smokescreen companies. Given the great difficulties i raising ne