43: Kurze Studie, BA-MA, RL 7/521. MAP I.III.I. Target planning against the Russian armaments industry, as of 28 October 143  I.III. Attack the Best Form of Defence 398 I.III.2. Resumption of Strategic Bombing Sans NOISIA Hon The first transfers to Air Fleet 6 took place on 2 December 1943. Simul taneously the units assigned to IV Air Corps were beginning to be withdrawn from Air Fleet 4 operations. 244 To camouflage these measures the declared reason for transferring these units was their replenishment during the muddu period;245 the staff of IV Air Corps was also renamed 'Replenishment Staff East'. Training of the bomber crews for night operations was similarly kent strictly secret. Practice with the Seilbombe was to be carried out only in low level flight and over 'unpopulated' areas;246 live practice, to get the crews us to identifying targets under enemy fire and ensure success for the first surpri strike, was to take place only avoiding the use of any target illumination and ; rise a manner ensuring that they were interpreted by the enemy as ground-supp targets. In this way it was hoped to hide the true nature of these co concentrations of forces, though these were known to the enemy via the population and from partisan intelligence.247 During practice operations over German territ too, the Seilbombe and 'Fritz X' bomb, which Air Fleet 6 had as yet had itor experience of using, were to be kept strictly secret. To shorten training with the Seilbombe, whose effectiveness was said to have been already proven restriction to suitable low-level exercises and the showing of an instruction film produced by Prof. Steinmann were recommended.248 What proved particularly difficult was training for night bombing. In 1940 the Luftwaffe, thanks to its radio-navigation system, had still held a leading position. Since then, however, much had been forgotten, and the British with their Pathfinders were using a far more advanced method that inspired Training Staff East to the ext