ired any measure of experience. The daytime raids by fighter-bombers were relatively more successful than the night raids by bombers because, flying low, they often took the defences by surprise. Occasionally even pedestrians were fired at. While losses at around 5.7 per cent were at the limit of what was acceptable, target accuracy at over 74 per cent was very good. In June, however, the FW 190 fighter-bombers concentrated in Fast Bomber Geschwader (SKG) 10 had to relocate to southern Italy to stabilize the situation in the Mediterranean following the fall of Tunis. 293 Apart from a dozen or so minor daytime raids in the final quarter, this was virtually the end of German daytime attacks on England in 1943. Because of the strong British defences, aerial photographic reconnaissance was thereafter carried out at night; as far as jump-off ports, assembly areas, and airfields for the invasion forces were concerned this reconnaissance was unsuccessful, and indeed fell victim to deception measures. In the summer a small number of Me 410s were employed as fast bombers, and in the autumn the Ju 188, a more aerodynamic version of the Ju 88 fitted with more powerful engines, was used as a bomber. Although these operations were timed to coincide with the return of British bomber units to their bases, and were meant to slip in under cover of this, target accuracy and navigation did not improve. During a night attack on Hull on 25 July, and also on a few occasions later, not a single bomb struck the target area. On 25 July 1943 Bomber Command machines for the first time dropped strips of foil over Hamburg in order to interfere with German radar and fire-control instruments. In the summer Attack Leader England's units began to blind the British radar by using the same device; however, the German bomber crews continued to show themselves to be so poorly trained, and their attacking strength was so slight, that these measures failed to have any impact. 294 Faced with this situatio