over 'what intellectual and material efforts were needed for setting the objectives of how the Luftwaffe should do battle, and of the war in the air'. 'Superiority in the air', he wrote to Kortten, in the end comes down to intellectual superiority, for it is the mind that controls matter and not the other way round.' The mind must, at the present time, make up for the lack of a heavy bomber, so that if that weapon later became available one would know how to make proper use of it. For this, the Luftwaffe's heterogeneous officer corps needed 'first to be made to think along the same line', by which he meant 'the thought of the immense importance of the Luftwaffe within the overall conduct of the war, and the idea of its intercontinental field of effect'. For him wehrgeistige Führung had nothing at all to do with instilling in the officer corps a fanatical belief in final victory. On the contrary, no one should be put too soon into a position of command for which he still lacked the breadth of vision and experience of life. This was the exact opposite of Hitler's basic approach to officer promotions, and of Jeschonnek's idea of a good general staff officer. The department was, however, unable wholly to escape the influence of Nazi ideology. For Korten, the chief of 413 Chef GenStdLw, 8. Abt. No. 33/44 g .- Chef, 8 May and 6 Sept. 1944 to Chef GenStdLw (Korten and Kreipe respectively), BA-MA RL 5/1032. 414 See Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 160, n.870.  I.II. Defending German Skies 274 I.II.4. Arm for Defence or Attack? 275 uni hall VISION EUTE general staff, all this hectic activity by his protége soon became too much. H. did not make Rohden the 'spokesman for the Luftwaffe', as the latter woul gladly have become. His successor at the head of the Luftwaffe general Stock the pragmatic Koller, was so far hardly taking much notice of what Dept. 8 wo doing. In the final months of the war his mind was fully occupied with me urgent problems, and in the circumstances he saw the fl