, for they could operate only at night and the radio-guidance system for the new glider bombs was being jammed.639 Their own flak had long been unused to there being German aircraft in the night sky, and not infrequently mistook 637 Bodo Zimmermann, 'Geschichte des Oberbefehlshabers West', Part B I, 902, 1103, BA-MA T-121.  I.11. Defending German Skies 332 I.II.5. Air Defence, First Half of 1944 them for enemy aircraft and fired on them. On the day of the invasion IX Air Corps had only 24 bombers serviceable. After they had tried in vain to strike at the Allied supply lines across the Channel, they turned to mining the Seine estuary with the new pressure mines. The Kriegsmarine was, however, afraid this kind of mine might fall into enemy hands and opposed these sorties, which were consequently postponed for about a week, by which time the sowing of mines no longer had any significance. On 24 June there were a few sorties- yielding no great results-using the 'Mistel' (mistletoe) composite: unmanned bombers filled with explosive were flown by a fighter (one per old, bomber) riding piggyback on them to just short of the target, and then released to fly the rest of the way to the target on autopilot. The bomber arm had in itself ceased to have any real meaning, and the replacement crews coming to it were inexperienced. Its effect on the supply traffic across the Channel was negligible. In July bombers were also used against enemy ground troops. From its bases in the south of France, 2 Air Division tried to operate with its four torpedo-bomber Gruppen, flying at night and making a touchdown in centra and eastern France; again without notable success, because there was a lack of air reconnaissance and the radio communications network had been destroyed. Of X Air Corps's long-range He 177 bombers, only 30-40 per cent were serviceable; they were not a great deal of use, since with a full bomb-load their range was restricted, but nonetheless London was hit twelve times durin