red for all eventualities at once and that, given the Allies' superiority in the air, could then no longer be concentrated at critical points in time. There was, for instance, no Luftwaffe combat presence worth the mention in Normandy. The German fighter arm had had to cede superiority in the air by day to the Americans a few weeks after 'Big Week', even over the Reich itself. Because it had to husband its resources for use in German airspace, it was also unable to prevent the Allied bombing of the rail network, bridges, and airfields in France, Belgium, and the Netherlands. Some 36 airfields within a 200-km radius of Caen were destroyed, such that the Luftwaffe had to send its fighters and bombers into action from ever further away from the Channel coast.614 The attack branch of the Luftwaffe-the bombers-was also defeated by exhaustion when, in May 1944, it brought its offensive against England to an end. 615 The bomber force of the 'Attack Leader England', Maj .- General Peltz, had suffered heavy losses at the hands of the British air defences.616 This meant that even before the invasion came, the new 'air strategy' hatched by chief of general staff Korten-making better use of the strategic opportunities in attack and defence, instead of the draining business of providing support to the army-had come to naught. 617 Added to this there was, arising from a wide variety of reasons, the increasingly poor training of the pilots, which no longer matched that of the Allies. In both its attack and fighter-defence roles the Luftwaffe had been critically weakened before the Allied invasion began. In the western theatre the Luftwaffe was no longer a factor to be reckoned with, so that it was not even given any part in the defensive plans of the German army in the west. 618 Air defence in the west was the task of Air Fleet 3 under Field Marshal Sperrle. Hitler, in his directive No. 40 on command responsibilities at the coasts, had avoided appointing a supreme commander for th