o longer able to hid. behind a mask of sometimes sarcastic coolness and decisiveness. He had already long been suffering from stomach disorders, and experienced bor of depression. In August 1943 Jeschonnek found himself facing increasingly frequent reproaches and recriminations. The Kursk offensive had already collapsed : July; Luftwaffe units had, despite this, to be withdrawn from the east and ser to Sicily. Then came the devastating raids on Hamburg and the crippling of the German radar. On 13 August, following the American attack on Messerschmitt works at Wiener-Neustadt, he had to undergo an endle barrage of insults from Hitler, with harsh accusations against the Luftwafe the To his head of operations, Meister, he commented afterwards: 'Why is rh less Führer saying all this to me, and not to the Reich marshal?'382 Four days l- affe. after the American double raid on Regensburg and Schweinfurt, it seems the the same thing happened all over again between Hitler and Jeschonnek. On the later night of 17/18 August, during the RAF raid on Peenemünde, the fighters ha is that been enticed away to Berlin by a small-scale spoof raid there by Mosquitos due to a wrong order given by Jeschonnek and against instructions fro Göring and Hitler, they came under intense fire by the flak383 just as the bom were starting to fall on Peenemünde. Göring telephoned Jeschonnek (who ombs a career soldier, had always had more sympathy from Hitler than he himself enjoyed) and gave him a dressing-down: 'You always stand there in fronto Hitler like a lieutenant, with your thumbs against your trouser-seams!' fumed.384 Jeschonnek now found himself not only abandoned by Hitler Göring, but with his faith in his own military competence badly shaken. To rid he himself of his unbearable burden there was now only one way out left to him r and On the morning of 18 August he did what Generalluftzeugmeister Udet had done before him, and what he had himself already attempted once before: shot himself w