symbolic value of the French capital.105 Choltitz's objection to Hitler's plans was that he did not have the ne resources or forces for an effective defence. In fact, he had only someth 20,000, often poorly armed, soldiers. To make matters worse, the le Fren Resistance movement had called for a general strike on 18 August day later the rising against the occupying forces began. The res t and fighters occupied important administrative and communications centrec after bitter fighting, gained control of entire districts of the capital, 10 Of course, all this went against the declared wishes of De Gaulle and h French Committee for National Liberation (CFLN), because they specifical- did not want the capital to be liberated by the Resistance; De Gaulle tho 615 there was too great a risk of the Communists acquiring excessive influence within the Resistance. When Gen. Koenig-whom SHAEF now recognized as commander-in-chief of the FFI (Forces Françaises de l'Intérieur)-ordered a crop to the uprising against the Germans, however, the local Resistance leaders ignored his instructions. On 21 August De Gaulle therefore urged Eisenhower to send troops to Paris after all. Four days later the Allies, led by Gen. Leclerc's French 2nd Armoured Division, seized the city. The very same day Choltitz surrendered to the French general and an FFI delegation. As a result, 15,000 men were taken prisoner. The battles had resulted in the death or injury of 4,200 German soldiers, 2,500 FFI fighters, 620 French soldiers, and 1.000 civilians. Yet the city itself remained relatively unscathed. 107 The fairly light outcome of the battles was doubtless due to the fact that Choltitz did not have enough troops to put up any serious resistance to the Allies and the Resistance. At the same time, the Allies' waiting-game tactic had helped to save the city and its inhabitants from a terrible fate. A few days later Field Marshal Model, on behalf of OB West, called for Choltitz to be arraigned before a cour