h were scarcely available at the time). Hitler was already lamenting that he lacked the personnel to meet the demands being brought to him from all sides. 192 Meanwhile the interest of Luftwaffe operations staff Ic and that t of GLA 385 Milch193 and his enemy munitions department was focused on the Sovie aircraft industry, in particular its aero-engine plants. They were sensi enough, for the time being, to confine themselves to factories within the ran of the available bombers such as the He III. Of seven aero-engine wor only five were therefore chosen as targets-those at Kuybyshev, Ufa, Kazan Moscow, and Gorkiy, which together accounted for 78 per cent of total production. Elimination of the factories in Kuybyshev and Moscow alone. was calculated, would cost the Soviets 100 per cent of their production e, it n of engines for ground-attack aircraft, those in Ufa 60 per cent of the output those for fighters, and those in Kazan 60 per cent of bomber e t of r engines. The had, as early as 1941 and 1942, shown Gorkiy to be a major centre of tank production. 196 Soviet air force would thus no longer be able to replace its current losses at the front, resulting in its striking power being broken within a very short time, Aero-engine factories therefore held top priority among all targets in the Soviet Union. Destruction of tank factories was of secondary importance, especially as the major ones, in Sverdlovsk, Chelyabinsk, Nizhniy Tagil, and elsewhere were beyond bomber range. Only the tank factories at Gorkiy, with 10-1 per cent of T 34 production and about 50 per cent of light armoured production-in the elimination of which 'the army was greatly interested'- car -lay within range. It was believed, however, that the same effect could be achieved by taking out the ball-bearings works in Kuybyshev, Moscow, and Saratou whose loss would 'greatly affect total armaments'. All these consideration reflected the growing conviction that, by strategic bombing, the Luftwaffe could m