Rominten, or Veldenstein, where he dressed up in ancien Germanic or baroque costume. Another part of this withdrawal into a world od make-believe or wishful thinking was his unwillingness to believe in unwel come reports of the material superiority of the foe. In the Führer HQ, he once told Kammhuber, everyone was mad, and Hitler the maddest of them all did not want to become mad as well. So he took more and more time off to hunting and to 'buy' works of art from all over Europe, an activity for which i 1. He France he roped in the general commanding the Luftwaffe in Paris, Friedrich o go Carl Hanesse. Generaloberst Stumpff later recalled how Göring once retired to the luxurious retreat of Karinhall for four weeks on end, and refused to be disturbed. Finally he did, however, receive Stumpff, because he had come on an urgent official matter, but only for an hour. In that short time he did at least take decisions that were to the point, but he then broke off suddenly to show his guest round the estate. 351 ower Göring's influence with Hitler had been on the wane since the autumn of 1938,352 as following the Austrian Anschluss he had no longer approved of the dictator's drive for annexation. The fall from grace was only temporarily halted by the success of the Luftwaffe in the early years of the war. In the years that followed it can be charted almost day by day in Goebbels's diaries; so as not entirely to lose Hitler's favour, Göring showed himself more and more 349 Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 219-22, 228-46. 350 Göring, notebook for 1943, IfZ, ED 180, quoted from Irving, Göring, 386-7. 351 Suchenwirth, 'Göring', BA-MA Lw 21/3, 56. 352 Martens, Göring, 249 ff .; Kube, Göring, 265 ff .; Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 523-38. 259 chedient to the Führer's wishes and became, as Karl Koller put it, 'his master's Dice'.353 He even tried to convince Hitler that, just as before, he was the competent commander-in-chief of the Luftwaffe, and shared his opinions. on this subject, Admiral