s, Montgomery stuck to his decision that the British Ist Airborne Division troops should be dropped at Arnhem.6 On the first day of the assault, the field marshal's assessment of the German units' combat strength in this region seemed by and large to be confirmed. After Allied bombers concentrated their attacks on German flak positions near the drop zones, the first wave of paratroops landed around noon on 17 September without encountering any serious resistance. They only suffered 2.8 per-cent casualties, although SHAEF had predicted losses of between 25 and 30 per cent. It seemed, therefore, that the surprise attack had succeeded. In the days beforehand, the German intelligence services had indeed been expecting Allied attacks on this front too, but they had assumed that Mont- gomery was more likely to advance towards the German border of the Reich and not almost directly northwards. As a result, the airborne troops managed to establish themselves firmly on the very first day and to seize important bridges and road junctions. However, when Horrocks's cks's troops attacked towards the north from the Neerpelt bridgehead at around 1500h that same day, they soon met with considerable resistance. They now became aware of the disadvantage that there was only one major road along which the corps' many tanks and motor vehicles could advance. To bypass the German defensive positions by marching through marshland and wooded areas would have cost many 6 The Allies also received reports on 15 Sept. that parts of Fifteenth Army (two weak divisions) were moving towards West Brabant, on the left flank of the British zone of operation; see Gulmans, 'Operatie Market Garden', 113; Bennet, Ultra, 145; Deutschland im Zweiten Weltkrieg, vi. 112-13; Ludewig, Rückzug, 325, and on the Dutch officers' intelligence: Hackett, 'Operation Market Garden', 164.  666 II.VII. The Western Front Ijsselmeer 5 10 15 20 25 km W.B.Ndl. Hilversum NETHERLANDS Apeldoorn Deventer B Amersfoort Pol.Btl. 17.9