rs agreed that they must exploit the e Germa moment of weakness at once, and therefore decided to revise SHAEF's ginal plans to suspend the attacks for about a month once the Seine had reached (that is, with the formal completion of OVERLORD) in order, as the step, to restore the armies' supplies and infrastructure.114 Yet been while Operation LÜTTICH was going on, Eisenhower still considered tinuing the advance across the Seine eastward without a break, and I con August he even set the next objective as reaching the German border 1 on Indeed, it would have been difficult to explain plausibly to the American British public why, after the successes in July and August, their enemy ly sh still be given a chance of forming a new line of defence elsewhere in Franc The Allies generally agreed that this meant they could not call a halt Seine. Nor was there any doubt about the need to continue to follow the Al combined chiefs of staff's (CCS) general objective of advancing to the of Germany and destroying the German armed forces. There were so SHA ferences of opinion, however, as to how this was to be achieved. The officers had originally planned to advance into the Reich from both side even 112 See Hinsley, British Intelligence, iii/2. 367-8; Bryant, Triumph in the West, 260; Eise Crusade, 331; for similar figures see OKW/WFSt/Op (H), 'Blutige Verluste, West', 6 BA-MA RM 7/809. 13 See Hinsley, British Intelligence, iii/2. 369; Ambrose, Supreme Commander, 492, 496; Ludemi Rückzug, 178; Pogue, Supreme Command, 245, together with Cirillo, "Pursuit', 214 and 210: conditions behind the German front see H.Gr.Kdo. B, draft order OB West, 30 Aug. 1944, BA-M RH 19 IV/54. After some wrangling between the commanders and their staffs, Eisenhower decided on a compromise at the end of August, under which the 21st Army Group should take over the major part of the Allied advance, as Montgomery had proposed. This should involve not only the US Ist Army, under Gen. Courtney A. Hodges's comm