strategically questionable and tactically too difficult.269 Air Commodore Bufton, the director of bomber operations, had also in the summer of 1943 frequently stressed to Harris the importance of Schweinfurt. He urged that in the event of the complementary attacks by Bomber Command and the 8th Air Force that he was approving, the aircrews should be told in advance of the enormous military importance of the ball- bearing factories. No such joint attack ever took place, however, and the American one on 14 October 1943 was seen by Bufton and the Ministry of Economic Warfare (in contrast to the Americans) as not all that effective. They recommended a further precision attack by night, especially since the target was of prime importance not only for the whole of the German armaments industry but also, and most of all, for the building of fighters and V-weapons. Up to now Bomber Command had turned down all such requests, saying that Schweinfurt was merely and mistakenly being lookd on as a panacea target; it was not all that important, and was besides too small to find at night. The head of the Pathfinders, though, did not see this as presenting a difficulty.270 The Air Staff was no longer willing to be as indulgent towards Harris as in the past. On 17 December Bottomley wrote to him expressing the hope that he would soon give orders for a raid on Schweinfurt.271 Harris refused this three days later, in strongly emotional terms and offering his same well-known arguments. An operation like this made no sense, the target was too hard to find, the town was so strongly defended that six or seven raids would be needed, and success would be doubtful. If the target was really so important, then the Americans should attack it again. What was more, the Germans would in any case by then have foiled such attacks by relocating their industrial plant. He went on to list other bomber operations that at the time had been seen as decisive, such as the attacks on the railways, the Möhne d