ions'.321 T had to tell those in charge where the enemy's attacking forces were, and where they were heading. Its development during 1943 was, while still not integrated a continuous process. Since the start of the war there had been a series radio-heterodyne cable networks providing the basis for the reporting service. these were not as vulnerable to eavesdropping as radio traffic, and provide of the means of communication between the command HQs, airfields, flak HQs, filter centres, ARP warning HQs, and meteorology offices. The AWS also included the radar observation service, detecting transmissions from Allied airborne radars, IFF, and tail-warning radars; the enemy-aircraft movement plotting system; the jamming service, for disrupting enemy ground and airborne radar and R/T traffic; and-especially important for signals intelligence purposes-the radio interception service set up to listen in to enemy W/T and R/T transmissions and read their codes. Originally conceived as a strategic intelligence tool, it remained in practice only a tactical one, 322 The task of the radio intercept service, within the Reich air defence system,323 was to provide an up-to-date picture of the situation in the airo over England, that is to say systematically to monitor and report on Allied com mand, W/T, R/T, navigational, and air-traffic control transmissions. It also required each day to discover impending attacks, by 1600h for any British night raids and by 1800h for American daylight raids (in each instance for the following night or next day), together with take-offs, assembly, and departure 320 Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 272-3, 618. 321 Golücke, Schweinfurt, 118-34; Hoffmann, Luftnachrichtentruppe, i. 85-8, 103-9, III-14. 322 Karl Jering, 'The Chi-Stelle of the Luftwaffe S[ignal] I[ntelligence] S[ervice]', vol. v in the series 'The Signal Intelligence Service of the German Luftwaffe des Seabourne Reports', NA, RG 457, Box 974, according to which (p. 17) the cryptographers of the L