e was now a case of plugging one hole by ripping out other holes elsewhere, and of issuing tactical commands and production orders some of which were already quite divorced from reality. There was no strategic thinking, no thought-through planning to be seen. The general staff moved Staffeln and Gruppen around, and saw to the provision of a few tonnes of aviation fuel so that the units that had been moved could in fact go into action when they got there (after moving them had used up too much fuel to begin with). Hitler' contradictory instructions frequently produced confusion, as when he ordered the closing down of the bomber programme and in the same breath demanded 'an all-out effort to mine the coastal waters along the invasion front'. As the mines were being regularly swept, fresh ones had constantly to be laid; and to do this, as Koller remarked, they constantly needed a minimum number bomber aircraft. On another occasion Hitler ordered the transfer of ground- support units to Air Fleet 3, only to ask two days later: 'Why are we sending forces there when we have no fuel for them?' Finally, he criticized the Luftwaffe for its numerical and technical inferiority, and blamed it for no having given up control of air armaments soon enough. Such criticism was undoubtedly partly justified, but he himself had for years been giving prefer- ence to tanks and flak-something he now did not care to admit. When Gen Bodenschatz pointed out to Hitler that the Luftwaffe had never been allocated enough materials, he dismissed this as 'incorrect'. And the fact that he had himself hindered the building of fortress airfields in France, through allocating 726 Irving, Rise and Fall, 285-6; Speer, Third Reich, 349-9; Deutschlands Rüstung, 375-6; Boog. Luftwaffenführung, 297-9, 302; Schabel, Wunderwaffen, 202; Budraß, Luftrüstung, 870-1; Germany and the Second World War. v/II, 432-6. 727 Koller, daily logs and from Führer situation conferences, May-Aug. 1944, BA-MA RI 2 I/22 and 24, e