pture the town by a pincer attack. The rapid success of the US divisions deployed there can be explained 597 mainly by the fact that, contrary to Rommel's and Rundstedt's original olan rapidly to withdraw their troops to Cherbourg after the American breakthrough on the west coast so as to build up an effective defence there, both OB West and Hitler remained adamant that they would not give up one metre of ground without a fight. The Allied commands soon learned of this decision by rapidly decoding German radio traffic. This allowed the American troops to reach Cherbourg without leaving Schlieben time to organize the defence south of the town adequately. Moreover, because of Allied naval and air superiority, all the German attempts to supply the trapped troops with enough personnel and material failed. Nevertheless, these troops managed to destroy the port installations so thoroughly that it took the Allies another three weeks before they could begin to use Cherbourg to ship in their supplies. 32 (c) Change in Allied Tactics Because of the German resistance, the Allies had to rethink their origin. 1 to f plans. By II June it had become clear that they now intended for the Germans to mass their armoured forces, especially in the Caen ares means of continuous attacks and thereby give US Ist Army in the west room for manoeuvre. First, however, they wanted to capture the great of Cherbourg in order to step up the flow of material and pers into France.29 Nevertheless, by the end of June the Allies had gained only modest stri ps of terrain in the eastern part of the bridgehead where the British 2nd Army in spite of the massive deployment of tanks, artillery, and aircraft. On 8 they liberated Bayeux, and over the next five days advanced [ via Ball towards Caumont. Further to the east, they managed to take Tilly-sur-S. on 9 June and at the end of the month, after very heavy y fighting, b through along the road from Caen to Villers-Bocage. This pointed towards el encirclement