gmatic Koller, was so far hardly taking much notice of what Dept. 8 wo doing. In the final months of the war his mind was fully occupied with me urgent problems, and in the circumstances he saw the flood of suggestions an- letters from Herhudt von Rohden as a pestering nuisance. In the end, the la had to conclude: 'In truth, my efforts had no success whatsoever.'415 tter That is not entirely true. Dept. 8 at least brought clarity to the concept of 'operational' air war; this had seemed to cover anything from di irect e woolly tactical support to the army to independent, strategic bombing operatio against sources of power deep inside enemy territory, though for the most part it meant 'indirect army support'. Introducing the term 'strategic', which until then had not featured in the Luftwaffe's official vocabulary because operations were usually part and parcel of army operations, served termino logically as well to reinforce the separate nature of a bombing war directed air against the enemy's power centres. The Luftwaffe was, it was saying, a means of waging war as a whole, and that had to do with strategy. Air war was by it nature intercontinental, Herhudt von Rohden wrote, and weapons of war that had an intercontinental effect called for people who thought in intercontin ental, strategic terms. It was a truth that still only few had realized, and for hi one of the main tasks of his department was to 'hammer this into the minds of the mass of the officer corps'. Thus it was that phrases like 'strategic air war' and 'air strategy', that had not been used in the L. Dv 16 Luftwaffe Regulation of 1935/40, finally made their appearance in 'Leitfaden Lufttaktik' (Essentials of air tactics), issued in 1944. For the conduct of air warfare, the message nou was, there was only one firm precept: 'The determination to wage a battle of annihilation in the air [strategic defence] and to penetrate massively to the enemy's sources of power [strategic offensive, a bombing war].' In