tive targeting than on its previous practice of carpet bombing. Ironically, it was the failure of the American attack on 14 October that had brought about this change of heart; whether this would last remained to be seen. In any case, it was less a matter of raiding tactics than of choosing the targets, and selective targets were tackled better with precision attacks than with area bombing. Providing the means needed for doing this was the logical consequence. One of the solutions being developed to the POINTBLANK crisis lay in rapidly increasing the American forces and re-equipping them, and in the new air fleet, the 15th Air Force, that had now been formed in Italy.277 Arnold's new year message for 1944 to the commanders of the 8th and 15th Air Forces, James H. Doolittle and Nathan E. Twining, ran: 'Destroy the enemy air forces wherever you find them, in the air, on the ground and in the factories!'278 In December the 8th Air Force was able, on some days, to put 700 heavy bombers into the air, compared to only 400 or so up to October.279 The only problem was that the level of losses did not depend on the number of aircraft employed and could not be reduced by making a larger number of sorties. In February 1943 Gen. George E. Stratemeyer, chief of the American air staff, had still believed losses to be lowest with bomber formations of 72 aircraft. The losses were primarily a function of how far the bombers penetrated into enemy territory. In 1942, when the Americans were attacking only targets in German-occupied western Europe, total losses were 4 per cent, with 34 per cent damaged. In October 1943, when the bombers were flying to East Prussia and Bavaria, losses were at 9.1 per cent, with 45.6 per cent damaged. During the following months, when only targets at the north-western edge of Germany were attacked, the losses dropped back dramatically. It was clear, too, that 275 The expression 'dehousing' is in the line of the earlier 'air-policing of semi-civilized ene