s for the invasion. 28 s staf e an to Into The choice of landing area was a major problem. The success or failure of what Morgan described as the largest invasion of Europe ever attempted hin- ged on the decision for or against a given region. Morgan's staff based thei- analysis of each individual stretch of coast on a series of investigations car carrie out by Allied staff officers in recent months. They were particularly concer to identify flat areas that would permit a landing across open beaches. But then also had to be large ports in the immediate vicinity that could be captu rapidly so that supplies could be brought in for the invasion force. By mid- 1943, having examined numerous individual studies, COSSAC had concludo that the choice was between two areas: Caen and the Cotentin peninsula, the Pas-de-Calais. After a final analysis of all the pros and cons, in which arm a, and navy, and air force representatives emphasized their specific requirements. s, he finally decided in favour of the Caen-Contentin area, which included the maio- port of Cherbourg. His main reason was that most German defences wera already concentrated in the Pas-de-Calais (stretching from Belgium through Artois to Picardy), whereas, for the time being, the area in Normandy between the rivers Vire and Dives held only one German division.29 The discussion on which ports should be captured soon revealed that, in the course of an Allied landing, the Germans were very likely to wreck harbo 26 Howard, Grand Strategy, iv. app. VI (A), 640 ff., app. VI (B), 651 ff. 27 Operation POINTBLANK; see ibid. 315 ff .; Crookenden and Crowley-Milling, 'Planning', 20- Part 1 of this volume. 28 See Harrison, Cross-Channel Attack, 49 ff .; staffs were set up for the British 2nd Army, the Canadian Ist Army, and the US corps; see ibid. 53. 29 See Jacobsen, Teilung der Welt, doc. 201, Op. 'Overlord', 361 ff., and 'Preliminary notes on "overlord"', 20 July 1943, PRO, WO 205/33; see also 'Outline plan for the defe