eak out from their bridgehead and press forward into France. The Germans had dug themselves well in and suffered few dead, but their tanks and artillery lay overturned or buried around the landscape. The psychological shock was of course tremendous, but the German troops who had withstood the carpet bombing were very quickly able again to put up a fierce resistance. The bombs also Filled more than 100 American soldiers. Observers noted later that carpet bombing built-up areas just behind the German front line was not profitable, since the troops who had been well dug-in beforehand immediately used the ruins to build strong defensive positions before the follow-up attack came. The rubble also proved a hindrance to the advancing troops more than to the mobility of the defenders. The use of heavy bombers to give direct support to the army thus proved a two-edged sword: it brought advantage only if one's own troops attacked at once while the enemy was still under mental shock from the bombing. Otherwise, it caused not particularly high casualties and material losses but merely made the terrain impassable for one's own troops. Other than during COBRA, no decisive losses were ever caused to ground troops. The medium bombers proved more effective, since the number of their bombs falling in the target area was two-and-a-half times higher than with the heavy bombers. Direct ground support of this kind called for extensive preparation, and for excellent communications if it was to be matched to rapidly changing situations in a war of movement. It was con- cluded that massive carpet bombing of enemy ground troops was useful only at the very beginning of a land battle. 446 That the Americans were able to undertake such massive bombing raids in support of the army, flying their bombers in tight formation-in the words of German soldiers who lived through the hellish experience, looking 'like a Party rally at Nuremberg'-was (as the director of the USSTAF's intelligence service con