can tactics of daylight bombing by bomber for mations undertaking their own defence (i.e. without fighter cover) were not fact wrong. And on the other, one needed to look at whether the British Bomber Command ought not now to be making night-time 'precision' aren raids on fighter-manufacturing targets, even if these might have less effect than daylight raids. Finally, the Americans had made the same mistake with their daylight raids without fighter protection as the British had in the autumn of 1939 and the German bombers had in the summer and autumn of 1940 during the Battle of Britain. Harris, who was ignoring, for instance, the fighter aircraft 245 The Production-Wastage Differential of German Air Force Single-Engine Fighters, letter from assistant chief of staff, A-2, 8th Air Force, to commanding general, 9 Dec. 1943, LoC, Spaan Papers, Box 17; Golücke, Schweinfurt, 305-6; Coffey, Schweinfurt; Groehler, Bombenkrieg, 130- Army Air Forces, ii. 705, 730. 246 Eaker to Arnold, 18 July 1943, LoC, Eaker Papers, Box 16. 77 factories in Leipzig, Kassel, Braunschweig, Gotha, Augsburg, or Bernburg, seemed with his attacks on cities to be repeating the mistake of the Luftwaffe, again in autumn 1940, when it switched too soon from targeting the British fighter defences to attacking industrial targets in cities, losing sight of the need to get a firm hold on superiority in the air. With the attack on Münster on II October 1943,247 meant indirectly to interfere with rail and waterway traffic by terrorizing the population, the 8th Air Force seemed to be wanting to take the same path, after it had ended up in an increasingly hopeless situation with its daylight precision bombing aimed in part at weakening the German fighter defences. The close link between the POINTBLANK offensive and the invasion had already been established at the Allied conferences in May 1943 in Washington (TRIDENT) and August in Quebec (QUADRANT), where on 16 August Portal, as co-ordinator of the two bomber