76 Suchenwirth, 'Jeschonnek', BA-MA Lw 21/5, 125; id., Command and Leadership, 152; Irving, Rise and Fall, 232. 377 Suchenwirth, 'Jeschonnek', BA-MA Lw 21/5, 126; Nielsen, 'German Air Force General Staff, BA-MA Lw 19, 176-8. All this was obviously the psychological outcome of someone too young being promoted to a high position.378 Teschonnek's situation as chief of the Luftwaffe general staff in the summer of 1943 has to be seen against this background. He now had to carry the wurden of the setbacks of the first seven months of this year. For a chief of general staff he had, in his youthful blindness, been too submissive towards Hitler,379 and after the criticism the latter had been heaping on the Luftwaffe he could no longer be sure of his favour. The man who had always been outwardly impassive was now showing his nerves. His quartermaster-general Seidel and the inspector-general of armour Heinz Guderian had talked with him in July and April of that year; they found him tired and burnt out, depressed and in a mood to give up, isolated from those around him, unable to believe in a successful outcome to the conflict, and filled with feelings of guilt for the state of the Luftwaffe and of the war. 380 Did he not, as Luftwaffe CGS, share in the responsibility for the insistence on a dive-bombing capability even in four-engined bombers, and for overestimating the Ju 88's ability as a dive- and long-range bomber? And for the reckless promises made in 1938 to fulfil overambitious air armaments plans, promises that had fuelled Hitler's readiness to go to war? Did he not share in the blame for the Luftwaffe's lack of preparedness in depth, for the fatal ignoring of centimetre-wave research, and for the cutbacks in training, technology, and logistics and in favour of the tactical and operational that had suited only a short war but not a long one? Had he not sent a purely tactical air force into the wrong war, a strategic one, against Britain-and then, in the hope of winning