o be protected by sea and air forces; the From there it would sail in ten separate groups, under cover of darkness, to LC lowering positions located seven to II nautical miles off the French coast. The sea coute from Area Z to the lowering positions would first have to be cleared by minesweepers. In addition, strong naval units would protect the entrances to II.IV.3. Final Phase of Preparations and Le Havre, to divert enemy forces from the Normandy bridgehead.41 this source: 1,213 warships (79% Brit./Can .; 16.5% US; 4.5% French, Dutch, et al.) and 4,126 landing craft; Force U, however, was to set out from ports in Devon and Cornwall a day earlier and why he also rejected proposals to drop paratroops near Évreux, between Paris airborne troops as a tactical rather than a strategic resource. That is probably in the area. While Eisenhower did not share these objections, he tended to see tionary Air Force (AEAF), because of extensive German anti-aircraft defences risky variant drew objections from Leigh-Mallory, C-in-C Allied Expedi- Église) than hitherto planned, rather than further west. But this somewhat less advisable to drop both US airborne divisions nearer to UTAH beach (Ste-Mère German reinforcements in the Cotentin peninsula indicated that it would be changed the dropping zones for the airborne troops. Intelligence reports of 82nd US, and 6th British). In the weeks before the landing, the Allies again fanks of the landing would secured by three airborne divisions (10Ist and buoyancy. All possible technical resources were mustered in a last-ditch attempt the time came to move them, there were too few pumps available to restore caissons had been test-floated in British ports a few days before D-Day; when MULBERRY operation almost came to grief at the last minute. The concrete BERRIES) made of blockships, one in each of the five landing areas. But the landings. They were to be supplemented by five smaller harbours (GOOSE- hollow concrete caissons, were to be towed