ing of an enemy approach, were sharply reduced by the weakness of the Luftwaffe and the navy. In terms of the conditions for a successful landing, the Allies had already gained considerable advantages by mid-1943 through their sea and air superiority. From the beginning of the year they were able to transport per- sonnel and equipment from the United States to Britain without hindrance, and prepare their troops for future operations in complete safety. Further- more, they had mastery not only of the sea approaches but also of the air space over western Europe-one of the most important conditions for a successful invasion. All of this narrowed the Germans' range of possibilities for efficient defence. By the end of 1942 GOC West's staff was convinced that, given Allied sea and air superiority, enemy troops could no longer be prevented from setting foot on the continent. The task would be to inflict high losses on the Allies in the approach phase and, after they had established bridgeheads, drive them back into sea.77 Right up to time of the Allied landing, the German military leadership was still debating how this could best be achieved with the resources available. 77 GOC West, Ia, No. 182/42, 25 Aug., situation report, No. 235/42, GOC West to Armies, 14 Oct. and No. 231/42, map, 16 Oct. 1942, BA-MA RH 2/v. 534, and Ose, Entscheidung im Westen, 27 ff.  II. II.I. Towards a Joint Concept II. The Allies in the Western Theatre up to Mid-1943 I. TOWARDS A JOINT CONCEPT FOR CONDUCT OF THE WAP AGAINST THE AXIS THE main western powers, Britain and the United States, had been co-operating politically, economically, and even militarily well bef Germany and Italy declared war on the United States on II December 104 Their similar-in many cases identical-convictions and outlook, deriving from largely parallel traditions and multiple economic connections, gave to common strategic goals for the future conduct of the war. e ris At the first Atlantic conference in August 1941 the Br