opments in fighter defence methods. The fighters were no longer so easily taken in by diversionary and feint attacks, even i Whereas the battles of the Ruhr and Hamburg had been entered into wirk well over Berlin as it had at Hamburg, because the city's vague outlines-ren dered even more unrecognizable by 'Triberg' artificial reflectors- up as clearly on the radar screens as had the banks of the Elbe in Hamburg did not show made accurate bombing difficult. Furthermore the H2S radar did not work around Berlin, where moreover the searchlights and usually poor winter weather German fighters and flak were also concentrated along the approach paths and exposed to attack by German fighters for much longer than when flying to rai Hamburg or the Ruhr, which naturally meant higher losses than before. 74 The round trip to Berlin and back totalled some 1,850 km. The bombers were British night-bomber offensive, brought higher losses, and had less effect, the- great air battle of 1943/4, which was to form the high point and the end of th against Berlin itself; in individual raids it even rose to over 9 per cent. The this Leipzig, Stettin, Braunschweig, Magdeburg, Schweinfurt, Augsburg, and Esce and, on 30/1 March, on Nuremberg. The total of 35 major raids in this. offensive saw 20,224 bomber sorties, 19,914 of them by four-engined aircras mainly Lancasters. The average loss-rate was 5.2 per cent, and 6.5 per ces were launched on Ludwigshafen, Leverkusen, Frankfurt am Main, Stuttgar activities were not limited to the main target of Berlin alone. Nineteen big raid P-51 Mustang had in March 1944 been extended to cover Berlin.293 initially expected. It was involved only towards the end, after the range of th As with the other two air battles of the Ruhr and Hamburg, the Allies bombers were lost, 849 were damaged, and a further 95 had to be written on 8,949 by four-engined aircraft (7,256 Lancasters, 1,643 Halifaxes, and Stirlings), together with well over 100 Mosquitoes. Over the 16