jority of its fighters had been concentrated for use in WAc RHEIN and BODENPLATTE, which left the home front extremely y vulne Germany was now more powerless than ever to resist the waves of bombers. 64 BODENPLATTE had little positive effect on the operations of the Ce army units. After the divisions under Montgomery also attacked the through area from the north on 3 January, and consequently threats encircle many German units, the OKW ordered a general retreat. The was gradually withdrawn, though not without considerable loss e fro late January/early February 1945 Model's troops, or what was left of Ah found themselves back in the same positions they had taken un December. During its final stage, the German retreat was speeded up S. them. on by the beginning of the Soviet Vistula offensive on 12 January. The Or was now forced rapidly to throw motorized units at the eastern since most of the armaments and personnel had been poured into Group B since November 1944. The lack of these troops now made itsele in the east, and their absence allowed the Red Army to advance westwards.65 16 Even though Eisenhower did not succeed in his intention of trapping sl German panzer units in the Ardennes, for the reasons described earlier Allies could look back on a respectable victory. The German attack had lapsed after only a few days, and the Germans had suffered heavy col- losses (10,749 dead, 34,225 wounded, and 600-700 armoured vehicles lost) 66 (d) Disagreement Among the Allies, and Impact of the Ardennes Offensive On Further Course of the War Yet among the Allies' senior staff, at least, there was little sense of gene euphoria at what had been achieved so far, because of several unpleasant incidents. It had all begun when Montgomery took over co com general mand 64 Jung, Ardennen-Offensive, 186; Ueberschär and Müller, Deutschland am Abgrund Gilbert, Second World War, 626; Weinberg, World at Arms, 769; Hinsley, British Intelligence 442, and Ellis, Victory, ii. 190. d, 41€ 65 S