nce in the north. Above all, however, the Allied lead. hoped it would enable them rapidly to capture major ports in the Medi ranean and thus help solve their supply problems. The Allied combined chiefs of staff (CCS) had been invasion in this area since spring 1943, and confirmed their intention contemplating first Quebec meeting. During the Teheran conference in November that. at the n at Stalin had also spoken out in favour of Allied troops landing in the co t year of France.1 The initial intention was to launch ANVIL at the same time OVERLORD, seeing it as a highly effective means of supporting the operation .. northern France. In spring 1944, however, given the bitter fighting in Italy the problems with the production of landing craft, the Allied 1 e as y and considered either abandoning this project entirely or using it simply as a th leaders at ti At the end of March, however, the American joint chiefs of staff (JCS) ) aga proposed launching ANVIL, not at the same time as OVERLO LORD but about month later.2 But Churchill and the British chiefs of staff (COS), who h been rather sceptical about ANVIL from the outset, considered that this operation should be abandoned in favour of vigorous action in Italy. Eisenhower and the US general staff decided they still wanted to proceed with ANVIL, although using fewer forces and at a slightly later date. They reasoned Yet that the southern French ports were vital to a successful campaign against Germans in western Europe because of the supply bottlenecks in the north Marshall tried to explain to the British in June 1944, this would make ; possible to bring up many of the divisions on standby in the United States spoke of between 40 and 50 units-to the European theatre of war. Moreover a landing would tie down German troops who might otherwise be deployed in northern France. The Americans felt that another advantage of ANVIL was that 1 See Weigley, Eisenhower's Lieutenants, 319; Pogue, Supreme Command, 218; Ludewig. Rückz