ns in the West location, they could be deployed in response to any development, even if : took them some time to reach the bridgehead because of enemy air power. There would also be every possibility of moving them to the coastal comk zone quickly under cover of night or bad weather.46 Towards the end of January 1944 a compromise was reached that more or L satisfied both sides. Part of the mobile reserve would be moved to the presu landing area, directly behind the Atlantic Wall, and part would be stationed Paris as a central reserve.47 This seemed the ideal solution: the e mechanize divisions deployed in advance on the coast could immediately take part in th fighting around the bridgehead, while the central reserve of mobile unite available for any eventuality. However, it also shows that the Germans w after all, not entirely sure that the Allies would land at the narrowest point of Channel, in the centre of the German defence system. Given the limited mili resources and the insufficient information obtained by the German intelligen services, it nevertheless appeared to be the best option. It is noticeable that only army officers took part in the 'panzer controversu The navy and Luftwaffe were excluded. Yet other approaches, based partly ly on pre-war thinking, had been advocated by both the Luftwaffe operations and the naval high command. In a study dated 26 August 1943 the Luftw s sta again argued that a maritime power like Britain could be beaten only by str waffe air and sea forces. Priority should once again be given to the campaign again Allied shipping and the destruction of ports. The naval leadership agreed with this view but doubted whether, given its numerical inferiority, fl the Luftwaffe was able to deliver the goods. The navy itself had of course broke off its submarine campaign in the North Atlantic a good six months earlier With regard to the deployment of air and sea forces in the event of an invasion both the navy and Luftwaffe staffs thought most