es or their opponents would be faster in bringing in motorized forces and heavy weapons. This would deter- mine whether the Allies managed to break through rapidly or were forced into a lengthy positional battle that would cost them dear. On 6 June Hitler was, at any rate, still drawing the attention of the troops in the west to the historic importance of the battles in Normandy. He told them: "You cannot evade and act: here you have to stand fast, to hold fast or die.'27 First, the Allies planned to broaden their narrow landing zones and merge them into a bridgehead. The first days' events showed that this was bound to involve bitter fighting. As the Allied intelligence services had predicted as early as 4 June, the defenders seemed to have no intention of rapidly withdrawing. Instead, they sought to pursue the battle relentlessly on this front too. The German commanders in the west thought it most likely that, by rapidly bringing in panzer divisions, they would be able not just to hold up the attackers but to drive them back and out of this part of the mainland. To this end, OB West was, on the second day after the landing, already planning to advance northwards from Caen with a panzer corps. Rundstedt assumed that the main offensive forces would be positioned there, in the eastern section of the bridgehead. However, Allied aircraft delayed the advance of German motorized units and weakened their strike power. The assault had to be postponed, and in the end did not succeed in holding back the British and Canadian troops.28 Yet at least it had put paid to the plans of Lt .- General Miles Dempsey (supreme 22 AOK 7, KTB, 6 June 1944, BA-MA RH 20-7/129; H.Gr. B, KTB, 6 June 1944, ibid., RH IX/93; Luther, Der französische Widerstand, 246, and Stafford, Britain and European Resistance, Te- 23 H.Gr. B, KTB, 6 June 1944, BA-MA RH 19 IX/93; Luftl. Kdo. 3, radio message KM, 6 1. 1944, ibid., RL 7/117 and KTB OKW, iv/I 312. 6 June 24 MarinegruppenKdo. West, KTB, 6 June 1944,