ho might otherwise be deployed in northern France. The Americans felt that another advantage of ANVIL was that 1 See Weigley, Eisenhower's Lieutenants, 319; Pogue, Supreme Command, 218; Ludewig. Rückzug, 66 ff., and Bell, 'Anvil-Dragoon', 39. 2 See Operation Anvil, AFHQ to Joint Planners (US-Brit.), 22 Dec. 1943, PRO, DEFE 2/76: Hinsley, British Intelligence, iii/2.51; Ehrman, Grand Strategy, v. 233 ff., together with Bryant. Triumph in the West, 137, 140, 143 ff. they could use French troops for this operation. These were already fighting 637 alongside the Allies in Italy or stationed in Corsica (which German troops had abandoned in October 1943) and North Africa. Their deployment in the south of France would also mobilize the many Resistance groups in that area to fight alongside the Allies.3 At the same time, a landing operation in the south of France would mean that hardly any troops or military equipment would be nailable for other operations in the Mediterranean. Yet this was very much in che interest of the Americans, since on no account did they want to support the operations in the Adriatic or the eastern Mediterranean favoured by the British.4 Since the Allied advance in Italy was making slow progress, in April 1944 the launch of ANVIL had to be delayed again. After taking Rome in early June, however, the Allies decided upon 15 August as the definitive landing date. Gen. Sir Henry M. Wilson, Allied commander-in-chief in the Mediterranean, had proposed this date with the agreement of Eisenhower and the combined chiefs of staff.5 Meanwhile, Churchill made it clear that in order to avoid endless quarrels with his American allies he was prepared, however reluctantly, to support the enterprise. In fact he continued trying to dissuade the Americans from their pet project-for instance, by proposing to launch a second landing in the Bay of Biscay or in Brittany-but Roosevelt and the US chiefs of staff were not very taken with that idea. In the end, the British pri