eschwader I long-range Geschwader (Ju 290s) I torpedo-bomber Geschwader South-East: I bomber Geschwader East: 6 bomber Geschwader 2 long-range Geschwader (Ju 290s) The main focus, the Mediterranean theatre apart, was on confronting the enemy in the west. Of the 2,960 bombers to be distributed over 22 Geschwader, 840 long-range bombers were to be Ju 290s and He 177s, while 2,120 would be workhorse' and night bombers of the Ju 188, 299, and 388 types. This shows clearly the move towards the sort of heavily armed four-engined bomber and high-altitude bomber used by the British and Americans. The forceful thrust of Peltz's memorandum was that 'the war in the air cannot be won in defence; [the enemy's] means of transport must be destroyed, in particular ships, harbours, military centres, and industries'. Making this point was telling Hitler what he, and accordingly Göring, liked to hear. Already on 7 October Göring had spoken disparagingly of what he saw as the inefficient fighter arm, and given free rein to revenge-centred thoughts aligned on those of Hitler. 'The German people don't give a damn whether we lose half our fighters, or attack airfields in England. What they want to hear, when a hospital or an orphanage is destroyed here, that the same has been done in England ... then they are satisfied . . .. I am, anyway, determined . .. to now make use of my Luftwaffe, ruthlessly and totally, so that it wins back the 505 Ibid. 722-3.  I.II. Defending German Skies 288 I.II.4. Arm for Defence or Attack? 289 sarei trell VISION ELITE faith that has been lost in it.'506 Hitler too called for fresh attacks on Britisk cities. How heavy these were was unimportant-terror from the air worked only as a threat, not as an end. The destruction wrought in Germany had, be believed, a positive effect, in that it created a vast number of people who he- nothing more to lose, and so would be fanatical in carrying on the fight so When Peltz, on 9 October on the Obersalzberg, complained to G