of the Ruhr around 36 per cent of the British bombers shot down had fallen prey to German night fighters equipped with radar, the chief of Air Staff, Portal, felt that if WINDOW had already been in use at the time 230 British bombers would still be flying. Up to the spring of 1943 not enough of the metal foil strips were, however, being produced, and what were available were not of the right, roughly 25-cm length. There were also still no projectors for discharging the bundles of foil; in the end, the aircrew were having to toss bundles of 2,200 strips out of the aircraft by hand, for a whole hour before and after the attack-in the cold a+ high altitude, a far from pleasant task. After a great many objections had been raised to the premature use of these jamming strips, the relatively feeble response of the German bomber force to the invasion of Sicily brought the realization that it was by now too weak to mount large-scale raids. In mid-Jul Bomber Command was authorized to start using WINDOW from the 23rd of that month; the night of 24/5 July 1943 saw the first use of the metal strips .+ the start of Operation GOMORRAH against Hamburg.138 Hamburg, lying on the mouth of the River Elbe, was easy to find on a radar screen, and Harris intended an undoubtedly successful large-scale raid on it also to raise the spirits of his aircrews again, who had started to discuss amone themselves the point of the costly attacks on the Ruhr. He wanted the pre dictable success to give his continued attacks on cities renewed legitimacy. Ho still believed in victory won by air power alone. On 27 May 1943, in operation order No. 173,139 he told the commanders of his five bomber groups of the great importance of Hamburg, as Germany's second largest city, with a population of 1.5 million. Its 'total destruction' would bring enormous damage to the German industrial war machine and to German morale, and make an important contribution to shortening and winning the war. To achieve this, he est