ed, none of the intended aims was achieved in full.66 In July 1944, however, the Allied leaders were faced with the urgent question of how they could take over another deep-water port by the autumn. The best way seemed to be to seize the Brittany ports as quickly as possible, so as not to be confined to the artificial harbours in Normandy, which depended on the weather, and to Cherbourg. This was why SHAEF's and Montgomery's staff considered it absolutely crucial to advance into Brittany as well.67 First, however, they had to break through the German defence lines. To this end, Bradley deployed 14 US Ist Army divisions. The bocage hedgerows that hampered tank advances were to be cleared by special devices attached to the tanks. Preparations were also made for the close cooperation between army and air force that had often been sadly lacking in the past. 68 Overall, the Allies now had more than 31 divisions and many independent brigades (370,000 US and 591,000 Empire soldiers), grouped into four armies (Ist and 3rd US, 2nd British, and Ist Canadian Armies). While some 11,000 aircraft were to support the Allied army units, the Germans could muster no more than 1,000,69 which were hardly able to offer Kluge's divisions adequate air cover. Outside the bridgehead, there were still 25 German units in the OB West area, while 25 were fighting on the Normandy front. Given the serious losses on the front, however, the Allies now estimated the actual German strength at only 16 full divisions.70 Moreover, bombing raids, together with Resistance action, had made it even more difficult to supply the German units; only a few days after the landing these were finding themselves short of fuel and munitions. The only time the Germans could bring in extra supplies at all unhindered was during periods of bad weather; but even then it was disturbingly clear that they did not have enough trucks or trains. 71 The main victims of this sorry state of affairs were the many wounded; they ofte