low, 'Hitler und die Luftwaffe', 75 ff., BA-MA, 117 Ibid. Nachlaß Below, N 745/6. 119 Goebbels, Tagebücher, Pt. 2, viii. 527-9 (25 June 1943); vii. 296 (8 Jan. 1943).  I.III. Attack the Best Form of Defence 374 I.III.I. Reasons today. But they also reveal the unreal, irresponsible phantom world Germany's Führer was living in while his nation suffered, an anguish from which he escaped into hopes of new cities, new weapons, rockets, torpedoes, new U-boat designs and jet aircraft, all of which were still far from ready for use. What also gives food for thought is how those responsible for all these new weapon systems went con explaining to him how they were going to work, as if they could still turn the wo around, and how by doing so they merely confirmed him in his fantasy world bo to Göring's thinking was similar to Hitler's. When Milch was urging him + strengthen aerial defence, with particular attention to the defence of the armaments industry, Göring told him: 'And even if all the towns in German are razed to the ground the German nation will still live! This is bad, certainl- but the nation lived before there were any towns. Even if we have to live caves in the ground! But life for us ceases when the Bolsheviks pour in.' The worst ni an enemy army might set foot on German soil was also Hitler's v mare. And this brought Göring to 'Danger Number Two', after the So Union. This was Britain. This danger could be checked only offensively, w bombers. 121 When Goebbels recorded that there was 'a storm of calls revenge', 122 then this popular demand-if it was as strong as the propaganda wanted it to be-coincided with an old, instinctive experience of Hitler's from his Vienna days, when political differences had been settled by terrorizing opponents in the workplace. 123 Hitler reacted with increasing vehemence reports of British attacks on Nuremberg, Munich, and Stuttgart in March 1943.124 When, at the beginning of the year, data-sheets concerning the spraying of poison g