id the Sorpe basin. The last-named dam was also seen by the Ministry & Economic Warfare as the most important of the three planned targets. Wallis. the Möhne and then the Eder dam were to be attacked, and finally-if thes- reckoned to need 100 t of water for every tonne of steel). To achieve this, fir water to the industries of the Ruhr (in particular the steel works, which wes attack on the dams was with one blow to interrupt for a long time the supply of the undertaking. This statement calls for an explanation. The point of the Taken together with the wrong choice of dams, this already limited the succes to succeed-only a few Lancasters were converted to carry an Upkeep bomb dams-with the German defences now alerted, a second attack could not hon diversion), and since tactically only 20 or so could be used for a raid on th Tirpitz-at anchor in Norway, and a threat to the Allied Arctic shipping routes-was to take place at the same time. Wallis had designed a simil. bomb for the purpose, though smaller and hence to be carried by Mosquitos With this parallel blow, it was hoped to keep the nature of the bombs secre and at the latest by mid-May 1943. Originally, an attack on the battlesh. when the water-level in the dams was at its highest, that is, in the late spring attack on the dams needed a full moon, and it furthermore had to take place 38 I.1. The Allied Bomber Offensive bomb, however, unwelcome 617. Sqd. 2nd wave = 5 Lancasters (t/off 2128h-2201h) _ + Lincoln SCAMPTON Altitude: 500 m NETHER - Outward tracks Return tracks 3rd wave = 5 Lancasters (t/off 0009h-0015h) -> + LANDS Bomb release Large conurbations Altitude: 20 m + RAF bombers crashed Southwold ENGLAND 1st wave = 9 Lancasters (t/off 2139h-2159h) - + AMSTERDAM Rotterdam Lek Tham LONDON Eastbourne Dover Calais O Boulogne Coast crossed 2305h-2321h Bruges Lille o I B EL GI - Waal Antwerp BRUSSELS O U Münster + Gladbeck 7 Duisburg + Dortmund Krefeld O München- OÉSSen Wuppertal R Düsseldorf Hagen Gladbacho Enn