d the strategic offensive, he argued further, he did not have the resources to carry on yet another one, which besides would allow the German armaments industry a breathing-space. But the growing failure with Berlin meant that his opinions 411 In the German Wehrmacht there were similar views on the degree of air support to be given to ground troops. See Germany and the Second World War, iv. 820-1. 412 Jacobs, 'Air Command', 65. See Tedder, With Prejudice, 504; Daily Journal, 15 June 1944, Spaatz Papers, Box 15, LoC; Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, iii. 22.  I.1. The Allied Bomber Offensive 136 I.I.6. From POINTBLANK to OVERLORD were now carrying noticeably less weight. Spaatz also feared a diversion of bi heavy bombers from their main aim of crippling the Luftwaffe so as to win superiority in the air. Harris and Spaatz both rejected the transportation plan'. So too did Eaker, on the basis of his experience in Italy; attackin transport network targets without simultaneous ground operations that fore the enemy to use up his supplies had no effect, he said.413 More serious was the rejection of Zuckerman's plan by Churchill, his of staff Sir Alan F. Brooke, the war cabinet, the joint intelligence commi s chief and the Ministry of Economic Warfare. They argued that destroying the network took too long, and would hamper both the Allies' a advance and su rail plying them later on. The Germans, moreover, were using only a fifth of the network for military transport, and this meant that at least 80 per cent of railway installations would need to be destroyed to have any appreciable effer of the It was precisely at rail junctions, they said, that damage was easier to re- than out in the countryside. The Economic Objectives Unit at the US emb in London cast doubt on Zuckerman's analysis of success to be achieved. called it exaggerated (the blocking of all ferry traffic to and from Sicily had fact been decisive, and later attacks on bridges in Italy had proved e