r future discussions, especially as the Americans were only just beginning to arm and had not yet worked out any detailed plans. But the British officers had no doubt that a start should be made immediately, and demanded that plans for structural preparations-that is, the construction of 481 airfields, the establishment of logistic centres and command HQs, and the building of landing craft-be drawn up without delay. They also recom- mended that a rapid start be made on training the specialists required to organize the loading of the vessels, and on the planning of bridgehead logistics. Despite this proposal from their military staff to begin plans for an invasion of the continent, the British representatives at the ARCADIA conference inclined, for the immediate future, towards indirect pressure on the German- and Italian- occupied territories of Europe. To some extent in preparation for a landing, Churchill and his advisors advocated undermining the enemies' military potential through bombing raids, sea blockades, and peripheral attacks. The Americans, on the other hand, showed their preference for a more direct strategy, that is, a landing on the continent.8 This difference of views continued to weigh upon relations between the Allies in the following months and years. 2. INITIAL DIFFERENCES OF VIEW It seemed at first that the Americans and the British would be pulling in the same direction. In March 1942 the planning division of the US War Department, under the overall leadership of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, decided to back the British proposal for Operation ROUNDUP, which envisaged, in principle, a landing in Europe in 1943. The Americans also proposed a limited intervention in western France in 1942 if the Soviet forces ran into trouble or the military potential of the Reich was significantly reduced. Churchill reacted positively to this proposal (codenamed SLEDGEHAMMER), but in early April 1942 the com- bined staff planners in Washington expressed considerable