owards Saarbrücken. The main assault was to be launched north of the Ardennes against Aachen, at the same time as a second assault via Metz in the Saar region. So the overall intention was a fairly broadly based advance. On the other hand, on 22 August Montgomery's staff proposed launching only an attack via Maubeuge towards Liège and further into the Ruhr area, with sections of the US 12th Army Group protecting the right flank of this operation.117 This plan was based on Montgomery's view that the Allies should attack in the north only, because of their limited resources. He therefore objected to Bradley's intention, supported by SHAEF, to plan another major assault south of the Ardennes, towards Saar or even Frankfurt.118 Bulgaria was calling for peace negotiations. As far as the theatre of war France was concerned, the Allies estimated that OB West had fost between 400,000 and 500,000 men, as well as some 20,000 motori in already vehicles, 1,500 tanks, and 3,500 artillery pieces. 112 Things were indeed not going too well for Model's divisi sions in late August 1 disorderly f early September 1944 and, in addition, many units were towards the border with the Reich. The Allies' air superiority through western area contributed considerably to this disaster. hout th Yet despite the general euphoria on the Allied side some intelligence officers were expecting the war to end by spite of all successes, major tasks still remained to be accomplished. December 194 Eisenhower made it clear in an interview on 15 August that, ir He e pointed that Allied units still faced the problem of breaching the SHAER ‘Siegfrie Line'(West Wall) and crossing the Rhine. Soon after, Churchill also vo some scepticism about the prospect of a rapid German collapse, 113 Nevertheless, the Allied leaders agreed that they must exploit the e Germa moment of weakness at once, and therefore decided to revise SHAEF's ginal plans to suspend the attacks for about a month once the Seine had reached (that i