was to keep Germany's rear safe in the sense that she would not oppose Germany's drive to conquest in the East. By declaring war on 3 September 1939, if not before that, the British had upset Hitler's fundamental political and strategic concept, even though he did not immediately abandon hope of winning Britain over to his plans. However, by continuing their struggle the British had made their final rejection clear. Now he was pursuing them with disappointment and love-hate. It was no accident that Hitler ordered a harshening of the bombing war at just that moment. Even before the reverse at Moscow he realized that the war could no longer be won.80 Obeying his pathological urge for all-or-nothing, he chose the latter. 'If the German people is not prepared to engage itself for its self-preservation, very well. Then let it disappear,' 81 he said on 27 January 1942. And so he began gradually to burn the bridges behind him. This emerged most clearly from the radicalization of racial policy against the Jews. 82 Surprisingly Hitler had no plans for terrorizing the Russians from the air. Admittedly, their towns were not as densely built up and populated as those in England, but Hitler also believed that the Russians, being subhuman', had a much more imperturbable nervous make-up that could not be shaken by any terror bombing. 83 This he regarded as proven by the way they had fought until then. Hence the preparations for a resumption of strategic bombing took a differentiated form. Against Britain, whose aircraft were over Germany almost every day, emotion predominated with Hitler and Göring' though not in the Luftwaffe leadership. In the case of the Soviet Union it was the constraints of the war on the ground that called for air operations against industrial production. (b) Terror and Counter-Terror: Anti-Western feelings In 1943 the bulk of the air raids on the Reich were against urban residential areas, as established by the Arbeitsstab Luftschutz. Some 50 to 70 per cent