s clearly too energetic and direct for Göring's liking and would probably have outshone him in Hitler's aves; the Führer thought highly of Richthofen, who besides probably saw himself as a possible successor to the Reich marshal.387 The choice fell instead on Gen. Korten,388 a year older than Jeschonnek, an experienced CGS of two air fleets, former Luftwaffe Commander Don, and most recently acting head of Air Fleet 1. He was familiar with the eastern theatre of operations. Already in ,040/1 he had come to notice by suggesting that, instead of a campaign in the east, advantage could better be taken against Britain of the strategically excellent situation in the Mediterranean. He was also skilled in diplomacy, an intelligent staff officer gifted with imagination and a winning personality, and moreover schooled in the Wehrmacht way of thinking. When at the Wehrmacht academy in 1936 he had, through a study on the American Civil War, focused attention on all the aspects needing attention in fighting a modern, technological war. He also understood how to go about building up his power base. Göring was plainly going to be able to work well with a polished officer like Korten; the latter's relationship with Hitler appeared, so far as one could tell, to be good, which would help promote the Luftwaffe's interests. Korten at once brought in his friend Koller, up to then serving as chief of general staff of Air Fleet 3 in the west, to be head of the Luftwaffe operations staff, thus relieving himself of his tactical and operational concerns and leaving his mind free to concentrate on overall strategic matters. The division of duties also meant that Korten built up a tolerable personal relationship with Göring, while Koller, the bluff Bavarian, was to be responsible for the bulk of the day-to-day work and would confront Göring ruthlessly with the really thorny questions. Korten's ideas on things were much the same as Milch's, so the two got on well together. He knew that the days