1. 307 Activity and experience report from Gen.Kdos. XII. Fl.Korps, Aug. 1943, Ia No. 2700/ 43 g.Kdos., 12 Sept. 1943, 62-3, BA-MA RL 8/88. Ibid .: instructions for operations by night- fighter units of Luftwaffe Command Centre w.e.f. 1 October 1943, LwBefh. Mitte, Führungs- abteilung, Az. 34k No. 100 100/43 g.Kdos. (Ia op), 28 Sept. 1943, 5, ibid., RM 451/220a. 243 te was, it said, essential to form a 'focus of defence', and the main fighter force weded to be massed further back, beyond the combat range of the enemy cahter escorts. To do this, the fighter units strung out along the coastline ded to be pulled back in good time. From the tactical viewpoint the right ching to do would often be not to engage purely fighter incursions in the coastal area at all. This was, basically, what Galland had long been advocating. This merging of all the authorities involved in the air defence of the Reich, however, still came up against opposition from the tough and irascible chief of Wir Fleet 3, Field Marshal Sperrle, who because of his bulldog-like appearance suas sometimes invited by Hitler to attend visits by foreign notables in order to strike some healthy fear into them. Sperrle watched jealously over his sphere of power, in particular Luftgaue VII (Munich) and XII/XIII (Wiesbaden), and Holland, Belgium, and northern France. The latter constituted, with their control zones, the forward area of Germany's air defence. In his domain he was unwilling to give up any of the responsibility for attack and defence that was normally the prerogative of every commander-in-chief of an air fleet (known in the Luftwaffe up to May 1944 as 'chief').308 But while the other air Heets were for the most part situated on the land fronts, Sperrle's command covered both the front and the homeland area; it thus formed an exception that to some extent makes his resistance to a reorganization understandable. On the other hand, the Luftgaue inside Germany were already taking their orders in air-defe