ld continue [sic] to remain with the Luftwaffe C-in-C, who in this matter was collaborating closely with the relevant authorities in the German defence industry.203 Even though Hitler himself had not yet fully accepted it, Luftwaffe circles were by now aware of the importance of a strategic bombing war against the enemy's armaments industry. Air Fleet 6 had already prepared its own draft for 'operations against the Soviet Russian war economy'.204 As a collapse of the Red Army was not to be expected in 1943, it was intended systematically to weaken and undermine its combat strength and its inner determination to resist, so that, despite its still extensive intactness, 'it will, in the long term, be no longer in a position to mount serious or dangerous large-scale break- through attacks'. As a result, German army forces could be freed for tasks in other theatres. The raids on the city of Gorkiy had shown, 'that if sufficient forces are employed good success may be achieved at the cost of tolerable losses'. Envisaged was the bombing of aero-engine works, aviation fuel refineries, tank and motor vehicle factories, railway engine works, and 'bot- tlenecks yet to be determined'. The long-range machines would be 'more usefully and more economically employed' against such strategic targets than in ground-attack operations. A switch to such strategic air warfare would have a favourable effect, in that the western Allies would have to replace Russian losses of production, it would fragment the enemy coalition's forces deployed against Fortress Europe, they would have to divert shipping space, and time would thus be gained for Germany. Emphasis was also placed on the psy- chological effect that heavy German air raids deep in their heartland would have on the Russians. As the nights were getting longer, the full range of the German bombers could be used as far afield as the general line of the Volga. 202 Chef der Lfl. 6 No. 241/43 g.Kdos. Chefs., 12 June 1943 re operations agai