Rundstedt and Eisenhower, as well as on their work in the military high command. Standing, as they did, at the centre of things, it was no wonder that Montgomery and Rommel often thought they knew better than anyone else (Montgomery, in particular, made many American officers feel this, as well as his British subordinates). Both were increasingly unwilling to listen to other opinions or admit mistakes.5 All this boded no good for co-operation on future operations in western Europe. The appointment of such successful but difficult officers to sub- ordinate posts had generated considerable tension: who could be sure it would pay off in the end? Ordinary soldiers on both sides had other things to worry about. For them the main question was whether they would survive. The war against Nazi Germany was often elevated to a crusade in the Allied camp, but the lowest ranks were mainly busy doing their jobs and hoping the war would soon be over.6 4 Warlimont, Inside Hitler's Headquarters, 427, and Salewski, 'Abwehr der Invasion', 218-19. 5 Salewski, 'Abwehr der Invasion', 126-7; History Today, 34: 20-1; Brett-James, Montgomery, 25; Bryant, Triumph in the West, 195. 1 See Salewski, Seekriegsleitung, ii. 306. 2 On the persisting differences between Americans and British in the assessment of military and political issues in the Second World War see Gallo, Strategy Conferences, 117. 3 Eisenhower, At War, 219. 6 On the mood of American, British, and Canadian soldiers see, in Andere Helme, Pfund, 'Zurück nach Hause!', 283 ff .; Schwarz, 'Mit dem größtmöglichen Anstand weitermachen', 228-9, and Keshen and Mills, 'Ich bereite mich auf den Tag vor, da es zu Ende geht', 257 ff.  II.IV. OVERLORD: Allied Preparations 584 For the German troops, a posting in the west, compared with other from was a form of life insurance-as long as the Allies had not yet landed. Up to th Invasion many of them felt their families and dependants in the Reich were in worse position because of the increasing a