stification for a war that the Germans had begun. But the Allie military leaders' great interest in and understanding of olitical issues al raised problems. In late April 1944, for example, Gen. Douglas MacArth behaviour in the Pacific prompted the American war ministry about publicity-seeking generals,3 whose statements it apparently saw a y to warn SHAER threat to the primacy of the political authorities. As we have already seen f the discussion of Patton's statements on the post-war role of the United Sta Britain, and the Soviet Union, such fears were by no means unfounded general, however, senior American officers knew where to draw the l' Marshall and Eisenhower are excellent examples, and that is surely one of reasons why they in particular, who had always worked in an area of ten between politics and warfare, later played major roles in American public lies were All this meant that German measures to counter the invasion determined essentially by military factors, and often only by internal considerations. As problems arose, the military commanders frequent resorted to improvisation. The Allies, on the other hand, endeavoured to plan and organize everything, and to establish long-term forecasts of the feasibilin Despite all these important differences, an analysis of the opposing struc- tures reveals certain similarities. Both GOCs, Rundstedt and Eisenhower, had to contend with subordinates who, because of their military achievements, had a higher standing with their own propaganda organs-and sometimes with those of the enemy-than they themselves. The men in question were Rommel and Montgomery, who were also closer to their respective supreme com- manders, Hitler and Churchill. This was bound to have a negative impact on relations with their immediate superiors, Rundstedt and Eisenhower, as well as on their work in the military high command. Standing, as they did, at the centre of things, it was no wonder that Montgomery and Rommel often thought they knew bet