in the closing days of December were likewise unsuccessful. Better results were achieved in a pre- cision raid by 12 Lancasters of 617 Squadron on the night of 8 February 1944 on the Gnôme-Rhône aero-engine works at Limoges, because in that instance the TIs dropped from a low level, by the squadron commander Leonard G. Cheshire himself, found their mark very precisely, as did the bomb-load that followed. A fresh precision attack by the squadron on the Anthéor viaduct on the night of 13 February 1944 was again a failure. All these raids had, however, shown that the Lancasters, as a high-level attack force, needed their own low-level visual target-marking facility; and best-suited to provide this was the Mosquito. Thus, sound though the Pathfinder principle might be, the Pathfinder forces themselves-who not infrequently marked the wrong targets-proved not always to be reliable compared to the heavy bombers having their own low-level marking. 129 The rightness of this conclusion had already been shown by the night attacks, in good visibility, carried out on Schneider-Creusot, the Zeppelin works at Friedrichshafen, and the Peugeot factory at Montbéliard. On the night of 20 July 1943 the Schneider armaments works at Le Creusot were attacked by 290 heavy bombers. As the Pathfinders had dropped only flares, and the bombers had to pick out their targets themselves in the light from these and could not aim their bombs at ground TIs, only about one-fifth of the plant was hit. As a result, residential areas suffered severe damage. The Zeppelin works at Friedrichshafen,130 which made the Germany air-defence system's 129 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 181-7; Hastings, Bomber Command, 283. For more on the Limoges raid, see below, pp. 00. 130 USSBS, Report No. 25: Luftschiffbau, Zeppelin GmbH, Friedrichshafen-on-Bodensee, Germany, NA RG 243.  I.1. The Allied Bomber Offensive 42 I.I.2. Bomber Command Night Raids Würzburg radar and was also planned to produce th