ities. 136 Despite brutal repression, in which the German occupyin forces and their French collaborators were second to none, the Resistance succeeded in broadening its operations and rendering them more effective with ever passing month. According to a report from the German n chief of transport, it destroyed or damaged 137 locomotives and 845 railway trucks in April alone, killing or wounding many soldiers in the process. 137 Apart from the reasons already given, the partisans owed their success to thei- ability to devise new forms of organization in response to the enemy's repressivo measures. The Conseil National de la Résistance, set up in early summer 1942.96 a united leadership for all the resistance groups in France, was soon uncovered k the Germans and its operational structure destroyed. In response, , the situation report July to Sept. 1943, 16-17, ibid., RW 35/293; on the situation of the civili population see Quellien, 'Calvados', 2 ff. Resistance adopted a more decentralized structure which, though less efficient, 537 ensured the survival of many groups. In February 1944, in order to organize its operations in a more military fashion and increase its strike power, it formed at De Gaulle's instigation the Forces Françaises de l'Intérieur (FFI), which even had a general staff of their own. 138 In the first six months of 1944 resistance fighters succeeded in gaining control of whole areas, particularly in southern and couth-eastern France. Other teams supplied the Allies with information but waited in small groups often including Allied officers-for the invasion to begin before engaging in military action. Cadre groups with purely organizational and administrative tasks were also formed secretly months before the landing, with a view to later replacing the Vichy administration.139 On the German side there were widely divergent views about what methods to use to combat the growing resistance. No one disputed the objective of maintaining maximum stability o