nd the whole operation to fall apart. On this aspect, the failure. Quite apart from the fighters, wind and cloud over the target aren weapon the British did not find out about until the late summer of 1944. The Luftwaffe lost only ten aircraft. In the effect it achieved, the raid was a total equipped with Schräge Musik, cannon mounted to point diagonally upwards.a the bombers had clearly been shot down from underneath, by night fighter had ever suffered. It was 'more than a setback-it was a defeat'.319 Many of around 70 aircraft were damaged. It was the heaviest blow Bomber Command point of write-off. This put the loss rate at 11.8 per cent, and on top of this bombers, 95 were destroyed immediately, and a further 12 damaged to the the bomber stream's path, to be seen by all the night fighters. Out of 795 RAD the build-up of the bomber formation over East Anglia, so all the night-fighter taken in by the diversionary attempts by a few Mosquitoes. They had located units could be put up in plenty of time. German bombers dropped flares alone outmoded LICHTENSTEIN AI gear. The German fighter controllers were ne for example, know the wavelength of the new LICHTENSTEIN SN2 interception navigational and interception and aiming devices worked. They did not mostly by flak. They had in fact been shot down mainly by Zahme So ('Tame Boar') fighters; the British had not discovered exactly how the latter number of bombers lost over Berlin on the 24/5 March to have been downs aircraft. Here Bomber Command paid the penalty for assuming the large the Wilde Sau ('Wild Boar') night-fighter pilots were using daytime-fights fighters had suffered very badly during the American daylight raids, and the to Fulda passing two of the fighter defence's assembly beacons; but. diversionary raids of any size were planned. It had been believed that the t no poor, even though there was no avoiding the long straight haul from Charlere. nights heralding the spring. Chance, however, brought further and u