rotection 237 Image caused by air raids, and to forestall the occurrence of disasters. A failure of the ources of power, and of the supply of power to the front, is to be prevented. We-raid protection was thus a kind of military support service, and was managed from the viewpoints first of military efficiency and only secondarily Lot of safeguarding humanitarian and cultural interests. Once the territory of Le German homeland too became, from early in 1943, a theatre of war Lough the British and Americans complementing each other in a round-the- lock bombardment, there was an evident need to bring the military and adlian ARP agencies more closely together under a single command. The Load of Luftwaffe inspectorate 13 (ARP) had in fact previously come under the cretary of state for aviation, and then the head of air defence; yet in his capacity as head of the civil air-raid protection working staff (department I of «se inspectorate) responsible for the management and deployment, together with the ARP warning service, he had since the outbreak of war answered to the chief of the Luftwaffe general staff. Co-operation between ARP and the Luftwaffe general and operations staffs Ichich in the first years of the war had in any case been of no great urgency, since the danger from the air was still not acute) soon became very difficult through the physical separation of the two offices. Air-raid protection was housed in Berlin-Wannsee, while the major part of the military operations staff uus at the forward HQ (codenamed 'Robinson') in East Prussia. On the military side the interests of civil air-raid protection could be looked after only as a sideline by section Ia/Flak op. 2 of the Luftwaffe general staff's operations department. Now, however, ARP's importance had grown and quick action was repeatedly needed. At the beginning of 1943, therefore, sub-department la/Flak op. Flak of (operations) department I of the Luftwaffe general staff was expanded with group Ia/Flak op. 3,