554 At the time of the attack on I August oua there was only one Gruppe from JG 54 and one from NJG 6 on station sere, plus one Romanian fighter Staffel; besides these there were 40 heavy d 26 medium and light German and Romanian flak batteries, together with for searchlight and balloon-barrage batteries. When the second raid came on . April 1944 (during which the Luftwaffe believed it had shot down 22 to 28 Scent of the US 15th Air Force's four-engined bombers), the line-up of the Dedefences under the commanding general of the Luftwaffe in Romania and tie fighter sector controller Romania was as follows: two fighter Gruppen and ne fighter Staffel, one night-fighter Gruppe and two night-fighter Staffeln, a Romanian fighter Gruppen, and two Romanian fighter Staffeln. Under command of 5 Flak Division there were 48 heavy flak batteries (mostly norman, but also Romanian and Bulgarian), more than 40 medium/light ask batteries, and eight searchlight batteries. As well as these there were a few smokescreen companies and balloon-barrage and railborne batteries. The craft warning service and radar organization were in German hands. There was also a motorized air protection regiment operating in the Ploiești region. This boosting of the defence forces shows the enormous importance Roma- aian oil held for Germany's war effort-it covered 25 per cent of oil production aeds.555 There was often no petrol for flying the 'Mausi' Ju 52s used to clear mines in the Danube. By late June 1944, when the Red Army had already coached Romanian territory in the north-east, the German and Romanian Achter units protecting the oilfields were further reinforced to number 174 day and 54 night fighters, with a serviceability level of around 85 per cent. They chus had a far higher strength than was available on the Italian front and on the western front when the invasion started. In early August the flak batteries had even risen to 113 heavies and 80 medium and lights. The use of smokescreens soon b