On fighters shot down by their own flak see Westermann, Ground-based Defenses, 388-0: on the flak-fire directors, ibid. 374-7; MGFA, Sammlung Grabmann, R 41; Grabmann 'Luftverteidigung', BA-MA ZA 1/2476, 608-9. See also below, pp. 242-57. 231 Gre that had been given when the RAF began using WINDOW were rescinded. How, when the interference was slight, individual aircraft were to be engaged as before by large and single batteries using the Type 40 fire-control equip- ment; when it was severe the aircraft were to be fired on along their approach path, aiming-off by guesswork; when the radars were rendered totally ineffective, then barrage fire was to be used. For this a whole series of assessments were to be made, including data from further off, which made close contact between the individual tracking stations essential. The search- lights took on extra importance for both the flak and the fighters. On the whole, anti-aircraft fire remained extremely dependent on radar tracking, which was highly vulnerable to interference, and on good visibility; so it continued to be extremely inadequate and inefficient.270 Despite the parlous state of the flak defences, they were to be further reinforced-in the hope that the problem posed by WINDOW would soon be overcome. Hitler wanted them 'enormously' expanded.271 'The Führer tells us', Milch said on 12 October 1943, 'not one flak shell fewer, not one AA gun fewer, not one tank fewer, not one U-boat fewer, but for all that so much more for the flak'; and, resignedly, went on: 'We are not rich, and we cannot say "we can do everything".'272 Since out of the 4.4-6.4 per-cent losses being inflicted on the enemy still only just over I per cent were falling to the flak compared to between 3 and 5 per cent to the fighters, Milch preferred doubling fighter production to quintupling that of anti-aircraft artillery. The latter would make no difference to the level of flak hits-2 per cent at most-whereas the former would at least double ene