Van Normandie naar Nederland', 299 ff .; Weinberg, World at Arms, 685, Ellis. P. Force, 375 ff., 390; Ellis, Victory, i, 447; Badsey, 'Great Britain', 285; Willmott, Great Crusade » Kirkpatrick, 'The Build-up', 128, and Keegan, Six Armies, 260-1. 613 The Germans, for their part, intended to hold on to bridgeheads west of the Seine. According to the Wehrmacht command instructions of 20 August, a new line of defence along the Seine and Yonne, the Canal de Bourgogne via Dijon and Dôle to the Swiss border, should be envisaged in case this proved impossible. To this end sections of the First Army, which had meanwhile begun to withdraw from south-western France with some 100,000 men, would join up with the Fifth Panzer Army south-east of Paris. On 16 August, only a day after the successful landing of American and French troops in Provence (Operation DRAGOON, see below, Ch. VI), Hitler ordered the Nineteenth Army in southern France to retreat along the Rhône towards the north. These troops would then make contact with the remains of Army Group B at Dijon. In this way Hitler and OKW hoped to prevent Allied armoured divisions from reaching the Upper Rhine rapidly, via the Belfort Gap.99 According to Jodl's instructions of 22 August, the German troops were to take all their movable belongings with them on their retreat, as well as any able-bodied young men from the area. They were to destroy any other goods and material useful as supplies and for the transport system. This 'scorched earth' order undoubtedly contributed to worsening the economic situation in France, which had already become precarious as a result of the ruthless occupation policy.100 Meanwhile US troops had managed, as planned, to liberate Évreux on 23 August, and Louviers and Elbeuf on the Seine two days later. As a result the German troops between Elbeuf and the Seine estuary risked being driven back to the river and wiped out, given that Allied bombers had already destroyed the bridges prior to the Normandy