-a substantial interruptions and interference in production in the armame factories. It was therefore decided, in discussions between Milch, Speer, number of industrialists, and Hitler, to introduce, by a decree of 21 August 1943, a 'public air-raid warning' signal. A high-pitched continuous tone lasting 15 seconds and repeated three times warned of the possibility of light daylight raids, when it was left to members of the public whether or not to go to the shelters. A great deal of confusion arose when a few bombs were then actually dropped. A supplementary decree on 24 August 1942 ordered the continua- tion of work only in factories important to war production, when these were not under immediate threat. The extension of the British intruder flights to the hours of darkness as well prompted Speer and Bormann in March 1943 to propose also using the 'public warning' signal at night, but this was turned down by Hitler because of the possible adverse effect on public opinion-just one landmine dropped at night might cause the loss of 1,000 to 2,000 lives. 295 nts The advent of H2S brought a fresh problem, that of camouflaging targets against the 'electronic eye' in areas where the great distance from the bombers' bases meant that their GEE and OBOE navigation systems were no longer usable and the panoramic picture provided by their H2S airborne radar sets became essential. The disguising of Berlin's lakes by means of Triberge has already heen mentioned. Plans were made for camouflaging other important targets close to lakes as at, for instance, Friedrichshafen, Stettin, and Hamburg, and industrial sites using landbased Triberge and dummy buildings as at Leuna. The groundwork for this had been done with the aid of the BERLIN radar (the German copy of the H2S equipment). Carrying out such labour- and materials-intensive plans soon, however, proved hopeless. As radar does not depend on visible light, it might seem strange that great importance continued to be attached to