s to avoid giving any hint as to where the landings would actually be made. The Seine bridges were largel destroyed only one or two weeks prior to the invasion, and those over the Loi only at the time of the landings themselves (since destroying them would ha given the secret away). Cutting the Seine bridges revealed nothing, since thi affected only communications between the German Seventh and Fifteenth Armies, and moreover left landings in either area still a possibility. The B-26 Marauder medium bomber proved best suited to smashing bridges, a tar target that called for a total of only 4,400 t of bombs. From 21 May fighters of the strategic and tactical air forces also went for trains in France and Belgium often, for want of liquid-fuel bombs, releasing their drop-tanks on them Attacks like these were intended to persuade French railwaymen that working for the Germans was not worth the risk. More than 50,000 German worker and forced labourers were brought in to keep rail traffic moving in France where by day it was being severely interrupted. It was reckoned that up to 9 June rail movements in France had been reduced to 38 per cent. German troops being brought up as reinforcements had to be de-trained far from the battlefield, and make time-consuming marches across country. Bombing the bridges proved to be decisive for cutting the German defen- ders off from their supplies. It cost little in men and machines; but against this. 429 Middlebrook and Everitt, Bomber Command War Diaries, 505-6. 430 USSBS, Report 2a: Statistical Appendix to Over-All Report, 68 ff., NA RG 243; Davis Spaatz, 410. 143 the attacks on the railway centres can be seen as a tragic mistake, for they cost the lives of up to 12,000 civilians, and hindered the subsequent flow of supplies to the Allies. A large proportion of the bombs dropped by heavy bombers on marshalling yards would have been better used on the German armaments industry, but Eisenhower could not be sure the interdiction plan wou