9-76; Air Ministry, 233-6. 216 Muller, German Air War, 122-35; Herhudt von Rohden, 'Luftwaffe gegen Rußland', 181 ff.  I.III. Attack the Best Form of Defence 390 I.III.I. Reasons on the ground, and of forcing a decision'. It went on: 'A precondition for sue cess in such a situation is a complete switch of emphasis in favour of the air r wa at the expense of other means of warfare. Such a total transformation of warfar takes time. Preparations must be made well in advance.'217 As a result of the defensive mobile warfare that began in the east in the late summer, theo preparations were moved to the back burner; with a calming of the situat in the autumn, however, and in connection with the Luftwaffe's preparation for operations against Britain, they were taken up again. The fact that success was ultimately achieved in the east was perhaps primarily due to ti inability of the Luftwaffe command to bring objectives into line with its mean Moreover, not only did the deployment of suitable aircraft take too much ti but identifying the industrial bottlenecks whose destruction would totally paralyse the Soviet arms industry also proved a very lengthy business: becau ause of a lack of sufficient in-house expertise, and of the late start r made on pre parations in Luftwaffe operations staff Ic, numerous other authorities had to be involved.218 no The process of target selection dragged on throughout the l late summer until the winter of 1943/4. As early as summer 1943 Prof. Steinmann of the Luftwaffe construction office had pointed out that within the Moscow-Upper Volga region the great power stations in the Tula-Rybinsk-Gorkiy triangle were the most important targets, as they supplied power to the armament plants.219 These included the high-voltage transmission lines (to be severed with the Seilbombe, 220 an 'air-towed charge' invented by Steinmann), as well transformer stations. Luftwaffe operations staff Ic had cut down Steinmann' extensive target lists to eleven major powe