e they were, amazingly, used as a reconnaissance almost 2,400 km. Production began only in June 1943, and when the free with an extra internal tank and two external tanks had a tactical range of Merlin-Packard V-1650-3 it was capable of 732 km/h at around 9,000 m, and Merlin engine that the US Air Force took another look at it. Powered by the in October 1942 it showed impressive performance when fitted with the this aircraft, which with 1,150 hp was underpowered, and it was not und during the Dieppe raid in 1942. The Americans showed next to no interest end of 1940, and had proved inadequate as a fighter. It was consequentl handed over to Army Cooperation Command, and first went into action they had neither the necessary range nor the ceiling to cope with the German fighters. The P-51 had been built in America to British specifications since the from November. These two still did not, however, solve the problem, since which had previously seen service in North Africa, was brought into operation Mustang for escort duties. In the meantime the twin-boom P-38 Lightning Lovett, who on 19 June 1943 urged on Gen. Arnold the conversion of the P ... had to turn back at Aachen. It was now the deputy secretary of war for air October 1943 the Thunderbolts escorting bombers heading for Schweinf a true long-range escort fighter was neglected until the middle of 1943. Still: that saw long range and manoeuvrability as incompatible, the idea of building fitted with jettisonable fuel tanks to increase its range. Because of the minds protect their bomber formations with accompanying heavily armed bombers remained low only within the range of their own fighter cover. most of the casualties were being caused by fighters. The capacity of bomber formations to protect themselves had proved to be a fallacy; bomber losser Everything thus pointed to the need for fighter escorts that could fly all the way with the bombers. While the British considered it impossible to design fighters like this