superiority was not only hampering the planned build-up of a German defensive front along the French coasts, but also constantly wrecking communications networks, the arms factories, and the roads and railways. The Allied air forces would, however, scarcely have been able, as some of their commanders insisted, to bring about the defeat of Germany on their own. But they did play a very large part in the success of the landings; once the Allied troops had broken out of the beachheads, which the German defenders had been unable to prevent for long and then only with heavy and irreplaceable losses, all that was left for the Wehrmacht was a headlong retreat to the Reich border and the north-east corner of the Netherlands. The loudly vaunted effect of new kinds of weapon, too, had proved a cruel deception. The disaster in the west was for Hitler, followed without demur by the top military leadership, no reason for giving up the hopeless battle. He certainly had no doubt that losing the war would mean his own end, and he continued to put off both so long as he was able. His hopes were pinned on gaining time and gradually stabilizing the western front, so as to launch a fresh attack when the right moment came. It suited his wishful thinking to believe that with a push through the Ardennes he could finally achieve the turnabout in the war he was wanting. All that this mere fighting-for-survival achieved was that minimal and short-lived successes were again paired with enormous losses of men and materials that could never be replaced. The Wehrmacht was now barely able to hold up the Allied advance into the heart of the Reich. Hitler still clung to the groundless hope that the coalition between his enemies would fall apart before he was forced to give up the fight. Here, again, he was misreading the realities, and moreover vastly overestimating the importance the Allies still attached to him. The anti-Hitler coalition also had a moral dimension: it insisted on the unconditiona