chy administration.139 On the German side there were widely divergent views about what methods to use to combat the growing resistance. No one disputed the objective of maintaining maximum stability of rear communications for the Wehrmacht, but there was considerable controversy about the approach to be taken. In autumn 1943 many were still warning that excessive repression would swell the ranks of the Resistance, while in early 1944 others proposed a tougher approach. In mid-February the military commander for France argued that The overriding concern is to ensure the security of German troops and respect for the Wehrmacht, so as to squash signs of rebellion at the outset'. If innocent people suffered in the process, so be it. 140 Opinions differed widely even within OB West's own command: the officer responsible for monitoring the situation of the enemy considered that shooting hostages was of no use in combating the Resistance, while Rundstedt maintained that, for the security of German troops, 'harsher measures' were needed, especially in southern France.141 These differences of approach may account for the lack of uniform action against the Resistance. The methods adopted depended on local conditions, with the many-layered command structure a major factor. As a result, the range of counter-insurgency measures was very wide. The Germans took preventive action wherever possible, attempting to discourage attacks and sabotage by reinforcing guard details on supply facilities, arms factories, and transport centres, and by arming harvest auxiliaries. Radio jammers were used to impede the coordination of resistance operations, particularly with a view to the imminent Allied landing, since the German intelligence services were aware of the important role of British radio 138 See Jäckel, Frankreich, 307, and Doise and Vaïsse, Diplomatie et outil militaire, 377-8. 139 BdS for the area of Mil. Cdr. France, 12 Jan. 1944, BA-MA RL 7/153; Knipping, Réseaux, 122 ff .; OB West