o be expected. More still were needed if the units were to be dispersed in the region and be kept fully operational whatever happened. On the other hand, the army was demanding that all such airfields close to the coasts should be rendered unusable, as it feared the enemy's airborne troops would be landed on them and was also assuming that, because of Allied air superiority, it would anyway be impossible to make any use of them. The Luftwaffe therefore gave up a whole series of airfields inside a 100-km-wide strip along the Channel coast. It was planned to station most of the fighters and fighter-bombers north and north-east of Paris, and the bombers further to the south. This placed the 619 Ose, Entscheidung im Westen, 26-8; Wolfgang Pickert, 'Das III. Flakkorps in der Norman- dieschlacht', unpubl. Ms from April 1947, MGFA, B-597; Gundelach, 'Drohende Gefahr West', 301. 620 Hans Speidel, 'Schlacht in der Normandie 1944. Führung, Gedanke und Ende des Feldmarschalls Rommel', unpubl. Ms, 17, BA-MA, C-017. 621 Alfred Bülowius, 'Das II. Fliegerkorps an der Invasionsfront, Januar 1944 bis 13. Juni 1944'. unpubl. Ms, 6, 16, BA-MA, B-620. 327 fighters at a disadvantage: if the intention was to use them as fighter-bombers, their short range and the need to carry drop-tanks made this hardly possible. A shortage of men and materials, plus a certain lack of initiative among the territorial authorities who had been serving in France for a long time and had grown used to leading a relatively easy life, stood in the way of a rapid expansion of the ground organization needed for aircraft. This situation was mitigated somewhat by the transfer in the winter of 1943/4 of the staff of II Air Corps from Italy, where it had had experience of setting up a ground organization while an enemy enjoyed superiority in the air, and it now brought fresh impetus to the task. 622 The airfield expansion programme took special account of the need for camouflage, for spreading the aircraft dispersals