mk Command, 264. 93 bombed out during the night of 23/4 November 1943.296 Together with Goebbels, Speer did everything in his power to keep things moving in the centre of the city, and after every raid to restore the appearance of 'normal' conditions as quickly as possible. This was not only dictated by necessity, but was also in Berlin especially a matter of prestige. Hitler had ordered it, and cost was not to count. The damage to morale that would otherwise occur mattered, in Hitler's mind, more than an increase in the overall costs of the war. Vast numbers of prisoners of war and convicts, forced labourers, and Jews were put to work clearing up. The water supplies could soon be restored, though gasholder capacity was reduced from 2.25 m. cubic metres in December 1043 to 0.48 m. in March 1944. At first, the bomb damage to the Berlin arms industry seemed threatening. On 23 February 1944 Goebbels looked on the Siemens works as being totally destroyed,297 and at the time Milch declared gloomily that 'the British have calculated exactly how many raids they need for Berlin. It's probably 25. They've made 15 so far, and have 10 still to go. They have also said that once they've done with Berlin, it will be the turn of industry in central Germany.'298 The raids that had had to be endured over the past months 'could not be withstood in the long run'. The American daylight raids on the aviation industry however, he, saw as far more dangerous, as they would strike from Germany's hand her only weapon against attacks from the air. Carl Frydag, the managing director of the Henschel aircraft works, considered the series of raids on Berlin the heaviest of the whole war where the aviation industry was concerned.299 A great many factories, in particular those of the electronics and tank-building industries at Alkett, were hit more or less severely. Taken as a whole, however, the effect on Berlin's industry was still not significant, even though it may at first have seemed so at th