on at the various command levels. If the Germans had assessed their opponents potential strength at all realistically, they would soon have realized how senseless this enterprise was. The fact that the Germans regarded the Allied air superiority as no more than a marginal problem is merely one particular example of these mistaken assessments. In their evaluations, the OB West and Army Group B staff officers obviously took little note, or even suppressed all memory, of what had been learned about Allied tactics and warfare since the Normandy landing. They assumed the Allied units' combat strength was only moderate, and did not believe their opponents would react quickly to a surprise attack. Both of these assumptions proved correct to only a very small degree. Just as the Germans underestimated the strength of their opponent, they also overestimated their own capabilities. Guts, recklessness, and the resolve to win could not in themselves make up for the lack of leadership and training, which became particularly apparent among the Sixth SS-Panzer Army staff and troops. All these factors indicate that military expertise and professionalism gradually came to take second place; instead, the soldiers were to be inspired by a fanaticism that would persuade them to fight and die for their Führer. So WACHT AM RHEIN can be regarded as the final, desperate attempt by Hitler and his generals to turn the tide once more. There was no longer any sign of an attainable tactical or strategic objective, whether in Hitler's plans or Model's and Rundstedt's alternative proposals." 71 Weinberg, World at Arms, 765-6; Jung, Ardennen-Offensive, 198 ff. and 203, together with Schwendemann, 'Strategie', 242.  II. VIII. Summary VIII. Summary As the course of the Normandy landings showed, the Allies' years preparation for the invasion proved their worth in the end. The successe. the first half of June were due in the main to the fact that the Allies managed. organize a combined warfare strateg