he conditions of the time. 488 PART II German and Allied Conduct of the War in the West DETLEF VOGEL 487 Eisfeld, Mondsüchtig, 130 ff .; Neufeld, Rocket and the Reich, 314-17. Discussion of Weyer and Braun, by Tobias Ruther in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, 27 Apr 2000, p. 13.  I. The Germans in the Occupied Territories of Western and Northern Europe up to Mid-1943 I. STRATEGIC AND IDEOLOGICAL FACTORS THE strength of the armed forces in the German-occupied territories of western and northern Europe was mainly determined by two factors. One was the assessment of the overall war situation, on which Hitler's strategic aims had a major influence. The other was racial ideology. With regard to the military situation, the German dictator hoped that following the occupation of Denmark, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and a large part of France, Churchill would see his position was hopeless and do a deal with the Reich. Contrary to expectations, London failed to respond to German peace-feelers and appeared determined to fight on against Germany and Italy. Hitler decided to bring Britain to her knees by a demonstration of military power. In late June 1940 Gen. Alfred Jodl, head of the Wehrmacht Operations Staff, proposed bombing Britain's war industry to a standstill, terrorizing its cities through air raids, and, in the last resort, invading it from the sea. At that time Hitler was still not prepared to authorize air raids on Britain's civilian population, but he ordered plans to be drawn up for an invasion, codenamed SEA LION. For an invasion to go ahead, Germany had first to gain control of the air over the Channel and the south of England; only then could her forces attempt to cross the Straits of Dover and establish their planned first bridgehead between Worthing and Ramsgate. But despite intensive operations by the Luftwaffe, the RAF could not be beaten back. In mid-September 1940 the decision to attempt a landing was postponed temporarily, and a month la