ts in still wrongly assumed around midday on 6 June that not only had the landing inaccurate information. For instance, General Dollmann's Seventh Army staff 593  II.V.I. Forming a Bridgehead II.v. Operation OVERLORD bridges and the destruction of lines of communication caused disruption in man areas. This had another advantage for the Allies: the breakdown of telepho- 594 lines forced the Germans to resort to radio communications, which, however, th Allies could decode. Under these conditions, it was very uncertain when i motorized divisions would be able to reach the deployment area between C. and Bayeux as planned by OB West.22 Apart from the initial confusion about the enemy's intenti tions, there another reason why the defenders were so slow to bring in their reserves ever, the Germans assumed they had to deal only with a diversionary operas in Normandy. Hitler, Rundstedt, and even Rommel agreed that the assault would take place very soon north of the Seine. This was consistent. e ma repeated reports of an imminent Allied attack on Antwerp.23 So it is easy to understand why Rommel, who returned from a birthday in Swabia on the afternoon of 6 June, was more concerned with the def readiness of the Fifteenth Army than of the Seventh Army. He did not y pa want to risk bringing in reinforcements from northern Brittany, , a relatively s march away from the front. Fearing Allied landings there too, he decided instead to order infantry regiments in the southern coastal zones of the Der! sula to be moved to the Normandy front. In all likelihood, however, they won hardly arrive in time to intervene in the first, decisive battles for the bridgebe- Air Fleet 3 was not to be deployed in greater strength until 7 June either : order to attack Allied ships assembling off the coast. In view of its hopelen er, in inferiority, the navy confined itself to 'more stringent surveillance' the approaches by naval surface vehicles. In any case, the few submarin available were not capabl