, up to the time the method was continued in the spring of 1944, at over 100; as a stopgap tactic, it had ber $ dis too costly. 200 During the autumn further steps were made in the fight t again inst the enem jamming and spoofing measures. Co-operation between XII Fighter and the radio interception service-a top-secret instrument for eavesdropp on the enemy-was stepped up, and the service enhanced with a direes finding network of KORFU radars. Particularly experienced night-fighter cro were used under 'Y' guidance as scouts; they were to make bomber streams as early as possible, even before these reached the contact with shadow them by means of their AI radar, and report their position. Using th h the NAXOS-Z sets, they were able to detect bombers carrying H2S. Scout air coa were also put up to wait above the bombers' likely targets, and report in soon as marker flares were dropped and a raid begun. The controllers' aircr craft transmissions were largely switched to Morse-code WIT, and R/T orders spoken by a woman, in order to prevent messages being faked by enemy crew. Co-operation with the Reich aircraft warning service was further sten up, so that the enemy approach tracks were confirmed by acoustic deter as well. When several large-scale raids were being carried ied out the defen efforts were concentrated on only one of these, so that attacks on the bom! formations could be made more or less en masse. There were even attempt pts to have long-range night fighters tackle returning enemy aircraft over England. the Fighter Corps' Unternehmen Sternflug (Operation Starflight) proposal for this was, however, turned down by the Luftwaffe command, since losses of aircraft fitted with the latest AI sets over enemy territory had to be avoided while without such equipment long-range night fighting was doomed to ure. It was, in any case, hoped that improving the aircraft warning sem o fail- would make it possible to defeat the RAF's spoof raids.201 Despite a lack of equipmen