Ploiești were, in a quite intentional sideshow, also bombed. He had been trying since the beginning of March to get permission to attack Romanian oil but at that time neither Churchill nor Portal had seen this as opportune and Gen. Wilson, C-in-C Mediterranean, had been obliged on orders from the combined chiefs of staff to commit the 15th Air Force to the battle for Monte Cassino. Spaatz bristled at this restriction of his authority, threatened d to resign his command, and complained to Arnold. As a result, raids marshalling yards in the Balkans, including Ploiești, were finally approved in on order to hamper supplies to the retreating German troops on the eastern front This was emphasized again by Eisenhower's order of 17 April which used the broadly-interpretable phrasing 'targets of major political and military importance in south-east Europe'. The 15th Air Force flew further raids on IS 434 Irving, Mare's Nest, 164. For more on the bombing of V-weapon targets (CROSSBOW) and on the ski-sites, see Ch. III/3 below, 'The V-Weapon Offensive', pp. 426 ff. 435 Army Air Forces, iii. 102. 145 and 24 April, and on 4 May received official permission to carry on with these missions. On 4 June a press communiqué from Eisenhower's headquarters officially announced the offensive against the German synthetic fuel industry. The fuel offensive thus arrived, so to say, through the back door.436 The strikes on Ploiești intensified with large raids by the 15th Air Force on 3, 18, and 31 May 1944, involving a total of 1,660 heavy bomber sorties. On 8 June Spaatz gave orders that for both his strategic air fleets the interdiction of fuel supplies to the Wehrmacht was from now on to be their foremost task, an instruction that remained in force until the end of the war. The damage done by the 15th Air Force during the raids in April and May on oil depots and refineries was, because of defensive smokescreens, not all that great. In June, the 15th had damaged about a half of the 60 fuel-