e US corps; see ibid. 53. 29 See Jacobsen, Teilung der Welt, doc. 201, Op. 'Overlord', 361 ff., and 'Preliminary notes on "overlord"', 20 July 1943, PRO, WO 205/33; see also 'Outline plan for the defeat of Axis powers! 491 installations so thoroughly that they could not be used to bring in more Allied troops and supplies in the first critical stage of the invasion. The planners therefore returned to an idea put forward in 1942: the landing should be carried out across open beaches, and further troops and supplies brought in to artificial harbours codenamed MULBERRIES. This would make the invasion force relatively independent with regard to the flow of personnel and equip- ment until the damaged ports could be put back into service. This solution would also have an extremely important surprise effect since, according to British intelligence, the Germans considered a major landing on open beaches unlikely. So as not to betray the location of the landing area by a concentration of ships in British seaports, the invasion fleet should be spread over as many ports as possible, from the Thames estuary in the east to the Bristol Channel in the west, and the convoys should not set course for the actual landing area until shortly before the invasion.30 But even assuming the Germans were taken by surprise, the planning officers were adamant that there must not be more than three German divisions defending the landing area on the day of the invasion (D-Day). They argued that an Allied bridgehead could be held only if the German C-in-C West had no more than 12 divisions available as an initial reserve, and the Germans were unable to transfer more than 15 divisions to France within two months of D-Day.31 Morgan and his staff officers concluded that the main task was therefore to prevent the Germans strengthening their forces in the intended landing area. They accordingly proposed that the enemy's attention be diverted to the Pas-de-Calais, that reconnaissance missions be flown ov