ed a largely unprotected area on Nineteenth Army's right A the west, especially as the Resistance had stepped up its activities in ank in n the south of France since the beginning of the Normandy landing. The Ma destroyed intelligence and transport communications, and also quis attacked German occupation troops, French police forces, and administrative off In the area around Brive, Tulle, and Limoges they even managed to end German garrisons. As early as 7 June, Rundstedt, Kluge's OB West predecessor, had reacted this with the following order: 'The development of the maquis situation n calls the ... immediate, ruthless crushing of any strong forces.' To this end Reserve Army Corps, together with 189 Reserve and 2 ('Das Reich') SS.P. Division, had been put under the command of the military LXV commander France. The high command of Army Group G considered it most importe Panze grant 'reliable eastern troops ... a free hand' when it came to i punishment' on the population. Here, the German military imposing '} leaders were cle trying to compromise the soldiers of the 'eastern battalions' by making th commit crimes, so as to tie them more closely to the Germans.20 Since Wehrmacht and its French supporters rarely managed to capture any resis fighters, they tried to spark off unrest by 'counter-terror' 1 measures, as th were called in Army Group G's war diary. For example, after a Maquis raid the German garrison in Tulle on 9 June, 2nd SS-Panzer Division troops on march from the south of France to Normandy hanged 99 randomly selected civilians from the town's lamp-posts as a deterrent, and shot many others One of the worst of the many massacres took place on 10 June 1944 Oradour-sur-Glane. It was triggered by the abduction of an SS man and discovery of the body of a sergeant killed near Limoges. On the pretexte 4, in searching for explosives, soldiers from the 'Der Führer' regiment Id the SS-Panzer Division 'Das Reich') drove all the inhabitants into the e ma square. They