be able contrast, the German tactical reserves and their armoured resistance proved German positions in the early hours of the morning, penetrated as far as the German infantry divisions' artillery positions without bothering about the landing units. On top of this, they were strengthened by support from aircraft pockets of resistance that remained intact, and linked up with Allied airborne and naval artillery, as also by the use of heavy weapons from the outset. In II.V.I. Forming a Bridgehead intelligence network of the entire region more or less out of action. The measures taken by the defenders were therefore based on contradictory if not picture of events in Normandy because Allied bombardment had put the Once the landing had begun, OB West found it difficult to obtain an accurate In all the other zones, however, the landing troops broke through the major Resistance activity in northern France, the blowing-up of railways and deployment could not be expected until 7 June at the earliest, because they were too far away (80 to 150 km) and the Allied air forces made it well-nigh impossible for them to move in daylight. Furthermore, from the very first day Resistance action seriously hampered the mobility of German units. Although there was no SS-Panzer Div., Panzer-Lehr Div., and I SS-Panzer Corps staff). Yet their command decided at least to release units stationed south-west of the Seine (12th cessful the Allies had in fact been on the coast, that Hitler and his Wehrmacht the enemy west of the Orne. There, the Seventh Army staff believed, the Allies thought they would need support from Army Group B only in order to destroy other sections too of being able to drive the enemy back into the sea. They at St-Laurent-sur-Mer (OMAHA) failed, but that there were good prospects in still wrongly assumed around midday on 6 June that not only had the landing inaccurate information. For instance, General Dollmann's Seventh Army staff 593  II.V.I. Forming a Bridgehead II.v. Op