pended on the tactical situation and the weather. In Spaat' eyes, directly supporting the army with heavy bombers was a misuse of this weapon, and merely churning up a few square yards of ground so that the troops-where there was not enough 'get-up-and-go' on the part of their commanders-could move forward a mile or two. Leigh-Mallory, on the other hand, believed that ground troops ought to be given not as little air support a possible (which was what those concerned for the independence of the air forces were wanting), but as much as possible: if necessary, with heav 408 Davis, Spaatz, 329, 345 ff., 350, 353 ff .; Levine, Strategic Bombing, 144-5; Tedder, With Prejudice, 512-13, 519; Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, iii. 5-6, 23-4, 29-33. 409 Jacobs, 'Air Command', 63-4. 410 Davis, Spaatz, 333. 135 bombers as well. 411 In view of the multiplicity of tasks facing him when the day came, he wanted, with the help of heavy bombers, to clear at least a few of the main ones away before the invasion started.412 The most important thing for the predictable struggle to establish and widen bridgeheads was to deprive the Germans of supplies, and very severely reduce the mobility of their troops. In theory, the Germans would be able to supply and reinforce their units by road and rail more quickly than the Allies would theirs by sea. To change this situation Prof. Zuckermann, who had been scientific advisor to Air Chief Marshal Tedder when the latter was C-in-C of Eisenhower's Allied air forces in the Mediterranean, and now held the same post with the C-in-C of the Allied Expeditionary Air Forces, proposed the Transportation (or, as the British called it, 'Communications') Plan' for bombing the transport network behind the German lines. The similar proposal he had already worked out for the Allied landings in Sicily and southern Italy had proved its worth. Starting from the assumption that it was essential to press on with POINTBLANK in order to weaken the Luftwa