h political leaders. 14 A further problem of division of responsibilities arose with respect to the assault phase (NEPTUNE). Should Eisenhower act simply as a co-ordinator issuing non-binding recommendations, or should he directly influence the course of operations? In a memorandum dated mid-September 1943, the staff officers of the 2 1st Army Group, which was to carry out NEPTUNE, made it clear that they wanted all the tactical threads drawn together in their command HQ. They even had plans to co-operate with the naval and air force staffs at their own command level. Eisenhower and his chief of staff, Smith, on the other hand, wanted to give the Allied Expeditionary Force the tightest and simplest command structure possible. In their view, the most important thing was to avoid the type of co-operation deficit that had arisen in the Mediterranean theatre, especially between the army and the air force. To that end, the army and air force staffs should have closer links with the Allied high command.15 At the end of 1943 and beginning of 1944 many structural issues had still not been settled, but the major command appointments and establishment of SHAEF headquarters had enabled decisive steps to be taken towards a start on practical preparations for the landing. Its chances of success still depended primarily on the Allies being able to continue transporting convoys from North America to Britain unimpeded. In September 1943 the Germans had again tried to disrupt this traffic by resuming the U-boat war in the North Atlantic, but the Allied defence systems now gave them little chance of inflicting major damage. When, in mid-October 1943, the Allies secured the use of air bases in the strategically important Azores, they were able to establish almost 203 ff .; Pogue, Supreme Command, I ff .; Eisenhower, Papers, iii. 1605, doc. 1423 (17 Dec. 1943); Bramall, Command Structures, 12 ff .; Weinberg, World at Arms, 678; Reynolds, 'Churchill', 46. 14 See Churchill & Roosevelt, i