ünthner set out the pros and cons of the previous 'Himmelbett', box- bound night-fighter system, of the new pursuit system (subsequently called (Tame Boar', Zahme Sau), of the single-engined 'Wild Boar', and of long- range night fighting. For the first he noted that, despite the excellent overview of the combat situation the equipment offered, it was totally inflexible and did not bring enough fighters into contact with the enemy; it relied on the long-outdated assumption that enemy aircraft would be approaching over a broad front. It had also proved vulnerable to disruption. Against this, the pursuit method using fast, twin-engined night fighters of the Ju 88/188 and He 219 types carrying airborne interception radar and with sortie durations of four to five hours, and capable of blind flying, meant that fighters could tackle the enemy bombers over their entire approach and departure track. Four or five victories per night fighter would, he said, be possible; an average of two or three would mean that 40-50 fighters could down more than 100 bombers; and that was a loss the enemy could not sustain long-term. If he reverted to flying in over a broad front, he would be caught by the normal box method. The IFF problem had, however, still not been solved. Finally, it would also soon be possible for the single-engined night fighters-equipped with airborne interception radars and using R/T-to introduce a shadower procedure like that used in the pursuit system. Long-range fighters were to be used against the enemy bombers' assembly areas, and against their airfields as they were taking off and landing, for which purpose the fighters would be equipped with the NAXOS-Z or KORFU 2 homing radars or the NEPTUN 5, which identified H2S transmissions and made it possible to intercept Pathfinder aircraft equipped with it. The picture thus painted was extremely optimistic, especially as NAXOS-Z was in late 1943 still only at the trial stage. Allowing freelance  I.Il. Defending German