Freeman, Mighty Eighth War Diary. DIAGRAM I.I.4. US Air Force engagements with German fighters during selected raids 1942-1945 (from US data)  1.1. The Allied Bomber Offensive 128 up to 160 hours on the front-line type alone. Allied flying training was at this stage of the war undoubtedly a great deal better than the German. In Piers Clostermann's judgement, only 15-20 per cent of German fighter pilots wer 1 exceeded ti at that time superior to their Allied counterparts, and the great bulk of ther were poorer.391 For years already the quantity of trainees had quality of the training, which no longer bore any relation to the needs of dois ore nume strongest tand poorer-qualit battle with a technically superior and better trained as well as r of aircraft loss foe; and that at a time when the fighter arm was the Luftwaffe's s critically important weapon. A symptom of the shorter and training of Germany's air force pilots is seen in the number involving no action against the enemy, which was mostly higher than those L in battle. The cause for these losses independent of enemy action was in Febru reported as pilot error due to insufficient training in 46.8 per cent of cases , an in May in 53.7 per cent. Up to 31 December 1944 the deaths in aircr operations behind the lines and in flying schools, and unconnected with en action, were, at 19,575, only some 3,000 fewer than those of aircrew killed action. 392 Though Table I. I. 12 relates to all losses of Luftwaffe aircraft, it d. highest losses. represent primarily the daylight fighters as the major force, accounting for From April/May 1944 onwards the German daylight-figh ter defence been so weakened and so reduced in numbers that the American airf forc could fly to and fro over Germany almost at will, and carry y out the destruc of the fuel plants. They had won mastery of the skies over western Europe day, and it was one of the most decisive victories of the war in the air, 393 was in fact no also ensured the air superior