telligence, iii/1. 47 ff .; Weinberg, World at Arms, 560 ff .; Gilbert, Second World War, 529; Part I of the present volume.  II.IV. OVERLORD: Allied Preparations 556 II.IV.3. Final Phase of Preparations continuing air attacks could on their own bring Nazi Germany to its knees Not surprisingly, he argued that the preparation and execution of OVER should take second place. This opened a new arena for conflict between the demands of Eisenhower and his staff and those of the Allied bomk commanders. 3. THE FINAL PHASE OF PREPARATIONS Eisenhower saw the deployment of the strategic air forces (8th and USAAF and British Bomber Command) as one of the most important 9th ditions for the success of OVERLORD, and accordingly strove e to have bomber units subordinated to SHAEF so he could use them i in pursuit of his own objectives. Spaatz, C-in-C US Strategic Air Forces, and Ho- opposed this on the grounds that carrying on with Operation POINTBIA especially the bombing of fuel plants in Germany, would do tore to re the mobility of OB West's divisions than would direct attacks s on, say, rail installations in France. SHAEF representatives countered with the argun that a reduction in fuel production would have scarcely any effect duri OVERLORD's crucial initial phase, since the Germans had enough fuel den in western Europe to keep their motorized units mobile for a long without immediate supplies from Germany. At a conference on 25 Ma 1944 the participants reached a tenable compromise. POINTBLANK continue, but OVERLORD would receive significant support from bomber which would henceforth attack both air force and railway installations: western Europe.24 Following this partial victory, Eisenhower tried to resolve the comman issue in his own favour. In their efforts to preserve their freedom of action Spaatz and Harris now received support from Churchill. The British prim minister considered Bomber Command one of the last bastions of Britisk independence and, as such, not lightly to