trated use of all flying units in the first hours of a landing, in order to benefit from the weakness in numbers and initial disorder of the enemy assault troops on the beach. Air Fleet 3 was therefore to be strengthened immediately with around 800 fighters drawn from the homeland defence force, that is, from Air Fleet Reich. The latter's C-in-C was far from happy with this, since he looked on the air defence as a single command that ought not to be divided up. He had to go along with it, though he was at least able to keep control of 3rd Fighter Division stationed in Holland and Belgium, the main approach corridor t Germany for the Allied bombers.619 The reinforcements served to meet no only the first but also the second main task of Air Fleet 3, that of giving support to the army, to which end eight fighter Gruppen were to be converted from fighters to fighter-bombers. Hitler is even said to have promised Rommel la thousand Me 262 jets for the purpose.620 Heavy bombers carrying remote- controlled glider bombs were given the task of attacking shipping and stationary targets on land. The Luftwaffe's main role in the west was to be to support the army's troops on the ground. The fighter pilots were expected to make up to five sorties a day in the early days of an invasion. Some of them still had to be trained for the ground- support role. All of them needed to be acquainted in good time with the terrain and with the location of the concealed advanced landing grounds to which they would be moved from the Reich if an invasion came.621 Air Fleet 3 had more than a hundred airfields and landing grounds within a radius of some 550 km of Normandy; this was insufficient to take all the units that were going to be transferred, especially as damage to them from enemy bombing was to be expected. More still were needed if the units were to be dispersed in the region and be kept fully operational whatever happened. On the other hand, the army was demanding that all such airfields