only fighters, this would ne been a mere drop in the ocean seen against the 18,000 a month actually needed. That the future was nonetheless looked at with restrained confidence can be out down to Goring's words to the Gauleiters on 8 November 1943. to terms of numbers I cannot measure up to Russia and to the United States, which are working quite undisturbed, and against England ... nor is it necessary to. We did not do in the last world war. In that war the German air force was outnumbered around 5 : I To: I, yet still right to the end it could fight and come out victorious. With us it is aluays the man that counts. When you look at American and British prisoners, you have to say that there the Germans are still vastly superior. And that gives me great hope.400 For airy superficiality, words like these could hardly be beaten. 3. RETURN TO A STRATEGIC AIR WAR CONCEPT, IN ATTACK AND DEFENCE The German air war doctrine was, essentially, one of attack. This was the background against which the pressure of events in the east, and in particular che intensified British and American bombing campaign of spring and summer 1043, led to a return to the essentially strategic role of the Luftwaffe, a role that in the past had been very largely neglected in favour of tactical tasks. The Luftwaffe's new chief of general staff Korten, with backing from his chief of operations staff Koller, pushed energetically ahead with the plans and preparations for new strategic objectives that had already been instituted for the east by his predecessor Jeschonnek.401 He thought of attack and defence in strategic terms, and no longer gave priority to the needs of the ground war and a reckless offensive approach. This new understanding of what the tasks facing the air force involved necessitated changes in how the top leadership and the way it ran things were organized. Korten did not continue with the merging of responsibilities that Jeschon- nek had introduced between the Luftwaffe CGS and chie