hortened the time until launch readiness to only six days, as some of BA-MA RL 3/69; Kens and Nowarra, Die deutschen Flugzeuge, 545-6; Hellmold, V I, app .; Hölsken. 387 See short reports on the Fi 103, app. to GL/A-PI I/IV No. 1476/43 g.Kdos., 17 and 21 June from reality. London was declared the principal target. The codeword against Britain. This was another instance of Hitler's and the OKW's divorce was by then totally exhausted and about to cease its offensive operations range guns and the bomber formations of Air Fleet 3. This air fleet, however by catapult and from aircraft were to be used, together with the navy's long- the LXV Army Corps command, and Air Fleet 3. Flying bombs launched bombardment of England for June under the direction of C-in-C West On 16 May 1944 Hitler eventually ordered the opening of long-range taken as the point of impact. This method, however, was likewise not vem accurate. 388 The unverifiable hit pattern later proved to be the crucial weak tern was by installing a small transmitter with a trailing antenna; about sin fication signal, bearings on which were taken by three suitably sited stations London. These methods were unsuccessful. Underwater microphones simi larly failed to produce results. Another method of discovering the bomb pat minutes before reaching the target this started transmitting a coded identi north-eastern France. The intersection of the three bearings at the moment the signal ceased yielded a more or less large triangle whose centre-point was distance of about 190 km, about the same as that from the French coast of Falster, at the end of October 1943 tested seismographic methods of plet ting explosions at the Luftwaffe testing station of Rechlin in Mecklenburg- A significant problem from early on was checking the weapon's accura mounting the magnetic compass. For use against barrage balloons, the leadin flight duration 25 or 40 minutes, and range 238 or 375 km. The bomb was edges of the wings were equipped with Ku