olicy of the Third Reich, 106, and Neulen, Besatzungspolitik in Westeuropa, 409. 12 Neulen, Besatzungspolitik in Westeuropa, 404; Jacobsen, Teilung der Welt, 230-1; id., Der Zweite Weltkrieg in Chronik and Dokumenten, No. 136, 246; Germany and the Second World War, ii. 320 ff .; Rich, Hitler's War Aims, ii. 195-6, 231 ff .; Neulen, Besatzungspolitik in Westeuropa, 409.  II.I. Germans in Occupied Territories 464 II.I.2. France and Germany relationship between the two countries. Ignoring long periods of comme Franco-German history, Hitler regarded France as Germany's arch-enemy From this perspective, any agreement based on partnership was out of th question. On the contrary, Hitler intended to make France pay dearly f defeat, among other things by ceding territory to Germany.14 The victor saw certain forms of cooperation only as a temporary expedien true intentions. the purpose of which was to extract all possible resources from France until." end of the war and at the same time conceal the Reich's ore discussion In April 1943 it was therefore decided there was to be no mo plans for the future territorial reshaping of Europe, already implemen de facto in eastern and northern France in 1940.16 Hitler was determined that future relations with France v were to be based the armistice treaty of June 1940. He emphatically rejected the idea of a pes treaty, which would have opened up future prospects for France, or e revision of the armistice treaty, which the French side demanded repeatedly Concessions would be forthcoming only when it appeared impossible pursue German interests without French help. ly. 17 Following the first Allied landings in North Africa on 7 and 8 Noveml 1942, whose success took Berlin completely by surprise, it seemed for a wh that the new military situation had induced Hitler to cooperate with Fran On 8 November he asked Philippe Pétain, the head of the French stat government, whether he was prepared to fight against Britain and the U ate a States. If