hat is contested today, I can only say that history will prove me right. The only one of the armed forces that in the endless to-and-fro between attack and defence is the strongest in attack is the Luftwaffe. The enemy gives proof of that day by day; despite our strongest defence effort, we have not so far been able to give up our attack.707 One already senses behind these words the underlying firm belief that attack is the best means of defence. Milch added to this that he had been preaching the cause of priority for air armaments for the last two years. It was something Hitler would have to decide. At the same time Koller was asking for a heavy fighter capable of a four-hour sortie; the light, single-engined fighter, with its more limited range and the navigational problems met by single-engined fighter pilots usually untrained in blind-flying, was he said 'unsuited to the current situation in the air'. He had the right idea. Milch objected: 'It is numbers we need. We can only get those with the light fighters.' Since he had become Generalluftzeugmeister, Milch was faced with the pressing need to at once build up numbers; and the Luftwaffe's numerical inferiority was becoming ever more apparent. It was this pressure that had allowed the Luftwaffe to carrying on fighting for far too long with the old conventional aircraft types; they could be built quickly in large numbers, while new and technically superior types had teething troubles and could not be put at once into series production. This did not apply to the Me 262, since its develop- ment was only just coming to an end by the time the war was over. For the time being, therefore, all efforts were again poured into churning out large numbers of the veteran day and night fighters-Me 109s and 110s, FW 190S, and Ju 88/188s; large numbers of the modern high-performance aircraft were planned for-could be planned for-only from the end of 1944. Special effort was given to the Me 109 with the high-altitude DB 605 AS en