he German ... there was little chance of it now that elements of Model's troops were either n side. the retreat or well-nigh incapable of countering the American attacks. Brod who had gained the impression by Christmas that basically Montgomery not want to attack at all, thereupon requested that he himself be put ba command of his armies.60 On 1 January Eisenhower met this request in least, by placing the US Ist Army back under 12th Army Group. In or this, the Allied supreme commander, specific as almost never before, gave staffs exact instructions. After once again setting out the general str against the German troops in the west, he called on them to do their ut destroy the German motorized units in the Ardennes area. ave h When he issued these instructions, the Allied supreme commander al reviewed the question of appointing a separate commander for the land fo the west, north of the Ardennes, a matter Montgomery had in fact raised days earlier in a letter to Eisenhower. In the British field marshal's view, the kis of command structure he was proposing would have prevented a debacle HA the German surprise strike in the Ardennes. Eisenhower rejected Montgomend request yet again, and in his directive of 1 January he forbade any further d: cussion of the matter. Otherwise, he said, he would ask the combined chief staff for a general decision, as he had threatened once before.61 Montgom 00 See Pogue, Supreme Command, 382 ff .; on the Hasselt meeting see Ellis, Victory, ii. 190-206 together with Ambrose, Supreme Commander, 568-9, 573-4. 01 See Ellis, Victory, ii. 201 ff .; Pogue, Supreme Command, 386; Ambrose, Supreme Command- 574-5, and Gallo, Strategy Conferences, 364 ff. 693 now gave way, less out of conviction than because his chief of staff, Lt .- General Francis de Guingand, who was highly regarded at SHAEF, had set out the seriousness of the situation in no uncertain terms. De Guingand knew which man would lose his post if the situation became even more acute. I