ligence activity has shown, the Axis secret services continued to function efficiently in the months before the invasion, and they were particularly concerned to determine the number and location of troops in Britain. It was already clear to the Allied planners in autumn 1943 that the fact of the build-up could not be concealed: given the enormous concen- tration of forces, strategic surprise was out of the question. The Allies therefore laid great emphasis on the use of deceptive tactics: the date of the invasion, the strength and methods of the initial assault, and the location of the landing area had to be concealed from the Germans at all costs. Through all possible channels, especially British-controlled German double agents, the enemy was presented with the scenario of a main Allied landing of about 20 divisions in the Pas-de- Calais around mid-July. At the same time, diversionary operations were under- taken at various points on the coast of Europe to induce the Germans to believe the Allies had other large-scale landings in mind.43 The centrepiece in these plans, collectively codenamed BODYGUARD, were the operations dubbed FORTITUDE SOUTH and FORTITUDE NORTH. By means of simulated and actually existing units and cadre personnel, fictitious staffs, fake radio traffic, and false aircraft and ship markings, the Germans were gradually induced to believe in the existence of a new army group, the 'First US Army Group' (FUSAG), consisting of two armies, four corps, and some eleven divisions, with supporting air and sea forces. The supposed marshalling areas for this operation (FORTITUDE SOUTH) were all located in south-east England. A second fictitious 'British 4th Army', with two corps and some five divisions, was conjured up by similar means. It was supposedly located in Scotland in preparation for an amphibious invasion of Norway (FORTITUDE NORTH). These spoofing operations were kept secret even from the Allies' own troops. Only the commanders of divisions suppo