mental differences between rl the Allied and the German strategies. Basically, the Allies wanted to force the opponent to his knees quickly and at the price of as few losses among thei- own men as possible; this was why they finally agreed on the plan to the eastwards on a broad front. This strategy did not win the Allied commande any spectacular victories, but it did avoid any incalculable risks. rust The main drawback to the Allied strategy was the lack of cooperation between Montgomery on the one side, and SHAEF and the American ar army leaders on the other. This no doubt explains why the German troops did not suffer any crushing defeats in the Falaise pocket, on the Seine, during MARKET-GARDEN, or finally, during the Ardennes offensive. Another problem for the Allied military leaders, closely bound up with the question of strategy, was how to supply their troops. While no serious difficulties emerged in supplying the various troops up until the invasion, the 699 first bottlenecks appeared only a few weeks after the breakout in Normandy. one of the main reasons for this lay in the failure to seize major ports near the front. Although SHAEF and Eisenhower had realized early on that this would be a problem, they did not urge 2Ist. 2 Ist Army Group insistently enough or early brough to take a usable supply port in the Pas-de-Calais area. They were probably also hoping to solve the supply problem by improvised measures, Pich as using their reserves to the full and bringing in a large number of trucks and transport planes. Perhaps, it was thought in some quarters, a German system became a reality. surrender would still come before the threatened collapse of the Allied supply Hitler must have sensed how acute the supply situation was becoming for the Allied leaders after the breakout in Normandy. Again and again he insisted that che Channel port towns he had declared fortresses must be defended to the last This strategy appeared to have finally failed with the surprisi