908, and Churchill & Roosevelt, iii. 151. 93 WC, Min. Com. on the Work of Psychologists and Psychiatrists in the Services, 16 June 1943- 7 Apr. 1945, PRO CAB 98/29; on military psychiatry in the US forces see Riedesser and Verderber, Aufrüstung der Seelen, 51 ff.  II.IV. OVERLORD: Allied Preparations police to 'rescue' British women from their coloured friends, much to th. 580 annoyance of the women concerned.94 command issued To prevent conflicts from the outset, the Allied high appropriate directives to all commanders. From the time they began to arrive in Britain, all US troops-not only coloured soldiers-had it dinned into them that they were to respect the customs of the host country and behar like guests. 95 All in all, most of the Allied troops must have felt they were in for a hama battle but would be fighting in a just cause. The intensive preparations had certainly helped strengthen their confidence in the plans of their civil military leaders. Much of that confidence was due to the Allies' sea and superiority, which was plain for all to see.96 And on 5 June 1944, just one de before the Normandy landing, Allied troops marched into Rome. This well have given the morale of the divisions in Britain an additional boor they waited for the order to embark. air 94 See Lee, Negro Troops, 348 ff .; Nalty, Black Americans, 154 ff .; Mullen, Blacks, 51 ff .: On the general mood of American soldiers, as revealed by letters from the forces, see Pf. Weinberg, World at Arms, 495. 95 Eisenhower, At War, 158-9 'Zurück nach Hause!', in Andere Helme, 283 ff. Excursus: Allied and German Conduct of the War-Similarities and Differences IN comparing German defence measures in the west with Allied preparations for the invasion, we are struck at once by the fact that the two sides were working under very different conditions. First and foremost, the Germans were operating in occupied territory, while the Allies were preparing their offensive on home ground or in a friendly country.