dependent American commas over the US air forces in Europe-at least the strategic ones, with if possible British Bomber Command included as well- was aimed at this, 2 t all was designed to give Spaatz independent status vis-a-vis Eisenhower, of the kind Harris enjoyed. It is understandable that Spaatz did not want to see " independent command authority subordinated to Leigh-Mallory, at least - for his strategic bombers. 402 By April Spaatz was no longer thinking about a unified co and for British and American air forces in Europe, since each of the ese had in t meantime grown so much in numbers that a merger like this, des signed to boos their operational strength, no longer looked necessary. All he w as now wantin was a single command over all the American air forces in Europe. To bol this claim he told Maj .- General Hoyt S. Vandenberg, who in March h become Leigh-Mallory's American deputy, to look on himself first. foremost as a link in the American, not the Allied, chain of command. In private war with Leigh-Mallory and the Allied Supreme Command Spas went even further: he saw the headquarters of his USSTAF as the cen American air force staff in Europe to which all other command headquarter could address themselves, and left a variety of liaison office posts in other Allied commands unfilled. A proposal by Prof. Solly Zuckermann, Lejob Mallory's scientific adviser, that the operations research organizations of the USSTAF, British Bomber Command, the AEAF, and the 9th USAF shoul- be amalgamated met with his vehement rejection. Since, however, the effort by the American army air force in Europe to gain independence were e als detracting from the position and prestige of Gen. Eisenhower as Suprem Commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces, the American chief of stad Gen. Marshall also turned against it, and Arnold had to fall into line, 403 r the Leigh-Mallory and Spaatz differed, too, in their views of the strategic air war, and this also became evident in their