han II single and seven basicos plus a special ordinance, each up to eight pages long. 76 The effect of this complicated command structure can be case of the 2nd Panzer Division. Its troops were under the operat command of Panzer Group West, but their tactical deployment was responsibility of I SS-Panzer Corps. Territorially, they were under the mil commander for Belgium and Northern France. Finally, for supply Dur they were under the command of AOK 15. This was by no means an iso instance. 77 illustrated by tl At the higher level of the three arms of the service, too, there were free- disputes about who should do what. For example, Dönitz objected to deployment of marines in France to protect the railways, Göring oppo the use of paratroops for coastal defence, and OB West did his utmo ensure that only army officers were in charge of operations in the coastal region. OB West's attitude led to protests from the navy, with the le whole result that certain tasks were once again placed under i its responsibility On the other hand, the Wehrmacht commander in the Netherlands succeed. in putting a Luftwaffe officer in full command of the army divisions in his arao although Keitel himself had to resolve the conflict this gave rise to.78 Is therefore hardly surprising that, when the new command structure came inte force, OB West himself needed eight pages just to set out the complicated division of responsibilities among the various military units and departme under his command.79 (d) Structure of Ground Troops The total strength and combat readiness of German armed forces in the west underwent large fluctuations in the period from mid-1943 to the invasion 76 Blumentritt, ChefdGenSt H.Gr. D to Jodl, 13 Jan. 1944, ibid., RH 19 IV/I, and Of Entscheidung im Westen, 63; app. to KTB OB West, H.Gr. D, Ia to armies, 27 Feb. 1944, BA-M RH 19 IV/28, and AOK 7, KTB, I to 31 July 1942, ibid., RH 20-7/61. 77 Panzer Group West, Ia, command structure, 3 Feb. 1944, ibid., RH 10/112. 78 See