BA-MA RL 7/139; 68 See Lagevorträge, 481, and I/Skl, T. Cd, Deployment of Forces, Feb. 1943 to Dec. 1944, 67 On the strength of Air Fleet 3 see KTB OKW, ii/II. 794 (5 Oct. 1942); on the tasks of Naval ments: Note on discussion between Sperrle and GOC West, copy for KTB, 27 Apr. 1941, 251 ff., 612; see also Warlimont, Inside Hitler's Headquarters, 235; on the command of Luftwaffe depart- overview of the general situation'; See GOC West, Ia, Gen.d.Pi., No. 1850/42, BA-MA RW 4/V. while assigning responsibility for the operation of obstacles to the 'land commander ... who has an 66 e.g. GOC West left the preparation of obstacles and the destruction of ports to the navy, impunity. The protection of coastal defence installations that were still unfinished, and therefore highly vulnerable, proved especially difficult. Allied fighters by feigned attacks and shortly afterwards bomb major targets with increasingly able to use their numerical superiority to draw out German missions, soon found itself in a fairly hopeless situation. The Allies were also responsible for protecting coastal defences and flying reconnaissance The German air force, mainly in action against enemy bombing raids but Both on the coast and inland, defence preparations and economic activity 475  II.I. Germans in Occupied Territories 476 II.1.4. German Troops in the West combers operating from nearby British bases were often already over thei targets before locally stationed German fighters had got off the ground 71 Fear of Allied landings also played a decisive role in the planning and organization of German defences in northern Europe, under the responsibilin of the Wehrmacht commander for Norway and Denmark. As already tioned, surface ships were moved north to help detect approaching ener men warships at an early stage. 72 Long-range reconnaissance was the responsibil. of Air Fleet 5, in cooperation with the U-boats stationed in Norway.73 Additional army units had already been transferred to the north i