ower, Report, 73; id., Crusade, 361 ff .; KTB OKW, iv/I. 417 ff .; Jung, Ardennen-Offensive, 38; H.Gr. G, KTB, situation map, 21 Nov. 1944, BA-MA, RH 19 XII/10, together with OB West, KTB, 18-23 Nov. 1944, ibid., RH 19 IV/75.  676 II.VII. The Western Front II.VII.I. Allied Offences not have been entirely inaccurate. On the whole, however, as SHAEF noted, early as I November, the rearming of the French units had proceeded entirel accordingly to plan. The French army now had as many as 230,000 me many of whom came from the mother country.28 Hitler was furious at the defeat in his First and Ninth Army areas. . ordered a court-martial investigation. The committee of inquiry set up by rl Reich Court-Martial found that 'leadership and reporting errors' had occu , and during the battles in the Army Group G area. According to OB (Rundstedt again since 5 September), however, the army group units had bee weakened so severely by the high losses and withdrawals of motorized that they had had little capacity to resist the far superior Allied forces however, on 26 November, he had alread 23 December Hitler then decided not to order a formal trial; meanwhi unit ready put Himmler in full command of all German troops between Karlsruhe and the Swiss border (Army Group Uppe Rhine). Evidently, he had more confidence in the ability of the Reichstil SS and chief of police to organize defence against the Allies in this sector of front than in that of his Wehrmacht generals.29 The strength of German resistance, which made itself felt by the second k of September 1944 at the latest, led the Allied leaders to review their strate the west several times. The main question was how the war could be brought a victorious end as quickly as possible. Eisenhower had told Marshall at the of October that he regarded the early opening of the port at Antwerp as one en the most important preconditions for conducting a successful war again vend Germany itself. Only when the logistics problems had been reso