e British were at night. As Eaker had already put it in his plan, if the growth in the strength of the German fighter defences was not quickly halted it could become literally impossible to achieve the planned destruction and create the conditions for the decisive final operations by the combined Allied forces on the continent.20 Though Eaker expressed a wish to have a fighter escort with a 400-mile range,21 the Americans made no suggestions as to how the German fighters might be warded off. For their long-range bombing raids they were still placing trust in the ability of box formations to defend themselves in daylight.22 And yet the Eaker Plan had recognized that the German fighters would first have to be eliminated. The Americans had, besides, not yet really been able to prove that their views on bombing were right. Although the raids carried out so far with relatively small numbers and on targets on the edges of German-controlled territory were hailed as very successful for propaganda purposes in the fight to get more resources,23 they were hardly convincing. In this situation it would have been incomprehensible for Bomber Command, which had no need of such proof during night raids, to switch from its area- bombing to the American daylight selective-target system. The combined bomber offensive thus remained a contest between the two bomber forces so long as the feasibility of the American proposal was not certain. Among the British, at least, the moral issues played hardly any role when judging the right way of bombing. What mattered were, as already at Casablanca, prag- matic considerations, questions of assumed effectiveness, the operational possibilities, and the strategic objectives. This was generally also true of the Americans; with them, however, there was also the need to consider the ethical image of their bomber forces in the eyes of their own people; this could be safeguarded better with selective targeting than with area bombing. The latter was there