ition,41 and research into which had been shelved in favour of developing radio-navigation aids working on a lower frequency and for offensive operations in bombers. 42 This was the centimetre range, for which in 1939 there were not, in any case, the valves yet available. The H2S system worked with a downwards-pointing, rotating antenna, the 9-cm wave pulses from which were reflected differently depending on the ça nature of the earth's surface, received, and displayed on the screen of cathode-ray tube. Open ground, houses, waterways, or railway lines each sens a back differing echoes; the terrain covered thus appeared on the screen as panorama, and the equipment was also known as the panoramic radar. The radar image could be used both for navigation and for blind bomb-aiming, as i was unaffected by clouds or weather. It was, however, difficult to make out targets among large built-up areas, as these gave, depending on the inciden angle of the beam, varying contours that did not always match the map of the town. Moreover, the radar echo from large cities was often so intense that it became impossible to recognize anything at all. The easiest targets to pick out were those lying on a coastline or on rivers and lakes. Though in January 1943 only 23 aircraft were fitted with H2S, and 64 by II April (all of them Pathfinders), by the winter of 1943/4 some 90 per cent of all bombers carried it. 43 In January 1943, furthermore, came the first use of new target indicator (TIs); the attack on Berlin on the 16/17th saw a ground marker triggered by barometric pressure to disintegrate in the air in a cascade of 60 coloured pyrotechnic candles, while that on Düsseldorf on the 3 1st featured sky markere on parachutes. These were released over the target using OBOE or H2S, and though they did drift with the wind they allowed relatively more accurate bombing than hitherto when cloud or mist prevented a clear view of the ground. Three target-marking methods were developed, given cod