the Mediterranean for the pur- poses of Operation ANVIL.8 With regard to the build-up of troops in Britain, the Allies decided to move seven battle-tried divisions from the Mediterranean theatre to England by I November 1943. The British Empire troops already stationed there-mainly British and Canadian units-were in the process of forming themselves into armies and corps under the command of the 21st Army Group. Roosevelt and Churchill thought the Allied units should be led by an American officer-the US Army chief of staff, Gen. George C. Marshall, was first envisaged-while a British officer, Air Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, should command the Allied air fleets.9 At the end of the conference COSSAC was instructed to draw up detailed plans without delay and make initial preparations for the Allied troop build-up in Britain, although the chiefs of staff took account of the fact that his London team was short of personnel.10 Many of the conference participants, both British and American, had anticipated lengthy, perhaps even fruitless, discussions of controversial posi- tions. These fears proved unfounded. 2. DELIBERATIONS AND PLANS UP TO EISENHOWER'S ARRIVAL IN BRITAIN IN MID-JANUARY 1944 The question of a landing in France was scarcely in dispute at the meetings of Allied and Soviet politicians and military leaders after the Quebec conference. The only real issue at the Moscow meeting of foreign ministers in late October, and the Cairo and Teheran conferences in late November/early December 1943, was how best to co-ordinate operations in the east and west. Roosevelt's acceptance in Teheran of Stalin's insistence on landings in both north-western and southern France left no room for Churchill's alternative strategies. The US president's compliance was partly motivated by concern to avoid anything that might distance Stalin from the anti-Nazi coalition. What still appeared debatable was the precise timing of the invasion in north-west France. While the Soviet si