period senior German officers increasingly to disregard military reality when they took decisions. M would often gloss over any factors that conflicted with their intenti orders. This is the only way to explain how the OKW, the Wehr and operations staff, and the HQ staffs of OB West and Army Group R. imagine that Operation WACHT AM RHEIN had any chance of success either ignored, or dismissed as unimportant, awkward circumstances acht 3 could They the Allies' air superiority, poor road conditions in the snow-covered And or the presence of strong American armoured divisions close to the arc s such operation. Not content with underestimating the fighting qualities of Allied troops, the Germans also underestimated how quickly the Allied. could react. t is w Even at the beginning of the war, during the months that saw specto German victories, the single-minded attitude of German military who thought in purely strategic terms, had led them to overlook many & that had a crucial impact on the course of the war. They had little of the political, economic, logistical, or international legal context. meant that they were largely unaware of the real balance of power between opposing camps. ween th 701 equipping them with personnel, supplying them, and transporting them to the strategically appropriate theatres of war is a genuine military achievement and precondition for any success. It was not just bar-room strategists who in many cases overlooked these truisms and tried to hide from the facts.4 Many German HQ staffs undoubtedly had excellent leadership qualities, and a number of divisions had tremendous fighting qualities. But this seldom majd off in the western theatre of war, because there it was more than offset by other factors such as the Allies' air superiority and their better strategy on reconnaissance and deception. Moreover, the Allies had a relatively strict hierarchical command system; although their staffs were made up on a mul- inational basis, the Allies were i