t the authorities had stayed with the old air-raid protection measures, and these were no longer sufficient to cope with the dimensions of the mass raids now taking place. Kassel, as an important arms-industry centre, had priority in the provision of air-raid shelters, and the old town had been given, block-by-block, tunnels and openings through dividing walls. It was, however, possible only to reach all the exits from within one residential block, but not in similar fashion to gain entrance to another block if one's own was on fire. As Hamburg had shown, whole districts of towns were now being engulfed in flames. The fire services were no longer adequately equipped, and the numbers of male local ARP wardens had been reduced by the setting up of home-defence flak batteries and reinforcement of factory air-raid defence teams. The earlier and largely unsuccessful big raid by the RAF on 3/4 October, which had hit only villages and open fields and the Fieseler No. I works on the northern outskirts of the town, had moreover bred a certain carefree attitude among its inhabitants. On top of that, the ARP authorities made a fatal mistake: they did not realize that the delayed-action bombs exploding here and there had nothing directly to do with the air raid itself, and were meant only to interfere with the firefighting later on. So the all-clear was not sounded until the bomber stream was already a couple of hundred miles away, by which time the fires started in the historic old town by the numerous incendiaries had taken a firm hold and developed into a Hamburg-style fire storm. The inhabitants, still sitting in their cellars, were trapped in their blocks by the lack of interconnecting passages, and died amid the smoke and flames. Had the all-clear been given promptly, they would have been able to leave their shelters in time. 164 The raid on Kassel cost Bomber Command more dearly than the previous one in the summer of 1943. The German early-warning system had recognized t