oosevelt, in order to things moving again. But the American president declined to attend. In view, everything was still going according to plan in Europe, and he tried encourage Churchill by saying that a breakthrough would come soon Field Marshal Brooke severely criticized Eisenhower's conduct of the formed in preparation for the German offensive, led by SS-Oberst- suppenführer and Waffen-SS Gen. Sepp Dietrich, who was tasked with freshing the exhausted panzer units so that he could then use them for fault operations. The headquarters and commanders involved were not, However, told what concrete objective these measures were intended to chieve; at this stage Hitler shared his views regarding an operation in the west 1. Whe in western Europe during the London conference, Churchill finally with the American supreme commander. After assessing the situation realistic terms, the British prime minister presumably side saw little cha of achieving any fundamental changes in the Allied conduct of the. adly with the officers closest to him, whom he informed that his military obiective was to retake Antwerp. The plan was to remove the Allies' most important supply base, while at the same time facing them with a new punkirk'. In this way the German dictator intended finally to take back the western Europe. These incidents show once again that, unlike Churchill, e war Roosevelt had ambitions to intervene in the details in a theatre of war; except whenm decisions had to be taken, he preferred to leave the planning and condu military operations to officers he trusted.33 At least, after all these discussions, Montgomery could once again coun priority being given to his operations against the Reichi in terms of allocation of supplies and of support from the air. Moreover, the right flank 2Ist Army Group would now be guarded by the US 9th Army. SHAE planned to begin these operations in the first half of January 1945. At the the time, however, Eisenhower ordered that the American 3rd