units could rapidly be brought up from the US Army Group, because it was closely engaged with German troops. At mo S 6th was felt, the US 9th and Ist Armies could free up to five divisions rela nost, quickly, since they were not expecting any major German counter- around Aachen. Army Group B assumed that in any case Fifteenth Armu paratroops (Operation STÖSSER) would be able to prevent these US division from advancing southwards. It was thought highly unlikely that the would bring up other reinforcements until long after the Germans' own · Allies had crossed the Meuse. According to German reconnaissance reports, thei enemy had few reserves in depth. None of these studies considered the likal- effects of the Allies' air superiority on the course of the operations. 44 Model was not at all concerned about reports that on 13 December the Americans had moved armoured fighting vehicles to the assault zone, and the 45 For Operation STOSSER see OB West, KTB, 16 Dec. 1944, BA-MA, RH 19 IV/76; for GPm see also KTB OKW, iv/I. 448-9. 44 See H.Gr. B, I c, App. to activity report, ChefdGenSt, studies, 10 and 15 Dec. 1944, BA-MA RH 19 IX/19; OB West, KTB, 15 Dec. 1944, ibid., RH 19 IV/76; Jung, Ardennen-Offensive, 118 together with Deutschland im Zweiten Weltkrieg, vi. 128. shortly before they had conveyed troops from Devers's 6th Army Group 683 worthwards to US 3rd Army's area of command. Nor was the assault date postponed when it became apparent that it was frequently impossible to bring up troops according to plan because of the vigorous Allied attacks on other uctions of the front in the west. Some units, especially in the Fifth Panzer Army, therefore arrived at their deployment area rather battle-weary and in great haste. Very young and inexperienced soldiers were often assigned to the divisions to replace the losses. When the soldiers occupied their standby positions, the measures to ensure secrecy the Germans had imposed upon memselves proved to be another disruptive factor