, and the pilots frequently retrained on fighters. Some units were given special tasks, such as KG 3, which was now made responsible for launching the V-I flying bomb. As a whole the bomber arm, now unusable, was to be replaced by the jet-powered V-I flying bombs and V-2 rockets-a totally inadequate substitute. Because the switch to a defensive strategy had been made far too late, it now had to be resorted to totally; in Germany's geostrategic and military position this, again, was a mistake, since attack-role aircraft of all types continued to be needed to support the land fronts. But the situation was by now in any case quite past saving. Working in the Fighter Staff allowed the Speer ministry to become familiar with Luftwaffe armament. For Milch and Göring the obvious thing to do was to let Saur and Speer take this over; they would be free of the obstacles presented by the other armaments end-users, and could escape responsibility for air armaments and the mess this was now in. This also suited Hitler, who was disappointed with Göring and Milch's management of the Luftwaffe but impressed by the performance of the Fighter Staff.725 In early June Milch, together with Speer, went to Hitler with the suggestion that the armaments ministry should take over armaments for the Luftwaffe; the latter gave this his emphatic approval, and promised to talk about the matter with Göring, whose feelings he still wanted to spare. Göring had already confided to Milch that he would gladly be rid of his responsibility towards Hitler for air armaments. On 722 App. to Generalquartiermeister No. 8631/44 g.Kdos (6. Abt. III), 29 Aug. 1944: Calculated unit strength according to delivery plan 226/2, BA-MA RL 2 III/1123. 723 Fighter Staff programme meeting, 4 Apr. 1944, BA-MA RL 3/4, 1892. 724 Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 148. On the conversion of air armament to the defensive see also Schabel, Wunderwaffen, 236-46; Budraß, Luftrüstung, 871-4; Germany and the Second World War, G/L. 430-1 On the