lch had been ordered by Göring, seemingly with Hitler's agreement nt, to d long y as concentrate on the defence of the Reich'.135 In fact, however, Hitler) endeavours were directed firmly towards retaliatory strikes against Britain which too big an increase in fighter-aircraft production would make imp poss ible. Still on 25 July he had been signing a decree on 'Output of A-4 device- (the V-2 rocket), and production of these would impinge on the supply of electronic gear for the fighters. 136 On 29 July Loßberg put to Milch and Göring his proposal for 'pursuit nich- fighting', which was based mainly on the ideas of Fliegeroberstabsingenieu Günthner on the technique and organization of wide-area pursuit night fighting. 137 The night-fighting method practised so far under the Kammhub system, in which a ground radar had to be available for each fighter and each enemy aircraft, would not be abandoned. It was, however, planned to build us in addition appreciable reserves for shadowing the bomber streams; theo would be stationed as far out as possible over Holland or centrally nea Hanover, and from there would, by means of the 'Y' guidance system, infiltrated into the bomber stream. It was also intended to use a 'shadower' for each Staffel who, after taking up his position in the bomber stream, woul send out a homing signal to bring in other night fighters. To help them better locate enemy aircraft, the fighters were equipped with the LICHTEN NSTE SN2 radar, which was unaffected by WINDOW, and a wide-angle BC( antenna. They could then hunt at will, for instance at the head of the bombar stream where, even if still fitted with the B/C-type LICHTENSTEIN, they would be unaffected by WINDOW. They were, on the other hand, able to act 133 Proposal made on 23 June 1943, BA-MA RL 3/50, 426. 134 Aders, Night Fighter Force, 85-6. 135 BA-MA RL 3/50, 421. 136 A-4s were the V-2 rockets. Irving, Rise and Fall, 231, 410, n. 20; see also Ch. III/3 below on the V-weapon offensive. 137 GL/