he breakout in Normandy. Again and again he insisted that che Channel port towns he had declared fortresses must be defended to the last This strategy appeared to have finally failed with the surprising Allied man. seizure of the largely intact port of Antwerp on 4 September 1944. Yet the lies, and first and foremost Montgomery, did Hitler the favour of pursuing cheir objective of clearing the approaches to the Scheldt in a rather half-hearted manner. As a result they could not actually use this port until November. Nevertheless, in terms of SHAEF's original objectives and timetable for the operations after the landing, the Allies managed to put an end to the German control of large parts of western Europe more rapidly than planned. r of At this point the question arises of why the German commanders made auch efforts to continue fighting back in the west even after the successful Normandy invasion. After all, the supreme warlord himself had once said that if the Allies managed to land anywhere in France, the Reich would lose the war. Vet Hitler and his generals repeatedly attempted, in the Ardennes for example, to crake everything on turning the tide in this theatre. Not only were they prepared to sacrifice their own soldiers mercilessly, often they unhesitatingly breached the international rules of war in pursuit of their objectives. Gradually the German activities in the west became marked by the same ugly features as their conduct of the war in eastern, south-eastern, and southern Europe. Yet even after terrorizing the local inhabitants, plundering, and taking destructive measures that were in many cases reminiscent of a scorched-earth policy, the Germans did not achieve very much in military terms.1 It is clear from some of their statements that the most senior officers were fully aware of how senseless it was to continue the war in the west. Yet there was obviously no question of surrender in their minds, since they preferred to set the scene for an 'honourable