iarize them with areas of knowledge 'that are not in the ustandard toolbox" provided by a military training, but knowledge of which seems essential in a modern war'. 413 Out of the 50 lectures occupying 87 hours spread over 23 days, only one lasting two hours had to do with Nazi ideology as related to the command of the Wehrmacht. Twenty, spread over 43 hours, dealt with Second World War problems involving air war and armaments strategy and military history. The remainder covered the history of the First World War, policy, statescraft and the conduct of war, military geography, solitical and economic warfare, and other general topics such as behaviour chen captured. The officers were to be encouraged to voice opinions that could prove useful for the war in the air and the conduct of the war as a whole. The department also published a large number of papers and series of articles in pursuit of its aims.414 Informing all its work was the realization of how necessary it was to build up a strategic air force, and to wage an air war that was, in line with that, not solely a tactical one. It also reflected the view that, as it was policy that determined the overall commitment of a nation in all areas, it was the political aim that was decisive for the overall conduct of a war. And this could not be set without knowing the big interconnections, and without the right education. 'Spirited leadership on a broad, grand-strategic basis' the shunned the term National Socialist leadership) was for Herhudt von Rohden in essence putting over the awareness of the Luftwaffe having a role of its own within the overall conduct of the war, and of the overall strategic/ intercontinental connections. He sought to develop the 'intellectual bases for the conduct of the air war' in order to discover 'what intellectual and material efforts were needed for setting the objectives of how the Luftwaffe should do battle, and of the war in the air'. 'Superiority in the air', he wrote to Kortten, in