ttack-between building fighters or building bombers; not until June 1944 did he halfheartedly decide to concentrate on fighters. In the Luftwaffe sector too, including air defence, the Germans were facing the problem of too many demands that could no longer be met, and growing difficulties that could no longer be overcome. By the summer of 1944 the final collapse of the Luftwaffe was already fast approaching; its death- throes will be related in a later volume. The conditions and events that led up to it are, however, already set out here; the quite exceptional wealth of facts and figures emphasize the value of the fundamental research that forms the basis for this series.  1.1. Introduction 6 The German conduct of the war when on the defensive against a coalition of foes they had rashly conjured up is not the only theme of Volume VII. In considering the events in western Europe and the war in the air, we deal here with two central aspects, the dissimilarity between which is in no way lessened by the final examination of the war in Asia. There seems little point, therefore in looking already for what elements they have in common; accordingly, the present volume does not end with an overview. The necessary summing-up is best left to one of the later volumes-when accounts covering the eastern front, events in the Balkans and northern Europe, operations in Italy, and the war at sea have been given-before dealing with the advance of the Allies into Germany and the collapse of the Third Reich. In the present volume, too, i becomes evident to what a hopeless situation German conduct of the war had been brought by Hitler's clinging, with a reckless faith in Darwinian inevit ability, to his watchword of 'all or nothing'. The end of the war, and of the Reich, was at hand. HANS UMBREIT PART I The Strategic Air War in Europe and Air Defence of the Reich, 1943-1944 HORST BOOG Head of Research Department II Research Institute for Military History  I. The Allied Combined Bomber O