operation.53 Group was actually SHAEF was not quite sure what the C-in-C 21st Army trying to achieve with GOODWOOD. Did he want to advance as f s far as Falaise, or just tie down the German motorized forces east of the bridgehead as a m mear of giving the Americans advantages? The latter were supposed to advan towards Avranches on 21 July under Operation COBRA; t the start of the assa was, however, delayed by bad weather. Montgomery's orders did not fact make it clear whether the operations in the east and west were t conducted simultaneously. At any rate, during the initial phase of GOODW Eisenhower and SHAEF had the impression that the breakthrough at t Ca had already been achieved or was at least imminent. They w were all the m disappointed a short while later.54 Once again, there was strong criticism in the Allied camp f Montgome leadership. Sir Arthur W. Tedder, for instance, Eisenhower's deputy gested to his commander in chief that he himself should now assume o command of all army troops in France, and move the HQ from England t Europe. Several SHAEF officers even discussed replacing Montgo Although Eisenhower was also disappointed at the way GOODWOOD been conducted, he was against any changes in personnel and shield. had Montgomery from outside criticism.55 The situation of the Allies was further overshadowed by the casualties inflicted on them during the V-weapons bombardment that began on 12 I. Despite the Allies' very ferocious attacks on the launching ramps, some of th German warheads hit their targets. By the end of July 1944 the British authorities counted 4,267 dead in London alone, on top of 30,300 wounds and some 30,000 buildings destroyed. Since many people felt they exposed to this danger with virtually no protection, they naturally were enou found it nerve-racking.56 Not surprisingly, they also felt increasingly impatien at the slow pace of OVERLORD, having hoped to see an end to the V-weanos bombardment with the rapid capture of the launch sites