actical) Air Force also logistically under him, so that he could exert influence on this formation that operationally was answerable to Leigh-Mallory. He needed its long range fighters as escorts and for low-level attack, for which his own were no adequate. At the same time he wanted to co-ordinate the operations of it twin-engined bombers with those of his own heavy bombers, in order to spli up the German fighter defences. From the supplies viewpoint all American air forces in Europe came under him; he was the highest-ranking USAAR officer in this theatre. To increase the efficiency of his units he gave his head of operations and head of logistics equal standing (in Luftwaffe staffs, logistics usually ranked lower than the operational leadership), and to improve the motivation of his coloured personnel he ordered that they be treated properly from 105 and in a way that did not offend their sense of self-esteem; something that the fact of doing this showed to be obviously needed.333 Meanwhile a solution to the escort-fighter problem was increasingly nearer. From November 1943 the first of the twin-boom P-38 Lightnings-which had proved highly effective in the Mediterranean theatre-became available for the 8th Air Force as escorts. With two wing-mounted external tanks, they could already reach central Germany, and from February 1944 Berlin and beyond. They still, however, had technical problems due to the variable weather conditions in central Europe, which led to more than 50 per-cent losses. The oth Air Force's first P-51 Mustangs flew escort duty for the 8th from early December, first on 5 December against targets in France and then on II and 20 December to Emden and Bremen. Without external tanks the Mustang already in January had a range of around 760 km, only slightly less than that of the Lightnings with two 62-gallon drop-tanks. The 15th USAF, too, received Lightnings, and P-47 Thunderbolts fitted with a 62-gallon jettisonable belly tank. With this the P-47 co