oller put it, 'his master's Dice'.353 He even tried to convince Hitler that, just as before, he was the competent commander-in-chief of the Luftwaffe, and shared his opinions. on this subject, Admiral Raeder related in a sworn statement how, at one morning meeting, Hitler expressed, in the presence of Göring's permanent representative at the Führer HQ, Gen. Karl Bodenschatz, concern that a particular sector in Field Marshal Fedor von Bock's area of command on the eastern front was insufficiently defended. Göring, after being briefed chout this by Bodenschatz, then reported at the start of the afternoon meeting that he had already been worried about this for some days past. At that time, in 1941, Hitler was pleased to have this confirmation of his ouun concerns, which in the morning Field Marshal von Bock had described as groundless. 354 But Hitler saw through his Reich marshal. Back in 1938 he had declined to name him as successor to Werner von Blomberg as Reich war minister and C-in-C of the Wehrmacht; this was not only to avoid concentrating too much power in Göring's hands, but also because of his laziness and not very impressive military capabilities.355 He was not even up to carrying out a Luftwaffe inspection.356 During the war Hitler placed more trust in Milch, whom he looked on as the real head of the Luftwaffe. 357 He often went straight to him, bypassing Göring. According to Milch, Hitler was by December 1941 already himself commanding the Luftwaffe 'as a sideline'.358 This may well have been somewhat of an exaggeration, but it showed who was carrying what share of the weight. At all events, Hitler played an increasing part in the command of the Luftwaffe in the east. The head of the Luftwaffe general staff's operations department complained around this time that 'details of tactics are being controlled from far off, without the C-in-C responsible being given the necessary freedom of action'. In 1942 Hitler decided on the deployment of the first of the new