ober 1944, BA-MA RL 3/100 IWM. I19 There was nonetheless an unmistakeable and dramatic rise in aircraft pro- duction. There were several reasons for this. First of all, the damage to the industry's installations was not as bad as both sides had initially estimated. The machine-tools, in particular, proved fairly robust and continued to work once they had been extricated from the ruins of the devastated workshops. The rise in the numbers being produced was also made possible through smaller aircraft now increasingly calling for less labour and fewer materials than, for instance, bombers. The average weight of an aircraft fell by about a third between December 1943 and September 1944.373 More and more, too, aircraft manufacture was being rationalized, bringing a further saving in labour and materials.374 The main credit for the rise in production, however, must go to the Fighter Staff. In collaboration with the GLM's office it immediately made 4.7m. square metres of floor space available for relocating industrial firms, together with 24,000 workers; and in May it provided 5,600 machine-tools, plus vehicles, fuel, and extra food rations to make the newly introduced 72-hour week sustainable.375 The result of 'Big Week' was thus not the disintegration of the German fighter force and air-armaments industry; the week of raids did, however, set the scene for this gradual outcome, with an inescapable logic. The German fighter defence no longer had the production or manpower capacity to cope with the deadly and ever more intense war of attrition directed at it.376 From now on the Americans, when plotting their routes, no longer avoided the German fighters, but instead sought them out so as, using their superior strength, to reduce their numbers further.377 In March and April 1944 the US 8th Air Force continued to pound air- armaments and ball-bearings targets. When weather permitted, and in pre- paration for the invasion in France, V-weapon sites and airfields there were also