th War Diary, 234-59; Middlebrook and Everitt, Bomber Command War Diaries, 489-520; Terraine, Right of the Line, 627. 433 Dealt with in greater detail in Ch. III/3: 'The V-Weapon Offensive'.  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive 142 I.I.6. From POINTBLANK to OVERLORD without dive-marking and beyond the range of OBOE. It was the heaviest o. raid to date on German tank production; and it also hit the Zeppelin work and production of the new and very promising Do 335 night fighter, which just getting under way. Up to June, however, Bomber Command did was not venture all that far into Germany, and from April to June only 17 per cent of .. bombs fell on German soil. The British seldom came up against a st German fighter presence in France, though they did still on 3/4 May su 8.3 per-cent losses. 429 While the British were discovering that they could perfectly well fly precisie attacks against quite small targets, the Americans too joined in t the bombing railway targets from the beginning of May, with the heavy bombers backed by dive-bombing Thunderbolts. Up to the day of the invasion in June, the Tro 8th Air Force reckoned it had knocked out 51 out of 80 railway centres. Fro January to June inclusive the Americans dropped 45,375 t of bombs and » British 44,764 t on these targets, 80-90 per cent of them on French soil Doubts, however, arose as to whether bombing bridges and severing lines might not be more effective. After American medium bombers Thunderbolt fighter-bombers managed to destroy a number of bridges 7 May, Leigh-Mallory became convinced of this. The Allies now decided son cut rail bridges leading to the invasion area in two rings, an inner ring tak in those over the Seine and Loire, and an outer ring to the east of Paris The outer ring was concentrated on first, so as to avoid giving any hint as to where the landings would actually be made. The Seine bridges were largel destroyed only one or two weeks prior to the invasion, and those over the Loi only at the time