ad looked on Kassel as one of the five most important targets in the German aircraft industry. Industry here was affected not co S 1940 much by direct hits as indirectly through the destruction of transport links an the water, electricity, and gas supplies, as well as the absence of a great staff from their workplaces; in December 1943 some 15 per cent of r workforce was still missing. The shortfall in production, taken over the whol. year, was 12.8 per cent for the Tiger I tank and 13.4 per cent for anti-tank gun Output of 88-mm anti-aircraft guns fell by more than half, and took months to recover. Damage to the Henschel works also affected V- duction, and further losses resulted from the dispersal of production. Over however, the damage to industry was not as dramatic as the loss of life. H too, the Nazi regime did everything possible, just as it had in Hamburg keep the catastrophic results of the big raids a secret from the public. propaganda played them down so that people should not be alarmed. Ha AG, Hanover, Germany, ibid .; USSBS, Report No. 163: Hanomag, Hanover, ibid: Frankfurt im Feuersturm. 163 Dettmar, Zerstörung Kassels; Leben in Ruinen. Kassel 1943-1948; Groehler, Bomhenke 140-7; Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 161-2, 203, 267-8, 284; Middlek and Everitt, Bomber Command War Diaries, 440; USSBS, Report No. 13: Gerhard Fieseler We Kassel, Germany, NA RG 243; USSBS, Report No. 104: Henschel & Sohn, Kassel, Ger ibid .; USSBS, Report No. 161: Henschel & Sohn, Kassel, Germany, ibid. 53 German population been made generally aware of what had happened in the latest raids-something unthinkable to the point of absurdity in a totalitarian society-they might perhaps have been spared greater losses. Matters were made worse in Kassel by the fact that the authorities had stayed with the old air-raid protection measures, and these were no longer sufficient to cope with the dimensions of the mass raids now taking place. Kassel, as an important arms