ive precision bombing had not been entirely look to view. There was clearly still in theory the intention, set out in the directive of 14 February 1942,88 to switch to precision bombing within the operating rang of the new TR 1355 GEE navigation gear if this proved to be effective. The face of the Air Staff having ordered the area offensive against German city centre with 'full effort' or 'effort without restriction', with only the qualification 'until further notice', has been seized on in the official British historical records as proof (and there is indeed a range of supporting evidence) that it was not single-mindedly set on bombing cities. But undoubtedly there was never the basic intention in Harris's mind to change-should circumstances permit-to 85 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 135. 86 Levine, Strategic Bombing, 53; Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 260; Harris. Despatch, p. xvi (introd. by Cox) and 17-18. 87 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 136. 89 Harris, Despatch, p. xii (introd. by Cox); see also a letter from Canadian Lt .- Gen. A. Ch. Hul 88 Ibid. iv. 143-8; Germany and the Second World War, vi. 560-1. of 21 Nov. 1995 to the author, in which he expressly states that the words 'effort without restriction' in the Directive of 14 February 1942 merely meant that after Bomber Command's conserving its strength over the previous winter the bombers were now once again to be used to the full, and had nothing to do with indiscriminate bombing. At the same time, the chief of the Air Staff did emphasize on the following day that the targets remained the heavily built-up populated parts of a town and not, for instance, factories (Germany and the Second World War, vi. 561), and in the Directive itself the phrase 'full effort' is linked directly with incendiary attacks and the 'morale of the enemy civilian population'. 31 precision bombing. He expressed this yet again at the end of his Despatch of October 1945