were appointed in France; the Germans captured 32, most of whom were executed.  II.IV. OVERLORD: Allied Preparations 574 II.IV.6. Supplies, Leadership, Morale and refused any further co-operation with the Allies. As a result, no final agreements were reached. Whereas formal agreements on civil affairs had concluded by May 1944 with the governments-in-exile of the other been r count of western and northern Europe (the Netherlands, Belgium, Norway, Luxembourg), Washington was still planning to introduce a separate curre for US troops in liberated France.73 The next conflict between the Allies and the French broke out a few day before the invasion. As the day of the landing approached, i it increasingly necessary for the British and Americans to notify y the Fr leaders of the exact date and place of Operation NEPTUNE. This was all more urgent as the Allies had not involved De Gaulle in the F the planning of OVERLORD, since they believed many French administrative d e departments ha been infiltrated by agents sympathetic to the German cause. Ir . In the opinio had the British war ministry, however, the French would be deeply offended the start of the invasion was kept secret any longer. Like Eisenh Churchill argued that De Gaulle should be invited to London and the representatives of the CFLN informed of the Allies' plans.74 After some insistence from his closest collaborators, De Gaulle England on 4 June and allowed Churchill and Eisenhower to a acquaint h cam the plans for the landing. He nevertheless firmly rejected the Allies' that-like the heads of state and government of Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium-he should deliver a speech prepared by SHAEF over the radio on day of the invasion. De Gaulle's objection was that the Allies' text made reference to the role of the French provisional government after liberatio- was finally agreed that De Gaulle should write his own speech and deliver it the people of France at the end of the first day of the invasion. 75 The Alli