. It was now plain that without full fighter cover it was no longer possible to penetrate deep into Germany. The effects of the American 1943 bombe offensive remained modest and debatable, and the 8th Air Force had for the moment lost its superiority in the air over Germany by day. It had, however been able to delay German achievement of their aircraft production plans, and in particular to cut the number of fighters being brought into service.245 4. THE POINTBLANK CRISIS: ALLIED CONCERNS, AND MEASURES TO DEAL WITH THEM, FOLLOWING THE SCHWEINFURT DISASTER The intensive Allied bombing campaign had by now been going on for mor than half a year, but in British Bomber Command one of the operation's mais aims-neutralizing the German fighter defences so as to provide superiority is the air during the planned invasion, which had been stated as an 'intermedias. objective'-had faded entirely into the background. And for the Americans the certainty that Gen. Eaker had still been voicing in July 1943 that there we absolutely no doubt' that 'we can reduce the German Air Force to impotence this year'246 was, after Schweinfurt, a thing of the past. As could have bee predicted, the 'joint' bomber offensive had proved to be no such thing; the British and American bombing raids were not complementing each other. The setback suffered at Schweinfurt, and the discovery by the British intelligence services that the strength of the German day- and night-fighter force had between January and September 1943, risen from 300 to 700 and from 370 + 590 respectively, and was-albeit at the expense of the land fronts- growing, put this problem back at the very centre of the Allied air forces' stil concerns. There were two questions to be settled. On the one hand it had to be decided whether the American tactics of daylight bombing by bomber for mations undertaking their own defence (i.e. without fighter cover) were not fact wrong. And on the other, one needed to look at whether the British Bomber