6 was given the right to issue long-range bombing instructions to all air fleets on the eastern front, under a commander-in-chief Air East. His headquarters were to be near the chief of the army general staff, Gen. Kurt the Zeitzler. This again reveals the degree to which the Luftwaffe was tied to army. It was, moreover, intended once more to align the Luftwaffe's inde- pendent operations in the east with the army's requirements. The date when the He 177 would be ready for operations was not yet known, nor was it known whether it would first be employed for U-boat reconnaissance or against industry in the Urals. 'Systematic terror raids against medium-sized Russian towns deep in the hinterland' were also considered, but then rejected because of insufficient overall strength; admittedly these were to depend on political and domestic conditions inside Russia. Preparations were to be made for operations against the Russian grain harvest using incendiary bombs. On 23 June Speer invited a few industrial experts to join the so-called 'Carl Committee', the working party on the 'Dr Carl economic objectives for ai attacks'. This was chaired by Dr. Ing. Rudolf Carl, head of energy planning, and included Walther Schieber, a chemist and departmental head in Speer's min- istry, Paul Pleiger, the Reich commissioner for coal, and Walter Rohland, an industrialist and head of the Ruhr Staff. The plan was for close collaboration with the Luftwaffe general staff. 207 Ambassador Hewel of the foreign ministry had told Jeschonnek as early as 12 June 1943 of the importance he attached to bombing raids on Soviet industry in the hinterland, as this was supplying the front line. 208 At the beginning of July, however, the Luftwaffe's attention in the 205 ObdL, FüSt Ia No. 8437/43 g.Kdos. Chefs., 18 June 1943 to Lfl. 6 re action against the Soviet Russian war economy, BA-MA RL 7/521. 206 Points in discussion between Col. Kless of the general staff, 17 June 43, in Robinson 4 with Gen. Jeschonne