ever-stronger 8th Air Force from making further attacks. At that time Galland pressed the view that it would be better, given the great distances that the small numbers of single-engined fighters being put up against the Americans' daylight bombers had to cover when they were located at the periphery, for them to be stationed centrally. It would be better to deliver a hefty punch from the inside at Geschwader strength than deal a few ineffectual taps with Gruppen from the outside. This would, however, mean accepting that the Americans were going to fly in broad daylight, clearly visible to the population, deep into Germany before they were engaged, or that the fighters would then be quite unable to give cover to the areas at the edge. Göring, for political, propaganda, and psychological reasons, did not, however, want the American bombers flying by day in full view of the German public, and turned down the idea of the fighters being stationed at the centre; he believed the American daylight raids could be got the better of by over- coming the lack of training of the fighter pilots. At the same time, he accused them of 'miserable failure', even though during the raid by B-17s (with a fighter escort) on Bremen just before, on 17 April, they had shot down 16 bombers in spite of considerable difficulties caused by their scattered deployment at bases along the periphery. The reasons for the overall unsatisfactory performance of the day fighters lay basically in their low numbers and material shortcomings rather than, at this stage, in any lack of will or ability in the pilots. Galland was aware of this when, called upon by Hitler to account for the increasing daylight incursions, he worked out for him that to achieve the necessary concentration of fighters over the Reich he needed three to four times as many fighters as there were 27 Grabmann, 'Luftverteidigung', MGFA, BA-MA ZA 1/2476, 439 ff. 28 Army Air Forces, ii. 843-4.  I.11. Defending German Skies 166 I.II.I. Air D