MF 83/71-3, 0021 ff .; see same source on following text.  II.II. The Allies in the Western Theatre 480 II.II.2. Initial Differences US President (Roosevelt) UK Prime minister (Churchill) US Joint Chiefs of Staff Combined Chiefs of Staff (CCS) ** British Chiefs of Staff (COS)* British Chiefs of Staff for the Army Navy US Chiefs of Staff (JCS) for the Arm Navy Airforce Airforce US Joint Combined Staff Planners (CSP) British Joint Planners (JP) Combined Commanders US Planning Group Planning Staff (JPS) Lines of command Informal contacts * With Joint Staff Mission in Washington " With subdivisions for transport, intelligence, munitions, radio communications, meteorology, civil affairs, etc. DIAGRAM II.II.I. Allied command and planning structure following the ARCADIA conference, as of May 1942 deterioration in Nazi Germany's military potential (a contingency pla subsequently codenamed RANKIN), the joint planners identified all the ma problem areas the Allies would have to come to grips with in the follow months and years, notably the build-up of air power in Britain, the choice ice of landing area, the strength of the invasion forces, deceptive tactics, condu the approach, the role of underground armies, and plans for establishin ct of bridgehead. Once the Luftwaffe had been beaten back in the area around the proposed bridgehead between Le Havre and Dieppe-Deauville, the authors s of th memorandum envisaged an initial wave of three divisions, followed by maximum of 15 divisions including a large number of armoured units." s. The aims of the operation would be to take the key port of Le Havre, extend the bridgehead to Calais-Lille-Valenciennes, and advance as far as Anty Rotterdam, and the Ruhr. The COS planners accepted that their proposals should serve only as framework for future discussions, especially as the Americans were only just beginning to arm and had not yet worked out any detailed plans. But the British officers had no doubt that a start should be made immed