ien and Rodeike, JG I und II, 505-11. 234 Army Air Forces, ii. 698-9. 235 Schaffer, Wings of Judgment, 67.  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive 74 I.1.3. Daylight Raids by US Air Force Germans and created a gloomy mood among them. Other officers felt the same; one of them called for 'one Hamburg a month'. Gen. Arnold, interested the mainly in the destruction of the Luftwaffe before the invasion, saw advantage of area bombing in bad weather in the fact that the Germans eithe sacrificed their fighters or allowed their cities to be flattened. On I November 1943 he ordered that when precision attacks were not possible there shoul be blind area bombing using radar; the destruction would also harm Luftwaffe, and in particular the fighter arm. 236 the After Münster a few days's rest were needed; the 8th Air Force had lost po bombers inside three days. 237 But on 14 October it was back at Schweinfurt, the repair work being done there seemed well advanced. For the greater partof the trip there could be no fighter escort; instead, mass numbers and a divided approach were relied on. To deceive the defences, the two B-17 divisions and the B-24 division flew different routes. In the bad weather the two did not however, meet up, and the latter attempted a feint attack on Emden. Anyor' who could not see the target for smoke was to bomb the city. In view of the earlier high losses, crew morale was already rather poor, and when the missio- was revealed at the briefing a fair number of crew members were badly shakes Some of them took more ammunition than usual, and wore their best un. forms in case they should be taken prisoner or killed. The commander's 'good luck' at the end of the briefing was answered by many of them with 'goodbye) Because of the distance, the bombers carried fuel in extra tanks; many of ther aborted early on, and of 320 that took off only 291 crossed the Channel. One the P-47 escorts had turned back near Aachen, the German fighters, backed up by multi-engined aircr