y and the Second World War, vi. 511-12. 84 Harris, Bomber Offensive, 147.  I.1. The Allied Bomber Offensive I.I.2. Bomber Command Night Raids 30 important. British historians, in their study of the bomber offensive against Germany, have gone along with this view, since 'nothing like the devastation which was produced by the area offensive would have occurred, and it [was] , or. highly improbable that the destruction of factories and other "militar objectives" in and around the Ruhr would have been any greater than, perhaps, even as great as, in fact it was';85 that is to say, the individual target? could not, because of the inaccuracy of bomb-aiming at that time, have bee hit more often than they were with area bombing. Thinking in terms of ef ciency and cost-effectiveness takes precedence over humanitarian concerne east This way of thinking does not, however, convince entirely, because at le within the operating range of OBOE there was indeed an alternative, a an because a wrecked factory would in every case mean a greater loss to the effort than a number of wrecked dwellings. Supporting the argument of the ere being no alternative at the time, there was, though, the fact that there were few `precision targets' within the range covered by the more accurate OBOE syster the more distant and on the whole more important targets could be attacked only by means of H2S, that is, with the less accurate area bombing. Such operations were, however, limited, not only by the uncertain weather cond: tions over long distances but also by the short summer nights that made dee penetration into enemy airspace too risky.86 Bomber Command was thus st 'a bludgeon but not yet a rapier'.87 And yet, while the main offensive with its area bombing was making relatively successful start, selective precision bombing had not been entirely look to view. There was clearly still in theory the intention, set out in the directive of 14 February 1942,88 to switch to precision bombing within the ope