elligence] S[ervice]', vol. v in the series 'The Signal Intelligence Service of the German Luftwaffe des Seabourne Reports', NA, RG 457, Box 974, according to which (p. 17) the cryptographers of the Luftwaffe high command alone, decoded some 35,000 of the western Allies' radio messages. On the tactical character of Luftwaffe signals intelligence, see Gottschling, 'Funkhorchaufkl채rung', BA-MA Lw 36/2, 278, 288, and Boog, 'German Air Intelligence', 396. 323 Gottschling, 'Funkhorchaufkl채rung', BA-MA Lw 36/2, 249 ff .; Gol체cke Schweinfurt, 120-1. 249 E their formations; it was also to report any changes in enemy deployment plans and cancellations of sorties. It further had to use various methods, Prdependent of each other and of radar, for plotting the enemy's track, and to sign the relevant radar stations and direct them via the observer service. assediately after an Allied air raid, a combat report was to be made on the number of enemy formations involved, their strength, dispatch bases, landing bases, reroutings, losses, and damage suffered. For XII Air Corps the processing of all this information, coming in reports com a large number of other stations, was carried out at the Seer채uber ('Pirate') cadio-monitoring message centre located at Zeist in the Netherlands.324 While an enemy incursion was under way, the aircraft warning service had to determine the situation in the air at any time as quickly as possible, exactly and comprehensively, and pass this information on to the fighter units, flak, and ARP warning service. To do this it was divided into aircraft warning companies, each comprising a filter centre and a ring of observer posts feeding reports into it. Broad-area observation was served, along the coasts and later inside Germany as well, by long-range radars of the WASSERMANN and MAMMUT types; these had ranges of 150 to 250 km,325 which allowed them to detect enemy aircraft flying at 7,000 m as far away as central England, and olot their course. Apart from t