ready worked out for the Allied landings in Sicily and southern Italy had proved its worth. Starting from the assumption that it was essential to press on with POINTBLANK in order to weaken the Luftwaffe and attack the V-weapon sites, he divided up his pre-invasion bombing plan into operations against German airfields, against coastal fortifications, and against the trans- port network. The British and American heavy bombers were to start bombing railways and roads in Germany, Belgium, and France nine weeks before the invasion, airfields up to 125 miles from the landing zone a good three weeks before, and the coastal fortifications a short while before. Analysis of the attacks on the rail system in the Mediterranean theatre had, however, by now shown that cutting railway lines was not enough, and that what needed to be attacked were marshalling yards and locomotive repair shops-bigger targets, and easier to hit. Of the 108,000 t of bombs allocated to the pre-invasion raids, 45,000 t were to be dropped on rail targets in France and Belgium, 45 per cent by the US 8th Air Force and 35 per cent by British Bomber Command. Pinpoint targets such as railway bridges were to be attacked by fighter- bombers or light bombers. It was reckoned that two-thirds of western Europe's rail capacity was being used for German military transport. Leigh- Mallory, Tedder, and Eisenhower too favoured this plan. Harris considered that cutting the railway routes using tactical bombers was enough, and- pointing to the inaccuracy of his bombers, which operated only by night-said that diverting his heavy bombers for this purpose was inappropriate. Already in January he had insisted that bombing artillery emplacements would be an irreparable mistake and distract his bombers from their main task. Beyond the strategic offensive, he argued further, he did not have the resources to carry on yet another one, which besides would allow the German armaments industry a breathing-space. But the growing fail