ive effect, in that it created a vast number of people who he- nothing more to lose, and so would be fanatical in carrying on the fight so When Peltz, on 9 October on the Obersalzberg, complained to Göring about the inadequate production of bombers, the latter flew into a rage about the falling output figures. 'What on earth is the field marshal [Milch] thinki of? . . . What sort of a shambles is this? .. . Have I got into a madhouse here what? ... Where is the planned increase? Apart from fighters, there isn't any I cut down the numbers of bombers, it's no big deal to turn out fighters!' E. completely blew his top when he discovered that the He 177 long-rang bomber was to have no tail-gunner's turret. He gave orders for General luftzeugmeister Udet's heads of development and planning and chief of staff to be arrested by the Gestapo. 'If they're shot, then you'll see how quickly the whole pigsty down there gets things moving differently.'508 So much & for Göring's reaction to Programme 224. Milch managed to prevent the three courts-martial that had been planned.509 Göring meanwhile was thinking in terms of a bomber able to reach America: 'If only we could drop a few bomb there, so that they had to black-out over there!'510 On 11 October Göring ordered the Generalluftzeugmeister to put in hand immediately the production of 600 bombers called for in Peltz's mem andum, and the manufacture 'thereafter and as soon as possible of at least 900 a month', without affecting that of other types such as fighters, reconnaissance aircraft, and so on.511 Given the situation, this was a quite unrealistic demand Furthermore, as Milch had warned, 'the homeland defence programme mus in no way be weakened. Otherwise the enemy will of course knock out the production of all bombers.'512 After the American raid on Schweinfurt on 14 October he enjoyed unhoped-for backing for this attitude from Hitler, who had obviously not yet recognized Schweinfurt as a victory for the German defences. 'I