ssible; now Bomber Command had found that this was true for ni time bombing as well. With the Nuremberg raid closing the Battle of Berlin, the I POINTBLANK offensive was also at an end. Noble Frankland, co-author of the history of the 'Strategic Air Offensive against Germany', gave the following verdict on the undertaking: The harsh fact remains that Berlin, though wounded, was still a going concern, the Hamburg, though partly killed, had made a remarkable recovery, and that the Ruhr still producing at a very high rate indeed. It cannot be doubted that the Germe was military, industrial and economic system and the morale of German people had no been undermined to the point at which the German capacity for armed resistans Everitt, Bomber Command War Diaries, 486-8. On 'Wild' and 'Tame Boar' and the SN2 radar geo see below, Ch. II. 189, 192 321 See Germany and the Second World War, vi. 575. 322 Estimates by Harris, Despatch, 45, and AAF Strategic Bomber Operations in World War I Table VI. LoC, Spaatz Papers, Box 160, and by the Statistical Control Division, Office of Management Control, Hq. USAAF, 27 Dec. 1943, ibid., Spaatz Papers, Box 17. 323 Harris, Despatch, 48. 324 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 193-5, 199; Hastings, Bomber Command, 268. IOI had been fatally weakened ... The German Air Force in being had proved capable of protecting the German Air Force in production.325 The Luftwaffe had indeed, in spite of the shortages and difficulties under which it was operating, been able in particular with its fighters to inflict unsustainable losses first on the US 8th Air Force by day and then on British Bomber Command by night; though it had worn itself out in doing so. None- theless it was, because of the German fighters, now no longer possible, using diversions, feints, and jamming, to carry out successful bombing operations over Germany. The POINTBLANK offensive had, however, succeeded in diverting German material and human resources from other f