rmaments, Oberstingenieur Diets Schwencke. For Hitler, too, the adversary's high arms-production figures w nothing more than enemy propaganda. They both, he and his Reich marek. wer certainly knew better.24 A quite grotesque example of this ostrich-like attitude towards what t was going around him was Göring's denial of the existence of long-range Americ fighters. In the summer of 1943 Speer witnessed a bad-tempered exchan between Göring and Galland, his general of fighters. The latter had reporte to Hitler that a few American escort fighters had been shot down near Aache ted and warned of the consequences if the American managed, using auxili tanks, to penetrate deeper into Germany. Hitler had passed on this conce to Göring, who dismissed the report as 'imaginings' and 'bluff, and tried persuade him that the aircraft had been shot at and put out of action mu further to the west, but because of their great altitude had glided towards the to east-that is further into German territory instead of towards their base: which uch was total nonsense. After Galland persisted with his report, Göring gave him an official order that the American fighters had not been over Aachen. Göring was undoubtedly clear-sighted enough to comprehend the facts; but as Spese wrote, he was acting in denial, 'like a bankrupt'.25 For Göring, the possibili of the range of the American fighter escorts being extended further Germany seemed not worth discussing, and Hitler too had brusquely reject it.26 Naturally an attitude like this among the top leadership delayed cted adjustment needed to what was really happening in the air over Germany, the , just as irresponsibly as did the continued stubborn insistence on conducting an offensive air war at the cost of defence. In the end the pressure of reality made a defensive air war unavoidable. (a) Daylight Fighter Operations At the beginning of 1943 daylight fighter defence of Reich airspace was based wholly on Jagdgeschwader (JG) I, deployed as two Gru