es' years preparation for the invasion proved their worth in the end. The successe. the first half of June were due in the main to the fact that the Allies managed. organize a combined warfare strategy on the part of all the forces measures they took during the invasion to deceive and mislead their oppors (thanks in particular to the excellent work done by the intelligence service) al. played their part in the defeat of the German troops. The Germans had ine attempted to make comprehensive defensive preparations in order to pre the Allies from landing, but these all proved futile simply because they had little accurate information about Allied intentions. Moreover, the Germe were hampered by the weakness of their naval and air forces, which meant they faced an attacker who was superior to them in terms not only of milie capabilities; the Allies also had a more efficient system of military managem for the deployment of their troops. even After the landing, an operational phase began that Hitler and a number his generals had long been awaiting. The moment seemed to have come inflict crushing blows on the Allies in a bloody land war. For a few weeks it di indeed look as though the Allies would be forced into a costly positional despite the use of strong air forces; this was largely because at times they to- war a quite cut-and-dried approach, there was a lack of co-ordination betu took the air force and army staff, and occasionally the tactical objectives somewhat unclear. The only ray of hope appeared west of the bridgehead. the American thrust towards Cherbourg; it is worth noting that it was Americans who managed the decisive breakout at the end of July 1944. During the Normandy battles and the subsequent operations in weste Europe, it became clear that there were fundamental differences between rl the Allied and the German strategies. Basically, the Allies wanted to force the opponent to his knees quickly and at the price of as few losses among thei- own men as pos