ficient means of striking at the heart of the resistance movem By the end of 1943 the Germans had discovered not only the structure of th hent. Resistance but also its plans for deploying personnel and equipment duris the invasion. They had neutralized some of its cadre groups, and uncover several arms caches. 143 To restrict the Resistance's field of action, the Germans and their French helpers increasingly resorted to mass arrests, especially following co insurgency operations. They also arrested people on preventive grou The German ambassador in France, Otto Abetz, reported 15,000 arrests in in th three months from December 1943 to February 1944; by May 1944.L estimated that a total of 50,000 people had been arrested, most of whom he been sent to German concentration camps. He also recommended r executions of captured resistance fighters should be carried out by collet orators, apparently so as to compromise them even further and strength their ties with the occupation authorities. 144 Yet the huge wave of arrests did not lastingly halt the growth of the resistance movement. On the contrary, the Resistance increasingly target Wehrmacht troops directly. The German soldiers frequently responded. d wit savage, uncontrolled reprisals, mostly against uninvolved civilians. The Je population suffered most from this repression; as early as December 1941 I were being deported to the east as an alternative to the execution of resist fighters, and any Jew encountered in the course of an anti-resistance raid. shot on the spot. Such 'unofficial' murders of Jews alternated with deportati to the extermination camps. The Germans often took hostages in advance and executed them in reprisal for attacks by the Resistance. Any person even suspected of providing support to resistance fighters could expect merciless condemnation by French and German summary courts-martial. As many officials of the occupying Dowo had themselves forecast, the violent repression spurred the Resistance to