he western sector. To that end, British and Canadian troops were to tie down most of the German panzer divisions by constant attacks and thus give the US Ist Army more room for manoeuvre. According to Montgomery's plans, this should make it possible to broaden the landing zone, greatly weaken the Germans, and then seize the Brittany ports.50 The prospects for this looked quite promising since, according to Allied intelligence, the Americans by now had eight times as many armoured vehicles in the western section as the Germans.51 Meanwhile some radical changes of personnel and organization had made on the German side. Gen. Dollmann, commander in chief of d be Seventh Army, died under rather suspicious circumstances on 28 SS-Obergruppenführer and Gen. of Waffen-SS Paul Hausser took over 1 post. On 3 July Rundstedt was replaced by Field Marshal Gen. Günther Kluge, presumably because he seemed more likely than his predecess carry out the intentions of Hitler and the Wehrmacht command. A same time Geyr too was forced to resign. He was replaced by Heins Eberbach, general of panzer troops.46 Only a few days earlier, , on 28 I Panzer Group West had taken over the section of the front opposite the Brie and Canadians with three panzer corps and one army corps. Hau Seventh Army, for its part, was to counter the American 1 attacks. Hausser had only about 75 tanks, Eberbach still had 400 armoured vehi- to deploy.47 r his While icles This shows once again that the defence continued, as before, t to focus on eastern section of the bridgehead. Changes in personnel confirmed once ago! that Hitler and OB West did not want to give up a foot of terrain. Kluge's 6 n the actions were also directed at achieving these aims. His intentions we reflected in Hitler's orders for the battle in Normandy given on 8 Jul- Although he again ordered the bridgehead to be split, he also ordered the rin round the Allies to be held firm at all costs.48 (e) Allied Preparations for Operation COBRA create Th