njoyed superiority in the air, and it now brought fresh impetus to the task. 622 The airfield expansion programme took special account of the need for camouflage, for spreading the aircraft dispersals wide apart, and for laying down taxi-tracks between them. In this way large airfield complexes were created, offering a wealth of opportunities for keeping them in use even after enemy bombing raids; they were termed Flugplatzfestungen, fortress airfields, since they had their own flak batteries to protect them. The workshops and depots were often up to 10 km away from the centre of the airfield, which, with fuel in increasingly short supply, was if anything a disadvantage. The control centres were sited well outside the airfield complex. In early June 1944 the building of this airfield system was still far from com- plete, for lack of time and because Hitler himself sometimes cancelled the allocations of materials needed. Koller believed, too, that the Luftwaffe for- tresses would have probably cost more losses of German aircraft than if these had been widely dispersed. South and west of the landings zone, in particular, there were hardly any airfields. The location of a great many fighter and fighter-bomber fields to the east of it acted as an operational liability, in that their aircraft always had to approach the battlefield from that direction and could thus easily be kept under watch by the Allied air force and held at bay.623 Sperrle's Air Fleet 3 was made up of a number of large units. In March 1944 X Air Corps in Angers had been transferred from Greece and had taken over the HQ of Air Commander Atlantic. It carried on with the latter's operations against Allied shipping and protecting German U-boats in the Bay of Biscay, with only 19 long-range bombers and a few long-range reconnaissance aircraft; their range and meagre numbers were far from enough for waging an air war over the Atlantic. IX Air Corps, under Maj .- General Peltz (the erstwhile (leader of the a