he German fighters no time to gain necessary altitude. This lack of time in which to react, the dispersion of the fighter units along the periphery, and the inadequate radar and communi the tion equipment often led to fruitless sorties; for this reason, Air Fleet 3 mo and more took-even if this meant fewer contacts with enemy f formations- assembling forces in rear areas so as to make more concentrated attacks on the enemy's intentions had been ascertained; they were battles that, wage once against four-engined bombers with a fighter escort over the Channel, entail heavy losses. 208 Air Fleet 3's lack of insistence on having an adequate rein aged forcement of new aircraft may have had to do with the relative lack of strategie importance attached to air raids on occupied areas in the west, and the urgency of defending airspace over the homeland; for which reason, too, IG 26 was for several weeks in the summer attached to Luftwaffe Commande Centre. The replacement training Gruppen and flying-school units in south ern France did next to nothing to confront the American bomber raids in that area; consequently they were from November 1943 onwards given no further mention in Air Fleet 3's serviceability level reports, in order not to create the impression of high numbers. All in all, the fighter defence in the west in 10 was unsatisfactory in the extreme. 209 f the Göring made it quite clear that nothing could be done about this without serious repercussions for the other air-war fronts: The moment .. . the British try to land in France and open a second front, I won't leave a single fighter to defend the Reich; everything capable of flying will be sent forward and that same day the whole of the Reich will have not a single aircraft, come what mau 207 Activity report of Lfl. 3 for June 1943, 8, BA-MA RL 7/112; activity report of Lfl. 3 for April 1943, Lfl.Kdo. 3, Fü.Abt. (I) No. 5700/43 g.Kdos., 10 May 1943, 6, ibid., RL 7/III. 208 Activity report by Lfl. 3 for June 1943,