wing a sense of reality, suggested repeating the attacks on power stations that could not be put fully out of action by the first strike. As for the use of the Seilbombe, it would be better to wait until relevant defensive measures were completed in Germany against that kind of attack by the British. It was realized that operations against the most important raw-material and primary-material industries in the Urals were not possible because of a lack of long-range bombers. Considerable importance, however, 229 Short study, 'Operations against the Russian armaments industry', app. to LwFüSt Ia op No. 8865/43 g.Kdos. Chefs., 9 Nov. 1943, 8, BA-MA RL 7/521. 230 Talk by Gen. Koller at Robinson on 21 Dec. 1943. App. to LwFüSt Ic, No. 52 089/ 43 g.Kdos. (IV), 21 Dec. 1943, BA-MA RL 2 II/603; Muller, German Air War, 174-5.  I.III. Attack the Best Form of Defence 394 I.III.2. Resumption of Strategic Bombing was attached to the destruction of key plants, which included ball-bearings factories, works producing telecommunication or optical equipment, precision engineering, specialized machine tools, and so on. The fact that machine tools in particular, were largely immune to bomb damage was being overlooked Also considered were attacks on armoured vehicle and motor vehicle factories and finally on air armaments and artillery manufacture.231 Thus the clear line once again became more and more fuzzy. Boldly, Col. Wodarg was focusing on further additional targets once 11 power stations had been destroyed. he called them 'bonbons'. They were predominantly rail-transport target which, 'as with the Allied attacks on the transport system between Italy and Germany', were to be paralysed by the mass of 'the remaining bomber units, Further suggestions were invited.232 One is bound to ask what ‘remaining bomber units' he was talking about, seeing that far too few were still available Maybe the He 177, though still not ready for operations, was in his mind, since operations against the ar