p Subsequently, Army Group G passed on two further orders from Op and OKW, adding electric power stations, horses, cattle, generators, and. to this list. 'Anything else that cannot be transported is to be destrodel according to a telex of 25 August that must have reminded many of a see We earth policy.50 Meanwhile, however, AOK 19 had to start planning the orderly retreat its troops. On the basis of a realistic assessment of the situation, on 18 A. Army Group G gave the order to delay the Allied advance on a line th 64 Marseilles, Aix-en-Provence, and the River Durance, and after that top the region round Avignon. This would give the divisions stationed the Rhône a chance to escape northwards. Both LXXXV IIth Panzer Division were to protect this evasive mano Army of the LXXXV Army Corps units were available for this Corps a uvre. While to prove difficult to bring up the armour. The Allies laund task, it conti west st of ched lo raids, especially on the ferries over the Rhône, and the Resistance bleu convoy train, which seriously delayed the advance of these units. Most low-level Panzer Division units did not arrive east of the river until eight days aft landing.51 It was mainly thanks to this that the Allies managed to advance toward- north and west rather faster than expected. By 19 August they had surrou Toulon, followed two days later by Marseilles. The Germans' inadec. intelligence network also made it difficult for them to conduct an order operation. In the first days after the landing AOK 19's direct links with A Group B broke down, and Wiese received only patchy intelligence r from his own Luftwaffe. Although AOK 19 rightly assumed the Allies initially advance westwards and then wheel round towards the north, the staff did not learn until 20 August that American troops had also marching towards Grenoble over the past two days.52 Arm Allied headquarters in St-Tropez, however, learned as early as 17 from decoding German radio traffic, of Hitler's intention to a