140 (midday, I Feb. 1943). 3/2697.  I.III. Attack the Best Form of Defence 382 Naturally, this was not a complete U-turn by Hitler from his belief in army and ground operations towards an independent strategic bombing war. For the moment only one Gruppe of He 1775 was to be employed, and as late a October 1943, despite all the other tasks the Luftwaffe had, he still demanded that 'support for the army ... must not thereby be impaired' or 'be diminished as a result'.178 The 1941 and 1942 land offensives in the east, the winter 1941 crisis at Moscow and the 1942/3 one at Stalingrad, as well as the North African theatre in 1942, time and again called for all available air forces to be used for the defence of and as support to the ground troops, and thus, with few exceptions, prevented the pulling out of bomber forces for strategic operations against the power sources in the enemy's hinterland. This was how, towards the end of 1943, both the Luftwaffe operations staff179 and Dept. 8 (war science) of the Luftwaffe general staff viewed the situation in retrospect in a very similar way. Yet there had been major opportunities for such operations, it was argued and the demands of the ground troops had not always been necessary; they could often have helped themselves without air support. Highly trained bom ber crews and bombers unsuitable for ground operations had been squandered doing the wrong job. The sentences jotted down by Gen. Koller from a con- ference with Göring in February 1943 dramatically summed up the situation of the Luftwaffe and its wish for a switch in the use made of its bombers: Be hard and do not respond to every call of the infantry, because all we are doing is directly supporting the infantry. If we could systematically smash their [the Russians'] railways, we would be giving the army much more direct help. Where our artillery can smash the enemy's concentrations, no Luftwaffe should be used. ... We must strike a their reserves; the enemy's real attack