e conditions on that night, the commander-in-chief of OVERLORD also thought a few more days' paration would be helpful. Roosevelt appeared convinced by these argum but advised Churchill not to tell Stalin of this further postponement and pre- the time being. 11 The precise date of the landing was thus left hanging in the air. Meanwhile in the last weeks and months of 1943, the Allies took final decisions on th most important command appointments. Although Roosevelt had origin envisaged Marshall as supreme commander of an invasion in Europe finally settled on Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower. The US president was he sumably unwilling to do without Marshall in Washington, since he had excellent contacts in Congress. Eisenhower seemed well suited to the task. the Mediterranean he had shown great skill in reconciling the often divers interests of military staff and politicians of different nations- -an ability t would be in great demand in the preparation and execution of OVERIO Eisenhower arrived in London in mid-January, and the Supreme Headou ters Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF) was set up under his comma the next few weeks. 12 Other major command appointments were decided and the same time. Gen. Walter Bedell Smith (US) became Eisenhower's chief of staff, with Morgan (COSSAC) as his deputy. British ACM Sir Arthur Tedder was made deputy supreme commander. Command of the was entrusted forces (21st Army Group) in the first phase of OVERLORD Gen. Montgomery, Sir Alan Brooke's favourite, in accordance with a decision of the British war cabinet, although Eisenhower would have preferred Gen Alexander (Brit.). Gen. Omar N. Bradley (US), who was also a favourite of Eisenhower's, was put in command of the American army units. Finally, the CCS appointed Admiral Sir Bertram H. Ramsay (Brit.) commander-in-chief of the Allied invasion fleets.13 In all of these appointments for OVERI 11 Churchill, Second World War, v. 386, 397; Weinberg, World at Arms, 628-9; Ehrmann Grand Strategy, v