lready under way. From 10 March the 9th US Air Force was switched from supporting the 8th to missions preparing the way for the invasion. From I April the needs of the invasion were given priority in all the Allied air forces. The change in priorities was naturally not overnight or total. Even Eisenhower was aware of the continuing value of the strategic bombing missions-the 8th Air Force, for instance, was in its operations over Germany destroying hundreds of German fighters a month in the air and on the ground, so that sorties by the tactical bombers against airfields in France met with hardly any fighter opposition. On 17 April Eisenhower's directive on support by the strategic air units to the preparations for the landing went out to Spaatz and Harris. The top objective remained that of the POINTBLANK offensive, the continuing destruction and paralysing of the German military and economic and industrial system, together now with the destruction of the major trans- port arteries. Linked directly with this was the breaking of the Germans' power to resist in the air, through a successful pursuing of the combined bomber 419 Jacobs, Air Command, 71; Terraine, Right of the Line, 611-19.  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive 140 I.I.6. From POINTBLANK to OVERLORD offensive. Spaatz's forces were to wear down the Luftwaffe, especially in fighter arm, and destroy the installations that supported it, and to sever r the German railway links, in particular those to the intended beachhead. Bevor this, Spaatz was given free rein to attack important military and politico targets in south-eastern Europe. Harris was, because of the lack of accura of night-time bombing, told to carry on with the destruction of Ger 'industry'; his operations were, however, to be arranged so as s to › supplem those of the American strategic bombers in that they as far as possible a struck at the Luftwaffe and the rail network. Leigh-Mallory's tactical bomb had the task of knocking out the V-weapon sites