wever, the landings in the SWORD, JUNO, GOLD (British/Canadian), and UTAH (US) areas led to no ce ious losses. The German defence continued to put up little resistance 17 The situation was different in the Ist US Infantry Division's landing area St-Laurent-sur-Mer (OMAHA), where the assault forces encountered fierce defensive fire, suffered heavy losses, and were held back o on the beach. For a while it looked as though the landing in this area was in danger of failing Then, however, thanks in particular to the help of a few v destroyers whose fire held back the defenders, the Americans managed to break through in the afternoon. Yet by the end of the day they had succeeded in holding on a narrow strip of coast at most 2.2 km deep and 8 km wide, with about 34,000 men. The unexpectedly strong resistance came primarily from the German 269 Infantry Division, whose position the Allied intelligence had in fact pinpointed accurately a few days before the attack to St-Lô, 20 km inland; but it so happened that precisely at the time of the landing the unit had begun on exercise near the coast, undetected by the Allies. 18 Bolbec Seine Mulberries A & B Gooseberries 1-5 Airborne drop zones US-Br. forces British minefields boundary Le Havre Force S Bay of the Seine Lion-sur-Mer O SWORD C Ouistreham · Falaise Caen Br. 2nd Army Force J in NO sur-Mer JUNO Arromanches- Courseulles- Force G O GOLD 3 les-Bains Bayeux Objective for end of D-Day Port-en-Bessin O Conde Caumont-l'Éventé NORMANDY 2 A Force O US 1st Army OMAHA Vierville Vire fire MAP II.V.I. Assault areas and first objectives after the D-Day landing (6 June 1944) St. Lô Force U Isigny- sur-Mer Ire UTAH 4361; Op. Neptune (Overlord) Naval Orders, 1944, ibid., ADM 199/1615; Harrison, Cross-Channel Attack, maps IV & VII. Sources: Battle Folders. Daily Operation Report, Sketch of Assault Area, June 1944; PRO, DEFE 2/426, Op. Neptune, Sketch, 1944, ibid., WO 106 Carentan Ste. Mère-Eglise o D-Day+9 days Cherbourg ------- Granville