h. In the midst of the headlong, thouok successful, retreat of the regiment Hitler ordered the flying-bomb bombard ment of Paris, which had been occupied by the Allies on 25 August, a 'morale weapon'. 397 LXV Army Corps was instructed henceforth to direct hal of its launches from its new positions against Paris and the other half, before, against London. After the loss of the Channel coast, however, this was as now totally impossible, and the flak regiment withdrew further t III/KG 3 had meanwhile been pulled back to north-western r to Holland.398 Germany and was now to continue bombarding England from there. On 5 September ; launched nine V-Is against London. Then followed a respite of 11 days. The Gruppe was next reinforced by II/KG 53 from the eastern front and renamed I/KG 53. By mid-November all the three Gruppen of the Geschwader were in action.399 On 16 September the air-launched flying-bomb attacks on London were resumed on orders from OKW, though only sporadically. The dispersion error had meanwhile turned out to be much greater than during tests one occasion the British even assumed that Portsmouth had been the target On when in fact it was Southampton. They also interfered with the guide bean for the bombers. 400 The loss of a large part of their equipment made it necessary to reduce the strength of the flak regiment by one-half; a second regiment was now out of the question. On 12 September orders were received for building 32 launch rampe 'behind the West Wall'.401 LXV Army Corps split into an army staff and a Luftwaffe staff. The latter was responsible for the flak regiment, by now consisting of only two battalions, and set up its command post at Wipperfürth A new plan by General of Flak Artillery von Axthelm, approved by the OKW envisaged the bombardment of the Allied-occupied Belgian-French industrial region. The C-in-C West demanded two launch zones to the right and left of the Rhine at the latitude of the Eifel. LXV Army Corps intended to establish