N RESISTANCE (a) Operation MARKET-GARDEN Army As described in Chapter V, the purpose of SHAEF's strategy in early September 1944 was to reach the Rhine as quickly as possible on a broad front. The main thrust of the assaults was to be directed at the area north of the Ardennes. The 21st Army Group and elements of the US Ist Army were instructed to seize the Ruhr area after forming bridgeheads east of the Rhine. At the same time, units of the 12th Army Group (Bradley) were to attack in the direction of Cologne, the Saar, and Frankfurt.1 In the light of these intentions, Montgomery's proposal in early September to take Eindhoven, Nijmegen, and Arnhem was to some extent a modification of Eisenhower's plans, because it meant that the attack would now be directed not so much eastwards as northwards. Furthermore, the primary aim of clearing the approaches to the Scheldt would then take second place. At first, therefore, Eisenhower like his senior staff officers took a rather sceptical view of the British field marshal's plans. Then, however, when the British 2nd Army achieved some successes against the Germans east of Antwerp and even managed to secure a bridge- head across the Meuse-Scheldt canal at Neerpelt, the Allied supreme commander realized that this was also a good opportunity to inflict a decisive defeat on the Germans along this section of the front before the onset of bad weather.2 Under Montgomery's MARKET-GARDEN plans of 10 September, three air- borne divisions were to seize tactically important areas around Veghel/Eind- hoven (US 101 Airborne Division), south of Nijmegen (US 82 Airborne Division), and west of Arnhem (British I Paratroop Division and, later, the Polish Ist Paratroop Brigade), under the command of Lt .- General Frederick 1 See SHAEF to CCS, 13 Sept. 1944, PRO, WO 171/35; 21 AGp of 7 Sept. 1944, message Eisenhower, ibid., WO 205/53; Deutschland im Zweiten Weltkrieg, vi. 112-13; Ehrman, Grand Strategy, v. 524 ff .; Ambrose, Supreme Commander, 51