issues also came from their ranks. Eisenhower himself, continuously entrusted with the work of Allied staffs, is a good example. He was more an impartial co-ordinator than a military go-getter, and soon won the trust of military 84 Bryant, Triumph in the West, 190-1; Harrison, Cross-Channel Attack, 90 ff .; Hastings, Overlord, 50; History Today, 34: 22; Reynold nolds, Churchill, 39; Stoler, 'Strategy', 58-9; on relations between US and British officers in the CCS, and social differences between American and British military and political leaders, see Gallo, Strategy Conferences, 134 ff. 85 See Pogue, Supreme Command, 529. 83 See WC, Man Power Policy for 1944, 5, II, and 27 Nov. 1943, PRO CAB 92/104; On dk losses see Eisenhower, At War, 213, and Weinberg, World at Arms, 490-1.  II.IV. OVERLORD: Allied Preparations 578 II.IV.6. Supplies, Leadership, Morale officers and civilian officials in the Allied camp. He was helped in this by k management approach. Eisenhower allowed the various SHAEF departs maximum freedom of action-often to the surprise of the British, who he long been used to a more rigid command structure. 86 preparations were a joint endeavour, and to get members of different nations 579 to co-operate to the best of their ability. The Allied staffs accordingly involved the greatest possible number of military representatives and civil authorities in the decision-making process. Eisenhower had a special radio transmitter set up for the invasion forces, and demanded that his officers maintain close contact with the men under their command.90 This approach also had its disadvantages, as Eisenhower discovered with k. senior-ranking subordinate, Gen. George Patton. A highly successful ofes destined to lead a US army in France, Patton had expressed questionals views to journalists on the post-war role of the United States and Soul Union, causing a stir in the US Congress. After conferring with C. Marshall, and in view of Patton's previous achievements, Eisenhowe