to rise, it could be expected that by the end of March 194. the Lancasters alone would be enough to achieve a state of devastation Germany that would make capitulation inevitable. This bomber type, which could carry a much heavier bomb-load than the American B-17, which Low Cherwell regarded as twice as good as the Halifax and four times as good as the Stirling, and whose effectiveness Churchill described as outstanding, we therefore to be supplied in the numbers needed, and with the latest technic equipment. It was planned to give the bomber offensive the same priori as had earlier been given to beating the U-boats.266 Any delay could be a: astrous. The expected monthly losses of 171 Lancasters would be made gos by the production of 212 a month. Unlike before, Harris made no mention at all of the US 8th Ai Force. In hi opinion the Lancasters could do it on their own. Nor did he now menti the planned invasion. The indiscriminate bombing offensive, on a scal unprecedented so far, that he was intending was not meant primarily tom OVERLORD possible by knocking out targets of military importance, but make it unnecessary. There was no further mention, either, of the Ger fighters; these he wanted simply to render ineffectual by means of electro countermeasures. Instead of dissipating efforts on secondary targets, his concern was to continue and intensify the area-bombing offensive, which after all entirely within the scope of the official directives.267 h wa Since, in particular, it had become clear at the Teheran conference in late November/early December 1943 that the second front could no longer be delayed, the Air Staff's thinking was even more firmly centred on givin- priority not to area bombing but to selective attacks on aircraft factories. Eva Portal told his deputy, Bottomley, on 2 December to issue a a directive along these lines to Bomber Command. This showed Harris that his figures we over-optimistic. It told him that he must also attack cities in the occupie