) OB West (Res.) LXV Army Corps (Heinemann) OB West (Res.) I SS-Pz Corps (Dietrich) Army High Cmd. Ch. Gen Staff (Zeitzler) QMG (Wagner) Mil. Cdr. Belg./ N. France ( Falkenhausen) Wehrm. Cdr Netherlands (Christiansen) (c) Command Structure and Division of Responsibilities The command structure existing in the area of OB West up to mid-rom changed in the south of France after Italy concluded an armistice with the Allies on 3 September 1943. The Germans had been able to prepare f the disbanding of the Italian Fourth Army in good time, as it had been on the cards since Mussolini's overthrow in July 1943. The newly formed Nineteenel Army High Command (AOK 19) was therefore able to make rapid progress in disarming the four Italian infantry divisions and both coastal divisions east the Rhône. By 9 September the majority of the approximately 41,000 Italie soldiers had been disarmed.68 There was, in any case, no chance of resistan since the Germans had already cut off all the Italian Fourth Army's lineso ance. communication between the alpine passes in the east and the Rhône in the west. Rundstedt ordered that any opposition should be put down ruthlesslo since the behaviour of the Italians was considered rank treachery. In late August 1943 the OKW had still been considering keeping an Italian army corps of two divisions on the Mediterranean coast. It soon became clear however, that although many of the disarmed Italian troops declared them selves ready to work for the Germans, very few wanted to fight as soldiers on the side of their former Axis partner. As a result, no Italian units were formed The few Italians who were willing to fight were simply incorporated int Reich leader SS (Himmler) SS Main Operations Office (Jüttner) Mil. Cdr France (Stülpnagel) OKW (Keitel) Wehrmacht operations staff (Jodl) Senior SS and police leader Belg./N. France (Jungclaus) Senior SS and police leader Netherlands (Rauter) Senior SS and police leader France (Oberg) C-in-C Wehrmacht (Hitler) L