ing figure on the reduction in Germany aircraft-manufacturing capacity. They did ne believe him. It was only the fall-off in their losses from May onwards the overcame the crisis in morale.397 6. FROM POINTBLANK TO OVERLORD. ARGUMENTS AMONG THE ALLIED LEADERSHIP, THE OPENING OF THE FUEL AND TRANSPORT OFFENSIVE, AND SUPPORT TO THE INVASION TROOPS Gen. Eisenhower was well aware that the role played by the strategic bombe forces would be decisive for the success of the planned invasion in Normand They were, he wrote on I February 1943, indeed the only weapon that could crucially influence how the operations went, especially during the landing phase. Field Marshal Gerd von Rundstedt, the German C-in-C West, ale commented later that it had all been a matter of the Luftwaffe and then again the Luftwaffe. It is thus impossible to overestimate the critical importanceof air power on the two sides in deciding the success or failure of the ventura If the fighting ability of the Luftwaffe had not been weakened, and Germo man supplies had not been delayed by the Allied operations in the air, the invasion might well have come to naught. If the Luftwaffe, and in particular it reconnaissance capability, had not been virtually put out of action beforehand the elaborately planned and executed spoofing operation to suggest that the main landing was going to be made in the Pas-de-Calais would also not have succeeded. 398 In the spring of 1944 the Allies therefore needed to redirect and reorganize the way they used their bomber forces against Germany, so as to achieve this aim. And it was here that differences between the British and Americans over the sharing-out of top responsibilities and the strategy for the invasion air forces 397 Davis, Spaatz, 379-384. 398 Ehrman, Grand Strategy, v. 286-7; Howard, Strategic Deception, 103-33; Hesketh, Fortitude 87-133. 131 came damagingly to light. These had their origin both in the rivalry between individual leading personalities, and in attempt