ied to the operations department, whose day-to-day routine tactical/operational work was, seen against the new tasks, too cramping Accordingly in October 1943, renamed as Dept. 8 (Military Science), it was attached to the CGS directly and not through the chief of Luftwaffe operation staff. As Herhudt von Rohden was to say after the war, Korten was founder and mentor to the military science department,411 which of course in different form had a long history going back to the period immediately after the First World War.412 Though the tasks the department was being set were application-based, its programme was still centred on overall strategy. The topics it researched and analysed ranged widely, from air operations and battle tactics through overall supplies, communications, tactics of different arms and branches, organization, training, armament, wartime economy, traffic, policy geopolicy, international law, and other aspects connected with the war the air, to 'propaganda and instilling the spirit of resistance (wehrgeistige Erziehung)'. Rohden strove to make up for the shortcomings that had resulted from general staff training in the pre-war and early war years that had been confined to tactical/operational matters. This had already been attempted in 1942, but had had to be abandoned because of a pressing shortage of general staff officers at the front. 408 Hildebrand, Generale der deutschen Luftwaffe, ii. 68-9. 409 Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 262-4; Muller, German Air War, 154-6; Herhudt von Rohden, Vom Luftkriege, and id., 'Vom Wesen des Luftkrieges'. 410 Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 155-7; Muller, German Air War, 9, 11-15. 411 Muller, German Air War, 155. 412 Köhler, 'Forschung'. Ir led in 1944 to military science courses for senior commanders. These were intended to familiarize them with areas of knowledge 'that are not in the ustandard toolbox" provided by a military training, but knowledge of which seems essential in a modern war'. 413 Out of the 50 lectures occupyi