needed three to four times as many fighters as there were 27 Grabmann, 'Luftverteidigung', MGFA, BA-MA ZA 1/2476, 439 ff. 28 Army Air Forces, ii. 843-4.  I.11. Defending German Skies 166 I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 American bombers, and on top of that the same number of fighters as the were enemy escort fighters. Air superiority had to be attained by the fight before the bombers could be destroyed.29 Göring, and increasingly Hir (who were together responsible for providing a material strength equal to . tasks and objectives), more and more attributed the setbacks s to the alleged the inadequacies of the men doing the fighting. During 1943 Göring developed. this respect a kind of Pavlovian reflex, and began insultingly to berate h fighter pilots. When JG 77 was stretched far beyond the limits in Sicily, maki vain sorties against a numerically superior foe, he threatened to court-max one pilot from each Gruppe for cowardice in the face of the enemy.30 And sl at a time when the C-in-C South was reporting: 'Our air f ce is not st enough to engage the enemy in large numbers over both Sardinia and Sie the same time. '31 Threats like this, though they were hardly carried out, tainly did nothing to boost the morale of the exhausted pilots. Göring be more and more obsessive in his aversion to the day fighters. A special concern for Göring, one that, with an eye to the impression create on the public, was also a domestic-policy issue, was the daylight incursions the RAF's Mosquitoes: flying high and fast, they were at first beyond the rege of German fighters, and being made of wood gave only a weak radar echo light bombers and reconnaissance aircraft they could admittedly not cause an great direct damage; but they were quite simply a nuisance-they triggered of . As air-raid warnings along their flight path that interrupted industrial production they made the flak fire off pointless rounds; and in the hours of darkness th night fighters chased after them in vain. Very dangerou