long-lasting lack of clarity as to the overall command of the invasion forces, together with a lack of co- ordination between the British and Americans, formed the main reason for this state of uncertainty. It was not until two months before the invasion that the details of Leigh-Mallory's remit were set out; in respect of the strategic bomber force this had from the outset been limited, by Gen. Arnold and the British Air Ministry, to only parts of it. His authority over the American tactical air forces did not take in the logistics side; this remained with Gen. Spaatz, who thus held the whip hand. The C-in-C of the Allied Expeditionary Air Forces was to have command over the American 9th (Tactical) Air Force only within the context of giving the greatest possible support to the strategic bombing offensive. What rights he had over the strategic bombers was left unclear.401 An intolerable situation-which must surely bear some of the blame for the personal tensions-arose: right up to April, Leigh-Mallory carried the responsibility for preparing the air support for the land forces during the invasion, while having no authority over the units only nominally placed under him. All this deliberate muddle was linked, where the US Army Air Forces were concerned, with Arnold's efforts to have them independent of and on an equal footing with the army. By, all on their own, defeating the 399 On this see Jacobs, 'Air Command'. 400 Davis, Spaatz, 309 ff. 401 Cossac (43) 81, 16 Nov. 1943, PRO, Air 37/1248; Davis, Spaatz, 316-19.  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive 132 I.I.6. From POINTBLANK to OVERLORD German Luftwaffe in the strategic bombing war even before OVERLORD bege they were meant to appear independent in the eyes of Congress and of " American public. The attempt to set up an independent American commas over the US air forces in Europe-at least the strategic ones, with if possible British Bomber Command included as well- was aimed at this, 2 t all was designed to give Spaatz