n 17 May 1943, but they overlooked the fact that this had been carried out by a few hand-picked crews after prolonged training-for which there was little time in the east. Here they had to content themselves with whatever average crews could be freed for this operation, crews who were often still engaged in ground support, flying by ground ori- entation and thus needing first to be trained in navigation. There was expected to be a 50 per-cent hit probability with the remote-controlled 'Fritz X' bombs-a figure achieved during tests in Foggia and in wind-tunnel experi- ments-and a 33 per-cent success rate with the SD 500 high-explosive bombs. Five weeks later Luftwaffe operations staff Ic was again working on a new target-selection study. Under the chairmanship of Col. Wodarg, the Luftwaffe's chief Ic, a meeting was held at 'Robinson', the Luftwaffe's forward headquarters in East Prussia, in the presence of Gen. Koller, Prof. Steinmann, and Dr Carl, as well as the chief of Group Ic East, Maj. Werner Boie, and others. In a joint report to Koller it was pointed out that 'within the framework of the overall war against the enemy powers ... the Soviet territory at the moment [was] the only one reachable for aerial warfare against the enemy's overall armaments potential', and that the latter could be more effectively damaged in Russia in the factories than at the front. The plan for the bomber offensive was illustrated using models of the power stations, and slides. Interest in the plan was soon also being shown by Col. von Below, Hitler's Luftwaffe adjutant, by Ambassador Hewel of the foreign ministry, by Gen. Zeitzler, the chief of the army general staff, and even by the Reich leader SS, Himmler.230 Reflections on how this plan could be put into practice continued. Boie, showing a sense of reality, suggested repeating the attacks on power stations that could not be put fully out of action by the first strike. As for the use of the Seilbombe, it would be better to wait un