his kind was assembled at Telefunken. From more recent comments made by prisoners of war a rough idea was formed of how it worked. Meanwhile Göring scoffed that the British were dropping bombs through the clouds with deadly accuracy, and his technicians still had not idea what the set was all about. The H2S set was big enough to fill more than half-a-dozen cabinets, and could thus be fitted only into the roomy four-engined British bombers but not into the Luftwaffe bombers of the time. The heart of the device was a cavity magnetron, pro- ducing extremely short wavelengths. Finally, it was discovered that it worked on 9 cm, and that its rotating antenna was automatically producing a circular image of the ground beneath. It could be used both for navigation and for blind bombing.169 Martini had already, on 22 February 1943, set up a 'Rotterdam working group', under Telefunken's chief of equipment development Dipl .- Ing. Leo Brandt; this set itself the task of working out the measures needed to counter HOS. In summer 1943 the suspected functions of the device were confirmed during test flights with the first replica built. At the same time a start was made on neutralizing the operation of H2S by floating rafts on the lakes around Berlin, carrying multi-angled wooden frames clad with metal sheet- ing, known as triple reflectors or 'mountain triplets' (Triberge). The diffuse refraction of the high-frequency radar signals that these produced blurred the otherwise sharp outline of the lake shores on the radar screen, and made identification difficult. These reflectors, however, worked only on the 9-cm wavelength-any change in the radar signal's frequency would render them unusable.170 Jamming transmitters codenamed RODERICH were also pro- duced, but because of their short range some 7,500 of them would have had to be set up around Berlin, and lack of manufacturing capacity made this impossible. The most effective way of dealing with enemy Pathfinders using H2S appeared, h