7 Army Air Forces, iii. 26-9; Groehler, Bombenkrieg, 212-13. I13 desirable.348 In holding this view he was no different from Harris, and like him he opposed any subordination to Leigh-Mallory, C-in-C of the Allied Expeditionary Air Forces. Spaatz did everything he could to be allowed to put his strategic plans into effect, and not to have to devote himself too soon to the tactical needs of OVERLORD, much as he appreciated these. While Leigh- Mallory was grooming two tactical air fleets-the 9th US Army Air Force and the 2nd British Tactical Air Force-for the landings, Spaatz was wanting still to bring Germany to her knees from the air. Leigh-Mallory, who would gladly have had the strategic bomber force under him as well, had in the end to reach a compromise with Spaatz: he released the 9th USAAF's medium bombers and fighters to back up the US 8th Air Force.349 Up to the middle of February 1944 the 8th Air Force, because of bad weather, flew all their missions using the new H2X radar with a much shorter wavelength than H2S,350 for the first time on 3 November 1943 to bomb Wilhelmshaven. Out of 566 bombers, the largest number dispatched to date, 539 reached the target and caused slight damage to a shipyard. There was satisfaction at having, through thick cloud, hit it at all. The bombers were escorted by Lightnings throughout the entire trip, and only seven bombers and three fighters were lost. In such bad weather the German fighters hardly made any appearance, so that the raid was seen by the Americans as a 'milk run'. By the end of December there had been attacks on harbours and industrial installations within escort-fighter range that provided a sharp outline on the radar screens, even though they were not necessarily classed as priority targets. Bremen, lying easily recognizable on the banks of the Weser, was bombed seven times, so that the Americans, too, referred to the attacks at the end of 1943 as the 'Battle of Bremen'. Other targets were in Frankfurt am Main,