onstruction work as a whole assumed imposing proportions. Although only about 8,500 fortifications were more-o coast and 943 on the French Mediterranean coast by the day less ready by the beginning of 1944, a further 12,247 had been buil Gilt t on the w the same time, around half-a-million obstacles had been a anchored offshore f the landing. A 62 million mines laid, in order to prevent the Allies landing in f e and their advance in a direction favourable to the German defences. force or to steer The barrier completed by artillery of all calibres, tank cannon, and anti-aircraft guns, mor and more of which were shielded from Allied air attack by concrete walls 55 west Differences of opinion soon arose as to the direction in which army and nam artillery should point. Hitler and OB West wanted to position the batteries that they could also fire inland, against enemy airborne and ground troops the had broken through the German defence lines, whereas the navy insisted the should be directed towards targets out at sea. In the end, the interests of the army prevailed, and the navy had to give up most of its ideas. This also shows that the Germans ultimately intended to concentrate on fighting the Allies effectively inland rather than offshore.56 Many of the installations demanded by Naval Group West Command were consequently not completed, and the guns often left unshielded. In addition, much of the artillery supplied to it was taken from captured enemy stocks and was of doubtful range and accuracy 52 The deficiencies in the area of the Fifteenth Army, at the heart of the defence preparations, were less serious. There, everything was done to ensure rapid and efficient consolidation. In the area of the Seventh Army, however the completion of defence installations was much slower. At the end of Man 1944 LXXXIV Army Corps, in whose area the landing actually took place reported that only half the envisaged winter programme could be completed Division HQ Regimental HQ Battalion