se this view somewhat by the time the invasion began, the fact remained that they basically did not have to cope with conditions like those in 'real bandit coun- tries' such as the Balkans. In the west, the resistance fighters and their opera- tions were too isolated, and their support among the population of the individual countries was too weak. Perhaps the somewhat more moderate behaviour of the occupying power, in comparison with eastern and south- eastern Europe, was a factor here. For many people, life under German occu- pation was, if not good, then at least tolerable. Their national self-esteem was sustained, at least in t in part, by Pétain and his followers, and many may have flirted with the authoritarian, nationalistic, antisemitic ideology of the Nazis. As a result, the occupying power's counter-insurgency apparatus was generally in a better position to repress the resistance movement than in eastern and south- eastern Europe. 154 Yet despite all these favourable indications, some uncertainty remained, since no one was able to predict exactly how powerful the surviving elements of the Resistance would prove to be from D-Day onwards. 4. DEFENSIVE PREPARATIONS IN THE NORTH As in the west, the strength of German forces in northern Europe in the year before the invasion depended on assumptions about enemy intentions. Although the military leadership did not expect a major Allied landing in the north, secondary and diversionary operations could not be ruled out. Their presumed objective would be to separate northern Europe-so crucial for the war economy-from the Reich by capturing Denmark, or to join up with the Soviet Union and neutral Sweden by means of a push through Norway. After all, according to a briefing by Jodl in early November 1943, German intelligence sources reported that Sweden could mobilize 400,000 troops and deploy 1,000 aircraft. 155 In any case, the Allies did everything they could to 155 Jodl, briefing, 7 Nov. 1943, 100, BA-MA RW 4/v. 38;