ossible for Milch and his planners to comply with Göring orders to amend Programme 224, and to put up a new programme, No. 225.516 This provided for the building, over the period from December 1943 to March 1946, of 133,824 airframes, including 12.358 day and night fighters and 34,810 attack-role aircraft (half of them bombers); the maximum monthly production-dictated in part by a lack of engines-would by the final stage be only 2,850 fighters but 970 bombers. As che bombers would more and more be heavy types, they all used up a great deal more material and labour than the fighters. The problem, however, was how Göring's demand for strengthening the attack side without cutting back on the defence-role aircraft was going to be satisfied when there was already insufficient aluminium for Programme 224. A start was made on investigating methods for building the wings of various aircraft types in wood, and for making the timer fuses of flak shells from a material other than aluminium. By 1 December 1943 the new programme was ready.517 It was trying to square the circle, and doomed to failure. Speer had already determined that with his deliveries of materials he could go no further than Programme 224, and was able to agree to no more than that; and even that would be hard to carry through. It was simply impossible to keep coming up with fresh programmes, and one must be stuck to as a basis. Even promising Programme 224 was, he said, bordering on the reckless; anything beyond that was pie in the sky. To Milch's protest that the enemy was already building 13,000 aircraft a month, he retorted: 'That's immaterial. We've got to work from the armaments industry we've got, and talk sensibly.' All Milch could say in response was that he had not drawn up the programme of his own accord, and was only trying to carry out an order from Göring. Since the overall armaments programme clearly would not permit of a programme like this, he found himself 'between a rock and a hard place'. H