o lend direct and with the approaching offensive against the heart of Germany also in view- the hopes placed in them; consequently the long-range bomber force was- enemy territory. The two operations against enemy capitals did not fulfil I57  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive 158 0.5 per cent of the Anglo-American strategic sorties against German occupied Europe and 0.21 per cent of the bombs they delivered.462 The me of Soviet long-range bombers against Reich territory had no effect worthy of note on the course of the war. 462 See Groehler, Bombenkrieg, 160-70, und USSBS, i. Report No. 2 also the remarks on 'Long-Range Bomber Aviation' und '18th Air Army' in Hardesty, Red Phone and those on 'Long-range Air Force (ADD)' in Soviet Air Force, 43-4. t No. 2: Over-All Report, p. x. See II. Defending German Skies, Part of the Overall Air-War Problem: From Early 1943 to the Invasion in 1944 I. AIR DEFENCE IN 1943 IN 1943, the fourth year of the war, the Lu · Luftwaffe was still quite capable of inflicting appreciable damage on the Allied bomber formations. This was by no means a foregone conclusion, since at the start of the year the German air defence system was, especially by day, very much undermanned. On the other hand, the bombing war was-with the start of American mass daylight raids on 27 January and even British daylight attacks on Berlin with Mosquitoes on 30 January, with the increase in the RAF's night raids, and finally with the later opening of a second air-war front in North Africa and southern Italy-now of a new kind. The British and American armaments efforts in the fields of aircraft production and electronics, together with the wider choice of airfields for their bombers, were making their effects felt. For the first time, Germany's indus- trial base was being seriously threatened from the air. At the same time a critical situation was developing everywhere on the land fronts in the east and south, and dealing with it meant moving fighter aircraft away fr