g's appointment as Göring's special representative on the staff of XII Fighter Corps. This had its counterpart in the naming of Lt .- Colonel Peltz to lead the attacks on England as a commanding general, and of Maj. Knemeyer as radio navigation officer for day and night fighters. This was precisely in line with Hitler's guidelines on promotions and with the National Socialist leadership principle, which saw the rapid solution to problems as lying in individual persons rather than in the relevant institutions. Such an approach, however, struck at the basis of any normal, ordered military structure. Of course all these young officers had outstanding qualities and ideas, and after the war went on to build careers in civilian life; but at the time they still lacked the long experience and perspective they were to gain only later. Göring clearly thought more of Knemeyer than of the engineers in his technical office. What is amazing is that most of these officers, and in particular Hermann and Loßberg, came from the bomber arm and were now taking on influential roles in the fighter force. The fighter pilots naturally felt themselves slighted by this; Göring had, besides, long been critical of them. Hitler had been the same, though he was happy to use their easily countable successes as propaganda to support his 'holding-on' strategy. He secretly looked on the fighter pilots as too slapdash, while taking the bomber aircrew more seriously.150 The preferential treatment given to a few bomber pilots in the fighter domain was one reason for the subsequent ever-growing dislike and rivalry between the fighter and bomber pilots, which to some extent persisted even after the war. However, the new proposals for night fighting had come from the bomber arm, and bomber pilots accustomed to flying on instruments were better suited to the new tactics. Göring particularly prized the contribution they made: 'The whole night-fighter system had become ossified. It's suggestions 148 Viktor v