e report from Gen.Kdo. XII. Fl.Korps, August 1943, Ia No. 2700/43 g.Kdos., 12 Sept. 1943, 87-8, BA-MA RL 8/88. 56 Army Air Forces, ii. 849-50; Grabmann, 'Luftverteidigung', BA-MA ZA 1/2476, 455-6.  I.11. Defending German Skies 172 I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 German fighter units still spread out separately along the periphery had bee gathered together centrally deep inland, since for facing ever-larger numk bers of American bombers the answer was to 'fight quantity with quantity' 57 The population in many places got the impression that the German fight appeared in the sky only when the raid was already over. The American be bers were, it seemed, flying in peacetime display formation (a misinterprets of the combat boxes and combat wings58 used as a self-defence tactic) unk dered across the skies of Germany. This was what Hitler said to Göring, wh as 'spokesman for the German people', he summoned him on 5 Octobe receive a two-hour-long lecture on 'the importance of defending his people'. demanded that he, 'whatever the cost, stop the massive attacks by day'.59 Ran ', an at the lack of success against the heavily armed American daylight bombers once asked Göring scathingly whether Galland had taken out 'an insure policy' with the enemy.60 Behind these tirades there were also the Gauleit coming to Hitler via Martin Bormann with their constant eiters ance criticisms of the Luftwaffe. They had by now gained for themselves a kind of right to m proposals on matters of homeland air defence.61 During three big commanders' conferences held on 7-9 O October on subject of air defence and attack, Göring passed on this pressure from and the Gauleiters to the officers mainly responsible for these. 62 On the 7th connection with the failure at Emden, he called for the fighters to make sorties with large formations, using whole-Geschwader r attacks instead dogfighting by individual experts. Attacking in formation had, howe scarcely been practised, and for the increasingly less well-tr