reptitiously initiating his fuel offensive.417 This patent divergence of interests among the leaders of the Allied air forces had already been apparent in the tussle going on at the same time about a suitable sharing-out of command. Here too it became plain how much had been improvised on a pragmatic basis. The British did little to put the arguments to rest. Churchill in particular opposed any merging of theatres of operations in the Mediterranean and north-west Europe under a single command; it would, he said, be impractical. He did, however, think that Tedder should be given charge of all air operations, with Spaatz and Harris and their strategic air fleets under him. This would leave Leigh-Mallory with only command of the tactical forces. The British chiefs of staff, on the other hand, felt that Harris should remain under Portal. While in 1942 they had agreed to his answering to a commander-in-chief of the Allied air forces, they now argued for only part of the strategic forces being thus subordinated. Portal felt himself to be the real C-in-C of all British air commands in the UK, and his powers would be diminished if Bomber Command were to answer to an Allied commander-in-chief. Eisenhower's powers, too, were looking to place limitations on the British chiefs of staff. Churchill agreed in general, but- unlike the Air Staff-considered Tedder better suited to being C-in-C of the Allied air forces than Leigh-Mallory, because of his great experience in the Mediterranean of commanding a wide variety of air task forces. His 416 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, iv. 165 ff. 417 Levine, Strategic Bombing, 131-2; Davis, Spaatz, 403; Army Air Forces, iii. 77-9, 140-I; Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, iii. 21-39; Rostow, Pre-Invasion Bombing, 3-14, 31-60; Hinsley, British Intelligence, iii/2. 498-9; Ehrman, Grand Strategy, v. 286-304; Tedder, With Prejudice, 530 ff.  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive I.I.6. From POINTBLANK to OVERLORD champion