upport.158 The way in which this new post, with its multiple undermining of normal command structures, had come about, like the vagueness of the task-'smash something, somewhere, somehow, every day'-reveals not only the emotion-induced hastiness of the measure and an unrealistic authoritarian and romantic style of leadership, but also the perversion of the concept of attack; for, as experience had shown, the few bombers still available could not achieve any effect at all, or even guarantee the safety of their own air space. After his return on 8 March, Göring (partly through being nettled by the way Hitler had treated him) inflicted a one-and-a-half-hour tirade on the industrialists he had sum- moned to Karinhall, about how air armaments were behindhand, especially where long-range bombers were concerned.159 This shows clearly the extent to which Hitler's order to attack Britain still lacked any substance (though of course it indicated his intention). From then on tirades from Göring, exposing the gulf between assumptions and goals, became increasingly frequent. Hitler's emotionally motivated decision was unable to paper over the wide cracks between means and objectives, nor indeed the continuing problem of choosing between attack and defence. Meanwhile this unsolved-and, as it turned out, insoluble-question overshadowed the almost year-long preparations for the actual air offensive against Britain. (c) Constraints in the East The call for strategic retaliatory strikes against Britain was, to some extent, in line with the parallel efforts by the Luftwaffe command to put greater emphasis again on the strategic component of air warfare. This had always 156 Irving, Rise and Fall, 207-8; Goebbels, Tagebücher, Pt. 2, vii. 533 (12 Mar. 1943). 157 Ibid. viii. 5309 (25 June 1943); Collier, Defence, 314-15. Through ENIGMA decryption the British soon learned of Peltz's appointment. See Hinsley, British Intelligence, ii. 510. 158 Reichsmarschall des Großdeutschen Reiches und O