rving, Rise and Fall, 228; id., Hitler's War, 550; Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 135. At the development meeting on 10 Aug. 1943 he called for 2,000 fighters a month up to March/April, and 4,000 by the end of 1945, BA-MA RL 3/38, 4735-  I.II. Defending German Skies 280 I.II.4. Arm for Defence or Attack? fighter defences, 455 told Milch on the morning of 28 July 1943, with Hitler' approval, 'that the main emphasis is to be laid on defending the Reich' 45 Yet only a day later Hitler was refusing to approve a higher production of fighter aircraft for defending the Reich: he wanted retaliatory strikes.457 Mil- was by now so pessimistic that, after further raids on Hamburg in earl August, he looked on the war as 'finally lost'.458 He told his officers in the aviation ministry: It's much blacker than Speer paints it. If we get just five or six more attacks like the on Hamburg, the German people will just lay down their tools, however great thei willpower ... There can be no more talk of night fighting in the east, or of putting an umbrella over our troops in Sicily or anything like that. The soldier on the battlefiela will just have to dig a hole, crawl into it, and wait until the attack is over. What the hor front is suffering now cannot be suffered very much longer.459 As he saw it, the raids on Hamburg were affecting 'the people's reserves'.460 As mentioned earlier, the general of air training, Kreipe, summed up his asses ment of the situation in a memorandum. In this he expressed the view that the defensive situation that now obtained had still brought about no significant change in the aims set for the Luftwaffe; he urged that a complete halt be called to the bombing of England with forces that for the present were in an case inadequate, since it was bringing only irreparable losses of men a machines. It should, however, remain the ultimate aim, for later on. Until the time, he argued not for a Luftwaffe with both a strong defensive and offensiv an capability, but for giv