semble a total of 29 divisions between Roermond and Trier after the heavy losses of the past weeks most of them now consisted of now than combat groups. At the end of December Panzer-AOK 5 reported had no more than between seven and 67 tanks per division (with a total of 2. tanks in the AOK area). Nor did the German attack make much impact on + Allies' plans to continue the operations eastwards after reaching the Rhine The Allies had in any case not planned to cross the river until mid-Mar- which is when they did indeed begin to do so.70 There is no doubt that the concentration of such strong German forces is the west was of considerable benefit to the Red Army's operations. Since Hitler had placed all his hopes in a victory in the west, he refused for a lone time to order motorized units from Army Group B to transfer to the easter front. When the Vistula offensive began, the Soviet troops therefore came ue against a weakened opponent. This development of the situation affected relations between the western Allies and the Soviet Union. It boosted Stalin's influence, as already became clear at the Yalta conference in early February 1945. Churchill's request to Moscow on 6 January that the Soviet armies should begin a major offensive ne quickly as possible to relieve the Allied forces in the west was but one manifen indication of this shift in the balance of powers. 69 Pogue, Supreme Command, 389 ff .; Ellis, Victory, ii. 213, and Reynolds, 'Churchill', 47 70 See Weinberg, World at Arms, 769; Jung, Ardennen-Offensive, 196 ff .; OB West weekly repor 30 Dec. 1944, BA-MA, RH 19 IV/241, and Deutschland im Zweiten Weltkrieg, vi. 137. The chief military reasons for the failure of the German offensive in the 697 Ardennes are to be found in the mistaken assessments of the situation at the various command levels. If the Germans had assessed their opponents potential strength at all realistically, they would soon have realized how senseless this enterprise was. The fact that th