ts that the Allied landing would take place on 15 August 1944.38 As had already been the case with other Allied landings, however, it was difficult to analyse the reports and reconnaissance findings because there was no central office to weigh up and compare all the information received. Here again, therefore, different assumptions were made. For instance, Gen. Walter Warlimont, deputy Wehrmacht chief of staff, believed on 12 August that the Allies were going to land on the Ligurian coast, while Wiese, like OB West a little later, assumed the invasion would occur between the rivers Var and Rhône. Gen. Erich Petersen, on the other hand, commanding IV Luftwaffe Field Corps, expected the Allies to attack in the area around Narbonne and Sète. However, in the light of AOK 19's calculations based on the direction and speed of the Allied convoys, Wiese decided on the day before the landing that the invasion would, after all, be launched east of the Rhône, centring on the Marseilles-Toulon area, and that the La Crau plain near Toulon was a possible site for an airborne landing. Yet he was not absolutely certain: he felt the convoy movements could be a large-scale feint and that the invasion might be launched elsewhere.39 So the Germans were at a loss, and this was reflected in the slowness of their final preparations for defence. Not until 9 August did AOK 19 consider moving TIth Panzer Division, which was still stationed at Montauban, to the Avignon area for possible action. Wiese was expecting operations in the Camargue, the La Crau plain, and the defensive areas of Marseilles and Toulon. Eleventh Panzer Division received the order to move the very next day, yet they did not begin to do so until 14 August. Two days before, however, AOK 19 already considered the situation so dangerous that it had issued a level-2 alert to its troops.40 37 See Staiger, Rhônetal, 25, and OB West, KTB 12 Aug. 1944, BA-MA, RH 19 IV/45; A.Gr. G, KTB, 14.8., ibid., RH 19 XII/5, together with, on