4, 31-60; Hinsley, British Intelligence, iii/2. 498-9; Ehrman, Grand Strategy, v. 286-304; Tedder, With Prejudice, 530 ff.  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive I.I.6. From POINTBLANK to OVERLORD championing the appointment of Tedder to head the Allied air forces whil 138 at the same time opposing Bomber Command's being placed under r him. however, put Churchill in an untenable situation. Eisenhower, too, argued 6 having Tedder as his 'chief air man', with a tactical commander under bi im. To Spaatz he wanted to give command of the Allied strategic bombero upset Eisenhower to find, shortly before he took over command of the All llied expeditionary forces, that Leigh-Mallory and not Tedder was s going to be his senior air force commander. In anticipation of the confusion in the top All: command structure, he proposed Tedder for the dealings with Spaata other military leaders in Britain. Tedder was given the task of preparing a for the use of all the air task forces for OVERLORD. Eisenhower wrote to Spa that the US 8th Air Force and Harris's Bomber Command were the 'big in the preparatory phase. At the time, however, only Leigh-Mallory had a enough staff with all the organizational links with the ministries, the navy. Bernard Montgomery's 2Ist Army Group; so all Eisenhower could do r for the moment was to act as if Leigh-Mallory was indeed his senior air commander. In the middle of February Spaatz, however, declared that would not accept orders from Leigh-Mallory, and demanded that the strat bombers be placed elsewhere than in the OVERLORD organization. After cussion with Churchill, who did not agree with the Air Staff's favouring of r dis Leigh-Mallory, and after Eisenhower had threatened 'to go home' if he e wa not also given supreme command of all Allied air forces for the invasion, it agreed that Spaatz and Harris should get together with Tedder to work ou plan of action for all the various air formations. Portal finally proposed makin Tedder responsible, as Eisenhowe