military sense, in view of the expected Allied breakthrough, would be east of Aachen (Strong's second alternative). The Ardennes, on the other hand, would be less II.VII.2. The Ardennes Offensive 50 See Winterbotham, Ultra Secret, 177 ff .; Pogue, Supreme Command, 372; Ambrose, Supreme 49 Ambrose, Supreme Commander, 553-4, and Cole, Battle of the Bulge, 60 ff .; on the effect of the ofensive on the morale of the German population see Jung, Ardennen-Offensive, 148, together with of US V Corps, yet their attempted breakthrough failed because of the grim Model's troops attacked between Monschau and Echternach. The Sixth SS-Panzer Army was to cross the Meuse between Huy and Liège and then push forward to Antwerp. Dietrich's troops did manage to seize the outposts (c) The Battles in the Ardennes from Mid-December 1944 to Early January 1945 On 16 December towards 0700h, after an hour of artillery bombardment, the Germans had stopped using radio for their communications. The Allied One factor that may have played its part in the Allied military leaders' thinking was that they had received no ULTRA reports that indicated a German offensive. This was because during the preparatory stage for WACHT AM RHEIN 687  688 II.VII. The Western Front II.VII.2. The Ardennes Offensive American resistance. In particular, the tactically important hills around Elsenborn and Butgenbach remained in Allied hands. Further south Losheim, however, SS units managed to advance a little further westw that day and over the next few days. But there too, the German assa quickly came to a standstill around Malmedy and Stavelot. This meant the the time being the plan to push through the High Venn, seize crossings the Meuse, and finally take Antwerp had failed. Operation STOSSER to seize at for Venn passes also failed; poor weather conditions made it impossible to d. troops.51 the paratroops according to plan, and most of them were taken prisoner but In the course of the attacks by Sixth SS-Panzer Army th