It was unfortunate that day-fighter pilots were not as skilled as the bomber pilots in flying blind the they must at least change over to attacking in formation, even if dogfish on their own was more likely to win them a decoration. On 8 October68 Göring repeated yet again that the Luftwaffe had to be 'gingered up' to become a 'vengeance corps'. To keep a better eye on lead- ership qualities and the combat keenness of pilots and unit command Galland suggested the use of 'flying commissars' and the installatio automatic gun cameras. Instead of attacking from straight ahead, ,which of far attracted the least casualties, he now supported attacking the wings bomber formations, working in groups and from behind. This promised bets of the success since, as Göring stressed, the main objective had to remain destrovi as many aircraft as possible so as to stir up public opinion in America apai continuing with raids that brought heavy losses. To placate Germany's population they had already, in the case of Hamburg, knowingly claimed mo- S OWT enemy losses than was actually the case. The bomber-destroyers should operate within the range of enemy fighter escorts, but as far as possible l stationed so as to attack the bomber formations beyond this. Flying whol groups of fighters through solid cloud in tight formation was, however, stil. major problem, Galland said. There were also complaints about the shortas of parts for repairing damaged aircraft; everything was being sent to the pro duction lines (so that Hitler could be impressed with high output figures). The 'general of troop technology' office had already been set up in May 1943 to help remedy this state of affairs.69 The British intelligence service was unaware of this spare-parts problem; one of its reports described how repai on other aircraft were being set back to deal with day and night fighters, so th parts in short supply could be taken from the one to install in the other- 'robbing Peter to pay Paul'. There were s