on targets, and sporadically also some of the few available 5.5 t 'earthquake' bombs. In July the British-American 'Crossbow the Committee' was set up to direct operations against the V-weapons. Betwe June and August 1944 the two strategic air fleets alone again dropped 23,000+ bombs, shared equally between them, on targets in France and German Added to these there were the attacks by fighter-bombers and medium bom bers. As the British air ministry continued to order attacks on installation long since abandoned, neglecting low-level attacks on the actual launch site these measures were not particularly effective. The danger was removed for th the time being when, in August, the invasion forces overran the V-I positions northern France.453 Further information on the V-2 was gained by the decrypting of an Enion telex which revealed the relocation of the test programme to Blizna, east of Cracow. Its technology, however, continued to be a mystery until a V-2 rocket launched from Peenemünde came down in southern Sweden on 13 June 194 London now knew that it was liquid-fuelled. But because it carried an experi mental remote control for the WASSERFALL rocket, it was assumed, mistakenly that all V-2 rockets were remote-controlled and that their course could be on to electronic interference. The Allied troops advancing through France e pro- vided further information on the rocket, its launch sites, and its supply syste In July 1944, moreover, parts of the V-2 were secured by Polish partisans the Heidelager proving ground near Blizna and brought out by a British plane The experts now had a fairly accurate idea of the size and weight of a V-2. It thought that the danger was over once territory within a range of 320 km of London had been occupied-until on 8 September the experts were, as with the V-I, proved wrong. Be that as it may, there was a good knowledge of the two major retaliation weapons in Britain before they were actually used. 454 t was USSBS, Report 2a: Statistical