eeks the Allies had already changed their radio commu inication code something they usually only did once every three months. The continue bombardment of German radar sites in the early days of June was ane clear indication of imminent attack.6 Finally, on I and 3 June the Ger Anoth vasion, when commands obtained unmistakeable indications of a British int Verlaine's po BBC repeatedly transmitted the first line of a verse from Paul n Europe. I Chanson d'automne for the resistance movements in Western! 'Les sanglots longs des violons de l'automne.' The German s knew that if the second line followed, this meant that the landing would secret s place within the next 48 hours. The British promptly transmitted the next 'Blessent mon coeur d'une langueur monotone', on 5 June four A few hours earlier, OB West had still assessed the situation e at about 2115 with the 'There are no signs yet of an imminent invasion.' Rundstedt i assumption on the basis that the Allies did not believe their air raids hado had the desired effect. Moreover, the bombardment over justifi before the landing gave no indication yet of where and when the Allies the last few attack. In fact, Allied aircraft were still bombing German defence install throughout the area between Ostend and Cherbourg on the eve of the in allatio sion, in order to confuse the defenders. Navy Group Command West reach similar conclusions as OB West on 4 June 1944, although for different r to date, according to the naval officers, the Allies had only y enough landin craft for just over ten divisions. So it would take them some tin me to muster th number needed for the 20 divisions it was assumed they would want.8 It was presumably on the basis of these indications and considerations dk OB West still took no concrete steps on the evening of 5 June to coun possible landing. In any case, the BBC had transmitted similar coded aler a number of occasions in the past without this being followed by the expert invasion. So the OB West o