spektion-3. Abt./6. Abt., Sept. 1944: leaflet on FLAMME, BA-MA RL 2 V/50.  I.II. Defending German Skies 202 I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 experts a good idea of the stage of development the British had reached . the HF field. 175 1 in Milch had been hoping that the planned introduction of the LICHTENSTER SN2 AI radar, with initially a range of 5 km and covering an angle of f 120 degrees, would boost the effectiveness of 'Himmelbett' and 'Wild Boar', some 20 kills a night, and had expressed the fear that the enemy would by `somehow or other again outflank us on the radar front, so that we had to behind'. 176 At this very moment the fourth big surprise in the electronic war (though it had not been entirely unexpected) was sprung on the Ger air defences on 25 July at Hamburg. They had long been puzzled whu WÜRZBURG, which gave them the height and position of aircraft targets formed the backbone of night-fighter and flak operations, had not so far s an jammed. It was known, after all, that important WÜRZBURG components been snatched during the raid on Bruneval, and that further r WÜRZBURG had fallen into British hands during the German retreat in North Africa and Pantelleria in the spring of 1943.177 Moreover, a German night-fighter cr flying a Ju 88 fitted with a LICHTENSTEIN B/C, had on 9 May 1943 deserted England. 178 British technicians examined the radar, and confirmed the suspicion that it operated in roughly the same waveband as WÜRZBURG could thus be jammed by the same means. They now developed the SERPA Al gear that reacted to these LICHTENSTEIN frequencies, and installed d it i their long-range night fighters; from June 1943 on, these downed a l larg number of their German opposite numbers. 179 At a stroke, so it now seemed to the RAF, they could by night paralyse all of the German fighter and d fla defences. 180 The principle of using wires or strips of tinfoil or aluminium cut to half rh wavelength of the radar it was desired to jam was known in Germany as w w