Command, 281-2; Deutschland im Zweiten Weltkrieg, vi. 12, Hackett, 'Operation Mark Garden', 157 ff .; Amersfoort, Warfare in the Netherlands, 162, and Gulmans, 'Operatie Marker Garden', 109 5 See Middlebrook, Arnhem 1944, 441; Hackett, 'Operation Market Garden', 166, 516, and Pogue, Supreme Command, 279 ff .; for the plans to use airborne troops: COS Committee, 2204 Meeting, Overlord, 10 Aug, 1944 and Marshall to Eisenhower, 9 Aug. 1944, PRO, WO 106/4142 665 the Neerpelt bridgehead on the Meuse-Scheldt canal, so it would take some aime for Horrocks's divisions to reach the town. It also had to be remembered chat only one main road was usable for the advance, and that it crossed a great many rivers and canals. The marshy terrain and the woods around the assault mis favoured the defenders more than the attackers. That is why, even before che war, Dutch general staff officers had said it would not be possible for motorized forces to advance rapidly from Eindhoven via Nijmegen towards Arnhem. Yet the 21 Army Group planners disregarded this advice. Another risk factor was the weather, because airborne landings, together with continuous support for the dropped units by Allied air fleets, were feas- tihle only during good flying conditions. Montgomery, like the SHAEF officers, presumably believed that the mass deployment of airborne troops so for behind the front would shock their opponent and paralyse his ability to react for a long time. They also thought the German troops in the Netherlands would not put up much serious resistance. Obviously this was still the view when SHAEF learned from ULTRA on 16 September-a day before the operation began-that the 9th SS-Panzer Division was positioned near Arnhem and the roth SS-Panzer Division was heading that way. Despite these reports, Montgomery stuck to his decision that the British Ist Airborne Division troops should be dropped at Arnhem.6 On the first day of the assault, the field marshal's assessment of the German units' com