igence. The former, an earlier British colonial officer who had seen how the British gave advance warning to unruly natives before bombing their villages, was a man steeped in European culture who was trying to spare the civilian population. The latter believed terror bombing would shorten the war, and save both Allied and enemy lives; the US Army Air Forces, he said. were not in Europe 'just to play cricket'. Gen. Cabell, and finally Spaatz and Eisenhower too, in July turned down the plan for psychological or terror bombing; one factor for the air force officers was the desire to keep the US Army Air Force's image clean in the eyes of the public as it strove for inde- pendence. The 'precision' bombing of the past was to continue (though this intention had, of course, already been undermined by the blind bombing using H2X during the previous winter). After the invasion, and the German bombardment with V-weapons, the terror plan was to be reactivated.449 449 Schaffer, Wings of Judgment, 70-9. 153 EXCURSUS: THE BEGINNINGS OF A SOVIET STRATEGIC BOMBING WAR AGAINST GERMANY The Soviet Union, too, tried to wage a strategic bombing war against Germany. The Russians had in 1931 finally developed their first long-range, four-engined bomber, the TB-3, and put it into service from 1932.450 The fact that never- cheless there was no Soviet strategic air war worthy of the name was not-as Soviet and East German historians wrote after the war451-due to the Russians having moral qualms and therefore (unlike the 'capitalist' air forces) conducting a 'moral' bombing war generally limited to the zone of military operations. The Soviets, too, bombed cities; Stalin repeatedly asked Churchill to pass on his thanks to Bomber Command's aircrews for the destruction of German cities, and showed great interest in aerial reconnaissance photographs of devastated German residential areas.452 There were, essentially, two very practical obstacles standing in the way of the Red Army carrying on a st