ffe general staff's decision of 1939 against developing area coverage weapons was revised by Hitler's order, and such weapons were now authorized for operations against area targets.75 This certainly was a change in the existing view of air warfare, even though the Luftwaffe was not convince of the correctness of the new course. It remains unclear what Hitler was at that time hoping to achieve by making terror attacks with, as he must have known, totally inadequate forces, when most of his bombers were tied down in the eastern and Mediterranean theatres. His thinking on this point, however, was not military but political and psychological as the chief of the Luftwaffe general staff once remarked,76 and Speer confirmed after the war.77 Hitler simply thought in ideological terms. Even before the war he had regarded the western powers as sick; he found this view confirmed at least as far as France and the absence of any British help to Poland were concerned. His opinion of the Americans at that time was also still ideologically coloured, and contemptuous.78 Besides, English towns were densely populated and built-up, as were American ones, and that was why he expected a particularly 73 'Air warfare against the British Isles', Wehrmachtführungsstab (WFSt), Abt. Op I, 14 Apr 1942, BA-MA RM 7/171, 78. 74 Germany and the Second World War, vi. 622; see also Boog. 'Baedeker-Angriffe' and Balke KG 2, ii. 73-184 on the daily raids by KG 2 and other units on Britain in 1942, more especially pp. 97-116 for the reprisal (Baedeker) raids. 75 Bree, 'Meine Tatigkeit ... ', 2: 'In the spring [of 1942] the towns of Cologne, Rostock, and Lübeck were bombed. This caused the Luftwaffe general staff to revise its decision on operation against area targets. The Generalluftzeugmeister was instructed to submit a suitable pro- ject .... The directive for an appropriate development was issued in June 1942 .... This was the Fi 103 weapon(V-1).' See also the talk by Capt. Otto Bechtle of 2 Apr. 1