on the European mainla while the British delegation continued to give preference to warfare on th periphery. Despite these differences, however, the desire to reach a comprom prevailed. Both sides agreed to pursue the war until the unconditional surre- of the German forces and to continue operations against t t the Axis in Mediterranean while building up US forces in Britain. The e Allies assign responsibility for planning the invasion of Europe to Lt .- General Sir Fredes Morgan, with an American officer as his deputy. Morgan was designate COSSAC, that is, Chief of Staff to the future Supreme Allied Commander .. ated to be appointed, in whose staff he and his men were subsequently to be ine porated.19 The American officers in particular must have been delighted this development, since it would no longer be so easy to assign other operation tasks to a body set up specifically to prepare an invasion. yet The transfer of troops and equipment to Britain agreed by the Allied in Casablanca depended primarily on keeping sea communications America to the British Isles free of enemy harassment. In January 1943, at height of the war in the Atlantic, the Allies decided to assign top priority eliminating the U-boat threat. As they had six months earlier, the plan once again postponed the building of landing craft and stepped up construction of warships to defend Allied convoys. Air force units hithem the employed in attacks on Germany were now to be used to extend Allied cont of the U-boat approach routes. At the same time, however, it was decided intensify the bombing of German bases and fortifications on the coasts western Europe.20 After weighing all the possibilities and risks, the confe rence participants concluded that a large-scale landing in north-west France should not be attempted until 1944-unless the German occupying forces collapsed or withdrew from the country, in which case it could begin in 1943.21 19 See Germany and the Second World War, vi. 90 ff .; Te .; Ter