ffic: ibid., 2 Apr. 1944, RH 19 IV/33, and Mil.Cdr. France, 129 Naval Group West Command, KTB, 16 Sept. 1943, BA-MA RM 35 II/61, and Jackel Frankreich, 300.  II. III.3. Defensive Preparations in the West II.III. The Germans Await an Invasion 536 Thanks to Allied air superiority, the resistance movement was increasingl well supplied with weapons, explosives, radio transmitters, and equipment. In France, members of the former armistice army formed a lare- reserve of potential recruits; like others liable for labour service, they were under constant threat of deportation to Germany, and many preferred to the Resistance. 134 other join But there were other, less tangible motives. Some sought to regain. sel respect lost through the collapse of the French forces in 1940 by striking a blo against the oppressor. Many hoped that France's political standing in AL Allied camp would be increased if the French themselves contributed. the the liberation of their country. 135 A major objective of the Resistance was to restrict the operatio tional freedo of the occupying forces and their indigenous auxiliaries to the maxim extent possible. Attacks on German military convoys, patrols, a , and individ soldiers were intended to tie down large numbers of German t n troops in secu operations well before the invasion began. The Resistance increasing targeted Vichy officials and the French Milice and police forces. As the landi drew nearer, it stepped up attacks on the country's infrastructure, seeking cut telephone lines and waterways-and, above all, the railway and . roa communications so vital to OB West-at key points, and thus paralyse whole network. Sabotage, arson, strikes, and theft were used to damage disrupt depots and arms factories, the electricity supply, and even ce farming activities. 136 Despite brutal repression, in which the German occupyin forces and their French collaborators were second to none, the Resistance succeeded in broadening its operations and rendering them m