9 Report from Ambassador Otto Abetz, 8 Nov. 1942 and DWStK to OKW/WFSt, No. 278 8 Nov. 1942, PA, Büro d.St.S., files on 'Second Front', 1942 to 1944, ii. 20 Ursachen and Folgen, xviii. 363-4; Germany and the Second World War, vi. 822 ff., and Paillat and Boulnois, La Guerre américaine, 180 ff. Given his distrust of all western European countries, especially France, it was not in Hitler's interest to form closer ties with the government in Vichy, which 465 cetained its formal sovereignty even after the occupation of the Free Zone. Rather, his intention was to step up political and military control of France and-as Ernst Freiherr von Weizsäcker, state secretary at the foreign ministry, put it-'squeeze the country dry', while promising nothing.21 Berlin rejected Laval's argument that a generous declaration in favour of France would constitute a 'genuine act of war" against the Allies. Hitler and his foreign minister, Joachim von Ribbentrop, repeatedly made it clear to Pétain and Laval in the first half of 1943 that the immediate task was to counter the danger in the east and fend off attemp- ted Allied landings in the west. France's future would follow automatically-as a reward, so to speak-from its participation in these military operations.22 Given such a substantial difference of approach, it is little wonder that even the occasional agreement did not help to establish solid relations between the two states. Nor was it difficult for the French side to grasp that concessions could be wrested from Germany only when they were in the occupying power's interest or cost it nothing.23 For the rest, Germany was mainly concerned to exploit its neighbour's economic resources to the full.24 Dirigiste intervention measures and a multi- rude of administrative departments, organizations, and firms were used to deploy all the country's conceivable resources for the German war effort. Soon after the fall of France, foodstuffs, raw materials, armaments, motor vehicles, money, and ma