onsuming marches across country. Bombing the bridges proved to be decisive for cutting the German defen- ders off from their supplies. It cost little in men and machines; but against this. 429 Middlebrook and Everitt, Bomber Command War Diaries, 505-6. 430 USSBS, Report 2a: Statistical Appendix to Over-All Report, 68 ff., NA RG 243; Davis Spaatz, 410. 143 the attacks on the railway centres can be seen as a tragic mistake, for they cost the lives of up to 12,000 civilians, and hindered the subsequent flow of supplies to the Allies. A large proportion of the bombs dropped by heavy bombers on marshalling yards would have been better used on the German armaments industry, but Eisenhower could not be sure the interdiction plan would work and did not want to wait until the invasion for the proof. Because of this, and because all he had to go on was the experience of bombing railways in Sicily and southern Italy and the interpretation of this by Tedder and Zuckerman, Eisenhower felt he had for safety's sake to put the far more costly transpor- tation plan into effect early on.431 In the months leading up to the invasion a great many other targets were naturally also bombed in preparation for it. In Germany the strategic bombers went for military installations and fuel and ammunition depots, in France and Belgium mainly the airfields. The latter had a direct effect on the Luftwaffe, as the German fighters deliberately held back or were moved further inland; but an indirect one as well- later on, the devastated airfields in northern France, where in spite of intense repair work they could not be made serviceable again, presented German fighter units moved there shortly after the invasion started with enormous difficulties and unpleasant surprises. In May and the first few days of June it was especially coastal batteries and German radar stations along the Channel coast that provided Bomber Command and the 8th Air Force with their targets. In the nine weeks up to D-Day, Briti