n have foiled such attacks by relocating their industrial plant. He went on to list other bomber operations that at the time had been seen as decisive, such as the attacks on the railways, the Möhne dam, the molybdenum mine at Knaben in Norway and synthetic fuel works in western Germany, the marshalling yards at Modena in Italy, and the Ploiești oil refineries. None of these had hindered the Germans from launching further major offensives in the east. It had all been in vain. He scoffed at 'panacea targets' like these, and even if they were acting in good faith had no time for the 'panacea-mongers' who he felt saw themselves as infallible. Harris was quite convinced that constantly giving preference to targets the bombing of which took the pressure off the German nation as a whole, that is to say, concentrating on targets such as (to take another example) the V-weapon 269 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 61-2. 270 Ibid. 61-5, esp. 64. 271 PRO, AIR 8/425.  I.1. The Allied Bomber Offensive 84 I.1.4. The POINTBLANK Crisis launch sites, was in most cases falling for a German air-defence ploy designed by the enemy to mislead. Frittering away effort like this was, however, happil accepted by people who merely had 'a finger in the bomber pie' but otherwise wanted to shoulder no responsibility for what could then be the failure their own strategic plans. 272 With his obstinacy, and by looking on the intelligence basis for their views tantamount to well-directed German disinformation, Harris had sorely tried the Air Staff's patience. No doubt the only reason he could afford to do was that during his 22 months at the head of Bomber Command he had on great respect and enjoyed support among a large proportion of the Bris public, whose feelings he seemed to be translating into action. Furtherme he had Churchill's sympathy as well, because-as has been mentioned POINTBLANK directive was unclear and contradictorily worded, attitude was on the whole ambivalent and