. In view of its hopelen er, in inferiority, the navy confined itself to 'more stringent surveillance' the approaches by naval surface vehicles. In any case, the few submarin available were not capable of disrupting Allied ship movements on any on arines tained basis. 24 y sus- By the end of this memorable day of 6 June 1944 the Allies could thus back on a major military success. They had managed to gain a foothold i five landing zones, and to land 155,000 men and 16,000 motorized vehicle Against all expectations their losses remained fairly low (6,000 men for th Americans and 3,000 for the British and Canadians).25 the Despite these early successes, however, the Allies did not manage to achieve 595 the planned objectives for the day. What was particularly awkward was that they could not take Caen, and could therefore still not gain access to the area south of the town which was suitable for armoured vehicles. The main factors responsible for this failure were as follows: once the Allies had broken through the first German lines north of Caen, the broad advance southwards announced by Montgomery did not happen. British armoured units were not aggressive enough. This enabled the Germans to bring parts of nearby 21st Panzer Division into battle. Also, Montgomery and his staff mistakenly assumed that this division would only be deployed once all its units were fully assembled. They thought British I Corps would have enough time to reach the southern edge of Caen before the German panzer units could attack. Poor weather conditions and inadequate cooperation among the various forces also weakened the momentum of the Allied offensive.26 Accordingly, how the situation would develop over the next few days remained an open question. The decisive factor had to be whether the Allies or their opponents would be faster in bringing in motorized forces and heavy weapons. This would deter- mine whether the Allies managed to break through rapidly or were forced into a lengthy positi