in the Mediterranean, at sea, and most of all in the skies above the Reich, a successful landing in western Europe would bring appreciable relief to the Red Armu 1 to In this respect, however, neither the Americans nor the British wanted . take any risks. The thorough and methodical planning for it was moreovo accompanied by arguments over strategy that were not without their politico aspects, and in which the government in London had more and more to co to terms with its role as a junior partner. The Americans decided the time place of the landings in France; and the successful outcome proved them righ On the German side an Allied landing on the European mainland was taken more or less for granted. France was becoming ever more obvious as fire choice for the future theatre of operations; but more than that the German intelligence services were not able to say. As this volume describes at length the Wehrmacht had to allow for several ways the Allies might act, and spread its limited manpower and material resources accordingly. Added to this thera were the further problems of the already evident shortcomings of the German command structures and of the by now irremediable weakness of the navy and air force. Hitler was allegedly impatient for the Allied landing to begin, seeing it as an opportunity to crush the enemy in the west and switch the forces no longer locked up in France onto the Soviet Union. Defeating the attack on Fortres Europe was in his view decisive for winning the war, so he was prepared to make the German defensive system in western Europe as strong as possible There were, however, quite narrow limits to doing this. Allied mastery of the seas was allowing an almost unhindered flow of troops and war matériel from 3 the United States to Britain. Allied air superiority was not only hampering the planned build-up of a German defensive front along the French coasts, but also constantly wrecking communications networks, the arms factories, and the roads and