9 IV/76; KTB OKW, iv/I. 446; Wilt, War from the Top, 275, together with Jung, Ardennen Offensive, 113, 121, 132 ff. commander upwards, in the 'E e 'Eagle's Nest' to explain the importance of the 681 forthcoming battles to them in person. He kept impressing on his subordinates that this was a unique chance to end the 'unnatural coalition' of their opponents by 'a few very heavy blows'. With a mixture of truth and lies, Hitler endeavoured to convince the officers that the Wehrmacht was still superior to che Allied soldiers. Many of the officers present took their supreme com- mander's words as great encouragement. According to the concrete plans set out by Hitler and the Wehrmacht executive staff, on 16 December three armies (Sixth SS-Panzer, Fifth Panzer Army, and Seventh Army) under the high command of Army Group B were to attack on a broad front of some 170 km between Monschau and Echternach. The first wave was made up of 200,000 men (13 Volksgrenadier and five panzer divisions), with 600 armoured vehicles, supported by 1,600 artillery muns. 40 In total, Model had 19 divisions (including seven panzer divisions) from the three deployed armies available for this operation. He could also draw on up to ten further divisions (including two panzer divisions) from other sections of Army Group B's front and from the reserve, as reinforcements. The plan was that the Sixth SS-Panzer Army would spearhead the main attack with an assault between Monschau and Losheim. A few days later, SS- Panzer divisions were to cross the Meuse between Liège and Huy and then advance towards Antwerp. The left flank of these assault forces was to be guarded by the Fifth Panzer Army, led by Gen. Hasso von Manteuffel. Its task was to cross the Meuse at Dinant and then advance towards Brussels and Antwerp. Seventh German Army (under Gen. Erich Brandenberger) was detailed to guard its left flank by thrusts towards Arlon.41 One of the biggest headaches in this operation was the shortage of deployable