ht for airbe operations to take place before dawn. On those dates, moreover, , the timing of the landing would allow air and sea forces to use the onset of daylight to pin down a German coastal defences. There was, of course, no way to be sure what weark conditions would prevail at the beginning of June. Cloud-ceiling, swell, and vis conditions would be crucial for the success of operation, and The Allies accordingly strove to consolidate all plannable aspects so as to keep the risk of failure to a minimum. Among other things, it was crucial OVERLORD continue to enjoy priority. Operation ANVIL was put back fum and further. At the end of May it was decided that the landing in southe. France would commence on 10 July 1944, although the final decision we nern would not be taken until a bridgehead had been established in Normandy overriding factor was the need to have most of the available landing craft read · The for immediate deployment in the Channel. The postponement of ANVIL Der- ertheless meant the operation could have only an indirect impact on over LORD, but the Allies hoped the mere threat of an invasion in Provence woul prevent the Germans moving troops from the south of France to the north Operations in the Italian theatre, on the other hand, were more directly connected with the initial phase of OVERLORD. At the beginning of May Gen Alexander launched an offensive that increasingly tied down German reserve on the Appenine peninsula in the following weeks.30 The Allies were ale encouraged by Stalin's assurance at the beginning of the year that he would launch a major attack on the eastern front in June 1944.31 In striving to minimize the risks involved in a landing in north-west France the Allies were particularly concerned, in the last months before the invasion to ensure a smooth command structure in the build-up phase and a powerful assault force. Despite all the protracted wrangling, they managed to achieve tight chain of command by D-Day. For the purpose