bsolute tonnage of bombs. The thought that more accurate bomb-aiming would mean fewer civilian casualties did not even cross Harris's mind. The supremacy of the bomber doctrine, with its area attacks on industrialized centres of population, once again becomes clear. Finally, the fearlessly pressed-home but on the whole misplanned and fairly ineffectual night attack on the Ruhr dams on 16/17 May 1943 also provided proof of the rightness of the theory of area bombing, and the unprofitability of precision raids; though in the media, still well after the war, it was being described in almost mythical terms as a decisive act of heroism. Perhaps it was precisely because it showed the greater efficacy of large-scale attacks on area targets that this 'Operation CHASTISE', as it was codenamed, was given incomparably so much more space in the official history of the bomber offensive than the Mosquito day raids. Harris saw this attack from the outset as an unnecessary diversion of the bombers from their true role of area bombing. He did not at first believe that the 'Upkeep' bouncing bomb-designed specially for the Lancaster raids on the dams by the influential designer Barnes N. Wallis, who later built the 'Tallboy' (5,448 kg) and 'Grand Slam' (10,896 kg) bombs-would work as it was supposed to. He felt it far more likely that an attack like this would be, as all previous long-range targeted attacks by heavies had proved, a costly failure.126 But time was pressing. The 124 Munson, Aircraft of World War II, 151, 280-1; Terraine, Right of the Line, 423. 125 Harris, Bomber Offensive, 101. 126 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive, ii. 168-70; Terraine, Right of the Line, 538-9.  bombers for special tasks (which were anyway looked on as led to the plan being shelved. In order to keep down the numbers of hea- an for subsequent and different use. Problems with the smaller b determined by two spotlight beams, angled to meet exactly at the water surface at the correct height.