rket Garden', 114, 154 ff., and Hacken 'Operation Market Garden', 163 ff., together with Middlebrook, Arnhem 1944, 442 ff. 12 Kamphuis, 'Between Hope and Fear', 174-5. 14 See ibid. 170 ff., and Schoenmaker, 'Bevrijding', 275. 13 Ibid. 172-3. 671 Group must nevertheless advance towards Cologne-Bonn and Devers's 6th Army Group towards Mulhouse-Strasbourg. This meant that, although Montgomery could expect his views to be given priority as far as the bringing- of supplies was concerned, he could not count on claiming all the Allied supplies for his own troops.15 Eisenhower and Montgomery had hoped that the Canadian Ist Army would accomplish this by early October; yet it soon became clear that it was not really a position to do so. Crerar, C-in-C Canadian Ist Army, was now also struggling to cope with supply difficulties, on top of which there was clearly a considerable shortage of infantrymen in his units. Furthermore, considerable Canadian forces were occupied in trying to seize the channel ports of Le Havre, Boulogne, Dunkirk, and Calais.16 On 29 September Eisenhower therefore ordered the 21st Army Group to concentrate all its efforts on clearing the approaches to the Scheldt. On October, during another SHAEF conference, he argued strongly against Montgomery's view that, despite the failure of MARKET-GARDEN, and although Antwerp could not be used for Allied supplies, it was possible to advance right into Germany. The field marshal thought the area west of the Meuse would be a suitable point for launching the attack. When Montgomery also suggested changing the Allied command structure, Eisenhower, usually so patient, must have seen red. Montgomery had taken the view that the long front in the west, which contained so many armies, could not be overseen adequately by a single supreme commander-which amounted to open criticism of Eisenhower's leadership abilities. Montgomery called for a local commander to be given sole competence for these operations in the case of speci