d, 363 ff., 371-2. Commander, 555, and Cole, Battle of the Bulge, 63. right; but at first the Allies had to suffer bitter setbacks. sance reports indicating an imminent assault very seriously.50 could be no imminent danger, and thus did not take all the other reconnais- commanders evidently assumed that if they heard nothing from ULTRA, there more than the Allies if they did actually attack. In a sense they were to prove the Germans would, given their generally hopeless situation, harm themselves ignoring defensive considerations. Several Allied commanders thus believed main, to plan and carry out offensives during that period, while largely their enemy the Allies, as Hugh Cole put it so well, were looking into a mirror in which they only saw the reaction to their own intentions. These were, in the assault plans and not Rundstedt, whom they considered far more cautious. He was merely the willing executor of his superior's orders. When they assessed Also, the Allies were unaware that in fact Hitler and the OKW were behind the generals around him and their orders to stake everything on this operation. hy Rundstedt and Model- not to mention the plans mooted by Hitler and the halfway plausible strategic objectives for the alternative operations proposed or acting rationally. The Germans did not even manage to formulate any account was the fact that the other side was no longer really thinking logically suitable for large-scale operations because the roads there would be difficult to activity in the Eifel area as a fairly normal part of the process of refreshing little fear of much more than a local 'showdown' since the state of the Germans' reserves, especially fuel stocks, would prevent them from embarking on any large-scale operations. The only attack that would make any military sense, in view of the expected Allied breakthrough, would be east of Aachen (Strong's second alternative). The Ardennes, on the other hand, would be less II.VII.2. The Ardennes Offensive 50 S