ing and Ramsgate. But despite intensive operations by the Luftwaffe, the RAF could not be beaten back. In mid-September 1940 the decision to attempt a landing was postponed temporarily, and a month later it was called off till the following year. From then on, SEA LION served only as a ploy in the struggle with Britain.1 Given the nature of these invasion plans, based on the use of all three services and a Channel crossing at the narrowest point, it is reasonable to suppose German military staffs referred to them later when trying to predict where and how the Allies would attempt a landing in northern France. They may well have assumed that British and American strategists were thinking along the same lines as their German counterparts in the summer of 1940.2 1 Germany and the Second World War, ii. 366 ff .; Weinberg, World at Arms, 234; Das Dritte Reich, ii. doc. 16, 32; War Directives, No. 17, 1 Aug. 1940, 37-8, and No. 18, 12 Nov. 1940, 38 ff .; also Kieser, Operation Sea Lion, 254 ff. 2 See below, Ch. III/3(a).  II.I. Germans in Occupied Territories 462 II.1.2. France and Germany The question remains whether Hitler ever seriously intended invading Britain in 1940. His scepticism was already apparent when the idea was 6. discussed. It very likely that SEA LION was only intended as a last resort, since mid-1940 the dictator was increasingly focusing his attention on eastern ana e in southern Europe, where the Reich's ambitions clashed with those of the Sovie Union. Once Stalin had been defeated and Germany had gained Lebensraum; the east, and the armament effort had been shifted to the Luftwaffe and the navy, it would be easier to bring London to its knees and attempt a landing In the Führer's opinion, a decisive attack on Britain from 1 occupied western Europe would have every chance of success once the rear had been secur in the east and the huge resources of eastern Europe were available.3 So Hitler's thoughts in November 1940 of working closely y together with