. 1944, K-17, BA-MA, RH 19 IV/99; for the start of the bombing see SHAEF, Communique, 18 Dec. 1944, PRO, WO 106/4341, and OB West, KTB, 18 and 23 Dec. 1944, BA-MA, RH 19 IV/76. According to Ellis, Victory, ii. 189, over the first ten days the Allies flew 3,000 sorties a day, the Germans only 500.  692 II.VII. The Western Front II.VII.2. The Ardennes Offensive Montgomery's hesitation may also have been due to his mistrust of the American commanders and their troops. The British field marshal truste neither Hodges (whom he would have preferred to have seen replaced on th grounds of his 'exhaustion') nor Patton to parry the German assault quickl. Montgomery feared that in the end he and his 2Ist Army Group would 6 themselves alone fighting three German armies. In his view the Ameri armies should, therefore, begin by withdrawing their fronts quite some tance in order to gain sufficient strength. Eisenhower inclined toward- same view in the first days following the German offensive, although aggi strong resistance from his American army and army group commanders. M of them wanted voluntarily to give up such hard-won ground. The All- supreme commander accepted this view, and in the end no large areas territory were given up anywhere. Montgomery's reservations about the US commanders soon of prove groundless. They managed, skilfully and rapidly, to halt the German ase and to counter-attack. Yet this does not seem to have impressed Montgo for on 30 December he let SHAEF know that he would not, after all, be : position to attack on 1 January, and that 3 January was the earliest DOS gome date. This time his justification was that he wanted to await a Gern offensive, which he considered imminent, before launching his attack Yet this offensive did not come. Given the situation on the German ... there was little chance of it now that elements of Model's troops were either n side. the retreat or well-nigh incapable of countering the American attacks. Brod who had gained the impre