e light of negative experience in order to make it more efficient. The operational zones of heavy AA artillery and of fighters were separated. Starting from the London end, the barrage-balloon belt was followed by an inland fighter zone, followed in turn by the coastal AA zone, and further seaward by a second fighter zone. The necessary rebuilding 455 Collier, Defence, 384; Saunders, Royal Air Force, iii. 167.  I.III. Attack the Best Form of Defence 452 I.III.3. The V-Weapon Offensive work, involving enormous movements of personnel and 1 material, was accomplished within a few days. 456 By mid-August British anti-flying-borek defences reached their peak, with 15 day-fighter and six night-fighter squadrons, 2,015 balloons, 800 heavy and 1,800 light AA guns, as well as ze- rocket launchers. At that period it was even possible, on one occasion, to show down up to 83 per cent of the attacking V-Is.457 As initially there was hardly any information on V-I produc tion levels and manufacturing sites, and the non-use of the 'ski sites' was soon realized, t Allies (as indeed later with the V-2, whose launch sites and production site , the offered no targets for bombing) endeavoured to hit the supply depots supply lines, not without some effect.458 One measure to avoid I even great and destruction in London from flying bombs was the silence kept by the Bris media about where the V-Is were landing. This led on the German side an-unsuccessful-evaluation of London death notices, which were forbidd. to include location, and in the involvement of the OKW's network of ages (though this was fed with disinformation on the location and effect of V-I bi by the German agents who had all been 'turned' by the British).459 While + Germans believed that their hits were accurately in the centre of London the the majority of the flying bombs came down south of the' Thames in the south-eastern part of the capital.460 It would have been easy e enough to pla false information in the news media, s