diversions, feints, and jamming, to carry out successful bombing operations over Germany. The POINTBLANK offensive had, however, succeeded in diverting German material and human resources from other fronts and from plans for air-raid defence, repair, and reconstruction, and thus in weakening these. Outwardly Harris tried to play down his failure, or to conceal it altogether. In excuse he said later that it was in any case only from the summer of 1944 that he had considered Bomber Command capable of carrying out sustained attacks on Berlin-a statement clearly in conflict with the view he had expressed in November/December 1943. But by then he had had to employ his aircraft on OVERLORD. Moreover, the losses over Berlin had 'not been excessive', given the size of the task.326 And yet all this is not entirely untrue. It cannot be said, as it often has been, that the failure of the Battle of Berlin, and in particular of the night of 30/31 March 1944, led to the abandonment of the bomber offensive or to a total change of approach. If we base ourselves not just on the 35 main raids but instead on all the operations carried out between 18 November 1943 and 31 March 1944, then Bomber Command's 29,459 sorties brought only a 3.8 per cent loss-1,117 aircraft-if we disregard a further 100 'write-off landings;327 a quite sustainable figure. The area-bombing raids could have been continued, and given the circumstances the success of the German fighters would not always have been repeatable. And Bomber Command was indeed already committed by the orders of 14 January and 17 February to making effective preparations for the invasion in the west.328 The German homeland was given several weeks of relative respite from night-time bombing, and Harris did not have to eat humble pie. The Air Staff had, moreover, replaced its previous concept of making an invasion unnecessary through strategic area bombing of German cities with a new one: this provided for even heavier bombing of those citi