eded for the sought-after independence for the US Army Air Forces, since the nature and location of the targets meant that a close co-ordination with the land forces-such as there would be with transport targets which (unlike fuel plants, fighter aircraft production, and ball-bearings factories) Spaatz did not see as strategic targets-could be dispensed with. Destroying 14 of the synthetic-fuel plants lying within bomber range, and 13 of the refineries in south-eastern Europe, would take only 25 days of bombing with good visibility; and it would cut Germany's fuel supplies by half within six months, thus also decisively dis- abling both the Wehrmacht's strategic and tactical mobility and the output of German industry. The Germans would be forced immediately to cut petrol 405 Daily Journal for 21 Jan. 1944, LoC, Spaatz Papers, Box 14. 406 Hinsley, British Intelligence, iii/2. 499; Davis, Spaatz, 350; Rostow, Pre-Invasion Bombing, 44. 407 Letter from Spaatz to Arnold, I Feb. 1944 [not sent], and notes of Spaatz/Vandenberg meeting on 10 Apr. 1944, LoC, Spaatz Papers, Box 14.  I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive 134 I.I.6. From POINTBLANK to OVERLORD consumption so as to husband their stocks. The fighters would have to ste ready to defend their fuel supply bases. Because of the relatively small nun of fuel targets, and their being concentrated in a few areas the Ruhr, cente Germany, Upper Silesia, and the Sudetenland-fewer bombers would needed, and substantial forces could still be made available for attacking nl Luftwaffe, aircraft factories, and the rail network, and thus also still block supplies from reaching Normandy. Since hydrogenation plants and refine .. were mostly located outside the towns, civilian losses could be largely avoids (something also needed for the sake of the American bomber force's image disabled before Critics doubted that the Luftwaffe would, as hoped, still be the invasion. Eisenhower was not impressed with this fuel plan, even if it a: appear t