. 195 Ibid. 15-16, 19-27, 31, 34, 38-9, 42, 52.  I.II. Defending German Skies 208 I.II.I. Air Defence in 1943 requirements were met, 'Wild Boar' had proved its worth during all the mais raids-albeit at the expense of the flak, which was often ordered to limi nit it shell-bursts to below 5,500 m. The British would now have to consider wh ther their tactics were still the right ones. They would, it was hoped, probabl. break up their mass raids into individual ones, that would be more eao. tackled by the 'Himmelbett' system, or would try to confuse the defences we a great many nuisance raids. Possibly, too, there might be a switch to makin use of bad weather-another reason for giving the greatest making German radar immune to jamming. The following procedure . importance recommended: In the areas being crossed by enemy formations, the night fighters will ll initially be u in the 'Himmelbett' system (with their number if possible doubled or trebled) ). The fighters from neighbouring areas not being crossed will be vectored to the enemy pla using 'Tame Boar', accompany them as far as possible, and above the bombers' tare switch to 'Wild Boar' operation. Night fighters in divisions whose areas are not be invaded will immediately be brought to the target area and operate "Wild Boar', so th no night fighter remains unemployed on its base while German cities are suffering attack. As the bombers depart the reverse will apply: those operating 'Tame' and 'Tz- Boar' will stay with them as long as their fuel lasts, and 'Himmelbett' will continue to k manned and have a good chance of success as the enemy returns. Finally, 'Lange Kerl- [long-range night fighting, not used during August] will pursue the bombers as fare the English coast. All four systems will mesh with each other. Their use will not foll ollow rigid lines, but must be adapted to the individual situation and weather conditions These same orders were issued by Göring on 25 September.196 It was felt that all these meas