so failed; poor weather conditions made it impossible to d. troops.51 the paratroops according to plan, and most of them were taken prisoner but In the course of the attacks by Sixth SS-Panzer Army there were me breaches of the international laws of war, beginning with those committed Ist SS-Panzer Division (Peiper) combat group. By 19 December its vics included 308 US soldiers, who were captured and then shot, as were Belgian civilians. News of these atrocities spread like wildfire among All troops, and they too now sometimes shot German soldiers after they surrendered.52 Unlike Dietrich's rather unsuccessful panzer army, Manteuffel's troops Fifth Panzer Army) exploited the moment of surprise much more effective they managed to break through the defensive system of US VIII Corps Middleton) between St-Vith and north of Wiltz, and to advance westu over the next few days. Fifth Panzer Army even managed to encircle American division south-east of St-Vith and on 18 December forced : surrender, taking more than 8,000 US soldiers prisoner. Yet despite success, American troops held the key traffic junctions at Bastogne and tially, also at St-Vith. In the southern sector of the assault zone, Seventh A. (under Gen. Erich Brandenberger) achieved only relatively minor throughs between Echternach and Nives. (the tively (unde this , ini- Although the Allied air force found it very difficult to support its own gro troops because of the bad weather, the German panzer units could make ke onl slow progress, hampered by waterlogged roads, poor communications soon also a shortage of fuel. One major setback for them was that they could ne · and take St-Vith until 21 December, and did not take Bastogne at all; this was firsel because of the resistance put up by the US troops, who often had to act on th own and fight without receiving any orders from their commands.53 Secondla was because the Allied supreme commander and his staff had realized b 51 SHAEF, Ops (A), Release Operations Divi