ce, and Brès and Brès, Un maquis. 30 On German reactions see AOK 7, Ic/AO, No. 273/41, report on morale for the month of January, 8 Feb. 1941, BA-MA RH 19 IV/127; Lt .- Gen. Alexander Freiherr von Neubronn. 'Erinnerungen', 64, ibid., Msg 1/2386; on the increase in acts of resistance: ADAP, E, v, doc. ISI. 22 Feb. 43, 273 ff. commander for France, Otto von Stülpnagel, who was relieved of his duties in 467 February 1942, would have nothing to do with such reprisals, Hitler and the OKW increasingly backed the use of violence and brutality. The task was taken over by the 'senior SS and police leader' for France, appointed by Heinrich Himmler in March of that year.31 The growing repression helped to bring about the unification of the initially disparate resistance groups in May 1043, under the banner of the 'Conseil National de la Résistance', led by De Gaulle's emissary, Jean Moulin. In early 1943 the Germans realized that the resistance movement had progressed from isolated actions to become a serious threat to the occupying power.32 In response to the proliferation of attacks and sabotage, and the emergence of real trouble spots, the Germans took harsh measures. Responsibility for combating the Resistance had been transferred from the military commander to the senior SS and police leader in spring 1942. With the cooperation of French police and militia units, thousands were arrested, abducted, and murdered in the ensuing period.35 Despite painful blows to the Resistance-in June 1943 the head of the recently formed Armée Secrète was arrested and his central bureau raided34_the Germans did not succeed in destroying it. Time and again, new groups armed by Britain, or equipped with weapons from former French army stocks, formed under the surviving leadership. Developments in the other German-occupied countries of western and northern Europe did not differ significantly from those in France. Everywhere the increasingly harsh repressive measures to which the occupying power