ere reduced to allow a third battalion to be formed, after which, on 26 October, the final disposition pattern of the flak regiment was laid down-I/155 with three batteries remained in the Sauerland and northern Westerwald, II/155 relocated with two batteries to the Deventer area in the Netherlands, and III/155 with three batteries took up positions in the Eifel. By the end of the month, after a few initial launches against Brussels, 337 flying bombs had been dispatched, chiefly against Antwerp, which after 25 October was the principal target as the main supply port for the Allies. The number of premature crashes and rogue launches was high, and led to complaints by mayors of towns and the chief of staff of C-in-C West, Gen. Siegfried Westphal.404 Because of the risk to the German population and to the troops, I Battalion was eventually moved from the area on the right bank of the Rhine to join II Battalion in the Netherlands. In mid-November XXX Army Corps was disbanded. Since operations by the V-2 had in any case been in the hands of SS-Gruppenführer Dr.Ing. Hans Kammler, the army corps had never really been in charge of operations of all special weapons. Nor did control of a regiment by a corps make much sense. The chief of the corps general staff, Col. Walter, assumed temporary command over the 5th Flak Division (W), newly set up from it on 17 November 1944. In order to support Army Group B, engaged in heavy fighting near Aachen, C-in-C West gave orders for the Allied supply centre at Liège to be bombarded. 405 Once again it was found that the V-I (nicknamed the Eifelschreck (Eifel scarer) because of frequent rogue launches, with machines often taking the opposite direction to that intended, and explosions on German soil) could, with its lack of accuracy, only ever be a terror weapon, and not the heavy artillery the army needed and as which the army liked to see it.406 KG 53, operating against London with two Gruppen with altogether 60 aircraft, and using radio-