spitals and medi. d no installations in May 1944, but the senior quartermaster thought this would. be sufficient in the event of an invasion. The medical units also lacke adequate transport facilities; if there were large numbers of wounded, th would have to resort to empty trucks that had been used to transport comb the troops. This was not a good solution, since improvised transport of that kis would not be under Red Cross protection. 108 Although, in the circumstances, not all the necessary measures could implemented by the time of the landing, a supply framework was created th could enable the troops to hold out, for a few days at least, even under difficul were conditions. Everything would depend on the extent to which the Allies we able to prevent German supplies of personnel and equipment getting through (f) Air Power The main reason for the Allied air superiority to which we have referred. the Germans' failure to deploy sufficient aircraft and anti-aircraft batterier their own against the growing enemy air onslaught. Additional squadrons we transferred to the west in accordance with directive No. 51 of 3 Novemb 1943, but this was not nearly enough to turn the tide. Too much air power still absorbed by home air defence and the fighting on other fronts. addition, the provision of sufficiently trained pilots no longer kept pace with aircraft production. Inexperienced pilots were causing more and more accidents, so the total number of operational aircraft barely rose, despite higher production figures. 109 In the event of 'imminent danger in the west'-meaning an ene landing-the Luftwaffe operations staff planned to bring in flying units f other parts of Europe. Until then, Air Fleet 3 had to make do with relatively limited resources; at the end of May it had barely 900 aircraft, 110 based mainly in north-eastern France and Belgium. From those bases, reinforced bu squadrons from the Netherlands, they had the dual task of preventing Allied bombers from reaching Ge