as it was in the west. The appearance of German night fighters had a substantial effect on the morale of the Russian long-range bomber crews, who tried to dodge them by flying out wuer the Baltic.219 Of the 405 day fighters, 75 night fighters, and 9 destroyer aircraft, 55, 66, and 100 per cent respectively were in operational status. Along a front stretching some 3,000 km they faced 10,000 Russian aircraft; yet more of their resources had to be relinquished to the southern theatre and the defence of the homeland. The German pilots still felt themselves, because of their great experience and often better equipment, to be a match for the Russians. For lack of forces, the units were frequently split up and shifted back and forth to various hotspots as these developed. In the east the fighter force was, as Göring noted, 220 'just dogsbodies to the army', as were the bombers. Up to 80 per cent of the fighters were used to back up the ground troops, protect the bombers, Stukas, and ground-attack aircraft, and after that for offensive air defence.221 At the Battle of Kursk alone the Luftwaffe lost 351 fighters, and between July and September 1943 a total of more than 2.000 fighters, 510 destroyers, and 230 night fighters. At the end of June the Luftwaffe frontline units had mustered between them only 1,849 fighters, 194 destroyers, and 585 night fighters. In the first seven months of 1943 the German fighter force suffered a massive haemorrhage, evident in the dis- asters of Stalingrad, North Africa/Tunis, Kursk, Sicily, and the shock of Hamburg. No one could carry on taking losses like these for long. Their main effect was decisively to delay the planned expansion of the fighter defence of the Reich itself, especially since there, in the second half of the year, fighter production had been further reduced by the air raids. The situation where fighters were concerned should have made it plain to those in charge that, with the enemy's air superiority on the land fronts seemi