1 reserves; Russian sources confirmed that electricity really was a choke point.223 391 Steinmann also proposed the use of drifting mines against the hydroelectric power stations at Rybinsk and Uglich; these were intended to destroy the dams and turbines. In September 1943 the Luftwaffe operations staff Ic extended the list of targets of the aerial munitions and rubber industry by ball- bearings and aviation fuel plants, as well as rail targets. In the hope of an early commissioning of the He 177 the Luftwaffe, in spite of having meanwhile lost some airfields in the Orel area, was still dreaming of attacks on aircraft engine factories in Gorkiy, Ufa, Kazan, Kuybyshev, and Moscow. The army also interfered in the target selection process, proposing attacks on artillery, motor vehicle, iron and steel, nitrogen, and saltpetre works, but this went unheeded by the Luftwaffe. On 9 November 1943 Gen. Koller, in a short study, 'Operations against the Russian armaments industry',224 summed up the outcome of all deliberations up to that date. In it he deplored the failure to bomb railways and armaments plants after the autumn of 1941, when Russian strength had still been inferior. The few sporadic attacks made then had been highly successful. Meanwhile the Soviets had become numerically superior, while German air forces had not increased in either strength or modernity. The pull-back of the front line meant that the most favourable time for bombing raids had been missed. If the Russian armaments industry continued producing undisturbed, it would, he said, eventually 'spew out' on to the front line so many aircraft, tanks, and artillery pieces 'that one would seriously have to ask oneself whether our front will be able successfully to resist these quantities of material in the hands of the Russian masses. Would the German Luftwaffe not make a greater contribution to victory in the east by letting its bombers ... operate against the root of the Russian offensive strength, by hit