ioned on widely scattered bases-could be brought to bear on th enemy. In December 1943 the American bomber losses were only somethin- 00 over 4 per cent, closely followed by those among the German fighters 91 1 At a meeting of I Fighter Corps divisional commanders, the situation at year end was summed up as follows: 'The new tactics against the enemy fiche escorts have brought no great success. Reasons: (a) weather, (b) o our numeri inferiority, (c) time and geographical limitations making it impossible assemble at one point, so our fighter attacks are fragmented. ( Objective: must succeed at least once in destroying a complete enemy formation A success rate of 15 per cent over a certain length of time would have i needed to force the American to give up their attacks. The general manding I Fighter Corps stated on 25 January 1944, 'the numbers down ... by day [were] still too low'.93 Göring's concern had, since the summer of 1943, also increasingly h to build up the Luftwaffe's offensive capability,94 and at a meeting December at Deelen with I Fighter Corps (the Reich air defence corps) he be himself dealt mainly with the V-weapons that were soon to be used again England, when towns were to be devastated 'by fire', and it would be bert destroy 'a medium-sized city entirely' than 'a larger one partially'.95 tter t Meanwhile, however, those in Reich air defence were working on a new of tackling the bombers. Instead of attacking with a group of, on average. e, 20 to 30 day fighters there was to be one at Geschwader strength, combining and heavy fighters and groups of bomber-destroyers; otherwise it t would become impossible to reach the bomber formations through their scre escorting fighters.96 This concentrated, mass attack carried out in num imber that, compared to the enemy force, offered the promise of success natural called for even more fighter resources. But from that aspect things did not look all that rosy. In 1943 the proportion of defensive aircraft (i.e. fi