Brit.) commander-in-chief of the Allied invasion fleets.13 In all of these appointments for OVERI 11 Churchill, Second World War, v. 386, 397; Weinberg, World at Arms, 628-9; Ehrmann Grand Strategy, v. 181 ff .; Stoler, Second Front, 148; Churchill & Roosevelt, ii. 611-12; Kimk FDR, 17-18. 12 COSSAC joined SHAEF in mid-Feb. 1944; see Hinsley, British Intelligence, iii/ll, 21. Churchill & Roosevelt, ii. 481; Chronology, 172; Eisenhower, Report, 3; Farrar-Hockley, 'SHARP 530 ff .; David Eisenhower, 'Broad-Front Controversy', 85. 13 ACM Leigh-Mallory (Brit.) became C-in-C Allied Expeditionary Air Force, as alread decided, and Gen. Carl Spaatz (US) C-in-C US Strategic Air Forces in Europe. On Eisenhower prompting Gen. George Patton (US) was also sent to Britain; see Ehrman, Grand Strategy.v 553 Eisenhower's main concern was to get highly experienced officers with whom he had worked well in the past, and in most cases he managed to do so. The appointment of a supreme commander for OVERLORD, and the activities undertaken by Eisenhower and his staff, soon gave rise to fundamental debate about the distribution of political and military powers in the Allied camp. Roosevelt had no objection to granting senior officers some political room for manoeuvre; in this he was probably influenced by positive experience with Eisenhower and Marshall. But Churchill and his chiefs of staff did not want the existing chain of command to be circumvented in any way. In their view, major military directives, particularly those with a political content, had to be issued by heads of state or government and channelled to theatre commanders through the combined chiefs of staff. The final months before the landing would show whether Eisenhower and his staff had enough tact and sensitivity to satisfy both political leaders. 14 A further problem of division of responsibilities arose with respect to the assault phase (NEPTUNE). Should Eisenhower act simply as a co-ordinator issuing non-binding recommen