ice) with the division's overall assessment. For this purpose there were with them, as with the fighter corps, AW centres supplied with a situation overview by means of commentary from the fighter divisions.339 There were now first-rank radar sites forming the basic network of aircraft warning service. Each of these were to be equipped with a new JAGDSCHLOSS 360-degree panoramic search radar, with a radius of around 80 km. With these set up at intervals of 150 km, it was reckoned that 125 would be needed to cover the whole of Germany and German-occupied territory; only 15 were, however, in operation by the time the war ended. The first-rank radar stations within the Reich were to be equipped with a panoramic search radar, a long- range search radar (both of these, until such time as they were delivered, to be replaced with a FREYA), a further FREYA, one or two GIANT WÜRZBURGS, and a SEEBURG plotting table, where they were also to be used for 'dark' night-fighter operations in the 'Himmelbett' system. Along the coastal fronts the intention was to provide each of them with one or two long-range FREYAS and GIANT WÜRZBURGs and a SEEBURG table whenever they were involved in 'dark' night- fighter operations. In each instance an observer post was included. Later on, Y, EGON, KORFU, and NAXBURG gears were added. A radar station could, if 339 Order from Göring, 28 Feb. 1944, 2 ff., BA-MA RL 2 V/5.  TABLE I.II.3. Main Luftwaffe ground radars in July 1944 MAMMUT (fixed, set and operators in bunker) WASSERMANN (fixed, set and operators in bunker) FREYA (movable and motorized) FREYA-FAHRSTUHL (fixed) JAGDSCHLOSS (fixed) GIANT WÜRZBURG (fixed and railway-borne) Purpose: Long-range early warning Search area: 100° (electr. Mechanical panning in rotation, 360 Max. range: permanent installation) Dependent on aircraft & radar site altitude, Long-early warning and fighter control Dependent on aircraft & radar site altitude, Warning and fighter control Altitude panoramic search measurem