sparked off heated discussion. The War Department under-secretary of state Robert P. Patterson accused the protestors of thereby only giving aid to the enemy, and Roosevelt's secretary Stephen Early wrote that the president was just as shocked by killing from the sky; the simplest way of avoiding civilian casualties was, however, to force the Germans (and the Japanese) to change the way they thought. So long as they did not, death and destruction would not cease. In parallel with this, Gen. Arnold was making every effort to present the Army Air Force's bombers as a weapon used only for precision attacks on militarily and economically relevant targets. At the time many an American air force officer-like Gen. Charles P. Cabell, the USSTAF director of plans- spoke scathingly of British attempts to get US bombers to adopt their indis- criminate area bombing. All they were trying to do, he said, was to drag the US Air Forces' clean image, based on daylight precision bombing, down to the level of that of RAF Bomber Command, which was notorious for its terror raids, and to take away the advantage they enjoyed in public opinion.344 Let us now, having looked at the new American tactics and the effects these had, turn back to the situation in the winter and spring of 1943/4. What Eaker, as commander of the US 8th Air Force, had in 1943 not yet been able to achieve for a lack of fighter escorts-to bring down the Luftwaffe, as the precondition for the break-up of the German war machine-now became the path pursued by Spaatz and Doolittle: the use of escort fighters in an offensive role, as part of the plan to destroy the German air force in the air and on the 343 Eighth Air Force Tactical Development August 1942-May 1945, 63, Chart B, LoC, Spaatz Papers, Box 328; Parks, 'Precision and Area Bombing', 153-4, 157-8, 168; Davis, Spaatz, 570-I; Mierzejewski, Collapse; Sherry, American Air Power, 252-5, goes too far when he puts the American practice of strategic bombing on a par with