al effect from such bombing raids, and yielded to Hitler's urgings only against their own better judgement. In view of the depressing situation on the home front and German inability to turn it around, it was hoped that the switch to a psychological air war would provide a way out of a hopeless situation by saving face and deceiving the people. This was dodging an inexorable reality, one that ought to have led to urgent action. The depressing situation on the home front was not addressed with realistic military measures, which would have called for a temporary, but all the more effective, strengthening of a defensive fighter force. Instead what prevailed was an irrational and emotional atmosphere that gave rise to a new 'offensive air strategy' in line with the popular will and the political leadership, though it was also in part supported by predominant trends in the strategic thinking among the Luftwaffe general staff.144 As Herrmann clearly recalls from his work in the Luftwaffe operational staff at the time, the general staff still did not want to hear of any shift of emphasis to fighter production, that is, to air defence armament. 145 The future general of bombers, Peltz, at the turn of 1942/3 still vehemently opposed the idea that 'for there to be a possible new offensive weapon [jet aircraft] there first needs to be a defensive weapon'. He wished at all costs to exploit the advantage of the jet plane for attack. Even in 1943/4 many influential Luftwaffe officers still saw the Me 262 jet aircraft as a bomber rather than a fighter. 146 In this emotionally laden domestic atmosphere, marked by ideas of reprisals and attack as a reaction to the intensified British bombing, Hitler at the very beginning of 1943 decided to act resolutely, setting the signals for a strategy to be subsequently adopted. And he did so in a manner that stifled any dissenting tendencies or opinions. In doing so he deliberately bypassed the Luftwaffe commander-in-chief, who was in Rome for