nd Area Bombing', 153-4, 157-8, 168; Davis, Spaatz, 570-I; Mierzejewski, Collapse; Sherry, American Air Power, 252-5, goes too far when he puts the American practice of strategic bombing on a par with the activities of Adolf Eichmann, the liquidator of the Jews. 344 Schaffer, Wings of Judgment, 67-70.  I.1. The Allied Bomber Offensive II2 I.1.5. Crisis Management ground, together with its armaments industry. In this they both had Arnold' support. Fighters were to be employed in every possible way- -as escorts and interceptors, as ground-support aircraft, for low-level strafing of targets on n ground, as fighter-bombers, and as air-to-ground rocket platforms. The pl was, depending on the circumstances, to attack aircraft factories, airfields. aircraft wherever they might be. Spaatz had been working since 1942 on th. concept. On 21 January 1944 he gave Doolittle instructions along these li drawing on experience he had gained in 1943 in the Mediterranean thear where hundreds of Luftwaffe aircraft had been destroyed on the ground raids on German airfields. The concept was now being introduced into al European theatre as well. Every activity of the Luftwaffe, i training of pilots, was to be disrupted and undermined. The slogan was no , including the to be no longer defence against the enemy but attacking him at all costs.345 ULTRA reports from British intelligence, which provided Spaatz with the bul of his information on the enemy, confirmed him in his determination to de the Luftwaffe a death-blow, for they told him of its shortage of both fuel an pilots. Hitler had even ordered a cut in the convalescence time allowed f wounded flyers. 346 Spaatz still had around 120 days left in which to fulfil th demand of POINTBLANK and provide what was needed for OVERLORD: Allie mastery of the air. And finally the possibility that, after their successes Stalingrad and Kursk/Orel and their rapid advance to the Carpathians Soviets would soon be able to occupy central Europe ahead of t