he was initially also asking for heavy fighters. Already in March 1944 he had said: 'The war canne be won with defence alone, but only if we can attack as well.' He ruled out an weakening of the bomber arm. With this in mind, on 5 May he criticized the way the Fighter Staff was affecting the building of bombers, and the planned reduction of the number of bomber Gruppen from 51 to 26. He demanded minimum strength of 40 Gruppen: 16 in the west with IX Air Corps, 14 in the east with IV Air Corps, 8 for special duties with X Air Corps, and two for conversion to new aircraft types. He gave as his reasons the requirements of waging an overall war, and of action against enemy shipping and industry.710 He found support from the Luftwaffe general staff's Dept. 8 (war science)711 and the head of Dept. 6 (armaments).712 Milch himself had spoken along the same lines back in February that year.713 The Luftwaffe command did indeed find itself facing a dilemma in the spring of 1944 with the attack-or-defence problem, one that it had been propelled into by the short-sighted, irrational and pig-headed war policy of the political and military leaders at the top. On 19 May 1944, in a study of the minimum strength needed in the Luftwaffe's air units to win through in the central European theatre, Koller pointed out that, going further than cooperation with the army, it was most of all an operational, that is, an offensive waging of air war that would make it possible to determine initiatives independently of what was happening on the land fronts or at sea714 (the Luftwaffe general staff's Dept. 8 was by now, under the pressure felt from the Allied air raids, already using the term 'strategic warfare). Assuming three basic aircraft types and a reduction in the multi- plicity of versions, he called for at least a trebling of the frontline strength, from 5,233 to 14,383 aircraft, with a monthly delivery of a further 6,034 once that level had been reached. Henceforth there should be only t