concentration of one' own, and in addition to the 'Himmelbett' system currently in use to let single engined fighters fly in large numbers to attack enemy aircraft caught in searchlights in the flak zone above the target areas being raided. Experience during large raids on the Ruhr had shown that the searchlights could alway pick up 50 to 100 enemy bombers over a three-minute period, and that the provided a visibility over the target almost as good as that in daylight. Single- engined night fighters roving independent of a ground control could also move quickly to do battle in another part of Germany (although the pilots would have to do their own navigation). Day-fighter pilots were unused to blind flying; so to start with, bomber pilots, who had learned this skill, should be converted onto single-engined night fighters. Fighters like this offered only small target to their own flak, and if necessary agreement could be reached 189 with the flak batteries on leaving flak-free zones, or the attacking fighters might give visual recognition signals. The searchlights should not be taken away from breas the Allies were attacking, since they were needed to light up the space and clouds above them, thus making enemy aircraft visible silhouetted against this background, dubbed the 'shroud'. The fires burning in the cities could themselves contribute to this. Herrmann believed that, given enough machines, up to 80 enemy bombers a night could be shot down. He had already picked 120 pilots for his 'Wild Boar' method, but so far had been able to get hold of only 15 aircraft for them. Following a suggestion from Admiral Karl Witzell, he found an answer to the problem of getting one's bearings in a single-engined fighter lacking the necessary instruments, by having the flak shoot special flares up above the clouds to act as a beacon; the problem of flying long distances to the target could be solved with external auxiliary tanks. The drawback of 'Wild Boar' was that it would work