n HQ NJG 6 INJG 6 Hagenau II/NJG 6 Ingolstadt training unit III/NJG 6 less 8 Staffel Ingolstadt training unit HQ NJG 101 Kitzingen training unit INJG 101 Kitzingen HQ NJG 102 INJG 102 Echterdingen training unit training unit IINJG 102 HQ Ftr Ctrlr Ostmark IJG 302 Vienna-Cobenzl Seyring Parndorf training unit Zagreb II/NJG 101 Det. air observation Staffel 7 HQ Fighter Sector Controller Hungary Budapest Ferihegy Me 210 Hungary Hung. NJ-Staffel 5/1 Source: Grabmann, 'Luftverteidigung', BA-MA ZA I/2476, 707 ff. for as long as possible; a plethora of minelaying operations and diversionary raids by Mosquitoes that served to conceal the main bomber stream; and finally the jamming of German radars and controllers' radio traffic by WINDOW, ground transmitters in England, and airborne transmitters. The spoofing of the night fighters worked only to a limited extent, since in any case not all of them made contact with the enemy in time, and the diversionary tactics had by then become apparent. It was easy to take a fix on transmissions from the bombers' H2S sets, so their track could be adequately plotted. More and more fighters were being equipped with the LICHTENSTEIN SN2 radar, which was not vulnerable to jamming, and this made it easier to pursue the  I.II. Defending German Skies 312 I.11.5. Air Defence, First Half of 1944 313 SIna NOISIA "'> ?... bombers along their path. When, from February, the Mosquitoes too were increasingly fitted with H2S the picture in the air became appreciably ý more confused, since the ground radar found it harder to tell them apart from the heavy bombers carrying out the main raids. Repeatedly, too, bomber strea flying separate tracks were now converging on the same target; Mosquitos flying ahead of the streams occasionally released WINDOW to simulate changes ream of course that the bombers had not in fact made. This kind of masking of the itoes course of the main bomber force could be detected by combining fixes on their H2S signals; yet on man