mble several times a day to tackle the bombers in denek Though a pause in operations was really necessary, Arnold did not want wait for fighter cover over the whole length of a mission. Most of all, fight production deep inside Germany must not be allowed to rise further und- turbed. At the same time, however, hopes of being able, by careful planning.+ avoid heavy losses in future operations were being buoyed up by the mistaken certainty of having shot down a great many German fighters. 194 USSBS, i, Report No. 4: Aircraft Division Industry Report, 44-6 and Exhibit I, Fine VI-10; BA-MA RL 3/171 IWM; Groehler, Bombenkrieg, 128-9. 195 Army Air Forces, ii. 674-82. 63 Meantime a plan was afoot to use the air bases that had been captured in North Africa and Sicily to attack Germany not only from the west but from the south as well, splitting up the German defences. Undoubtedly, it was felt, having to set up an air- air-defence system in the south would weaken the remaining air defences, or at the very least slow down their reinforcement. Shuttle bombing missions, flying from Britain over Germany first to North Africa or southern Italy and then back on the next mission, would also harass the German defences. The first target in this context, already considered at Casablanca, was to be Ploiești in Romania with its oil refineries, which had already been attacked in 1941 (though ineffectively) by the Russians and was raided on 12 June 1942 from Egypt by 12 American B-24s, again with no success.196 Originally it was planned first to cripple 50 per cent of Me 109 production by a combined attack on the Regensburg Messerschmitt works from England and on the aircraft factory at Wiener Neustadt from North Africa. This undertaking, codenamed JUGGLER, however proved hard to co-ordinate, so that finally it was the 'Tidal Wave' plan to bomb Ploiești from low level that was given the go-ahead by Arnold and George C. Marshall. 197 Romanian oil formed the main source of fuel for the Germ