as spring 1944. See FüSt Ia No. 9532/44 g.Kdos., 16 Apr. 1944, BA-MA RL 2/225.  I.III. Attack the Best Form of Defence 406 I.III.2. Resumption of Strategic Bombing 407 SINS NOISIA HO gen the full-moon period of January 1945, to ensure the operation had an impact on the expected Soviet spring offensive. This 'Mistel' operation, originall- approved by Koller, the new chief of the Luftwaffe general staff, and codo named EISENHAMMER, was cancelled by him in March because disruption of the Soviet advance by destroying the Vistula, Neisse, and especially Oder bridges had become a higher priority. Operations against railways and railw bridges had already been demanded by Greim in December 1944, as, with the lway Red Army's rapid advance, its long supply routes had now become vulner able. 280 On I March 1945 Hitler appointed the commodore of Bomb ber for Geschwader 200, Lt .- Colonel Baumbach, to be 'Bridges Representative' the destruction of the Oder and Neisse bridges.281 Backed up by bombers carrying remote-controlled missiles such as the He 293 and 'Fritz X' or able of dropping spherical floating mines, the 'Mistels' were eventually us in March in vain attempts to destroy pontoon and other bridges over used Oder-in particular, at the end of the month, the railway bridge at Steinau the Probably only in psychological terms is it comprehensible that, ast the situation became increasingly hopeless, the strategic plans of Greim and the Luftwaffe were becoming ever more grandiose and divorced from reality- even though German experience of Allied bombing raids had long shown the difficulties the British and Americans had had, despite incomparably greater resources, in paralysing the German armaments industry. From the summer 1944 the decline in Germany progressed much more rapidly under the hail of Allied bombs: did this perhaps inspire the Luftwaffe strategists to attempt to do the same in the east at the last minute, in the face of seemingly much less dangerous Russian air d