ts, 80-90 per cent of them on French soil d the Doubts, however, arose as to whether bombing bridges and severing r lines might not be more effective. After American medium bombers Thunderbolt fighter-bombers managed to destroy a number of bridges 7 May, Leigh-Mallory became convinced of this. The Allies now decided on cut rail bridges leading to the invasion area in two rings, an inner ring taking in those over the Seine and Loire, and an outer ring to the east of Paris d to US The outer ring was concentrated on first, so as to avoid giving any hint as to where the landings would actually be made. The Seine bridges were largel- destroyed only one or two weeks prior to the invasion, and those over the Lo only at the time of the landings themselves (since destroying them would ha oire given the secret away). Cutting the Seine bridges revealed nothing, since affected only communications between the German Seventh and Fifteenth e this Armies, and moreover left landings in either area still a possibility. The B-26 Marauder medium bomber proved best suited to smashing bridges, a target that called for a total of only 4,400 t of bombs. From 21 May fighters of the strategic and tactical air forces also went for trains in France and Belgium often, for want of liquid-fuel bombs, releasing their drop-tanks on them Attacks like these were intended to persuade French railwaymen that working for the Germans was not worth the risk. More than 50,000 German workers and forced labourers were brought in to keep rail traffic moving in France where by day it was being severely interrupted. It was reckoned that up to 9 June rail movements in France had been reduced to 38 per cent. German troops being brought up as reinforcements had to be de-trained far from the battlefield, and make time-consuming marches across country. Bombing the bridges proved to be decisive for cutting the German defen- ders off from their supplies. It cost little in men and machines; but against this. 429 Middleb