keeping fairly inacti tive. He challenged Portal with this. The fighters' range could, he said, be increase with auxiliary tanks, and Fighter Command made part of the bomber offensiv through a streamlining of the command structure. Gen. Eaker, at the head the US 8th Air Force, had not only a bomber but also a fighter command at bi disposal, while Harris had only bombers. Fighter Command was entirel independent of Harris, and the link between them was provided only Portal, who had a great many other things to deal with; he also had no dire access to the ministry for aircraft production, responsible for the fitting auxiliary tanks. So Arnold got Portal to give him three Spitfires, which with: two months he had equipped with extra tanks that increased their range 1,300 miles. He even had them fly back to England, to show that they coula indeed be used as fighter cover.254 Washington believed that the British wo not attacking the targets that had been laid down in the plan for the join bombing offensive; and it saw direct damage to major industrial facilities more important for the success of OVERLORD than the gradual collapse of s as German industry, at some time in the future, that the British methods mad likely. 255 Portal did, it is true, promise the use of the RAF's P-51 Mustar as escort fighters, but could see no possibility of Fighter Command being involved in POINTBLANK, and could still not see how what was recognized necessary could be put into effect. He felt he had mollified Arnold somewhat by saying that the 8th Air Force had not been as successful as expected because it lacked the supply of replacement bombers it needed. The British too because of short summer nights as well as of the limited range of OBOE and the Germans beginning to jam it, had been unable to attack aircraft factories de inside Germany, but only the Ruhr. Consolation was thus found in d of 253 Letter of 27 May 1941, PRO, PREM 3/20/5. See also letter of 3 June 1941, ibid., and S- Charles P