ng the Fifteenth and Seventh Armies to make ready for battle took the precaution of putting two large units of the OKW Reserves, 12th SS-Panzer Division and the Panzer-Lehr Division, on standby. They were to link up with 711th Infantry Division, which was meanwhile tracking down Allied paratroopers. To that end, OB West also placed 2Ist Panzer Division, stationed south of Caen, under the Seventh Army in order to deploy it on both sides of the Orne. When dawn broke on the morning of 6 June the situation seemed slightly less tense, for the Seventh Army chief of staff reported that, contrary to earlier assumptions, there were no signs of a landing from the sea. A fairly large-scale operation could not be excluded, but as the situation looked at present Seventh Army could resolve matters without outside assistance. Soon after, Allied naval artillery began to fire at German defence installa- tions, swarms of landing craft approached the coast, and Allied aircraft began a relentless assault on Seventh Army units. Tactical surprise had thus been largely achieved. 11 After the previous day's near-debacle, all major Allied activities now proceeded according to plan. The first contingent of three airborne divisions had set off from England before midnight. They flew over the Channel and landed in the planned drop zones. The 6th British Airborne Division soon seized the Orne crossings north-east of Caen, in order to shield the drop zone towards the east. The 82nd and 10Ist American Airborne Divisions, for their part, were ordered to secure UTAH Beach towards the west, so as to establish a link between the two American drop zones and, later, to help cut off the Cotentin peninsula. 10 MarinegruppenKdo. West, KTB, 6 June 1944, BA-MA RM 35 II/63; OB West, KTB, 6 June 1944, ibid., RH 19 IV/43, and Deutschland im Zweiten Weltkrieg, v. 624. 11 Deutschland in Zweiten Weltkrieg, v. 624 ff .; H.Gr, B, KTB, 6 June 1944, BA-MA RH 19 IX/ 93; MarinegruppenKdo. West, KTB, 6 June 1944, ibid.,