in preparation for OVERLORD. They had destroyed 70 per cent of the railway network between Germany and Normandy, and decimated the Luftwaffe in the west. During an Allied bombing raid on 4 June 1944, for example, only nine German aircraft were seen. The Allies had also largely succeeded in cutting off the area in which they intended to land, mainly by destroying bridges (in the Seine estuary, at Mantes, at Chartres, and on the Loire as far as Nantes). And they still had sufficient forces to conceal their true intentions by attacking German defences in other areas. Their tactical air forces also provided defensive cover for Britain and guarded the eastern and western entrances to the Channel, while at the same time preparing to protect the invasion armada. But the price was high: 2,000 aircraft and their crews lost in the period from April to 5 June 1944 alone. Despite these losses, the Allies had some 11,600 aircraft available for OVERLORD. 27 As for the precise timing of the Normandy landing, the original thinking had been to make maximum use of the rising tide on the morning of D-Day so as to reduce the distance the troops had to cover from the landing craft to the beaches. In February 1944, however, intelligence reports began to indicate that the Germans were installing underwater obstacles in Normandy, about tidal strip. On existing timing assumptions, there was a halfway out on the tid danger that the Allied ships would hit those barriers. The start of the landing was accordingly brought forward to approximately three hours before high tide. This meant the troops would have further to go across open beaches, but the ships would be safer during the approach phase. Moreover, 26 See G-2 Division, AEAF, Summary of Results of Attacks, 18 May 1944, NA, 331.I, Box 13, File 57983; on 3 May the British war cabinet demanded that civilian losses up to the landing not exceed 10,000; see Ehrman, Grand Strategy, v. 302; Carrington, Bomber Command, 145; on the reaction in Fra