erged from the decisions taken by Eisenhower and his staff in late e Au early September that the 12th Army Group was to conduct more than flanking operations. It was proving increasingly time-consuming to sur .. Bradley's armies, because the communication lines initially y ran southward pply from Cherbourg or the Normandy ports and then, depending on the posie of the divisions, far to the east. 129 However the planners were, understandably, deeply worried As early as July there had been warnings of the serious risks i involved in this development of the situation. The commander in charge r zon e of the rear Lt .- General John C. H. Lee, and Montgomery's 2Ist Army Group staff kep repeating that it was urgently necessary to seize ports open to deep-drau shipping. At the beginning of August SHAEF's G-4 Division, responsible logistical matters, was also predicting supply shortages. Eisenhower's. therefore gave the order to cut back drastically on the bombardment staff railway installations in the parts of Western Europe that had not been liber- ated, on the grounds that this now did more harm to the Allies than to ck rapidly withdrawing Germans. 130 While some people in the Allied camp expressed concern, o , others thought supplies would be secure even in the event of a broad-front strategy. A com munication from SHAEF to the Allied Naval High Command (ANCXD indicates that some of Eisenhower's HQ officers believed that as a result of the rapid advance, major ports on the Channel coast, including Antwerp Rotterdam, could be usable by mid-September. Yet Eisenhower rather sceptical, and took the view in early September that even in the event and nt of weak German resistance it would prove difficult to supply the Allied tro adequately, realizing as he did that shortages were already evident when the first Allied troops reached the Seine. 131 The main burden of supplying tr 128 See Ruppenthal, Logistical Support, i. 481 ff. 129 Ibid. 486. 130 SHAEF, G-3, to AEAF, 8 Aug. 1944