n injection). It does not, however, seem to have had any success-up to Le end of June 1944 the whole of the night-fighter force shot down only 14 Mosquitoes. 574 The chances of success in pursuit were improved by the uwelopment of spot frequencies over a wavelength of 4 m which made it cible to avoid any enemy jamming, and by shortening the minimum range Poche AI radars to 250 m. The WÜRZBURG radars, with their WÜRZLAUS add- s were also enhanced by widening the waveband. All these measures were, however, in practice rendered ineffective by the enemy's intense dispensing of wypow. The interference with R/T traffic between controllers and fighters aus countered by transmitting all important orders, vectoring, and other formation on multiple channels. For the radio operator in the night fighter chis required familiarity with many items of equipment and a vast range of Sequencies; it took a great deal of skill and experience to find quickly which frequency was still free of interference at any given time. A variety of jamming onstems were introduced to make it hard for the British navigators to locate their target. A hundred jamming transmitters were employed against the GEE hyperbolic navigational aid, and 19 ECM centres using 96 transmitters all over Germany on a 1.5-m wavelength against the OBOE system, so that the RAF was forced to switch to alternative frequencies. It was planned for these centres to hijack the functioning of British ground transmitters and feed in false instructions that would lead to the bombs being dropped in open country- cide.575 It was not learnt until early 1944 how to interfere with the very accurate OBOE bomb-aiming method by 'wobbling' (irregular frequency changes); later, when the British had changed to shorter centimetre waves, it could no longer be interfered with for lack of the necessary electronic valves (a result of the German neglect of centimetre-wave research).576 574 Aders, Night Fighter Force, 245. 575 Overview in Grabmann, 'L