and the Second World War, vi. 440-1, 617. 197 help the pilots hear what was being said, the power of the ground transmitters was turned up; in some cases the day fighters' frequencies were also used, as the British were unequipped to jam these. Obviously not all the jamming could be overcome, but German countermeasures robbed it of a large part of its effectiveness. As a result British losses, which between December 1942 and February/March 1943 had fallen from around 5 to a low of 3.3 per cent, gradually rose again. The relatively simple and cheap MANDREL and TINSEL devices had, however, forced the Germans to convert their early-warning radars, and to install new R/T sets in their night fighters; this put a strain on the electronics industry, and saved the lives of around 100 RAF aircrews who would probably otherwise have been shot down. 155 The second unpleasant surprise in the early weeks of 1943 was the realiza- tion that British Mosquitoes, flying at great heights with a range of some 400 km, were able to drop their bombs blind on individual targets with great accuracy. For the time being there was no answer to this OBOE method (known by the Germans as 'Bumerang'), 156 as no sets had been captured and no transmissions plotted. It proved its efficacy and accuracy over Essen on 5 March and Wuppertal-Barmen in late May 1943.157 The third great surprise for the Germans came in early February 1943 with the finding, in the wreckage of a downed Stirling bomber, of a centimetric airborne radar that gave a view of the ground; this became known to the Germans, from the place where it was found, as the 'Rotterdam' device. For the British its name was H2S, also known as PANORAMA 158 because it displayed on a CRT the contours of the ground beneath the aircraft. Initially the purpose of the device was not clear,159 though it was suspected that it worked in the 8-cm band. The two surviving members of the aircraft's crew refused to say anything about it, and this showed that it