their weight in gold to us', he said. In a short time the enemy bomber forces would be 'so tattered' that after a couple of raids they would be 'finished' and would need a fortnight to mount another one. 'The men and machines eliminated there won't then get near Germany.'381 On the other hand, the German high command had not expected the large bunkers and field sites to be destroyed, seeing that the Atlantic Wall and U-boat pens had remained undisturbed while they were being built. Continuing to misjudge the situation, the OKW now ordered flying-bomb operations to start in mid-January 1944.382 When LXV Army Corps pointed out that this order could not possibly be implemented, extensive consultations were held with industrialists and mil- itary circles in Paris at about the turn of the year. On 10 January 1944 Keitel, in view of continuing problems with the A-4 rocket, authorized priority to be given to the flying-bomb programme. It was now planned to build simpler and more easily camouflaged launch ramps, using exclusively German personnel. At the 42 old sites still existing dummy repairs were to be carried out to deceive the enemy about the abandoning of these sites. Counter-espionage measures were to be intensified. To hide their purpose, the individual battalions of the flak regiment were renamed-the regimental commander was given the cover name 'Wolf', and his staff, until then 'Flak Group Creil', was renamed 'Special construction staff Schmidt' and relocated several times within a brief period. Its members now wore the uniforms of the Todt Organization. Concealment ranked top when reconnoitring sites for and building the new launch ramps, overriding all other tactical and technical considerations. Added to this, the construction method was greatly simplified. The foundations of the catapult supports, once built, were covered with soil to make them almost unidentifiable from the air. Supply depots were set up in large caves. The launching 379 Army Air Forces, iii