he Me 262 aircraft go into service solely as a high- speed bomber. Until further notice there is no question of the aircraft as a fighter. The designation of its role as fighter-bomber (Jabo) is to be deleted, and replaced with high- speed bomber (Schnellstbomber). Tactically the Me 262 is to be used as a high-speed bomber at an altitude of several thousand metres, so that its operation at low levels is also discontinued. To underline this decision, he assigned tactical operation of the machine to the general of bombers, thus dashing the hopes of the fighter pilots. 685 On 17 June 1944, on Hitler's orders, the evocative name Sturmvogel (Storm-bird) hitherto planned for the Me 262 was changed to Blitzbomber.686 Hitler's attitude gradually softened a little. Trials with a few machines as a fighter were still allowed, and once the main production series had started the number of these might even be increased. Consideration was also given to the Me 262 becoming a fighter again in its final version and after the Ar 234, the true jet bomber, had gone into series production. Hitler even agreed to the Me 262 being written into the production programme with 500 each for the fighter and bomber arms. Saur, the de facto head of the Fighter Staff, felt after the number of kills achieved in field trials was announced that 'the fighters can't be built quick enough'.687 Against Hitler's objection that because of its high speed the machine was not manoeuvrable enough and would make a poor fighter, it could be argued that the lack of a suitable bombsight still made it unsuitable as a bomber. Given its high speed, Galland wanted to use it initially only against Mosquitoes. Both sides had arguments that could not be dismissed out of hand. As Schabel rightly comments, Hitler and the officers surrounding Göring tended to look on jet propulsion as to be used in an offensive, bomber role rather than defensively as a fighter. And as development of the Me 262 was also much further advanced t