lose to the bombers they were protecting; guarding these no longer took priority over shooting down enemy fighters. The fighter pilots were naturally glad to be let off the leash to range and hunt at will, where they were in their element. Fighters are made to attack, not defend. The bomber crews, however, felt they were often being abandoned, and this led to the name 'Killer Doolittle' going the rounds (since they held him responsible). As the bombers were soon being protected by a fighter escort during the whole flight out and back, it was possible to open up the bomber formations; the heavy bombers now flew in groups of three squadrons each of only 12 aircraft, that is to say, only 36 rather than 54. The squadrons formed wedges, stacked sideways. The fighter groups, previously comprising three squadrons of 16 machines each, were also now in some cases split into A and B groups of three squadrons with now only 12 aircraft each, making them more manageable in the air. The fighter escorts no longer needed to fly back and forth alongside the slow-moving bomber stream they were protecting, using up relatively large amounts of fuel and thus further shortening their operating range. They now accompanied the bombers in relays; each fighter formation now had to protect the bomber stream only over an allotted stretch, determined by the fighter type concerned. The 'thoroughbred' fighter units now flew direct to the further end of their given stretch, and then flew nose-to-tail back down the line of bombers until they reached the homeward end of their stretch. On the way out and back they could hunt at will. At the tip of a bomber stream flights of fighters gave cover upwards and to the sides, especially towards the sun (the direction from which the German fighters usually attacked). The stretches nearest to the bombers' home bases were covered by Thunderbolts, those further away by 335 Army Air Forces, ii. 692-3; Levine, Strategic Bombing, 110; Davis, Spaatz, 298-9.  108 34