ok Mortain, and then pushed forward 10 km towards Avranches. On the afternoon of 7 August, however, the De foundered. Although Bradley had assembled only a few US divisions we Mortain to counter the expected German advance (after decrypting ENIG d abo radio traffic), the Allied air forces still managed to put a rapid end to . German plans. Allied fighters had already destroyed most of Sperrle's 6.Le aircraft at their bases, which meant the assault armies lacked the expecto. cover. Then the Royal Air Force, using mainly Typhoon fighters, decin the German tanks with air-to-ground missiles. On 7 August the 2nd To Air Fleet alone is said to have destroyed 83 German t tanks. 87 Units of Fi Panzer Army (as Panzer Group West was renamed on 5 August 1944) lock to half their men and equipment. Nonetheless, that same day Kluge intended 'to continue the attack relentlessly'. After bringing in Fifth Panzer Army divisions he planned to resume operations furth on 9 August, 'whatever the risk'. However, despite these fine words there 9 or growing awareness that both Normandy armies were gradually becon danger of being encircled. There were definite indications of this risk- Canadian and Polish units began to advance towards Falaise on 8 Aug (Operation TOTALIZE) and US divisions began to swing northwards firo- Mans on the following day. 88 Hausser, the C-in-C of Seventh Army, there gust urgently called for Fifth Panzer Army forces to be deployed to prevent American thrust towards Alençon. By II August the German n comman chief in the West finally realized that Operation LUTTICH had failed. became more important to withdraw the stricken units- the units deployed near Mortain had lost 11,000 men between 7 and 14 August alone, 89 (c) The Battles for Falaise and on the Seine In view of the concentration of German forces around Mortain, the camp decided to block them at the Falaise-Argentan line rather than 611 they reached the Seine. Despite some doubts voiced by Montgomery, Bradley or