nsport system, the fuel-producing installations, and other targets : t the strategic the war industry. This order of priorities might be altered to suit situation, just as further targets such as Berlin, the U-boat pens in France targets in northern Italy, and the German fleet in harbour could take importance. Allusion was, moreover, made to the importance of dayligh attacks wherever possible against targets unsuited to night raids, to continuou pressure on the morale of the civilian population, and to the need to inflic heavy losses on the German fighter defences and thus draw fighter resource away from Russia and the Mediterranean. The invasion was, finally, to be supported with all possible forces.6 In this kaleidoscopic recital of possible targets the question of how the bomber offensive was to be carried out was left open, as was, in practice, the matter of command. Portal was to have, on behalf of the combined chiefs staff, strategic charge of the bombing war launched from England; this assumed frequent consultation between the two commanders-in-chief.7 Any involvemes in tactical and technical matters was thus excluded. These were decided on the American side by Gen. Ira C. Eaker, general in command of the US 8th A: Force, and on the British by Harris as C-in-C Bomber Command; in practice tactical questions predominated most of the time. The vague wording of the Directive left a great deal of room for interpretation by the commanders. Han looked on his past method of indiscriminate bombing of cities as being con firmed, as he presented it to the Air Ministry, altering the Directive's original wording of 'and the undermining of the morale of the German people't 'aiming at undermining the morale ... '.8 He clearly did not regard the selectiva military and industrial targets mentioned there as his concern but as that of the Americans, as he would otherwise have to divert resources to them.9 The Americans, too, could feel their method of selective daylight bombing