wo-thirds of such raids would in these terms be successful. For raids deep into Germany at least 300 heav bombers were considered necessary, which meant having an actual comple ment of at least 800 available. To cope with the targets set, this needed to be f the raised to 944 heavy bombers by 1 July 1943, 1,192 by the end of the second phase on 1 October, 1,746 by 1 January 1944, and 2,702 by the end of + · be fourth phase on 31 March 1944. While in the first phase only targets within fighter range such as the nearer U-boat and aircraft installations were to bombed, the second was to take in fighter factories at distances up to 650 km together with the yards building U-boats; in the third phase al other targe were to be attacked, and the fourth was finally to maintain the effect achiev so far and prepare the way for the invasion. Baker saw this estimate 'absolutely reliable', conservative, and warranted by past experience, emphasized that even though the enemy could not be defeated from the alone, the bombing phases had to precede any successful invasion. 14 Natur the plan, as Arnold saw it, also meant avoiding any fresh diversion of force to secondary tasks-as had happened with TORCH-by concentrating on European theatre, seen as the critical one. ved as , and n the Even though the plan was entitled 'Combined Bomber Offensive from th. United Kingdom',15 it comprised primarily the plans for the precisio- bombing by the US 8th Air Force. Britain's Bomber Command was sidered only to the extent that its night area-bombing raids were mentioned S cor together with the Americans' own selective daylight raids, as 'complementing each other in the weakening of a limited number of target groups'. Harris was not, however, to be convinced by the American method of bombing selected targets. He agreed entirely, as he wrote to Eaker, with the e recommended action, but found the plan to some extent inflexible in view of what in pract ctice were rapidly changing situations, and wante