the landing the Allied troops would manage to drive back their enemy on a continuous basis did not prove correct. This meant that until the breakout was made at the end of July increasing quantities of supplies accumulated in a bridgehead that was far too small. After that, however, the operations proceeded at such speed that there was no time to set up efficient depots and workshops in the liberated areas. Although the Allies and the French were feverishly at work building up the infrastructure in the liberated parts of the country, they lagged far behind in repairing rail and road networks and laying a pipeline to the front. 126 They might have coped with all this if they could have used the ports near the front, but even the plans for Gen. Troy H. Middleton's US VIII Corps rapidly to seize the large Brittany ports after the breakthrough had gone awry. Although St-Malo fell into Allied hands as early as 17 August, the Allies did not manage to capture the far more important port of Brest until a month later. By this time, however, the Allied armies were already positioned hundreds of kilometres away in eastern France, so that at best this port could only be used to supply the 12th Army Group. In late August/early September 1944 Eisenhower therefore also tried to seize ports along the Channel coast. Yet the Germans managed to prevent this for the time being. In January Hitler had already declared that all the major port towns from the Netherlands down to Marseilles were fortresses and had them reinforced accordingly. He confirmed this order again on 3 September. The only port that could be used for bringing in supplies rapidly was Cherbourg on the Cotentin peninsula, thanks to Collins's courageous advance. In addition, shortly after the landing in Provence, the Americans and the French managed to seize the major seaports of Toulon and Marseilles, although this still had no tangible impact in terms of supplying the 21st and 12th Army Groups in September and October 1