ter-division operations rooms also created difficulties, as these did not ys of once have the appropriate personnel to cope with the additional duties the new system was not equally successful everywhere.341 Nonetheless, the del s; the in passing the information could be cut to a matter of seconds, since all report from all sources were immediately displayed graphically on a plotting table and errors and duplicated reports avoided. The commentary system mean that observation, reporting, assessment, and forwarding of the information happened in quick succession. Using common land-line and radio linke fighter-division officers-articulate and with a clear enunciation-simulta neously passed information to the headquarters of Air Fleet Reich and Fighter Corps, the Geschwader under them, the Luftgaue, the flak divisione and the ARP warning centres and AW sector centres. The decimetre-war radio network was immune to enemy interruption.342 t at - The backbone of the aircraft warning organization was provided by the FREYA radars, which had a range of some 120 km and were less vulnerable to jamming. The most far-reaching surveillance came from the WASSERMANN and MAMMUT radars, with ranges between 200 and 300 km. The JAGDSCHLOSS panoramic search radar had an enhanced resolution in range and azimuth, and was particularly suited to detecting low-flying aircraft. The GIANT WÜRZBURG were the standard gears for altitude ranging, fighter control, and flak location and gun-laying tasks. The further expansion of the new AW system needed a great deal of time. and was hampered by the loss of the forward areas in the west and south (and there also by the geography and terrain). In general all went well, but Gen Martini was still in November 1944 complaining that the reorganization ordered at 7th Fighter Division and in East Prussia had not yet been carried out, and that the order on restructuring had not even been communicated to 340 Ibid. 3-4 and appendix, point 3; Birke, 'Übersicht übe