uingand, who was highly regarded at SHAEF, had set out the seriousness of the situation in no uncertain terms. De Guingand knew which man would lose his post if the situation became even more acute. It would certainly not be Eisenhower, since Marshall had full confidence in him and urged him not to make any concessions that would lead to the appointment of a separate land commander in western Europe. Meanwhile, trusting in Montgomery's agreement on 1 January-however belatedly-to launch the attack, Bradley and his US 3rd Army launched an offensive from the south of the breakthrough area. But since Montgomery for his part did not begin the offensive in the north until two days later, the Germans managed to avoid being encircled and, as in the case of Falaise, to channel most of their troops through to the east. Not until thirteen days later, on 16 January, did the US 3rd Army troops meet up with Hodges's units at Houffalize.62 In the German camp, Rundstedt had already voiced doubts on 20 December over whether the first objective of the operation, to establish crossings over the Meuse, was still feasible. Yet he gained some benefits from the confused situation. According to OB West, the offensive had at least prevented an Allied breakthrough at Aachen, and possibly also in the Palat- imate. At this point Model actually took a slightly more optimistic view of the progress of the attack in the Ardennes than Rundstedt. The commander-in- chief of Army Group B thought that, given certain circumstances, it would definitely still be possible to destroy the opponent east of the Meuse. Only a few days later, when the German advance had come to a halt, Hitler and OKW decided to order an Army Group G offensive-operations NORDWIND (North Wind) and ZAHNARZT (Dentist)-as a means of relieving Model's hard-pressed units. Gen. Blaskowitz, once again commander-in-chief of Army Group G since 24 December, was to penetrate into the rear of the now weakened US 7th Army and encircle both tha