ide, OB West did not manage to construct any new defence lines until mid-September because his troops were not very mobile and did not have adequate anti-tank weapons or fuel. The Germans therefore confined themselves to trying to limit the damage on the western front as far as the situation allowed. At the beginning of the month both Hitler and Model endeavoured to delay the Allied advance in order to gain time for their own defensive measures. They hoped the Allied advance would be stopped mainly by the start of poor weather conditions, together with the very wet terrain in the Netherlands and the hills of eastern France. Then, in the view of the German command, their own troops could go on the offensive again and eventually force separate ceasefire negotiations on one of their opponents-thinking in particular of the Anglo-American Allies. 151 Rundstedt, whom Hitler once again appointed commander-in-chief in the west on 5 September, agreed with this view and, like OKW, believed in a strategy of holding out stubbornly. He believed it was now crucial to take measures to consolidate the German defence and seriously weaken the Allies by launching local offensives.152 As for the resulting operational objectives, the German military command wanted to secure the Netherlands against any hostile attack and prevent the Allies from penetrating into German territory, especially in the Ruhr and Saar areas. It was felt that in order to disrupt Allied supplies on a sustained basis, it was urgently necessary not only to continue blocking the accesses to Antwerp but also resolutely to defend the other ports still occupied by German troops. This was no easy task, for the Allied advances had forced the German navy to abandon nearly all its bases in the west. The troops in the ports and on the Sources: Ellis, Victory, i. 470; Pogue, Supreme Command, Map IV; OKH, GenStdH, situation Wees 15 Sept. 1944, BA-MA, RH 2W/226; ibid., RH 19 IV/68 and 69, together with RH 19 IV/72 K6 and 7. 151