190s with additional 20-mm wing-mounted weapo- One Gruppe of each Geschwader under Luftwaffe C-in-C Centre Was specialize in high-altitude combat as a 'light fighter Gruppe' and be positie forward, and a heavy group was to follow up from the rear once the floh tione escorts had been engaged. This procedure was at first very successful 38 hter The beefing-up of the fighter defences (which was being consta monitored by the enemy) 39 brought them greater success in May and 1943. When the Americans attacked targets in Wilhelmshaven and Emdo 21 May, 10 per cent of their bombers were shot down; on 13 June over B and Kiel the casualty rate was even over 14 per cent; and at Hü füls on 22 J was 8.8 per cent.40 On 14 May over IJmuiden, all ten of the a attacking Marauder medium bombers were destroyed. The impression n was that forward fighter defence was working well. Staffel 10 of JG II, equipped. FW 190s, was set up at Aalborg to intercept the courier flights from Ene of indus to Sweden. Newly formed factory units swelled the strength stry' 'self-protection squadrons' and scratch fighter units to deal with reconna! sance aircraft: the very latest fighters, brand-new from the factory, stood better chance against the Mosquitoes than the older types from the train; squadrons. The Luftwaffe's test establishment at Rechlin, too, raised operational unit. Sections from the fighter-training Geschwader [ 106 Lachen-Speyersdorf, 107 at Nancy, and 110 at Altenburg were roped in defend the homeland by day. Fighter Command Ostmark, formed on 12 Ius and placed under 5th Fighter Division at schleißheim, took over from Lufte Command XVII (Vienna) the control of fighters and management of airspa space in its area. 41 The increasingly fierce American daylight raids and the British nigh bombing were making it important to make better use of the existing defence organization, simplifying and centralizing it (especially since ever-wide areas were being involved). Yet on 24 May Hitler had alread