ANS. PALESTINE | JORDAN (Brit.) KBnt.) Canal Suez- SAUDI - ARABIA EGYPT LIBYA (Ital.) SPAN. W. SAHARA Source: GenStdH, Foreign Armies West, map dated 18 Aug. 1943, BA-MA RH 2/502, map 8. MAP II.II.4 Allied forces and presumed intentions according to German intelligence, status: 18 August 1943  II.II. The Allies in the Western Theatre II.II.3. Invasion Plans Delayed 486 Gen. Marshall's proposal to prepare for a large-scale landing in early To. met with general agreement, however, although the British planners express- reservations about the timing. Marshall then presented the conference ticipants with his proposal for a build-up of US forces in Britain to aroupa million men, under the codename BOLERO. 10 A few thousand US troops a been stationed in Northern Ireland since January 1942. Now the Ameri were proposing to transfer another two divisions and HQ personnel, plus. Is air power, to Britain by May of that year.11 t BOLERO and th From the discussion of Marshall's plans it became clear tha ensuing invasion would depend on the availability of sufficient supply shi landing craft, and long-range fighters. It was already apparent from the posals of the combined staff planners in early April that an undertaking of of th size would consume a large part of the Allies' war resources, to the inevitakl detriment of other major operations. 12 3. INVASION PLANS DELAYED BY OPERATION TORCH All these unknowns-not to mention the unpredictable course of the war on other fronts-must certainly have contributed to British scepticism about dates. The British leadership recommended a pragmatic approach in respone to military developments, while the Americans argued for firm dates firm figures, mindful of the fact that a landing in western Europe required len preparation. This probably explains why Churchill was non-committal in May 1942 when Soviet foreign minister Vyacheslav Molotov asked him to give a dat the invasion, whereas, shortly afterwards, Roosevelt promised Molotov the Allied