vy now had a better type of submarine (fitted wi wer a threat to the fi snorkel), but thought such vessels were unlikely to pose a d in the Cha phase of the landing. Smaller U-boats that could be deployed i the Germans might be a greater threat,57 but the surface vessels available to t longer appeared capable of seriously hindering Allied operations.58 resort to atom The Allies also thought it unlikely that the Germans would biological, or chemical weapons in the event of an invasion.59 Accordin s might their intelligence services, there was a greater danger that the Germans use V-weapons. Despite intensive Allied intelligence work and bombing raid. they had apparently stepped up their efforts and installed new launch ram ramp along the Channel coasts. 60 Two days before the landing, the Allies' assumptions were as follows: S: once. the invasion force had landed in Normandy, the Germans would do all the could to prevent it breaking out of the bridgehead. If they did not succes they would still be capable of hindering an eastward advance. Rundstedt not count on massive reinforcements until about three months after the start. the invasion, when he would again be in a position to defend a line fro Antwerp through Namur to the West Wall, to prevent an Allied breakthro into the Ruhr. All in all, this was a pretty accurate prediction. 61 5. THE FRENCH AND OVERLORD French preparations for the liberation of their country were naturally conditioned by relations with the two main Allied powers, the United States and Britek Time and again the central issue was whether the Americans and British w prepared to grant de facto or de jure recognition to the organs of the Free Fren 56 Hinsley, British Intelligence, iii/1. 62 ff., iii/2. 104-5; in March the JIC had estimated ther 1,800 aircraft in the west; see German Order of Battle, I Mar. 1944, PRO WO 219/278. 57 U-boat situation report, 29 May 1944, ibid., ADM 233/21; Hinsley, British Intellige 49-50, iii/2. 99-100. The establishm