he advance. Also, Montgomery seemed take the view that a wide encirclement of the Netherlands coastal regions thrust from Antwerp towards the north and east, in the direction of Ar and Wesel, would in any case make it unnecessary to seize the acces the Scheldt, a task that would presumably be difficult (Of Operations co MARKET, and GARDEN). SHAEF also expected that the Allie ed advance almost automatically lead to the opening of the sea ports of Le Boulogne-sur-Mer, Calais, and Antwerp over the next few Ha days. 146 Th be why Montgomery's 2Ist Army Group staff took an extremely bold dee. on 9 September: if Dieppe, Boulogne, Dunkirk, and Le Havre were operational, it would be possible to advance as far as Berlin. Interes- enough, Antwerp was now not even mentioned in this list. 147 This assessment of the situation distracted attention from t the importan job in hand, that of immediately clearing the accesses to Antwerp, as did el. renewed strategy debate on the Allied side that had started mainly because the rapid progress of the operations. Moreover, the Allies poor morale among many German units. In a situation were aware of the 4 September, Eisenhower noted that were signs of a general collapse on the assessment dated other side. In his view, all that was left for the Germans now was to defen themselves along the Siegfried Line (West Wall). To do so, however, the would have to bring in troops from other fronts. Eisenhower's assessmen the German situation was based on his staff's analysis. In 1 general, u 3 September SHAEF in fact found no real indications of any serious resis until tance, and believed that the Germans would delay the Allied advance in first days of September only in some local areas, for instance around Met- the There were, however, no signs of a general collapse of the German Ar Group West. For example, young German officers who had been taken prie oner still believed in Germany's 'final victory'. 148 145 Mulberry, Port-Dates of Opening, 10 May 1