to the divisions to replace the losses. When the soldiers occupied their standby positions, the measures to ensure secrecy the Germans had imposed upon memselves proved to be another disruptive factor. Many units were not allowed to move into their deployment areas until the night before the attack, which meant they had almost no chance of reconnoitring the terrain ahead of them. Notwithstanding these problems, the German side still counted on success, because the Wehrmacht felt it was far superior to the Allied officers and headquarters staff in terms of the tactical and operational leadership of units. At all events, Model informed Hitler on 15 December that the army group was now entirely set to seize Antwerp, and at the beginning of the attack Rundstedt announced that it was now a question of doing 'everything' for 'our Fatherland and our Führer', and that 16 December would also bring 'the start of a new phase of the entire western campaign'.45 (b) Allied Reconnaissance Findings A day before, Montgomery had asked his supreme commander whether he could spend his Christmas leave in England. Eisenhower agreed, because in his last situation assessment before the German attack Montgomery had informed the Imperial General Staff that 'there is nothing to report on my front or the front of the American armies on my right. I do not propose to send any more evening situation reports till the war becomes more exciting.' The other senior officers on the Allied side proved equally unsuspecting.46 It is quite astonishing that the Allied staffs, who had been quite successful so far in assessing the enemy situation, could have been so wrong on this occa- sion. After all, they had received numerous indications of an operation of this scale, in spite of the German measures to maintain secrecy. In fact the Allies had known since August 1944 that German Army Group B was preparing a counter-offensive. Nor were they unaware that the Sixth SS-Panzer Army was being brought up or that t