dby units could also enable Rundstedt to block an Allis of the relatively calm front at the Ardennes in order to use t boost morale among their people and on the front-they thought there to- conceivable that the Germans could attack even before Christmas-if only to mainly because, although the reports they had received made it perfecth more than 420 tanks and other AFVs, together with 504 artillery piecen On the day of the attack, in numerical terms, Model's troops had 2.4 time. in this area. In fact, however, on 16 December the German attackers wes faced with only five US divisions (including one armoured division) with 83,000 men between Monschau and Echternach. They themselves hoa he promised Eisenhower he would deploy a few divisions as reinforcement surely prevent their opponent from attacking in the Ardennes. Nonetheless mander's anxiety, but believed the risk could be taken, because the stron the US Ist Army sector in the Ardennes. Bradley shared his supreme com staff. Eisenhower did then feel some concern about the low troop density gence officer passed on his thoughts to Bradley and Smith, SHAEF chief. Germans were preparing for an offensive through the Ardennes. The intell- mean one of several things. The Germans might be refreshing their troops en- weeks before the operation began that the reported enemy activities coul side. Gen. Kenneth Strong, the SHAEF intelligence officer, believed a for Naturally these reports gave rise to all sorts of suppositions on the All ;- reports trickled in that the Germans were planning to operate behind All: sign that the other side was up to something along this front. Eventuali more frequent weather reports than before. This too was an unmistakeakl well as bridging equipment, in the area round Bitburg. It was also noted the early in December the German U-boats in the Atlantic were sending out west of Bastogne received reports from deserters and civilians that the Germans were deploying substantial numbers of tanks and mo