Dragoon, n.d., PRO, WO 204/1478; AOK 19, KTB, 15.8.1944, BA-MA, RH 20-19/84, and app. to KTB AOK 19, report to A.Gr. G, 15 Aug. 1944,  II.VI. Landing in South of France 654 II.VI.3. Operation DRAGOON initially selected for the purpose of deception-and s swung north-west. At 0300h Wiese learned that large numbers of transport planes had set off . southern Italy with airborne troops; now there was no doubt that an inva. of the south of France was imminent. Yet the Germans still had no idea. the landing from the sea was going to be made. Contrary to all expectations, the Allied airborne landing began not in thes Crau plain north-east of Toulon, but south of Draguignan at Le Muy wher -tha very close to LXII Army Corps headquarters-at around o500h. This rapidly flung together a few units positioned nearby, and AOK 19 de even before the Allied sea landing to order forces of the strength division to move to Brignoles. It would have been more appropriate to de the units positioned not far from Toulon; instead, Wiese decided to with i of a v forces from Marseilles, which was much further away, presumably beca assumed that Toulon was at special risk. In fact, however, the Allies, initially with three US divisions and arm support, landed between Cap Nègre and the Gulf of Fréjus (on either side St-Tropez) towards 0800h, after their air force and naval artillery had shal the German defence to prepare the ground for the assault. Prior to this, Fre and American commando units had already managed to capture nearby islands and important strips of coast, and thus protect the left and right A. of the assault area. In the course of the day the attackers rapidly managed break through the German defence lines without suffering any serio. d to casualties, to land more than 60,000 men together with 6,700 motor vehiclee and to form a bridgehead about 16 km deep.46 Wiese responded to this menacing development with an order that was ne longer very appropriate. Although Maj .- General Johannes