rrying out such labour- and materials-intensive plans soon, however, proved hopeless. As radar does not depend on visible light, it might seem strange that great importance continued to be attached to maintaining a strict blackout; but this is not so, for while not all bombers were equipped with radar, they could all react to visible light. 293 Grabmann, 'Luftverteidigung', BA-MA ZA 1/2476, 661-2; Hampe, Luftschutz, 248, 322-61, esp. 357. 294 Grabmann, 'Luftverteidigung', BA-MA ZA 1/2476, 661-2. 295 Deutschlands Rüstung, 237-8. silch also twice tried to get Göring to bring in this arrangement at night as il but he too was unable to persuade Hitler to change from the existing term of a 'public warning" for nuisance raids by day and a full air-raid sysning by night.296 Not until 26 November 1943 was Hitler finally won over w pressure from officers and industrialists worried about armaments pro- Duction. Furthermore, a 'pre-all-clear' signal was introduced from 3 January y, consisting of a continuous tone of increasing volume given three times hin one minute: this was to allow a rapid start to be made on clearing up wimnb damage after a raid, and was given as soon as the mass of bombers had assed over their target. How this moment was to be determined exactly, given be difficulties of aircraft tracking and warning, was, however, unclear. For che air-raid warning system what was decisive was protecting output from the factories, and only in second place safeguarding the population.297 Because of the uncertainty about what might follow after the 'public warning' had been given, an information service provided by the local civil- defence chief was introduced late in 1943, set up by Goebbels on the basis of che cable radio network. Beginning 15 minutes before the expected arrival of the bomber formations, this gave brief reports of the situation in the air at one-minute intervals, which made it possible to know whether it was merely a anisance raid or where the focus of th