her with Weigley, Eisenhower's Lieutenants, 324.  II.VI. Landing in South of France II.VI.I. Allied Preparations 638 Lt .- General Alexander M. Patch (US) was to command all army f C-in-C US 7th Army. Another American officer, Admiral Henry K. Hewas y forces as was responsible for the deployment of the Allied navy. Lt .- General Ira Baker (US) was put in charge of air support and transport. The Fres contingent was led by Gen. Jean de Lattre de Tassigny. During the first sto. of the operation, he came under Patch's US 7th Army. objected to the French general being given this subordinatep Since De Gaulle agreed that during the further course of the operation position, it was be given their own independent command. Eisenhower also the French would allocate the command of the landing forces to SHAEF ass planned made contact with OVERLORD units. Similar arrangements were planned e s soon as they had to the civil administration of the liberated areas in the south they were to come under Wilson's staff in the Mediterranean, and later fol of France; initially put under SHAEF and the French liberation committee.8 At first the Allied planners considered the coastal areas near Toulon ors as alternative landing sites. In mid-June 1944 Wilson's staff then p prop launching the operation in the area east of Toulon, as he believed it would. easiest to reach the important ports of Marseilles and Toulon from th opose Moreover, there were German U-boat bases on that section of the coast, wh: there could be captured immediately after the landing. The combined chiefs of os and Eisenhower endorsed Wilson's proposal.9 After the fall of Rome on s The the Allies began to withdraw 5th Army divisions from the Italian front and bring them up to Patch's 7th Army. The units used the remaining time we August to familiarize themselves with the landing conditions. The Allied plan was to land three US divisions under the command of c. Lucian K. Truscott (US VI Corps) between Cavalaire and St-Raphaël