terrorizing the inhabitants. Increasingly wide areas, above all in the Massif Central, came under the control of the Resistance, a great many of whose fighters headed there precisely because of the many war crimes committed against innocent civilians by the occupying forces.24 The condition of the German troops brought up to the Nineteenth Army to make up for the losses described earlier was, as Allied intelligence rightly suggested, not very encouraging. Most of them were made up of totally exhausted parts of divisions from the Normandy battles, together with a few (eastern battalions' or Hiwi troops, and the Germans had few illusions as to their reliability. It is doubtful whether AOK 19's order in mid-July 1944 gradually to ensure the 'ethnic purity' of these units imbued them with much fighting spirit. In early August 1944 Gen. Friedrich Wiese, who had been appointed C-in-C Nineteenth Army a month earlier, still had the following forces: IV Luftwaffe Field Corps with three divisions (headquartered west of Narbonne); I XXXV Army Corps (with HQ at Cavaillon) with 338th and 244th Infantry Divisions; and LXII Reserve Army Corps (HQ at Draguignan) with 242th (mainly near and east of Toulon) and 148th Infantry Divisions (near the Italian border).23 The 157th Infantry Division remained east of Grenoble. The German admiral for the French south coast was in charge of protection at sea with his 6th Security Flotilla (12 warships and 15 minesweepers) and 7th U-boat Flotilla (ten submarines). The only air cover for the army troops was provided by 2nd Air Division and the 5th Flak Brigade, while the only motorized unit, 11th Panzer Division, which was under the Nineteenth Army in the event of combat, was still positioned in the Toulouse area at the 22 For Oradour and other massacres see Nalty, 'Invasion of Southern France', 193. This makes it clear that SHAEF was aware of the incidents in Oradour as early as July; see also Allgem. Prozeßakten, 21/69: Doc. Oradour/Tulle, 1944