and his successors, however, were constantly confronted with direct intervention by Hitler and the OKW, which reached down to the lowest military level. Again and again, after the Wehrmacht's first setbacks, senior Germe military leaders became aware of the Allies' superiority in terms of men material, giving this as a major reason for their defeats-a line, inciden that they often took after the surrender, using it as a strategic justifi when they tried to analyse why they had lost the war. This was, however. short-sighted, given that building a large number of aircraft, tanks, and The answer to the question raised in Chapter IV of this Part-whether the use of such prestige-hungry officers as Rommel and Montgomery in the western theatre after the beginning of the landing was worth it for either side- is probably no. Rommel's strength probably lay more in the tactical than the s followers had placed high hopes in him in regard strategic field. Hitler and his fol to repulsing a landing in France. Like most of the senior officers on the 3 Goebbels, Tagebücher, Pt. 4, 696; Schwendemann, 'Strategie', 227, 242, together with Werte Introduction, in Das letzte halbe Jahr, 7. 4 Kutz, Realitätsflucht, 7; Messerschmidt, 'Wehrmacht in der Endphase', 195 ff .; id., Wehrmacht im NS-Staat', 223 ff .; and Schwendemann, 'Strategie', 242. 5 Weinberg, World at Arms, 509 ff.  702 II. VIII. Summary German side, however, Rommel only occasionally saw through the Al plans, so he was not granted the kind of spectacular successes in this the that he had experienced in North Africa. Montgomery, for his part, for it difficult to cooperate with other commanders. Nor should it be forced that he had a certain tendency to seek personal prestige; this often les misunderstandings and friction, which also had damaging military effers The German public always showed a keen interest in the events in the u reactions to which differed from one to the next. some of the eunl expectations of a German victor