ne firm precept: 'The determination to wage a battle of annihilation in the air [strategic defence] and to penetrate massively to the enemy's sources of power [strategic offensive, a bombing war].' In 1944. however, these stirring (and in themselves perfectly valid) phrases stood in grotesque contrast to the lack of means that even Hitler was complaining of This was constantly one of the main problems in directing German air armaments-the question was usually one of armament for attack or defence. and hardly ever and-and became especially evident when it came to trying to translate the new strategic concept from theory into practice.416 4. ARM FOR DEFENCE OR ATTACK? THE BOMBERS-VERSUS- FIGHTERS ARGUMENT, 1943-1944 Given Germany's geo-strategic position, deciding between attack and defence was for the Luftwaffe a virtually preordained problem; in 1943, when the attack phase that had marked the first years of the war came to an end, it 415 Ibid. 160-4, 266, 268 (quotation). 416 Muller, German Air War, 156; Boog, Luftwaffenführung, 160-4. became a pressing one. The German sphere of power was now, with the rowing strength of the Allied air forces, open to attack from almost all sides, and really needed to have a permanent, strong air defence capability. When che Luftwaffe was originally being built up the question had been settled in your of attack, by shifting the emphasis to bombers; these, together with the my, would drive the enemy back onto his own territory, and thus spare the Herman people the horror of suffering an air war on their own soil. 417 The concept worked well during the successful campaigns of the first two war years; but no longer so once the Allies, from beyond the Wehrmacht's tactical and operational scope for action, launched their massive heavy-bomber formations against Germany at a time when her forces were split up and overstretched eross the whole of Europe and North Africa. As this course of events was under way by 1941/2, Generalluftzeugmeist