n and the government quarter round Whitehall.57 These words stand at the beginning of a chapter describing this German air offensive. It is entitled 'The Night Offensive Against British Industry and Communications', and not, for instance, 'The Terror-Bombing Offensive Against England'. It is made quite clear that the chapter covers the period from 7 September, or 4 November, 1940 until 6 May 1941, the day when the offensive was called off because of the impending campaign in the east. It therefore includes both the first large-scale attack on London and the attack on Coventry. It may be of interest that Air Marshal Harris himself, as early as 1947, pointed out that the Germans had missed their chance of destroying English cities by concentrated incendiary bombing.58 General Arnold, the chief of the US Army Air Force, who was in London in 1941 with a delegation of American observers, reports much the same in his memoirs in 1949. Lord Sinclair, the British air minister, had shown Arnold during a visit to his command bunker a huge map of London showing the location of 'all the 386-7. See also Legro, Restraint, 116-18. 54 Conference 5 Dec. 1940, Halder, Diaries, 296-7; Germany and the Second World War, il. 58 Harris, Bomber Offensive, 83: 'The Germans again and again missed their chance . . . of setting our cities ablaze.'  I.III. Attack the Best Form of Defence 366 I.III.I. Reasons bombs that had been dropped. They were spread all over London, in moo cases close to railroad stations, switching points, power houses, transformer bridges, docks, warehouses and factories; but a lot were in the residential districts. Every bomb dropped was accurately plotted.'59 There are also still conflicting opinions about the air raid on Belgrade on 6 April 1941. Although Hitler had given orders for the city to be annihilated. 60 this order was, in the staff of the chief of Air Fleet 4, Col .- General Alexander Löhr, changed at the last minute into an order to attack military objectives