Bombenkrieg, 113-16. 151 Middlebrook, Hamburg, 313-30; Brunswig, Feuersturm über Hamburg, 241-60; Groehler, Bombenkrieg, 116-17.  48 I.I. The Allied Bomber Offensive within the 3-mile zone round the aiming-point. On that night 30 bombers were shot down, a higher figure than in the other mass raids. 152 The city administration and Party leadership of Hamburg were in a state of shock after the first of the three mass raids. Even political prisoners were released from custody. Hamburg had, said the Gauleiter Karl Kaufmann, been 90 per cent destroyed, and the senior SS and police leader, Georg Henning Graf von Bassewitz-Behr, compared the city's fate to the destruction of Pompeii While after the first attack in the series people were prohibited from leaving the city, it was now to be evacuated of all those not working. By 4 August more than 800,000 had left the area. Albert Speer told the 29 July meeting of his Central Planning that if the air raids continued on the present scale, then within three months they would be relieved of a number of questions they were at present discussing, and they might in that case just as well hold the final meeting of Central Planning. 153 Generalluftzeugmeister Erhard Milch lost, for a moment the unyielding optimism he usually displayed: on 2 August, at a gathering of the minister, secretaries of state, and Gauleiters summoned to Goebbels' office fo the latter, on Hitler's orders, 'to inject some cement into them', he burst Que 'We have lost the war! Finally lost the war!'. And a day later, after the four British night raid on Hamburg, he told his officers in the Reich air ministry the the situation was much blacker than Speer painted it. If they got just five or si more attacks like those on Hamburg, the German people would lay down the tools, however great their willpower.154 Seen from the Allied side, the figures added up as follows: during the for major raids the British lost 552 aircrew and 97 bombers, 87 of which wer shot down ove