districts of the city and thereby greatly reduce their capacit for work'. Firefighting difficulties during the continuous freezing weather until the end of April would enhance the effect of the raids. The air offensive might be opened at the turn of March/April. All the forces on the eastern front, as well as some from the western front, should be employed. As a reaction Greim expected Russian bombing attacks on eastern Germany, possibly supported by large Anglo-American bomber formations operating from Russian bases He therefore proposed the strengthening of day and night fighters in the east. as well as of anti-aircraft artillery. Moreover, he called for early use of the He 177 in the east, where its superiority could well restore German air supremacy in Russia before, with the intervention of Anglo-American air forces, it was too late. It is evident that an air offensive that had been carefully prepared but that had meanwhile lost its basis was to be carried out regardless-in the vague and desperate hope of turning the situation around-and if need be using terror. If one considers the efforts of the authorities involved in assessing the 253 Teletype Greim No. 518/44 g.Kdos. Chefs., I Feb. 1944, to Chef GenstdLw, BA-MA RL 7/521. 254 Lfl.Kdo. 6 No. 537/44, 11 Feb. 1944: 'Reflections on the opening of strategic air warfare against the Soviet defence economy', BA-MA RL 7/521. 255 Ibid. attack-worthiness of the targets, their selection, and the planning of attack 401 tactics, then the terror variant is downright primitive. Then suddenly, on 28 February 1944, Luftwaffe operations staff Ic decided that systematic operations against the Moscow-Upper Volga power supplies might be successful even without the elimination of the Gorkiy power plants, which in any case only provided 25 per cent of the energy.256 The chief of the Luftwaffe operations staff, Koller, in his reply to Greim pointed out that Finnish airfields could not be relied on, and that Gorkiy had to be abandon