iew of the Allies' air superiority.386 assembled within ten days, using a newly worked-out assembly plan. In this way 95 new-style launch sites were completed by May 1944 without having on-remained in Germany, but could, if necessary, be brought to the sites and equipment-that is, catapults, steam generators, compressors, etc. and so I.III.3. The V-Weapon Offensive about 830 kg, and an operational weight of some 2,150 kg. It had a length of small aircraft, with a rear-mounted pulse-jet engine, an explosive payload of The V-I flying bomb was a cantilever midwing monoplane, similar to a impossible. The SS suggested filling the flying bomb with poison gas, but other reasons, of the telecommunications problems making synchronization aircraft and fighter defences; but it was never put into practice because, among salvo firing, which could have created major problems for the British anti- hours, or in what would now be called the 'rush hour'. Also considered was bomb bombardment at a varying intensity, if possible during peak business effect of the warhead by 70 to 80 percent. It was intended to carry out flying- that 250 flying bombs should be filled with Trialen each month to increase the sensitive to bullet-strikes. The idea was that when exploding this also would explosive payload the highly explosive Trialen, an aluminium powder mixture bad weather. Their protection was later increased by adding into their but also to protect them from enemy fighters by firing them during periods of weather information-not only for reasons of course-keeping by the missiles, argument about the (in itself sensible) centralization of operational command appointment of a senior artillery commander for the long-range rocket. The under army command. Subsequently there were further quarrels about the Wehrmacht services about the wisdom of placing units of different services military manner, Wachtel realized that because of its high dispersion error it could only be a terror weapon.384 There