286-7; Howard, Strategic Deception, 103-33; Hesketh, Fortitude 87-133. 131 came damagingly to light. These had their origin both in the rivalry between individual leading personalities, and in attempts by the two Allied air forces to maintain their national independence. The differing conclusions drawn from the outcome of earlier bombing operations also played a part. It took a long time for an in any way efficient command structure for the air forces to be found.399 The personal differences revolved mainly around the British Air Marshal Leigh-Mallory, appointed C-in-C of the Allied Expeditionary Air Forces (AEAF) in the late summer of 1943. He was to have responsibility for planning, and later leading, the air operations in support of the landings on the continent. He had previously been at the head of Fighter Command. He also had extensive experience in giving air support to land forces-something which did not make him all that popular with an Air Staff striving to maintain the Royal Air Force's independence. He had not had much to do with either the Air Staff or the Allied staffs, nor with the bombing war. He came over as obstinate, arrogant, ambitious, unwilling to compromise, and coldly blunt in his dealings, and as believing that everything must go as he wanted. He was a difficult man to get along with,400 and most certainly not a good choice for an Allied command. It was not solely on personal grounds, though, that he was constantly on a collision course with Spaatz, the C-in-C of the American strategic bomber forces; his position and activities were further burdened by the fact that he had still not been given any precise instructions, but merely general guidelines, since the force he commanded was still being formed and would not be wanted before May 1944. The long-lasting lack of clarity as to the overall command of the invasion forces, together with a lack of co- ordination between the British and Americans, formed the main reason for this state of uncert