iew that the Luftwaffe's task now, after its offensive phase, was to switch it efforts to defence in the west and put a stop to the Allied air raids on the Reich It was not only the life of the people in its cities that had to be protected and preserved, but the potential of its war industry as well. He voiced the hope that, under the protection of the forces concentrating on air defence the Luftwaffe would soon recover the strength to attack once more; then counterblow at the enemy could be prepared. All those according to Galland, unanimous as never before in their determination to e present were, 1, a everything possible for the defence of the Reich and to prevent another such catastrophe-even the generals of the bomber and fighter arms whose differing do tasks so often set them at loggerheads.476 Göring, swept up in the mood of the meeting, rushed to Hitler's bunker in the nearby FHQ to report on it and get authority for the planned measures. It seems he came back a broken man. In vehement argument Hitler had turned the Luftwaffe's proposals down, Göring told his officers. The Luftwaffe had, the Führer said, failed totally, and was to exonerate itself by resuming attacks on England, and on a larger scale. Terror could be smashed only with counter-terror. This was the only way the Führen had dealt with his political enemies. The Führer, Göring said, was right. 47 According to Speer, Hitler seems not to have taken the air battle over Germany all that seriously, because production was constantly rising in spite of it. 478 He had, on 7 July 1943, been shown film of the first successful launch of a V-2 on 3 October 1942; for the first time he had been impressed by the development of the rocket, and from then on had faith in its success. 479 What was more, the Luftwaffe leaders seemed, after the first successes of the new 'Wild/Tame Boar' and pursuit night-fighter tactics and the successes beating off the American day bombers over Schweinfurt and Regensburg once again