ct to the necessity of sticking to military targets. . . . If the time ever comes when we want to attack the civilian populace with a view to breaking civil morale, such a plan as theone suggested is probably the way to do it. I personally, however,have become completely convinced that you and Bob Lovett areright and we should never allow the history of this war to convictus of throwing the strategic bomber at the man in the street. I think there is a better way we can do our share toward the defeat of the enemy, but if we are to attack the civil population I amcertain we should wait until its morale is much nearer [the] 51Message, Doolittle to Spaatz, 1 Feb. 1945; Box 23, Spaatz Papers. Spaatz had his response to Doolittle typed at the bottom of the message.416 Mark Clodfelter  File: --- clodfelter_will.pdf --- Page 18 --- breaking point and until the weather favors the operation more than it will at any time in the winter or early spring.52 Despite Eaker’s concerns, Operation ‘Clarion’ transpired in late February. On the 22nd, over 2,000 USSTAF bombers, with heavyﬁghter escort, roamed over Germany bombing and straﬁng railroad stations, marshaling yards, and bridges. The RAF supported the effort with intense attacks on lines of communication in the Ruhr. Thepattern was repeated the next day, and produced a temporary halt torail trafﬁc throughout much of the Reich. Yet it did not signiﬁcantlyaffect the morale of the populace. The bland statement appearing inthe Army Air Forces’ ofﬁcial history, ‘Nothing in particular happenedafter the German people beheld Allied warplanes striking townswhich usually escaped bombings’, made a ﬁtting epitaph for the operation. 53 In the ﬁnal analysis, the ofﬁcial history’s assessment of ‘Clarion’ aptly summarizes the American effort to destroy Germany’s will toﬁght. The precision attacks against industry and transportation failedto disrupt the ‘normal, day-to-day lives’ of the German people to such adegree that they stopped supporting