an end to the conﬂict. Gorrell called for 100 bomber squadrons to start the campaign by simultaneously attacking 9Clausewitz, On War , 89. 10USAF Col. John Warden, whose bombing notions provided substantial impetus for the Desert Storm air campaign in 1991, spurred the Air Force’s emphasis on ‘leadership targeting’. 11Tami Davis Biddle, Rhetoric and Reality: The Evolution of British and American Ideas about Strategic Bombing, 1914–1945 (Princeton UP 2002), 54. Biddle notes that Gorell adopted the British Sept. 1917 plan devised by Royal Naval Air Service MajorLord Tiverton ‘virtually verbatim’ as the body of the paper, and attached to it his own introduction and conclusion. See also George K. Williams, ‘‘‘The Shank of the Drill’’: Americans and Strategical Aviation in the Great War’, Journal of Strategic Studies 19/3 (Sept. 1996), 381–431.404 Mark Clodfelter  File: --- clodfelter_will.pdf --- Page 6 --- armament works in Mannheim and Ludwigshafen for ﬁve continuous hours. ‘If immediately afterwards, on the next possible day, Frankfurtwere attacked in a similar way, judging from the press reports of whathas already occurred in Germany’, he contended, ‘it is quite possiblethat Cologne would create such trouble that the German governmentmight be forced to suggest terms if that town were so attacked.’ 12 To Gorrell, a nation’s will to ﬁght equated to the population’s willingness to support the war effort. A mass revolution that threatenedto dislodge the enemy government, and that forced that government tomake peace to stay in power, would indicate that bombs had brokenenemy morale. Those same bombs would also attack the enemy’s war-making capability. Gorrell viewed wrecking the enemy’s capability andwill to ﬁght as complementary goals, and he aimed for his offensive todestroy both objectives. ‘From both the morale point of view and also that of material damage, concentration of our aerial forces against single targets on the same day is of vital importance since it tend