cts may appear as ultimatums that offer no recourse toﬁghting – or as tepid objectives that have no teeth – and either perception is likely to diminish the impact of bombs on morale. Moreover, the greatly enhanced accuracy provided by truly smart bombs has takenaway the fear factor that Gorrell and Mitchell believed would induce apopulace to rise against a government that could not protect it from airattack. Although the continued reﬁnement of precision-guided munitionsmakes it less likely that air strikes will kill civilians or crack their morale,today’s accuracy signiﬁcantly improves the prospects that airpower canbreak the will of troops in the ﬁeld. The desertion of almost 100,000 Iraqi soldiers after 38 days of continual pounding from the air during the First Persian Gulf War provides just one example of the impact that‘modern’ bombing can have on the psyche of front-line troops. 105 Nonetheless, since the air war against Germany, US Air Force doctrine has continued to stress airpower’s perceived ability to wreckenemy will, and it has equated will to civilian morale or the fortitude ofgovernment leaders. Part of the problem is that many American airmenhave viewed subsequent examples of seemingly successful strategic 104Perret, Winged Victory , 199–201; Christopher F. Shores, Pictorial History of the Mediterranean Air War , Vol. II: RAF 1943–45 (London: Ian Allan 1973), 14. The island surrendered on 11 June 1943. 105Gulf War Air Power Survey Summary Report (Washington, DC: US Government Printing Ofﬁce 1993), 93–4.428 Mark Clodfelter  File: --- clodfelter_will.pdf --- Page 30 --- bombing, particularly those in which airpower was the main element of military force used prior to the conﬂict’s termination, as vindication forthe notions that had germinated before World War II and solidiﬁedduring the bombing of Germany. Part of the problem is also thereluctance of many airmen to forsake the independent mission ofstrategic bombing, viewed as their raison d’e ˆtre, to a