isrupting both Germany’s capability and will to resist, and that the effort expended bythe USSTAF (and RAF Bomber Command) could have been betteremployed against German troops in the ﬁeld. 85Pape contends that a loss of an enemy’s war-making capability is central to affecting the willof its leaders, for it denies them the capability to accomplish their goalsand hence causes them to eschew aggressive behavior. For him, the keyto that denial is to use airpower against ﬁelded forces to guarantee the destruction of their capability to ﬁght, rather than counting on such an outcome resulting from attacks on factories, resources, or transporta-tion lines. While Pape’s focus on front-line forces aims to wreck theircapability, such an emphasis may also seriously degrade their will. The use of airpower against German troops provides notable examples in which bombing diminished their desire to continueﬁghting. In Operation ‘Cobra’ on 25 July 1944, 1,495 American heavybombers, 380 medium bombers, and 559 ﬁghter-bombers blasted German positions in Normandy near Saint-Lo. 86The attacks continued almost constantly for more than three hours. The pummeling stunnedthe defenders in the German Panzer Lehr Division, the target ofthe barrage, and severed their communication lines. Major GeneralFritz Bayerlein, the division commander, noted that ‘the shock effecton the troops was indescribable. Several men went mad, andrushed dementedly around in the open until they were cut down bysplinters.’ 87He added: ‘The long duration of the bombing, without any possibility for opposition, created depressions and a feeling of helplessness, weakness and inferiority. Therefore the morale attitudeof a great number of men grew so bad that they, feeling the uselessnessof ﬁghting, surrendered, deserted to the enemy, or escaped to therear.’ 88Bayerlein described the bombed area as ‘a lunar landscape’ and estimated that at least 70 percent of his personnel ‘were temporarily out 85Pape, Bombing to Win , 254–