tergroups blasted the German positions ahead of a massive thrust byAmerican tanks. Bayerlein’s division responded with an undisciplinedretreat, typiﬁed by three tank crews who jumped out of their vehicles andwaved a white ﬂag to passing P-47 Thunderbolt ﬁghter-bombersoverhead. 92The American advance that had previously been measured in yards continued for ﬁve miles on 26 July, and another ﬁve the next day. Bayerlein had reported on the night of the 25th that airpower had‘annihilated’ his division; on the 27th a group of Sherman tanks capturedhis headquarters. By 31 July, the American 4th Armored Division Commander, Major General Raymond Barton, issued an order for his unit to continue anunabated advance across the French countryside: ‘The Division isencountering only scattered resistance, some small-arms ﬁre, but few defended positions. We face a defeated enemy, an enemy terribly low in morale, terribly confused. I want you to throw all caution to thewind. . . . Get on .’ 93 A similar use of airpower following the invasion of southern France wrecked the morale of much of the German Nineteenth Army. That 89Quoted in Hughes, Quesada , 213. See also Craven and Cate, Army Air Forces in World War II , Vol. III, 236. Field Marshal Gerd von Rundstedt, the German commander in the West, called Operation ‘Cobra’ ‘the most effective, as well as the most impressive, tactical use of air power in his experience’. 90Hughes, Quesada , 214–15. 91Quoted in ibid. 92Ibid., 220. See also Craven and Cate, Army Air Forces in World War II , Vol. III, 235. 93Quoted in Hughes, Quesada , 223.America’s World War II Bombing of German Morale 425  File: --- clodfelter_will.pdf --- Page 27 --- army was in full retreat in the Rhone Valley, with its troops and vehicles comprising 30 solid miles of trafﬁc, when P-47 Thunderboltpilots spotted it snaking north. For two days in late August 1944 themedium bombers and ﬁghters of Brigadier Gordon Saville’s XIITactical Air Command mauled the German formatio