.America’s World War II Bombing of German Morale 405  File: --- clodfelter_will.pdf --- Page 7 --- will attack centers of production of all kinds, means of transportation, agricultural areas, ports and shipping; not so much the peoplethemselves. They will destroy the means of making war.’17These attacks would also wreck the enemy’s will to ﬁght by driving civiliansaway from cities so that they could not work, creating a ‘wild anddisorderly exodus’ in which the populace could be neither fed nor housed. ‘There is only one alternative and that is surrender’, Mitchell elaborated in 1930, but to him capitulation would stem fromhopelessness rather than rebellion. 18 The conviction that a nation’s ‘will to ﬁght’ matched the desire of its populace to support the war effort was shared not only by Gorrell andMitchell, but also by the instructors at Maxwell Field’s Air CorpsTactical School, Montgomery, Alabama. Those instructors furtherbelieved that national morale was vulnerable to bombing. At the school, which provided an intense, year-long, airpower-focused curriculum to many of the future air commanders of World War II,instructors reﬁned the notions of Gorrell and Mitchell. Majors DonaldWilson, Harold Lee George, and Muir S. Fairchild debated the meritsof attacking civilian morale, and ultimately developed an approach thatwould guide not only American air offensives in World War II, but alsothose in the limited wars that followed. The Tactical School instructors acknowledged that direct attacks on civilian populations were ‘one recognized method’ of attacking an enemy state. ‘There is, however, considerable question that this methodof attack is the best and most efﬁcient method’, Major Fairchildasserted in a 1938 lecture on ‘National Economic Structures’: Obviously we cannot and do not intend, to actually kill or injure allthe people. Therefore our intention in deciding upon this method of attack must be to so reduce the morale of the enemy civilian population through fear