condition of Japanese troops in Manchuriaopposing the Soviet advance, factors that – along with the lack of resources, the relentless thrust of America’s island-hopping campaign, devastation of cities, and shock of the atomic bombs – likely combinedto produce Japanese capitulation. For most American airmen, though,airpower made the decisive difference in breaking Japanese will. Theexample of Japan served as proof that the effort against Germany hadbeen worthwhile and the principles that guided it were correct. TheJapanese example further provided signiﬁcant impetus to fulﬁll theairmen’s dream of service independence, a goal achieved in September 1947. After gaining autonomy, the airmen hearkened to the teachings of the Air Corps Tactical School when they ﬁrst committed their doctrineto paper during the early years of the Dwight Eisenhower administra-tion. Most considered the recently concluded Korean War, with itspolitical constraints on bombing, as an anomaly that would vanish inthe era of ‘massive retaliation’. Yet they also believed that airpower wasthe answer to winning anyconﬂict that appeared on the horizon. ‘Of the various types of military forces, those which conduct air operations are most capable of decisive results’, proclaimed the AirForce’s Basic Doctrine Manual in April 1955. ‘They provide the dominant military means of exercising the initiative and gaining 109See Message, War Dept. to CG US Army Strategic Air Forces, Guam to War Dept., 8 Aug. 1945, eyes only for Spaatz from Marshall; and Message, Headquarters, US ArmyStrategic Air Forces, Guam to War Dept, 9 Aug. 1945, eyes only for Gen. Marshall; both contained in Folder: War Dept. Special Staff Public Relations Division Gen Records, Top-Secret Correspondence, 1944–46, File II: 1945; Records of the WarDept. Gen and Special Staffs, Box 3; RG 165, National Archives. 110USSBS, Summary Report (Paciﬁc War) , 1 July 1946, 107, in The United States Strategic Bombing Surveys (European War) (Paciﬁc War) repr.