ernment leaders, and the armed forces. Those compo-nents, which correspond to the elements most affected by Clausewitz’strinity of passion, chance, and reason, 9provide the fundamental ingredients of any enemy’s ‘will to resist’. Yet the key to wrecking enemy morale with bombs is not necessarily an equally divided attackon its various parts, nor do the components that have received the mostattention from American airpower strategists – the will of the populace,and the will of government leaders 10– necessarily correspond to a dominant element among the three. The air campaign against Germanydemonstrated that the resilience of the individual components likelydepends on multiple factors, to include the strength of the bonds that connect them and the war aims pursued by all belligerents. It further showed that, in a conventional conﬂict like the one against Hitler’sReich, the individual element that may be most susceptible to breakingfrom air attack is the will of the armed forces. The genesis of the initial American attempt to wreck morale with bombs occurred during World War I. In November 1917, LieutenantColonel Edgar Staley Gorrell, the 26-year-old director of the US AirService’s Technical Section, borrowed extensively from a proposed British air offensive against the German homeland to produce America’s ﬁrst campaign plan for an air attack against an enemynation. 11Gorrell’s plan identiﬁed four target groups, the industries surrounding Du ¨ sseldorf, Cologne, Mannheim, and the Saar, as the vital components of the German war effort. Destroying those industries andtheir transportation links would, he believed, wreck Germany’scapacity to continue the war. He was also convinced that aconcentrated air assault against those targets would cause the German populace to demand an end to the conﬂict. Gorrell called for 100 bomber squadrons to start the campaign by simultaneously attacking 9Clausewitz, On War , 89. 10USAF Col. John Warden, whose bombing notions provided subst