trument against anenemy nation: its ability to threaten the enemy state’s survival.Unconditional surrender guaranteed that Nazi Germany would not survive if it lost the war; both its government and its way of life woulddisappear regardless of any action it took. Thus, airpower could provide no incentive to yield – or to revolt – because the leadership change that Allied air commanders sought to foster was already assured. Using bombs to affect two major components of an enemy state’s will to ﬁght, the morale of its people and its leaders, makes a differenceonly if the impact translates into a desired change in the enemy nation’sbehavior . Given the enormous difﬁculty of changing enemy behavior by aiming an air offensive at either of those components, perhaps theanswer lies elsewhere. American air planners on the eve of World WarII stressed the destruction of Germany’s war-making capability as a means to destroy the nation’s will to resist, and the targets they recommended were all designed to wreck war-making capacity at its 83Max Hastings, ‘What if They had Killed Hitler?’ Daily Mail , 8 Sept. 2007. 84Bullock, Hitler , 231–2; Steinhoff et al.,Voices from the Third Reich , 395; Spielvogel, Hitler and Nazi Germany , 253.America’s World War II Bombing of German Morale 423  File: --- clodfelter_will.pdf --- Page 25 --- source. For the men who designed AWPD-1, the ‘source’ of Hitler’s war machine was his industry, transportation, and natural resources, whichwere also deemed the key elements of the German public’s ability tosustain normal life. Yet the element of German military might mostsusceptible to cracking under a rain of bombs may well have been itscutting edge. University of Chicago Professor Robert A. Pape has argued that strategic bombing played a minimal role in disrupting both Germany’s capability and will to resist, and that the effort expended bythe USSTAF (and RAF Bomber Command) could have been betteremployed against German troops in the ﬁeld. 85Pape cont