ar II and solidiﬁedduring the bombing of Germany. Part of the problem is also thereluctance of many airmen to forsake the independent mission ofstrategic bombing, viewed as their raison d’e ˆtre, to achieve auxiliary objectives that support surface forces. The 1944–45 bombing of Japan, which intensiﬁed signiﬁcantly one month after the Combined Bomber Offensive raids against Dresden,seemed to provide air commanders with proof for their conviction thatbombs could wreck an enemy’s will to resist. Yet by the time that MajorGeneral Curtis E. LeMay’s XXI Bomber Command began to torchJapan’s largely wooden cities, the destruction of the Japanese merchantﬂeet had eliminated much of the oil and other resources vital to the country’s ability to ﬁght. In addition, the array of ‘cottage’ industries peppering Japan’s urban areas, the inability to bomb accurately throughhigh-altitude jet stream winds, and the twin motivations of revenge andracism combined to produce an air campaign that targeted enemy willmuch more directly than the USSTAF’s effort against Germany; the twoatomic bombs demonstrated how completely the focus had become tobreak Japan’s will to ﬁght. 106 Still, following massive B-29 Superfortress ﬁre raids against Tokyo, Nagoya, and Osaka in March 1945, General Arnold directed LeMay to ‘continue hard hitting your present line that this destruction isnecessary to eliminate Jap home industries and that it is strategicprecision bombing’. 107Arnold further told LeMay to ‘guard against anyone stating this is area bombing’ despite efforts to createconﬂagrations in the most densely populated districts of major cities.108 106For analysis of the air campaign against Japan, see Sherry, Rise of American Air Power ; E. Bartlett Kerr, Flames over Tokyo: The US Army Air Force’s Incendiary Campaign against Japan 1944–1945 (New York: Donald I. Fine 1991); Kenneth P. Werrell, Blankets of Fire: US Bombers over Japan during World War II (Washington DC: Smithsonian Institution Press 199