oy both objectives. ‘From both the morale point of view and also that of material damage, concentration of our aerial forces against single targets on the same day is of vital importance since it tends tohamper the defense and also to complete in a thorough manner thework which the bombardment is intended to perform’, he observed. 13 He concluded that the German attempts to crack British morale bybombing London indicated that German will was susceptible tocollapse by aerial assault. The American ofﬁcer based this assertionon his analysis of German newspaper articles. 14 Aircraft production delays prevented the implementation of Gorrell’s plan, but the young planner was not alone in believing that aconcentrated air offensive against Germany could have achievedvictory. ‘I was sure that if the war lasted, airpower would decide it’,Brigadier General William ‘Billy’ Mitchell stated after the armistice. 15 Had the war continued into 1919, Mitchell planned an aerial assaultagainst the interior of Germany that would have combined incendiaryattacks with poison gas to destroy crops, forests, and livestock. He mused that such an air offensive ‘would have caused untold sufferings’ and forced a German surrender. 16Like Gorrell, Mitchell believed that an enemy’s will to ﬁght equaled popular support for the war effort, andMitchell thought that bombs could destroy morale effectively withoutdirectly targeting the civilian populace. He wrote in 1925: ‘Air forces 12‘Gorrell: Strategical Bombardment, 28 November 1917’, in Maurer Maurer (ed.), The US Air Service in World War I , 4 vols. (Washington DC: US Government Printing Ofﬁce 1979), II: 150. 13Ibid. 14Ibid. 15Quoted in Isaac D. Levine, Mitchell: Pioneer of Air Power (New York: Duell, Sloan, and Pearce 1943), 148. 16Quoted in ibid., 147.America’s World War II Bombing of German Morale 405  File: --- clodfelter_will.pdf --- Page 7 --- will attack centers of production of all kinds, means of transportation, agricultural areas, ports an