paatz Papers.412 Mark Clodfelter  File: --- clodfelter_will.pdf --- Page 14 --- operation against Berlin, but in so doing will select targets for attack of military importance.’38 Major General Laurence Kuter, one of AWPD-1’s designers who now served as Arnold’s assistant chief for plans and combat operations,also critiqued ‘Thunderclap’. Kuter thought that the impetus for theBritish proposal might have stemmed from their desire to retaliate for the recent buzz (V1 ﬂying) bomb attacks against England. He noted that area bombing had caused little absenteeism and only apathy anddiscouragement among the German workers, which were doubtfulqualities to spark a revolt. Although Kuter realized that the intent of‘Thunderclap’ was to break the will of the German leaders, he alsoobserved that civilians would bear the brunt of the attacks. ‘Thebombing of civilian targets in Germany cannot be expected to havesimilar effects to those which might be expected in a democratic country where the people are still able to inﬂuence the national will’, he asserted. Kuter reiterated that American target policy hinged onattacking military objectives and German production centers, and thatit was ‘contrary to our national ideals to wage war against civilians’.Yet he conceded that a time might arrive when attacks ‘against otherthan objectives immediately related to the battle’ might tip the balance.Thus, although strongly opposed to the British proposal, he recom-mended preparing a plan for it. 39 After examining the arguments, General Arnold directed USSTAF to develop a plan for including British and American air forces in an ‘all-out, widespread attack’ against Germany that would last roughly aweek. Its purpose would not be to obliterate cities or towns, nor wouldBerlin be the sole target. Rather, the assault would strike ‘militaryobjectives of numerous types . . . to give every citizen an opportunity tosee positive proof of Allied airpower’. Arnold stated that such anoperation could be ‘de