. ‘Theconclusion is reached that German industry can be paralyzed by thedestruction of not more than ﬁve or six industries, comprising not morethan 50 or 60 targets’, General Arnold wrote to presidential specialadvisor Harry Hopkins in late March 1943. 31Arnold believed that such paralysis would have a deﬁnite impact on the willingness of the German people to continue the war, and might result in the overthrowof Hitler. After learning that an October 1943 attack on Germantransportation facilities had disrupted evacuee travel and caused hatredof Hitler and the Nazis to reach ‘serious proportions’, Arnold informedArmy Chief of Staff General George Marshall that continued airassaults could lead to ‘the Germans giving up Hitler and the Nazileaders’. 32 Major General Eaker, the Eighth Air Force Commander, concurred, remarking that intense German opposition against radar attacksindicated that the enemy feared their results. ‘The destruction of hiscities gives him the greatest concern’, Eaker surmised. ‘Attacking themwhen they are under solid cloud cover undoubtedly lowers the moraleof the people dangerously from his point of view.’ 33But the failure of the Germans to stop ﬁghting, even after the bomber offensiveachieved daylight air superiority and the Anglo-American and Soviet armies began relentlessly advancing towards the German frontier, caused air leaders to consider alternatives for bringing the war to aclose. On 5 July 1944, the Anglo-American Combined Chiefs of Staff agreed that a time might come when an all-out attack against Germanmorale would prove decisive. Less than one month later, Air ChiefMarshal Sir Charles Portal, Chief of the British Air Staff, produced aproposal for such a catastrophic blow from the air. For over two years the Royal Air Force (RAF) had engaged in a direct attack against the morale of the German workers, achieving its most notable ‘success’against Hamburg in late July/early August 1943 when a ten-day-longseries of raids produced a ﬁrest