pt. Gen and Special Staffs, Box 3; RG 165, National Archives. 110USSBS, Summary Report (Paciﬁc War) , 1 July 1946, 107, in The United States Strategic Bombing Surveys (European War) (Paciﬁc War) repr. Air UP, Maxwell Air Force Base, ALA, Oct. 1987.430 Mark Clodfelter  File: --- clodfelter_will.pdf --- Page 32 --- decisions in all forms of international relations, including full peace, cold war, limited wars of all types, and total war.’111 For the Air Force, strategic bombing would produce future war’s ‘decisive results’. The service’s 1954 manual on Strategic Air Operations deﬁned them as attacks ‘designed to disrupt an enemy nation to the extent that its will and capability to resist are broken’.112Those operations would be autonomous, ‘conducted directly against the nation itself’, rather than auxiliary operations supporting friendly land andsea forces against an enemy’s deployed armies or navies.113The manual observed that wrecking a nation’s war-making capacity would ‘neu-tralize’ its surface forces. It further concluded: ‘Somewhere within thestructure of the hostile nation exist sensitive elements, the destruction orneutralization of which will best create the breakdown and loss of will ofthat nation to further resist.’ 114 The essence of Air Force doctrine has changed little in the half- century since its ﬁrst publication. During that span, examples ofAmerican bombing apparently breaking enemy will, such as the‘Linebacker II’ air campaign against North Vietnam in December1972 and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) ‘AlliedForce’ air offensive against Serbia in spring 1999, have reinforced thedoctrinal conviction that the independent application of airpower canproduce decisive success in war. Other factors that may affect the decision of enemy leaders to comply with American aims have received short shrift, especially those that deﬁne troop morale as a component ofenemy morale. In the case of Vietnam, the desperate plight of NorthVietnamese Army sold