point. The shift was always in one direction, towards the point from which the bombers approached the target. ‘After considerable trouble, the reason for this shift was discovered. As the bombers approached the group of target indicators the bomb-aimers naturally saw these in perspective, and it is very easy to make a mistake in finding the centre of a surface seen in perspective. The reason for this can be most easily shown in a diagram. The natural tendency is to put the centre too near to the point from which one is looking at it. The result was that a large proportion of the backers-up as well as of the main force persistently undershot the aiming point, and this explains why the whole attack gradually shifted in the direction from which the bombers approached. We made an attempt to put this right by directing the backers-up to aim at the far side of the concen- tration of all the markers that could be seen, but there still remained a tendency for the attack to creep back from the aiming point; the tendency was not cured until a year later, when  173  hopelessly control of ‘ly in 1943 tis weapon lar-sighted ad already e required, yver which as ever an we needed it was just the use of ecided that g the same -they were c the first Hamburg, ins of the Like other ify by H2s, n the H2S as in every  se describes tack caused r 24 hours  any houses ». Essential es were cut ations were a gigantic, sity which, venetrating force, big ind again.”  cied out by Command tyond what » when the  172 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  attacks became so concentrated in time that there was no need for backers-up and all the bombs could be aimed at the first markers dropped by the H2S marking force.  The Battle of the Ruhr was drawing to its close in July of 1943, the nights were getting longer, and we had to be ready to carry the offensive deeper into Germany. This, of course, would normally mean heavier casualties than in attacks on north-west Germany and the Battle of the Ruhr had not been won wit