was an excellent one, and proved to be so throughout the war. Owing to the weather and other factors there was seldom more than a day’s notice for laying on any ordinary operation and it would have been impossible for the Command to give all the necessarily detailed orders directly to its stations. The Command issued the orders to the Group Headquarters giving the target and the general plan for co-ordinating the whole attack, and the Groups themselves issued detailed orders to the units. So much was this decentralisation necessary that towards the end of the war it was found that even the Groups themselves had too much to handle;  B.O. 33 Cc  I HAVE in the course of my lifetime rarely been so depressed  32 BOMBER OFFENSIVE ue a  no air force capable of really heavy attack, the Germay wipdlcastiionaninn opportunity to defeat us by sinking our ships in tl ang wag campaign. This would have had the same effect as ¢ ‘ui liiy:mbenblane the country’s industries, just as air attack on Gerr itligmsftdsrtalebin! munications eventually had an effect similar to the actu: | ban tion of enemy industries. The submarine was thei predominant weapon of the war of 1914-1918 and if the had had any strategic insight they would have used i Before that, and for a very long period, the battleship the predominant weapon and British sea power had des war potential even of continental countries by blockad iatunu 1914-1918 the submarine had ousted the battleship fror_ Innit authority. By the same token, in 1939 the bomber wa biti dnt weapon and the submarine was already getting out-of-¢  sltomyipiuidtalhitp long the authority of the bomber would last I could nc ti for the time being it seemed secure, and it was all we b st ‘!igam light of probable developments, that was suited to ow ‘ulin and to circumstances. Even before the war we heard oz ythy attempts to develop yet newer weapons, but it is just a not to use the unready weapons of the next war as it use the outclassed weapons of the last.