at Richings Park at Langley, near Iver. The site near High Wycombe was chosen because the country thereabouts was thickly wooded, and the headquarters themselves were right among beech trees and almost impossible to spot from the air. About a quarter of a mile from the headquarters buildings the officers’ mess, married quarters and other buildings had been laid out to look like a housing estate. Although the Germans knew perfectly well where the site was, we were never molested by the enemy. One incendiary bomb was dropped, of course entirely by accident, on the W.A.A.F. quarters; we also had some flying bombs in the country not far away, but these were overshoots from London. We also had some parachutist scares and some definite informa- tion of a plan to make away with me when our attacks were at their height. The Commander-in-Chief’s house, Springfield, was about five miles from the Command headquarters; I drove to my office at nine in the morning, but there was, of course, a direct line from my house to the Operations room and I was in constant touch during the night. I lived at Springfield, a pleasant old- fashioned house, with my wife and daughter, and before long Saundby had his quarters there, as well as my P.A.—personal assistant, the equivalent of an A.D.C. in the army—and Harry Weldon when he became my personal staff officer. We had  over five thousand visitors at Springfield for a meal or more during those years, so that it was always a busy house. 70  BOMBER COMMAND 1  Air Vice-Marshal R. H, M, $. Saundby, now Air Marshal Sir Robert Saundby, was then Command §.A.$.0.—senior air staff officer—and had had that job since November, 1940. My first contact with him had been in 1922, in Trak, when he was one of my Flight Commanders in No, 45 Squadron, though we had both been in the same job during the 1914-1918 war, flying night fighters for the defence of London, I knew him to be an out- standing man in Irak, and since then he had done first-class work, He ha