re to stop operating until we got further operational orders from headquarters, on which I said I would take my machines back to Peshawar, get them under cover, and nurse them there until we were wanted again at Miranshah. Whereupon the General went off the deep end and made some unpleasant and entirely uncalled for remarks to the effect that airmen could never do anything unless they were coddled to the point of living in the lap of luxury. Unfortunately for him, he added: “I suppose you must get back to your spare parts before you can do any more.” I replied: “Yes, it was high time we got back to our ball of string” —and that was about all the Army and the Indian Government had ever supplied for our use. The General departed and reported me to Air Force headquarters, who must have agreed with me, for nothing more came of it.  I am sure that it was because of my personal knowledge of the disgraceful technical conditions of the R.A.F. in India under the Army that I was hurriedly posted to Irak. The posting coin- cided with Sir John Salmond’s arrival in India to inquire into our shortage of spares and equipment, a state of affairs not lightly  FACING THE WAR 2I  to be forgotten or forgiven, but I stayed on long enough to help put him wise.  Even if we had been able to make our aircraft airworthy, we should not have been able, while we were under the control of the Army, to use air power in an intelligent fashion. Bombing, our main task, was usually made part of combined operations, and the army’s idea was much the same as in the 1914-1918 war, to control the frontier with troops, supported by long and vulnerable lines of communication. The convoys were frequently given air escorts; we were seldom given any chance to operate independently, though on occasion we were allowed to reduce a tribe to submission by independent action to the point where the Army could walk in at the last moment and take the credit and the K.C.B. Although this was up to a point a necessarily p