and in weather too bad for any successful bombing attack they were rushed through the Channel and taken back to Kiel. Naturally enough the Germans waited for just such weather. But mines laid by Bomber Com- mand ahead of them damaged both the Scharnhorst and the Gneisenau on their way back. I was therefore lucky enough to take over the Command when it had just been relieved of an incubus which had exasperated everyone for a long period. One  IN THE AIR MINISTRY AND U.S.A. 69  of my first attacks was on the Gneisenau at Kiel. We hit her hard and she was subsequently towed to Gdynia and dismantled.  In March, 1941, Blenheims of No. 2 Group began a campaign of low-level bombing against enemy coastal shipping, which could not be attacked by the Navy without risking prohibitive losses from attack by shore-based enemy aircraft. These attacks were hazardous in the extreme; the enemy’s anti-aircraft fire was deadly and our losses were very heavy. The gallantry of the Blenheim crews was beyond praise and their determination never wavered though I know that many of the men felt that they were being sent to certain death. It proved extremely difficult to estimate the exact degree of success in many of these attacks, because of the very low height from which they were carried out; oblique photographs of the target were taken at the moment of attack and as the aircraft left for home but these could seldom be interpreted with any degree of certainty. It was believed that about 70 ships were sunk in a period of about six months.  Minelaying was continued by Hampdens of No. 5 Group and continued to be a most effective weapon against the enemy’s shipping.  68  hand, always how much tk apparent in pl clear and unbi Though ou been very smal greatly reduce: arrived in Bre: to Brest after sank 22 ships. ' they could easi ing to the ph hostile fleet, t force which m In Brest tk shallow water and were dam serious enoug] difficult to det lot of convinci also arrived ir made a brief ¢ Brest