aids, then the attack on Sylt, then the fact that an ex- aggerated importance had been attributed to our early attacks on Germany in order to cheer up London and other cities under the blitz, while now, towards the end of 1941, the bombing of Ger- many assumed great political importance as a means of persuading the Russians that we were doing all we could to come to their help.  I do not, of course, suggest that bombing is not a useful weapon against morale. On the contrary, the Germans them- selves used it as such with great effect in 1939 and 1940, though their attempts to break the morale of Britain by bombing alto- gether failed. And there is no doubt that the panic caused by Bomber Command’s attacks on industrial cities in North Italy, though the weight of the attack was insignificant compared with that of the offensive against Germany, did as much as any other single factor to bring about the downfall of Fascism in that country. But “morale” bombing was comparatively ineffective against so well organised a police state as Germany. The German leaders themselves admitted after the war that morale was bad after our attacks on their towns, but they distinguished between the morale and the conduct of the workers; conduct, they say, was not affected. In other words, there was nothing that unarmed Germans could do about it, with the Gestapo standing by, with obedience part of their very nature, and with the concentration camp round the corner.  A scheme for the precision bombing of key factories had been worked out before the war. As an abstract theory, in the void, it had its points; Germany had built up what seemed to be a highly artificial economy, using factories to produce raw materials synthetically at vast cost in labour in order to be self-sufficient. But the theory did not, of course, take into account the possibility of Germany overrunning Europe. Nor did it take into account the practical impossibility of hitting their factories, by day because of the Germ