and were therefore thoroughly unreliable. It is also the case that isolated examples of bomb damage, when seen from close at  66 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  then wrap it up and send it to me I would eat it and every in- cendiary bomb that fell on America in the war.  Here is a story the Americans teil against themselves. After Pearl Harbour a lot of anti-aircraft guns and dummy guns were mounted on roofs of buildings. It appears that the anti-aircraft guns at Los Angeles one night let off thousands of rounds of aramunition at an imaginary aircraft. The explosions took off a number of roofs in Hollywood, and Hollywood replied in kind, also firing at imaginary aircraft. Then they got a message from McArthur, who was in extremis on Bataan: “If you can hold out for 36 hours, I will reach you with reinforcements.”  The first effect of the entry of America into the war was rather to nullify the efforts which the R.A.F delegation had been making in Washington. The United States at once put a total embargo on the export of munitions to the allies, being driven to do so by the very serious position in which their own forces found themselves. For the time being the effect on the R.A.F. was serious and especially on the bomber forces, which it had been hoped to expand very soon by sending aircraft from America. We were sending large quantities of aircraft to Russia, the situa- tion in the Middle East required every possible aircraft that could be sent to give support to the army whose plans were based on American deliveries, and we had an entirely new and vast sphere of operations in the Far East. An economy campaign was at once begun in England, every effort being made to conserve aircraft by cutting down the accident rate. The position was rather complicated by the fact that the American embargo had at all costs to be kept secret from the enemy, and so it was impossible to let flying personnel know exactly why they were required to be more careful than ever before not to waste a singl