rrive at a given time and each of them was to drop a single flare over the aiming point. Then they had to orbit the aiming point, make a second run up to it, and after the crews had made every effort to identify the aiming point visually, drop a second flare. These flares had a double purpose; they were to attract the main force, the aircraft which were without Gee, to the target area, and, when this had been done, they were to make if possible to identify the target itself visually by their light. Each of the Gee-equipped aircraft was, in all, to drop six flares, orbitting the target six times, six times running up to it, and so giving the bomb-aimer six chances of identifying the target by sight. This would keep the aiming point lit up fortwenty minutes,  92 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  beams of this kind were transmitted from various points on the east and south coasts of Britian at the same time as Gee was introduced; they were, in any case, useful for homing aircraft. After the enemy had begun jamming Gee the Command would have to use one of the other radar aids to navigation which were in course of development some time before the operational use of Gee; in point of fact there was a long gap, which might have been very serious, between the jamming of Gee and the introduc- tion of the later radar aids.  Another limitation of Gee was that it would only work efficiently within a range of 350-400 miles. This limitation was considered so serious that there was at first considerable reluctance on this account alone, to equip the force with Gee. But a range of 350 miles meant that Gee fixes could be got in the Ruhr area, and, by using Gee up to the limit of its range aircraft, could be flown to more distant targets with greater accuracy than before.  But the real question was, not whether Gee would or would not be very useful to a bomber force, but just how accurate it was. Was it, in fact an aid to navigation, enabling the navigator to get within a mile or two of the target bu