ming war at this time was a minor affair by comparison across t effect against our own defences. It would have been idiotic to with what was done later. This wholly new kind of warfare, detailed drop metallised paper over Germany in August of 1940, but in which had been begun by Bomber Command, was eventually to found i 1942 I was certain that the time had come to take such risks, develop to such a point that it becamea major factor in deceiving visual 1 which did not seem to be very serious, for the sake of the offensive. the enemy about our intentions and action by air, sea and land bombs, During the summer of 1942 1 continually pressed for the develop- on D-day. — cobs 5 . of dist ment and, where possible, immediate use of equipment and The IE TNORI EEE Dy OCRISCAOL je (thejsterps icf incendi measures to jam and interfere with the enemy’s radar and radio eel feet) ieee nebroyedtD be tie omostenporeant Bud as coul transmissions. But the authorities considered that we were still So neclonalltseWcapons used /apainstienemy radar, continued  stages ¢  132 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  worked in detail. In getting information about the enemy’s night fighter force we were, of course, continually hampered by the fact that their aircraft never operated over any except German occupied territory; it was most unlikely that we should ever take prisoner any night fighter crews or get hold of any of the equip- ment in the night fighter aircraft. There were, however, other methods. The Monitoring service kept a careful watch on all the enemy’s radar transmissions, which gave us much useful informa- tion. Air photographs showed us the position of the enemy’s radar apparatus and from its appearance it was possible to get some idea of its function and capacities. And on February 27th, 1942, parachute troops made a brilliant raid on Bruneval to cap- ture a small example of the apparatus, to which the Germans gave the code word “ Wurzburg,” used for plotting the bomber and the night fighter whic