ssful attacks on Liibeck and Rostock, taken togethe: I rang up Winston Churchill, who had just alighted fr nie Washington, and told him that the operation had been success \4)pjy Hs and that only 39 aircraft were missing, one less than my esti Wlgye-ny of 40. I always knew from the tone and quality of Churchi yj Voice, quite so much as from what he actually said, whether t no he was satisfied. I knew at once that he was satisfied th } At a time when there was no other conceivable offensive wea, we could use against the Germans, and when on every front theatre of war we were confined to purely defensive act!  rapkiar thd  ais  tha  rated  J 1ilbajayy @ hd  i ritsan  Churchill now knew that we had an immensely powerful Weay dyna y :  rin  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE IIs  1942 onwards, naturally had a marked and almost immediate effect on Bomber Command’s casualty rate, and if we had not been able to change and improve our own tactics either the expansion of the Command would have been stopped or a policy of conservation of effort would have been as necessary for us as it was for the German bomber force.  Some little time after the 1000 bomber attack on Cologne, there was some astonishment, and even a considerable amount of irritation, in certain quarters, when a report was published in the newspapers and by the B.B.C. that I had broadcast to Germany. The broadcast itself was printed and re-broadcast in translation; it threatened the Germans with dire pains and penalties to be inflicted upon them by the bombers, though in point of fact with far less than was actually meted out to them in the event. Much ink was spilled and there was considerable discussion for and against the broadcast in the newspapers. There was no little indignation expressed by certain people, and this found outlet in Parliament. In particular, I was, I recall, attacked by Lord Addison in the House of Lords. But however much surprise the broadcast caused elsewhere, it was as nothing to what I myself felt