acked with ordinary 1000 Ib. bombs the caves in which the Germans hid their flying bombs in France, on the machinery below. But in general a great deal of nonsense was talked about underground factories in the last year of the war; the fact was that not one per cent of one per cent of German industry had either got underground or could ever have been put underground, and even if more had been buried this would not have made it much more difficult to keep them out of action. For example, the vast concrete structures, for launching “secret” weapons, which were built by the enemy at Mimoyeques, Watten, and elsewhere in Northern France, were almost impregnable to bombs but were put out of action by the simple process of deny- ing access to them. This we did by ploughing up all the ground all round them with moderate-sized bombs. Because of all the craters even a goat would have found it difficult to get to the site, and trucks and railroads never had a hope.  From October, 1944, until the surrender of Germany our main commitment was the destruction of German industrial Cities, attacks on individual factories, and the bombing of the enemy’s communications, but we had to be always ready to support the armies in the field. As soon as the port of Antwerp was freed, the Allied armies began a limited advance to the Rhine, in preparation for the crossing of the river and deep penetration into Germany. Bomber Command was required to prepare for the advance in the Aachen Sector—Aachen surrendered on October 21st and gave the Allied armies their first sight of a German town destroyed by fire bombs—and we were called upon to destroy three fortified  THE FINAL PHASE By  he, ih, ve gel sd on toma  ail pat fnbeacy  tishy  elt he ips cu pelt oh  THE FINAL PHASE 255  sing of the Rhine by the 21st Army Group. d Wesel once again the Rhine was crossed and pied by a Commando force which sustained it had been expected that this would prove a m. In a message to me after the attack on : of Ma