ng, and there would have been no room for the huge tail that would have had to be given to this 2000-lb. bomb. A most ingenious device enabled the 4000-Ib. bomb to be aimed without the huge tail that it would have had to have if it had been designed on normal principles. A Wellington could just manage to carry one of these bombs, and half a dozen of them in one attack was considered a good effort. Eight thousand pound bombs, to be carried in Manchesters, were produced not long afterwards ; on the whole these were not worth as much as two four thousand pounders.  We also had the 4 lb. incendiary bomb, which proved through- out the war the best weapon for destroying large industrial areas. This had all the shortcomings that result from thoroughly bad ballistics; it was impossible to aim it accurately with the sights with which our aircraft were equipped, or for that matter with any known bombsight, but in spite of that it was extremely effective for its purpose.  In the early days of bombing our notion, like that of the  BOMBER COMMAND 83  Germans, was to spread an attack out over the whole night, thereby wearing down the morale of the civilian population. The result was, of course, that an efficient fire brigade could tackle a single load of incendiaries, put them out, and wait in comfort till the next came along; they might also be able to take shelter when a few high explosive bombs were dropping. There was, indeed, little else that our bomber force could do at the beginning of the war; aircraft each took their individual route, and the timing was necessarily vague. But it was observed that when the Germans did get an effective concentration, pro- bably more by luck than by cunning, then our fire brigades had a bad time; if a rain of incendiaries is mixed with high explosive bombs there is an irresistible temptation for the fireman to keep his head down. The Germans again and again missed their chance, as they did in the London blitz that I watched from the roof of