e placed under the control of Eisenhower for all operations related to the inva- sion of Europe and the defeat of the German air force was absolutely the only time during the whole of my command when I was able to proceed with a campaign without being harassed by confused and conflicting directives. It was in many ways a great  a  relief after two years of working under other directions. When I first took over Bomber Command in 1942 I found that the Air Ministry had lately increased their hold on the Bomber offensive to the point of controlling quite small details. But before long this control, and the responsibility that went with it was rs gressively shifting to the Chiefs of Staff Committee ‘and other committees including the War Cabinet itself. In consequence  THE INVASION OF EUROPE 215  many individuals thought that they enjoyed the privilege of running or trying to run a force without direct responsibility for the results which must, of course, remain with the Com- mander. Then the Combined Chiefs of Staff in Washington, where as far as the Americans went there were two against the use of air power for one who supported it, also interfered. When it was very properly decided that all air power necessary for the invasion should be placed at the disposal of Eisenhower, he, being a wise and immensely understanding man, promptly transferred control to an airman—Tedder. The Air Ministry, having by then interposed Leigh-Mallory, found that control of the strategic bomber forces, which had gone pretty well all round the world, was now, being in Tedder’s hands, very nearly back whence it had started. This encouraged them to make a further effort to get control again. They went about this by having the control transferred back again, as a preliminary measure, to the Combined Chiefs of Staff in Washington who at once relegated it to General of the Army Arnold and Marshal of the R.A.F. Lord Portal in combination. Portal was on the spot in England and Arnold was not and co