e best of all lives. I was, and I still am, a Rhodesian. I never wanted to leave Africa. I have always intended to return, and now at last I am back there,  In August, 1914, | was away in the bush, and I did not hear about the war until the end of the month. When I got back to  14 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  34 new squadrons “with as little delay as possible” to bring the Home Defence squadrons up to 52.  For some time we could not get across to the people who mattered the urgency of making preparations for war, but eventually Eden and Simon, in 1935, went to Germany and came back sufficiently staggered by what they had seen to cause them to ring all the bells. This started urgent discussions about increasing our forces at home. I was then head of the Air Ministry Planning Department, and as far as I recall the first I heard of the results of Eden’s and Simon’s visit was on a Saturday; 1 remember noticing with some amusement that by the following Monday, as I think it was, the tone of the Foreign Office had become distinctly more truculent, even slightly bellicose, pre- sumably on the strength of the new air forces we had been authorised to get on with on the preceding Saturday.  By then it was already far too late to avoid the desperate condition in which we found ourselves in 1939. Four years was certainly not long enough, with modern industrial processes what they are, to get the factories built and tooled up, to get aircraft into production, and to get an adequate scheme of training organised. About a dozen new schemes for rearmament, each scheme more ambitious than its predecessor, succeeded each other up till 1938, but in 1939 almost everything was still on paper.  As I saw it, the position on the outbreak of war was that our fighters—what there were of them—were up to the standard of any that the Germans had produced, and that some of our bombers—especially the Wellingtons and the “Heavies” which were just getting into production—were going to be good. But what we actu