acks during December, 1942, and January, 1943. The weather was usually bad, so that it was not easy to get good photographs by day to show whether the attacks had been successful. But from what evidence we could get, the Operational Research Station estimated that over enemy territory Oboe was likely to be accurate  GETTING THE WEAPONS 137  within 650 yards, with some possibility of a larger error on occasion. As 650 yards was scarcely more than the theoretical estimate of error, this was very promising indeed. Towards the end of January we were just about ready to use Oboe in full-scale operations against Germany when there occurred one of the most infuriating episodes in the whole course of the offensive. We were instructed, at the instigation of the Admiralty, to devastate the two French towns of Lorient and St. Nazaire. These ports on the Atlantic coast of France were the two main U-boat bases used in the Battle of the Atlantic; admittedly the German occupation of them constituted an extremely serious menace to our sea com- munications, so if bombing could have deprived the enemy of their use there would have been every reason to direct a good deal of our effort against them. But the Germans knew the facts as well as we did, and had taken due precautions. The U-boat shelters, the only worth-while targets in the two ports, were covered with many feet of reinforced concrete and were without question proof against any bomb we had at that time; when the bombs exploded on the roofs of these shelters they made no more than a slight indentation in the surface. The most we could hope to do was to cause universal devastation round the pens and in the town and in the process destroy a few outside machine shops and other worskshops of the kind that are useful in a naval base; we could also give U-boat crews on shore a disturbed night, if they were foolish enough to stay in the area, but of course they did not. The Admiralty may or may not have thought that this would exert