n the Middle East when Rommel was threatening Egypt, and then did so much to make El Alamein a victory. In the invasion of Italy, Eisenhower saw what a great commander he was. It was, of course, of the greatest importance that the Deputy Supreme Commander should come from the Air Force, since air power would be dominant in any combined campaign. It was at one time suggested that the Deputy should come from the British Army, but Eisenhower knew both Tedder’s worth and the import- ance of the weapons he understood so well, and insisted on his appointment and his retention of it. In such matters there was often the difficulty that Air Ministry regulations were so con- trived that R.A.F. Commanders-in-the-Field were invariably outranked by those who held similar positions in other services. To the working out of the plan of campaign for the disorganisa- tion of the French railways, Tedder brought a genuinely scientific mind, with all the detachment of the scientist.  Railways are extraordinarily difficult and unrewarding targets for air attack. Main lines can be repaired in a few hours, and through lines in wrecked marshalling yards in a few days, provided that there is an efficient organisation to do the work; in this, as in everything of the kind, the Germans were extremely efficient and had unlimited slave labour. But what if the repair organisation should itself be attacked? That, in effect, was what it was decided to do. The problem was to paralyse the whole railway system of North-Western Europe, from the Rhine to Normandy, the area chosen for the landings. Seventy-nine rail- way centres were accordingly picked out, in each of which there were important repair shops, with depots containing the necessary  196  put ashore with was wildly impr intact, and, if no the quantity of ; railway. In fact, mathematically ¢ the German arm ashore, then ther beachhead, surro1 divisions.  This appreciat except one—it ov More particularh mand, which at weight of bomb Fortresses of