e aircraft can be flown in any reason- able way the pilot chooses up till the moment of releasing the bombs, and the bombs can even be accurately aimed while the aircraft is climbing, gliding, or making a correctly banked turn. At the same time with the Mark XIV bomb-sight the bomb-aimer had to make very few settings during flight, so that he could concentrate on releasing the bombs at the right moment.  The 4 Ib. incendiary bomb, our main weapon in all attacks on cities, was too small to be aimed individually. The 4 lb. in- cendiary, and all other bombs up to 40 lb. in weight, were therefore carried in Small Bomb Containers—S.B.C.’s—which were apt to scatter bombs all over the place; a good number of incendiaries were always wasted and our own aircraft ran serious risks from incendiaries showering round them. The 4 lb. incendiary was also ballistically hopeless and no bomb-sight could compete with its vagaries and shortcomings. It was a slow and laborious business to fill the S.B.C.’s, an important matter now that our operations were on so large a scale. In the spring of 1943 I asked for a cluster projectile to be produced which would do away with these dangers and disadvantages; I asked for one weighing 1000 lb., but it was  B.O. L  BOMBER OFFENSIVE 160 THE OFFENSIVE UNDER WAY 161  : 163 i ick d slowly downwards and which Salk: . aati Se bares aie ert! Naturally the aim was — ould wens tighteen jae ee Over the target leans of not so accurate as when the target indicators could be seen, but re a ata Th Hee uae ee shiva un i oe making the use of sky-markers did prevent the total failure of an operation ea aie a 4 AEAaE July ase ‘a Re 1 : roar Hola ca 7 ‘ and certainly produced enough damage to be worth while. It is hear ae tl i cera AD. in this an indication of the accuracy of Oboe that in one of the earliest e Oboe marking was almost continuous during the fifty minutes stound-  : - : of this attack. Five days later, in an attack on Remscheid, con- re i experimental