. It was already becoming obvious that the need to get on with the job was urgent.  In 1927 I went to the Army Staff College, where I learned a great deal about horses and thoroughly enjoyed two years’ hunting with the Camberley Drag and the Garth. I contemplated with some surprise the fact that, while we were cut to the bone for every essential requirement in the Air Force, and indeed in all three services, the army at Camberley was aliowed to run a stable of some 200 picked hunters, labelled as chargers. I had a magnificent first-class hunter entirely to myself the whole time, and when one horse was killed in the hunting field it was immedi- arely replaced by another, equally good.  It was while I was at Camberley that I first realised, with some  22 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  infantry battalions remained, and Air Vice-Marshal Salmond was in command of these as well as of the R.. in the country, which consisted of eight squadrons armoured car companies. We had to form our own i  an car companies because the army refused to put theirs 1  R.A.F. Salmond gave me command of one of the first t carrying squadrons, No. 45 Squadron. We were equiz Vickers Vernon and subsequently Victoria aircraft. h Commanders were R. H. M. S. Saundby and R. A. ¢  whom I then met for the first time. They were both ou men and later both of them held high posts under me ii “; Command. By sawing a sighting hole in the nose of « ‘"" carriers and making our own bomb racks we conver ' into what were really the first of the post-war long-rar |  bombers.  During our first year in Mespot the Turks made a de attempt to regain the Mosul Vilayet. They began this t R.A.F, took over and had already roughly handled a ¢ Imperial troops. Wars were very unpopular in those as a result hardly anything appeared in the home ne about this particular war, though the Turks eventually : forces over the frontier to make a determined and : invasion of the Mosul area. Sir John Salmond, by conc all the squadrons up at Mosul and