s they flew aimlessly about in darkness, trying to pick up the instructions they knew were being broadcast to them but getting only the screams of their Fuehrer.  It was in point of fact a physical impossibility for Bomber Command, at this stage of its expansion and equipment, to do what, in Speer’s opinion, would have brought the war quickly to an end. Even with all the luck in the world, we could not have hoped to destroy in a brief space of time six more great cities as effectively as Hamburg had been destroyed. There was no great city within Oboe range which had not already been effectively attacked, and to find new targets even half or a third the size of Hamburg, we should have had to go as far afield as Dresden or Breslau. Weather, the size of the force, and the limitations of H28, stood in the way. It is true that there was Berlin which in a short time weuld come within range of night attack as the hours of darkness increased. To damage Berlin as Hamburg had been damaged would have been a shattering and possibly even a decisive blow to the enemy, and the Germans were waiting in horrified suspense for this to happen. But if other great cities were difficult targets for attack beyond Oboe range and by H2S alone, Berlin was the most difficult of them all.  At the earliest opportunity, a month after the destruction of Hamburg, we did in fact attack the German capital, but not with any hope of burning any very great proportion of it to the ground. The moment the nights were long enough and the weather reasonably favourable I dispatched 1647 aircraft against Berlin in three attacks within ten days. In the first of these attacks the Pathfinders attempted to get an H2S fix, from which to fly to the real aiming point in the centre of the city, on a feature which showed up very clearly on a map or air photograph of the town. This was a built-up area projecting outwards from the main part  LONG RANGE ATTACKS 181  of the city in the shape of a hook; theoretically it oug