o all intents and purposes greatly reduced when the battle cruisers Scharnhorst and Gneisenau arrived in Brest in March of 1941. The two battle cruisers went to Brest after a successful foray into the Atlantic where they sank 22 ships. The presence of these warships in a base from which they could easily make forays into the Atlantic gave a new mean- ing to the phrase “a fleet in being”; instead of containing a hostile fleet, they contained a large proportion of the bomber force which might have been used to attack Germany.  In Brest the ships were usually in dry dock and always in shallow water and therefore could not be sunk; they could be and were damaged, but damage to warships, even when this is serious enough to make them unfit for operations, is extremely difficult to detect in air photographs, and the Admiralty took a lot of convincing. In June of 1941 the heavy cruiser Prinz Eugen also arrived in Brest. Towards the end of July the Scharnhorst made a brief excursion to La Pallice, some way to the south of Brest, and there was a chance of sinking her. Daylight attacks, in which a few four-engined bombers took part, were made both on the Scharnhorst at La Pallice and on the other two warships at Brest. The Scharnhorst was hit and the damage was severe enough to send her back to the dry dock at Brest.  The hits on the warships that were obtained from time to time while they were in dry dock, under heavy camouflage, were enough to keep the ships from operating for eleven months. Then, in February, 1942, the enemy decided that it was useless to keep the ships any longer at Brest, since they were obviously going to be damaged at frequent enough intervals to keep them out of the Atlantic. They were patched up sufficiently to enable them to go to sea, but not to fight, and in weather too bad for any successful bombing attack they were rushed through the Channel and taken back to Kiel. Naturally enough the Germans waited for just such weather. But mines laid by Bombe