s against the Japanese fleet, but he did not regard the air as dangerous. When a second shadowing aircraft appeared the next morning he still would not break wireless silence, but the captain of the Repulse, astonished by the omission, signalled on his own responsibility. The fighters arrived only in time to see the ships sinking. So died a dear friend, a brave man, a most able man, with no thought but of his duty and of his country.  Now that the Japanese war is over, the sailors of both the English and American navies are declaring that Japan has been defeated by sea power. I am quite prepared to admit that Japan could not have been defeated in the precise way that she was defeated without sea power being used to provide transport facilities. But there were other ways of going about it. It would have been perfectly possible, by choosing the right islands, to hop from one to the other under cover of air power, and this would have been much quicker than using ships; in fact, aircraft did most of the Fleet’s work. Full advantage could also have been taken of the increasing ranges of aircraft so that island hopping would have largely become unncessary. It has for some time been quite possible to design an aircraft which would fly right round the world without stopping, but there is no need for it; if it can  274 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  weapons was slow and it took centuries before any major change occurred which could affect the routine strategy and tactics; Nelson’s guns had just about the same range, the same mechanism, and fired a projectile of just about the same weight, as the guns of Francis Drake. But nowadays strategy and tactics are again and again revolutionised within a year or two as the result of the invention of a new weapon, so that the consequence of insisting on the survival of a weapon in order to ensure the survival of the service which uses it are as immediate as they are disastrous. There is no better example of the tendency to cling to old weapons than