ders are crazy; the whole world thinks so e:  “How can you hope to win now that we a stronger, having both Russia and America as z are getting more and more exhausted?  “Remember this: no matter how far you they can never get to England. They could no we were unarmed. Whatever their victories, yo to settle the air war with us and America. You that. But we are doing so already now.  “One final thing: it is up to you to end t bombing. You can overthrow the Nazis and is not true that we plan a peace of revenge. TI propaganda lie. But we shall certainly make i any German Government to start a total war not that as necessary in your own interests as i  BOMBER OFFENSIVE  The storm which the issue of this raised did 1 worry me, but I must say that I very much reseni the attacks in Parliament were allowed to develop for some time. It would have been perfectly easy- customs being what they are—for those who bro up by asking questions in the House to betipped it only had to be privately explained that it was all mistake and that I had had nothing to do with 1  I went to dinner with the Prime Minister at afterwards and he said: “I hear you have been gett in the House about your broadcast, which I under made.” I said that it was quite true that I never 1 cast, but for myself I should hardly have describec by Lord Addison in the Lords or anywhere else a trouble.” The Prime Minister laughed.  The Economist, which in this was duly, not t  {|  pi bon  teey hie  i  Clr  ETTING THE  WEAROMS  yl Sp cf th Mi ue day me  ATA cla ane, |  fg mn,  i Cae bi  to ig is ge  at cl  sult  wise cage  GETTING THE WEAPONS 121  complete protection to Essen that night; when the force got to the target area it was found that the whole town was covered with low stratus cloud. In several parts of the Ruhr, and especially in Oberhausen, the attack did a fair amount of damage. But, though the attack on the objective itself failed, losses were no heavier than in the raid on Cologne, which showed that con- c