sts. Until one of them was killed by a direct hit, and I doubt if this ever happened, they had no reason to be  FACING THE WAR 27  anything but grateful for the change. We experienced more difficulties and opposition when we urgently needed Holy Island as another training site, apparently on the grounds that we might disturb the shades of some of our less reputable ancestors. It was hard indeed to keep patience with that sort of spirit when we knew what an appalling and imminent catastrophe threatened. I see that this sort of thing has already started again; there has lately been trouble about the use of an island to which some gannets appear to have established a prior claim.  I was then posted as Air Officer Commanding Palestine and Transjordan, and I was literally on the point of embarking when I was stopped by Sir Cyril Newall, then Chief of the Air Staff, as I left the Air Ministry; I was sent on a mission to America to buy aeroplanes. I took a technician and a test pilot with me, and we were afterwards joined by Sir Henry Self, a civil servant, to see that everything was done in proper form and order. Mr. “Jimmy” Weir came with us as an industrial expert to judge whether the factories to which we might propose to give our orders actually had the right equipment to enable them to carry them out. The result of this visit was the purchase of the first batches of Hudsons and Harvards. The Hudsons beyond doubt pulled us out of the soup when we used them for anti-submarine patrols in the first years of the war, and the Harvards broke the back of our problem in finding training aircraft.  I was much impressed with the American business efficiency, not least in one respect. We had a private conference amongst ourselves for a whole afternoon in our own hotel sitting-room, and drafted out a cable giving our final decisions to the Air Ministry. I kept the only manuscript note of the cable we pro- posed to send in my pocket pending dispatch, and there was no other copy of