entration in time and space would have target when ingenious device ena bled the 4000-lb. bom! ) to be aimed without been forced upon us in any case by the growing strength of the Testahacies: the huge tail that it would have had to have ifit had been designed German defence. It may seem surprising, in view of the weakness only besurpr on normal principles. A Wellington could just manage to carry of our bomber force in numbers and equipment, that the Germans Speen one of these bombs, and half a dozen of them in one attack was should have reinforced their defences in 1941, but they were aed cdetenie considered a good effort. Eight thousand pound bombs, to be looking ahead. Moreover German strength and war production San aa carried in Manchesters, were produced not long afterwards ; on was still increasing and there was so much to spare that ample night photos the whole these were not worth as much as two four thousand provision, as the enemy thought, could be made for the defence general reluc pounders. p i, . without robbing the armies who were taking the offensive. It they had hit We also had the 4 Ib. incendiary bomb, which proved through. was not till the following year that there was any need to take hance out the war the best weapon for destroying large industrial areas. any of the German army’s fighters and bombers for the defence Pea This had all the shortcomings that result from thoroughly bad of Germany. é : i with night ulistics; it was im ossible to aim it accurately with the sights With the occupation of France and the Low Countries the ihe betes with which our aircraft were equipped, or for that matter with Germans were able to build up a formidable system of defence. fair sample any known bombsight, but in spite of that it was extremely They set up an early warning system along the Coast, as well as * : effective for its purpose. on the coast of Denmark, together with a belt of stations for the  evidence fror  In the early days of bombing our notion, l