was, it offensi attacks the rive on thes Americ  Wh my ex] past an we sho tion. | knew h what tl the ins indeed to discc  The and tar  230 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  which made it next to impossible for the enemy to concentrate his air defences at any given target that we were attacking or on the route of any particular bomber stream. These new, and, in the beginning, largely unpredictable developments which I shall describe in more detail later, had a profound effect on the success of the offensive against Germany’s oil supplies.  By October, 1944, a considerable force of Lancasters of No. 3 Group was equipped with GH, the tadar aid which was to be of critical importance in the autumn and winter months, These Lancasters began to operate on a large scale in the middle of October, usually between one and two hundred at a time. By no means all the aircraft were actually equipped with GH; in fact only about a quarter to a third of the Lancasters in any one operation usually had it, but by flying in formation in daylight this disadvantage was overcome. Three to five aircraft followed asingle aircraft equipped with GH andall thebombs were dropped at the moment when the bombs of the leading aircraft were seen to be released. In case any aircraft should straggle behind or lose formation the GH aircraft normally dropped coloured smoke puffs so that the stragglers would at any rate have something at which to aim. The vast majority of these GH attacks were made in daylight and through ten-tenths cloud, but on a few occasions GH aircraft were used to drop markers by night. An average of three to four attacks a week was kept up by No. 3 Group until the end of the war, and as most of these attacks were made in conditions when no other kind of attack would have been possible, the great access of strength which we gained from the introduc tion of GH, and its successful application, may easily be appreciated. The accuracy of the attacks was far beyond all reasonable expectation, but, even s