d me to choose Bremen, another U-boat centre, and once again we were let down by the unexpected arrival of cloud. However, the damage to Bremen, though not concentrated, was by no means negligible; among other things, a very important Focke-Wulf aircraft factory was largely destroyed. Once again, during 1942, I used crews from the O.T.U.s to reinforce our front line strength; this was on the night of July 31st-August 1st, when a very successful attack was made on Dusseldorf, a town on the outskirts of the Ruhr and just as important as Essen, but not so difficult to identify as Essen because it lies on the Rhine. This and a subsequent attack on September roth-11th did so much damage that Dusseldorf was, in proportion to its size, as extensively devastated as Cologne.  We were always told, by the organisation which gave us information about targets, that Dusseldorf was not only a most important industrial town in itself, as it undoubtedly was, but also the site of the head offices of nearly all the industrial concerns of the Ruhr; it was believed that the destruction of these head offices and of the records in them would cause a lot of muddle and loss of production. After the war, Albert Speer, Reichminister for Armaments and War Production, was asked to what extent the loss of records affected efficiency in production. He replied: “On the contrary, the loss of records led to a temporary loosening of the ties of bureaucracy. We very often received the message ‘ Administrative building burnt out, production continues at full pressure.” Perhaps our own problems could have been solved as expeditiously by a few bombs on the appropriate Government departments.  This was the last attack in which I could safely use the 0.T.U.s without seriously interfering with training, and for the  Ih DOMBLR OFFENSIVE GETTING THE WEAPONS 123  inthe intervening pers of ane, fly, and Z . . : ofa ced ence searchlights previously arranged in a belt along the frontier;  Ki | they were now set u