ady  myself. Havi on bombs on targets connected with V-weapons, mostly on in use against the enemy’s early warning system. We had in hand  requirements launching sites, and up to the beginning of September, until the a small but sufficient stock of this type of “ Window” and decided  get on with v allied armies occupied the Pas de Calais, a further 44,000 tons of to use this at once, without waiting fora trial. We used it against At the tim bombs. This 60,000 tons of bombs was equivalent to one month’s the enemy night fighters for the first time on the night of July  diverted from bombing at a time when the bomber offensive was at its height. 23rd-24th in an attack on Kiel and it was at once proved useful.  the offensive a The launching sites were small and very well concealed, and more The use of the second new instrument, which had the code name  of flying bom than half the operations against them were carried out when they Flensburg, was discovered when a night fighter pilot took up the  launching is g were covered by low cloud; nevertheless, nearly all of them were Junkers 88 and used it in an exercise against our bombers. It was  missiles did ir knocked out. Unfortunately, as one went down another sprang found that by this equipment the enemy could readily home on to  Ten flying bor up, for they were very cheap and quick to build. When this the transmissions from a radar set with which most of our  over until the happened I was directed to attack the supply depots in which the bombers had been equipped to give the crews warning of the  number were flying bombs were stored before being distributed to the launch- approach of an enemy fighter. We had this warning equipment  into operatio ing sites. These depots were either caves or reinforced concrete modified at once, and sent the Junkers 88 up again to see if it  attack what w structures, but we succeeded in doing a great deal of damage by could intercept a considerable number of bombers which had been  Pas de C