racy of Oboe that in one of the earliest e Oboe marking was almost continuous during the fifty minutes stound-  : - : of this attack. Five days later, in an attack on Remscheid, con- re i experimental attacks im. jaraty, 2 ggiteix ip penteri ciel) Gnudus.0 oe marking was achieved for the first time, mn the pean force dispatched to Essen bombed within three miles of the aiming 8 for the  4 tae z A reater part of the city was destroyed. This was particularly “equi point by aiming at sky-markers; in all previous attacks on Essen 8 @t€T P ibaa , Zale J equired . ee - kei “ht significant because Remscheid was a good deal smaller than most ho runs without Oboe the highest percentage of aircraft attacking within ; . ae 3 i of the towns attacked during the Battle’of the Ruhr, so that any on with three miles of the aiming point was twenty per cent. But there ; é ota: ; : y - drift away from the aiming point, such as was usual when the sorts of were occasions when even the use of sky-markers was not enough (Oboe rat kinbetwras hot contintious, Fwbuld have wasted’ a seat ¢ to save an operation from failure; this was when the clouds were ba ee eciee 7 § ‘e again so high that the sky-markers quickly fell into them and were 7 2 gnorant  lost to sight. This is what happened on the night of May 25th- By c ae of 1943 sete ee fai ive’ aircraft 1. After 26th, when there was cloud up to 20,000 feet over Dusseldorf. ely Le ear a one fie esis hi ‘ he ae reer Ee lered to  Another difficulty, which led to the partial failure of some a air ny agehies: Ing ae 4 Se Mee aay lay one attacks, was the small number of Oboe Mosquitoes that could be Hubay ria ai ea aa ats i ri ass =) me ighting got over the target during the period of attack, and this was  * ree i a ia 7 ee was etsy ue i iva Se bly gets made worse by the fact that the Oboe equipment was inclined to peas pould ne. 2 ie ppl ss PL SVEAIGe aie might . break down in the early stages of its use. We could count on the saill seme dere Cee U