n the route had to be reluctantly abandoned because of the difficulty of procuring such equipment. And we decided to use a southern route across France and Germany as often as possible, because we had learnt that the enemy’s defences were much less efficiently organised theré than in the north and west. The essence of the new tactics was variety; it was important to use as many different methods of confusing the enemy as possible and to see that no one of these methods was used too frequently or for too long a time.  The effect of these new tactics was almost immediate. In  BOMBER OFFENSIVE  Milt LONG RANGE ATTACKS  193  dustries by the heavy bombers would play in the war as a anit hole would depend almost entirely on how soon they could get {nin ick to the offensive against German industrial cities. ' 4s; ~Meanwhile the strategic bombers, both R.A.F. and American, ieiniti ad already done one service to the Army which was of incalcul- (anita le importance in preparing the way for the invasion. Solely { a result of Allied bombing by day and night the German air idtvb rce which had been used with exceptional efficiency to blast a alt ith across Europe for the German armies, was now incapable Kitt? offensive action and hopelessly unbalanced. Early in 1944 the ftw, rder of Battle for the German air force was as follows: one-sixth : the Mediterranean, two-sixths on the eastern front and three- txths on the western front, engaged almost exclusively in the i >fence of German cities and consisting almost wholly of fighters i ith the result that there was a great shortage of fighters on the jwyistern and Mediterranean fronts. The Germans, in fact, had ' ready lost air superiority in Russia and this had already had a irofound effect on the eastern campaign; it would have had a wt ci ill greater effect if the Russians had had an air force capable of 4 — king advantage of the situation. As far as a land campaign in init! ye west was concerned, it was obvious that there was no h