orce, dropped dummy parachutists, together with machines which made noises like rifle fire and other sounds of battle, in order to make a diversion and cover the real airborne landings in the Normandy area.  Within a few hours of the bombing of the ten coastal batteries we knew how successful the operation had been; only one of these batteries was able to open fire at all, and that ineffectively as the convoys approached the coast of Normandy. It was not until much later that we learnt of the success of our jamming and diversionary operations. The enemy, it appears, was com- pletely taken in by the bogus convoys and convinced that the main assault was to be in the Pas de Calais. This, it is now known, caused a definite and vital delay in bringing up strategic reserves to Normandy.  The success of the three months’ campaign against the rail- ways of North-Western Europe was seen as the two opposing armies began to build up their strength in the battlefield. In this the allies were always well ahead of the enemy, and if the railways had been working normally the artificial port which the allies had constructed and their lavish use of ingenious equipment for landing supplies on to the beaches would never have compensated for the immense advantage the enemy would have had from an efficient railway system and interior lines of communication.  Even to move troops and supplies through and round Paris took the enemy several days, and while still far from the battlefield they found the lines blocked as a result of our subsequent bombing of the railways behind the invasion area.  One of the most effective attacks on these approaches to the  206 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  the two, as it was a large tank training centre as well as the headquarters of the 21st Panzer Division. The report of the officer commanding this depot later came into our hands and it gives an impressive account of the attack. “The main concentration,” he wrote, “was accurately aimed at the most important buildings.