ght. The army had the job of controlling them but the Air Force contributed some squadrons of Bristol fighters and D.H.gs.  My service on the North West Frontier was always to remain in my mind as a bitter reminder of what happens when air forces, or any other forces equipped with new weapons, are put under the control of another and older service and subordinated to the uses of previously existing weapons. We lacked everything in the way of necessary accommodation and spares and materials for keeping our aircraft serviceable—the only thing there was never any shortage of was demands for our services when the trouble blew up on the frontier.  In the end I got so tired of having to fly myself and to send out my crews in aircraft which were utterly unairworthy that I resigned. My resignation was not forwarded from headquarters to the Air Ministry, because just at that moment Lord Montagu of Beaulieu, who was visiting India, came round the R.A.F. stations and saw for himself the appalling state of affairs that existed. For instance, it was not unknown for aircraft to take off on operations on wheels with naked rims, because there were no tyres, and with axles lashed on with doubtful country-made rope, because there was no rubber shock-absorber rope. We flew on single-ignition engines which the Air Force at home had long discarded as unairworthy. There were vast numbers of new dual- ignition engines available at home, where the Disposal Board were selling the latest engines as junk for a few pounds, but the army in India, on whose financial vote we were dependent, refused  18 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  and he then explained its use to me. “ You see,” he said, “that you have on this drum 500 feet of steel cable and on the end of it this large harpoon. You get above the Zeppelin and pull the handle; the harpoon goes down through the envelope of the Zeppelin, opens its barbs and catches in the structure, and there you are.” To which I made the obvious retort: “Well, where am I? The