the swans at Abbotsbury would not lay eggs eae AR peter doing HRS ted if we used this as a range. In actual fact, once the site was given; . + + =p to us and we started boateag: the swans laid more bee interested SLES Meek we pp Lpiviedeeaen they had ever done before. The reason was that they soon learned operate oe divulge. In Rat ch tas fe . ay Bide: : “Be “eee Auloss eee Dorihae ha See highly confidential conversation with Lord Beaverbrook, we which served, at the same time, to keep unwanted human beings  . . A A talked in his bathroom, which seemed reasonably safe even away from their nests. Until one of them was killed by a direct though the seating was unconventional.  anything but grateful for the change, We experienced more difficulties and opposition when we urgently needed Holy Island as another training site, apparently on the grounds that we might disturb the shades of some of our less reputable ancestors. It was hard indeed to keep patience with that sort of spirit when we knew what an appalling and imminent catastrophe threatened, 1 see that this sort of thing has already started again; there has lately been trouble about the use of an island to which some gannets appear to have established a prior claim. I was then posted as Air Officer Commanding Palestine and Transjordan, and I was literally on the point of embarking when I was stopped by Sir Cyril Newall, then Chief of the Air Staff, as I left the Air Ministry; I was sent on a mission to America to 5 ‘ buy aeroplanes, I took a technician and a test pilot with me, and it disappoint- we were afterwards joined by Sir Henry Self, a civil servant, to Neus rdan had see that everything was done in proper form and order. Mr. caff Officer to “Jimmy” Weir came with us as an industrial expert to judge sed argument whether the factories to which we might propose to give our y telling him orders actually had the right equipment to enable them to carry PQUs Soe them out. The result of this visit was the purchase