every aspect of his job. He was far and away the most brilliant officer I have ever met in any of the three services. If he had a fault, it was that he had such immense knowledge of every technical and operational detail of his subject, of every aspect of air warfare, that he sometimes appeared to think too much about details. Never have I come across an officer in any of the services who so completely commanded and earned the faith and respect of his subordinates.  I vividly remember the wave of black despair which over- whelmed me when, as I left one of my stations with him in his car, he told me “ before it was announced” that he was leaving. My comment was: “My God, a disaster, a catastrophe!” I under- stood then, and I have since heard nothing to make me alter my mind, that the main reason for this change in the command was his positive insistence on the formation of the operational training units which would necessarily deprive the front line strength of the aircraft and skilled crews needed to form and man the training units. This was an essential process of “ploughing-in,” which nevertheless irritated less knowledgeable authorities. Without these units, the dog would of course have eaten its own tail to hurting point within a few weeks and would have been a dead dog beyond all hope of recovery within a few months. Ludlow-Hewitt saved the situation—and the war —at his own expense, and did it, as he does all things, with good grace, and without thinking of himself or what effect it might  34 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  THE FIRST BOMBING % “BING 37 we had to go still further and split the Group organisation up operational training units, and this was, of cours, avery serious of secret files at the Air into Base organisations, each base dealing with an average of drain on our front line strength, even though this training inute round pointing out three airfields. The Group Commanders sent to the Bases more organisation was nothing like adequate for building up a lange ald