war, Albert Speer, Reichminister for Armaments and War Production, was asked to what extent the loss of records affected efficiency in production. He replied: “On the contrary, the loss of records led to a temporary loosening of the ties of bureaucracy. We very often received the message ‘ Administrative building burnt out, production continues at full pressure.” Perhaps our own problems could have been solved as expeditiously by a few bombs on the appropriate Government departments.  This was the last attack in which I could safely use the 0.T,U.s without seriously interfering with training, and for the  Chapter Six  GETTING THE WEAPONS  Failure of an attack on Essen. The enemy defences increase.  New radar devices. Oboe and H2S. Experiments and modifica-  tions. The Pathfinder Force. Arguments against its formation.  Jamming the enemy’s radar. The use of “Window” forbidden.  The expansion of the force. First attacks on Berlin. Attacks on  U-boat bases. The minelaying campaign. Attacks on North Italy.  HE RUHR TOWNS, and especially Essen, remained first priority targets for the Command, which meant that I was bound to attack them whenever the weather and other circumstances permitted. The fact that the 1000 bomber attack on Cologne had been a complete success was no guarantee that a similar attack on a target in the Ruhr would not fail; on the contrary, we had every reason to fear that concentration would be very difficult to achieve in this area, where the force would not have the easily recognisable shape of the Rhine to guide it, and where the industrial haze always made an effective smoke- screen. On the other hand, the Cologne attack showed that the enemy’s defences were comparatively ineffective against so large a force, which meant that there might be less difficulty in identifying the target by Gee than when a small force was required to penetrate the defences in depth of the Ruhr. The attack on Cologne had also shown that dummy fires were of little use whe