f No. 58 Squadron at Worthy Down. This was the first heavy bomber squadron to be reconstituted as such after the war and the first to get back to night training for night opera- tions. There again I had Saundby as Flight Commander. I believe the squadron did more night flying at that time than all the rest of the world’s then existing air forces put together. It was already becoming obvious that the need to get on with the job was urgent.  In 1927 I went to the Army Staff College, where I learned a great deal about horses and thoroughly enjoyed two years’ hunting with the Camberley Drag and the Garth. I contemplated with some surprise the fact that, while we were cut to the bone for every essential requirement in the Air Force, and indeed in all three services, the army at Camberley was aliowed to run a stable of some 200 picked hunters, labelled as chargers. I had a magnificent first-class hunter entirely to myself the whole time, and when one horse was killed in the hunting field it was immedi- arely replaced by another, equally good.  It was while I was at Camberley that I first realised, with some  22 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  infantry battalions remained, and Air Vice-Marshal Sir John Salmond was in command of these as well as of the R.A.F. units in the country, which consisted of eight squadrons and four armoured car companies. We had to form our own armoured car companies because the army refused to put theirs under the R.A.F. Salmond gave me command of one of the first two troop carrying squadrons, No. 45 Squadron. We were equipped with Vickers Vernon and subsequently Victoria aircraft. My Flight Commanders were R. H. M. S. Saundby and R. A. Cochrane, whom I then met for the first time. They were both outstanding men and later both of them held high posts under me in Bomber Command. By sawing a sighting hole in the nose of our troop carriers and making our own bomb racks we converted them into what were really the first of the post-war long-range heavy bombers.  Dur