ed. There could be no conceal- ment of the damage at Cologne, but every attempt was made to convince the inhabitants that no irreparable disaster had occurred. All important factories were, of course, repaired, but small industrial plants were also restored to their original condition. Completely wrecked houses were demolished or left alone, but any houses that could be mended were put to rights by December of 1942. And even buildings which were apparently of no use to the war effort in any way, like churches and exhibition halls, were restored.  Two attacks were made on Dusseldorf during this first Battle of the Ruhr, each by about 700 bombers. The first, on the night of May 25th-26th, was a failure because cloud rising to a great height hid the target indicators; the second, on the night of June 11th-12th was made in good weather and raised a vast conflagration which wrecked the greater part of the city. There was so great a concentration of attack that the fire brigades lost all control of the situation and some buildings were still smoulder- ing a week later. The industrial damage was heavy.  Nothing like the whole succession of catastrophes which over- came the cities of the Ruhr and North-West Germany in the first half of 1943 had ever occurred before, either in Germany or elsewhere. It was an impressive victory, but I knew that it could be only the beginning of a serious bomber offensive; not before a very much larger number of cities elsewhere in Germany had been reduced to the same condition, and not before the wrecked cities of the Ruhr and elsewhere had been attacked once or even twice again to prevent recovery, could there be any decisive effect. The possession of Oboe and an average striking force of seven to eight hundred bombers had done a great deal, but we had by no means solved the problem of attacking cities outside Oboe range, and Germany still had vast industrial resources out of the Ruhr.  THE OFFENSIVE UNDER WAY  I therefore needed muc  149  m