ircraft because it brings out details which might be easily overlooked in ordinary photo- graphs. In particular, air raid damage shows up to an extent that would hardly be believed by those who have only seen ordinary photographs. But the stereoscopes used in the photo- graphic interpretation section are not easy for the average untrained person to use, and I wanted something better. I remembered those stereoscopes with which the Victorians used to amuse themselves; it was another production problem, but I made inquiries and found that a relative of mine had one of these instruments—it was called a stereopticon. I got hold of this, and later had some others made to the same pattern. With this equipment and also with enlargements of ordinary air photo- graphs of particularly clear and significant damage I did my best to convince the people who mattered. These records were shown to thousands of official visitors, at my house or at Command Headquarters, during the course of the war. :  On the first occasion on which Smuts came to England during the time I was at Bomber Command I tried to get hold of him  148 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  far more extensive damage was done than in the previous year. There was, I believe, some surprise when the general public learned that we were attacking Cologne again, after damaging the city so severely in the 1000 bomber attack. But, of course, the 600 acres previously damaged left a good deal of Cologne still standing and in the interval the enemy had made the most strenuous efforts to repair the place; in 1942 the Germans had been able to carry out repairs on a scale that was never possible afterwards. In the first years of the war the German policy was to conceal air-raid damage with hoardings behind which the repairs were carried out at high speed. There could be no conceal- ment of the damage at Cologne, but every attempt was made to convince the inhabitants that no irreparable disaster had occurred. All important factories were, of course,