sible for these to be mistaken for the beacon fires of the leading aircraft. At the beginning of March, 1942, I wrote to the Air  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 97  Ministry and asked for target-indicators as an urgent require- ment; I had, in point of fact, pressed for their development many years before. The Air Ministry and all the other departments and ministries concerned interpreted the word “urgent” in their own way, and we did not get our first target indicator until January, 1943. Meanwhile we had to content ourselves with various types of incendiary as a substitute, and these proved  ‘wholly unreliable.  There was an equally obvious need to introduce the air-bomber into the crew. The navigator had more than enough to do if he was to get the aircraft within a few miles of the target, especially when making the run-up to the target with Gee fixes. Apart from all the other difficulties involved in suddenly beginning a new and highly specialised task when near the target, the work he had done as a navigator left him no time to get his eyes conditioned to the darkness, which he would have to do before trying to spot the aiming point. We had to apply to the Air Ministry to get permission for the principle of introducing an air-bomber, but when once this was granted, in March, 1942, everything else could be done in the Operational Training Units under my Command. The problem was quickly solved. Up till March, 1942, the crews training in Wellingtons and Whitleys at the O.T.U.s consisted of two pilots, a navigator, and two wireless-operator air-gunners, one of them manning the rear turret. _It was im- possible to give the two pilots an equal amount of training unless the whole crew went through double the number of flights, circuits, and landings they needed, and the result was that neither pilot was trained to the standard that was rapidly becoming necessary, the standard required for the heavy bombers. So the second pilot was left out of the crew, and the air-bomber put i