ntirely failed to get rid of any of them. A sure way to promotion in the civil service, and often in the services, is to get the establish- ment of one’s department increased, and some civil servants are masters of the art of empire-building.  I well remember the worst nights of the Blitz. I watched the old city in flames from the roof of the Air Ministry, with St. Paul’s standing out in the midst of an ocean of fire—an incredible sight. One could hear the German bombers arriving in a stream and the swish of the incendiaries falling into the fire below. This was a well-concentrated attack, though the number of aircraft which actually got to the city and the weight of bombs they dropped was a mere nothing as compared with our subsequent attacks on German cities. Even on the worst night the majority  of the German aircraft failed to reach the actual target area.  As I watched I turned to the sentry on the roof and said: “The last time London was burnt, if my history is right, was in 1666,” and I told him he was looking at history. This seemed not to make the slightest impression on him; he did not even answer beyond sucking his teeth. I asked him how long he had been there, and he said for the whole of the war, as he was over-age for active service. I asked him whether he wasn’t very bored on ordinary nights, and he said that he wasn’t, because he was a student of natural history. That seemed to me a somewhat extraordinary pursuit to engage in on the roofs of Whitehall, and I asked him to explain what he meant. He said that there were some 40 to 50 cats from Government offices on the roofs at night, and that what with the fights and one thing and another there was plenty to see, especially as there was an “unexploded tom” amongst them. i ‘  All the same, though the sentry was uninterested, the Blitz seemed to me a fantastic sight and I went downstairs and fetched Portal up from his office to have a look at it. Although I have often been accused of being vengeful durin