e 1000-bomber raids. He tells of the lessons learned from German bombing; of what was achieved during the year of prepara- tion and experiment before the main attack began in March 1943; of the success of particular operations such as the destruction of the Mohne and Eder dams, and of the bombing of Berlin. Finally, he is able to tell of the actual ‘results’ discovered since the end of the war, and how far we were right in our estimates of the effect of air attack. In a last chapter ‘ Bomber ’ Harris looks to the future, discussing the atomic bomb and the scope of Service responsibility in a scientific war.  @Konigs  *Rostock  ® Wismar TALS, Hamburg MS iat qarburg |  x 4 “MAP OF  ale of Miles  Dessau  ERMANY ehosihy Pane Dal Cargel8 eS  a,  irzburg  \ | RY | We | et Pegensburg A {ref BARMEN b aes ELBE BO eeial i ‘M. Gladbach dor sfemscheid Augsburg ry Neuss o emscheic : Solingen  @Munich  usen, gtialle Si ed Canals Merseburge saa = Lutzendorfe Lei eipzt igen n ; Zeitz, “Bolle ee LL - é Freiberg. ~. es . - \ Chemnikz RK 3f tchweinfurk_ V pee lamm \ % : fim | \ *Kamen 7  Bomber Offensive  OMBER OFFENSIVE is the first important book about the war to be written by any of our Service chiefs. It is of histori- cal value as a war document and of per- sonal interest as the memoirs of an outstanding man. As Commander-in- Chief Bomber Command, Sir Arthur Harris was responsible for directing the policy of a bomber offensive, and his views on the controversial questions— whether the results of this were worth the expenditure of lives and materials or whether area bombing was morally justifiable—will be read with universal interest. A feature of the book is the author’s numerous reports of conversa- tions with Mr. Churchill, Field-Marshal Smuts and other leading men, which took place at critical moments during the war. From 1939 Sir Arthur Harris was con- fident in Bomber Command as a poten- tially decisive weapon, and he now recounts the very complete story of how, from a nucle