, most unfortunately, about equally favourable to the development of strato-cumulus cloud, either broken or continouus.  Let me here go back to a point I made before; Bomber Command was expected—even, to some extent, by Winston Churchill—to succeed in the face of every conceivable difficulty and opposition, but the enemy was expected to fail if we could arrange for him to encounter a tenth or twentieth of the opposi- tion that we normally encountered over Germany. And while it seemed wholly natural and proper that the enemy should be repeatedly defeated by the weather—the Spanish Armada had its difficulties—any idea that we might be similarly affected by such an act of God seemed as monstrous as that we should be in any way diverted by the machinations of the King’s enemies. Such a state of mind is no doubt the natural if sometimes unfortunate result of the almost unbroken record of victory in all major wars, which the British have for so long enjoyed. I can only say that while the thousand bombers were on their way across the North Sea I did not share the average Englishman’s confidence that if such a thing had to be done at all it was bound to be a complete success.  Over the North Sea there was, in point of fact, extremely dirty weather, but when the force reached Holland it cleared, and  110  Springfic guerre.” head wh did indec he going thereafte Chequers knowled; whistling We during } believe tl idea that appropriz The orga work thi 366 aircr about 25¢ force in Comman: Bomber ( fifteen lig in a diver supplied - time of th was stand Them we were p hand thur weather o time it wz good we: Germany. standing i over Eng] at that tir it was nec But if Is covered, a disclosed. was at al] night, and  112 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  continued clear all the way to the target. Nearly goo aircraft attacked out of the total of 1047, and within an hour and a half dropped 1455 tons of bombs, two-thirds of the whole load being incendiaries. The casualty rate was 3-3 per cent, with 39 ai