ters were also thrown into the battle, and used to intercept the bombers over the target.  This method of defence did achieve some success, even in the first few weeks of its use, but it had great disadvantages and could not compare in efficiency with the old method which Window had destroyed. The main drawback was that it was extremely difficult to get the fighters to the target in time; often they arrived there too late and consequently made no interceptions at all. We took advantage of the enemy’s disadvantage in two ways. We decided to cut down the length of every attack, sending the bombers over the target at the rate of 30 a minute, instead of 10 a minute as before. Ten a minute had been considered about the greatest concentration compatible with a reasonable degree of immunity from collision or from falling bombs and there had previously been no reason to increase it; now we decided to accept the greater risk from collision and falling bombs because by escaping the enemy fighters we should save far more aircraft than we lost. This new tactic worked, and it became quite usual for the bombers to be well on their way home before the enemy controllers got the fighters over the target. At the same time it was realised that the ground controllers, who had to make rapid inferences about the direction and aim of the bomber stream from the reports of the Observer Corps, could be easily misled. At the first the enemy added to his own confusion by employing several controllers who were naturally apt to issue contradictory instructions to the patrolling fighters, but he gradually saw the folly of this and it became the usual practice for authority to be given to one con-  LONG RANGE ATTACKS 179  troller who directed the whole available fighter force at the time. Even so, it was easy for us to add to the controller’s problems. We worked out erratic routes for the bomber stream so that the controllers were being continually deceived about our probable target and we carried