ir opposi- tion was to be effective. The fighters therefore had scarcely enough time as it was, and we decided to deny them even this by jamming the early warning stations with airborne apparatus carried in Stirlings which flew at a distance of about 60 miles from the German frontier. This jamming was very effective, and it only remained for us to take every possible advantage of it when planning our attacks so that the enemy not only had too little time in which to get his night fighter force together, but would also find it impossible to decide, in the few moments he was given, which was the real attack and which were feints. We increased the number of feints, and also the number of real attacks, and the most complicated operations were repeatedly undertaken. An actual example will give the best idea of the sort of thing that happened.  On the night of February 14th-15th, 1945, the main targets were Rositz and Chemnitz, both in Saxony, and therefore at a distance from the frontier which would normally have put our force in great peril; Rositz was to be attacked by 224 heavy bombers, and Chemnitz first by 329 heavy bombers and then, after an interval of three hours, by another force of 388 bombers. Fifty-four heavy bombers were also to lay mines that night in the Baltic. Berlin was to receive yet another attack by Mosquitoes, a force of 46 of them being dispatched.  The enemy’s early warning system was on that occasion jammed, and reduced in range, from Arnhem to Luxembourg. The minelaying force flew across Denmark to the Baltic while at the same time the Mosquitoes flew across North Germany to Berlin. In addition, 95 heavy bombers made a diversionary sweep over the North Sea. Then two separate forces, each of 12  Mosquitoes, broke from the cover of the jamming screen, and, as soon as they were within range of the early warning stations dropped bundles of Window which, on the enemy’s radar, simulated the approach of large bomber forces; these two small Mosquito for