avy that we shall not be able to go on bombing you very much longer. Whoever believes that will be bitterly disappointed. I, who command the British bombers, will tell you what our losses are. Less than 5 per cent of the bombers which we send over Germany are lost. Such a percentage does very little even to check the constant increase ensured by the ever-increasing output of our own and the American factories.  “America has only just entered the fight in Europe. The squadrons, forerunners of a whole air fleet, have arrived in England from the United States of America. Do you realise what it will mean to you when they bomb Germany also? In one American factory alone, the new Ford plant at Willow Run, Detroit, they are already turning out one four-engined bomber able to carry four tons of bombs to any part of the Reich every two hours. There are scores of other such factories in the United States of America. You cannot bomb those factories.  116 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  such methods of warfare as wholly ridiculous waste of time. In spite of the fact that the all intended as a leaflet to be dropped over Germi broadcast in a propaganda programme to the e1 which I believe had never been intended, and cer been contemplated or authorised by me. After papers and the B.B.C. naturally got hold of the sp there was a rule against printing pamphlets drop because they were officially secret documents, b stop the Press from reprinting broadcasts of this got hold of them. A word or two from the Air Air Ministry behind the scenes would have st affair before it developed, but, not for the first o left holding the baby.  The text of this spurious broadcast may be « it was as follows: i  “We in Britain know quite enough about a months your Luftwaffe bombed us. First yo day. When we made this impossible, they cam« you had a big fleet of bombers. Your airm They bombed London for ninety-two nights made heavy raids on Coventry, Plymouth, Liv: British cities. They did a lot of damage. Fort British