nd especially in Oberhausen, the attack did a fair amount of damage. But, though the attack on the objective itself failed, losses were no heavier than in the raid on Cologne, which showed that con- centration of the bomber stream was an effective protection even over the most heavily defended area in Germany.  We tried one more attack on the same scale in the next moon period, a month later. I had originally intended to make Hamburg the target, since the Battle of the Atlantic was then at its height and Hamburg was the largest centre for the production of U-boats in Germany. But the weather compelled me to choose Bremen, another U-boat centre, and once again we were let down by the unexpected arrival of cloud. However, the damage to Bremen, though not concentrated, was by no means negligible; among other things, a very important Focke-Wulf aircraft factory was largely destroyed. Once again, during 1942, I used crews from the O.T.U.s to reinforce our front line strength; this was on the night of July 31st-August 1st, when a very successful attack was made on Dusseldorf, a town on the outskirts of the Ruhr and just as important as Essen, but not so difficult to identify as Essen because it lies on the Rhine. This and a subsequent attack on September roth-11th did so much damage that Dusseldorf was, in proportion to its size, as extensively devastated as Cologne.  We were always told, by the organisation which gave us information about targets, that Dusseldorf was not only a most important industrial town in itself, as it undoubtedly was, but also the site of the head offices of nearly all the industrial concerns of the Ruhr; it was believed that the destruction of these head offices and of the records in them would cause a lot of muddle and loss of production. After the war, Albert Speer, Reichminister for Armaments and War Production, was asked to what extent the loss of records affected efficiency in production. He replied: “On the contrary, the loss of records led