et with 3olb. incendiaries and ordered the rest of the force, 15 Lancasters, to bomb these incendiaries through clouds. Although the factory buildings only covered an area of 70 by go yards, they were destroyed.  Before any new tactics for pre-invasion bombing were decided on it was advisable to discover, if possible, just how large a force should be detailed to attack each target. Experts on railways had advised us that unless we got a certain density of hits by bombs of at least 500 lb. weight we should not be likely to destroy or seriously damage the repair sheds and other essential buildings, and we had to work out what force would be required to get this density of attack. Previously we had had no precise idea of just how large a force was needed to destroy a giyen target, which was natural enough, because we had never had anything like as large a force as we wanted for the work that was assigned to us; it would have been a merely academic study to work out just how large a force would be needed to destroy Essen when all that we could do was to use every aircraft we could scrape up against this or any similar target. But now we certainly had a large enough force to attack a marshalling yard with a reasonable presuinption of success, provided that we could make sure of a good concentra- tion of bombing, and it was essential to destroy as many such targets as possible in the shortest time and therefore with the greatest economy of effort.  The necessary calculations were made by the Operational Research Section of my Command and, apart from the unfortunate but inevitable fact that the mathematicians had not much data to use because there had been so few precision attacks in the past, the work was done in a thoroughly scientific fashion. From this point dates a most important revolution in bombing tactics, the significance of which might well be overlooked. For in the last two years of the war it was possible to get from the Operational Research Section a very fai