ight, but the effect now been u us how dangerous these light vessels armed with torpedoes could on morale was shattering; this was confirmed by the state of blast bomb 1 be against shipping in the Channel and if they had been able to the prisoners that were taken then, and by what they said about used in atta: operate successfully at this time the results would have been very the bombing. German officers on the staff of Runstedt, Com- on single f serious for the invasion. mander-in-Chief in the West, afterwards described the “ terrifying destruction There could be no more convincing demonstration of the immobility on the battlefield” which was produced by what they some explos effectiveness of air power than these two operations. Within called our “carpet-bombing.” “The troops could not move...  The Lan twenty-four hours, at wholly negligible cost to our forces, the the communications system broke down; artillery and anti-tank on the tunr enemy lost all power of seriously disrupting the passage of pieces were knocked out; and tanks were immobilized in craters northward t convoys to Normandy. At Le Havre very nearly every ship in or beneath heaps of dirt and debris.” After one such attack it was broke in th lock, more than 60 all told, were sunk or damaged, and at reported that a whole division was without food or supplies for making eno joulogne 28 vessels were sunk and many others damaged. In all, 24 hours. On this occasion, at Caen, it is clear that the enemy tunnel. some 130naval and auxiliary craft were put out of action, virtually lost, for the time being, all power of offensive action but the  After the the whole of the enemy’s light naval forces in the Channel area, army unfortunately did not exploit its opportunities, and our thing about At the same time the concrete shelters used to house E-boats at armour did not move forward until the morning of July 8th. North-West Le Havre were damaged by a small number of the new 12,000 Ib, The German comment afterward