as nothing to what I myself felt when I learned that I had addressed the enemy as a Commander-in-Chief in the field, and what is more, in fluent German, of which I know not a word.  The fact is that I never made the broadcast at all. The whole thing was a typical muddle by some of the enthusiastic amateurs who were over frequently allowed to play at war with parts of our war machine; in this instance I believe it was mainly the concern of the Political Warfare Executive. It appears that they thought they would take advantage of the alarm and despondency which the attack on Cologne had undoubtedly brought about in Germany by threatening the Germans, in my name, with a continuous succession of such attacks, of increasing weight and for an indefinite period. To that end they wrote and printed a pamphlet, alleged to be a speech by me, to be dropped over the enemy’s country. As is usual in such cases they had asked the Air Ministry for their permission, and the Air Ministry then asked me whether I objected to my name being used on such a pamphlet. I have given my views on the utility, or rather the futility, of pamphleteering in an earlier chapter; I told the Air Ministry that as long as they thought that warfare by pamphleteering was any good I had no objection to the use of my name. I was entirely uninterested in the whole thing; I have consistently regarded  114 twin-engin Heinkel 217 army. But used for nig we had any! the modific: used the lea as his main Messerschm on German altered in : stations anc far more nu Within 1 Cologne att fighters, wi! of the bomb bombers we front line s same type ¢ was decepti priority ove maintained 1943, by a p sustained o bomber an roughly equ would have any serious with aneye! aircraft proc of single-en 1942, Gener: do with a + General Mil 1941, asked : and plans decided on i then on the engined fig] increasing s fronts. The  116  such metho  BOMBER OFFENSIVE  Is of warfare as wholly ridiculous and a complete  waste of time. In spite