hand; it only had to be privately explained that it was all a departmental mistake and that I had had nothing to do with the broadcast.  _ I went to dinner with the Prime Minister at Chequers soon afterwards and he said: “I hear you have been getting into trouble in the House about your broadcast, which I understand you never made.” I said that it was quite true that I never made the broad-  cast, but for myself I should hardly have described being attacked by Lord Addison in the Lords or anywhere else as “getting into trouble.” The Prime Minister laughed.  The Economist, which in this was duly, not to say dutifully, >  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 119  followed by the Daily Worker, has attacked me for having organised and initiated the whole bomber offensive, and has even gone so far as to say that I got my proposals adopted by making grossly exaggerated claims about what was being accomplished. Unless these newspapers had access to the secret files of the ministries, which I very much doubt, they must have been basing their statements on this broadcast; there can be no other pub- lished evidence of any claims made by me.  I never made any broadcasts, apart from an innocuous speech at a Wings for Victory Week. I once’ said a few words on a newsreel in 1941, but there the only definite suggestion I made was that we should wait and see what bombing could achieve. Some people, I remarked, thought that bombing could never win a war. “Well,” I said, “we shall see. It hasn’t been tried yet, and Germany, more and more desperately clinging to her widespread conquests and still foolishly striving for more, will make a most interesting subject for the initial experiment. Japan can be used to provide the confirmation. But don’t expect too much yet . . .” That was in 1942 and Hiroshima heard the last word.  As a matter of fact I did my utmost during the war to avoid any sort of publicity for remarks by myself; in fact I considerably annoyed many representatives of the Press by refusi