he part of Portal—to go cap in hand to the other services. In the early stages of the war, the R.A.F. very definitely had an inferiority complex; it seemed unduly conscious of lacking tradition—though no tradition is worth having in a fighting service except a tradition of success—and over anxious to prove that there were no real grounds for doubts. They were up against the fact that the average soldier or sailor undoubtedly had in his mind a sort of composite picture of a typical air marshal, to which I may perhaps have contributed one or two features, which was by no means flattering. The attitude of the Air Ministry led the R.A.F. to give up far more than it should have done on seyeral occasions. Very soon after the war started it should have been obvious that the weapon the R.A.F. had—air power—made the air force by its possession, if for this war only, the senior service.  I do not know exactly how we could have got this obvious fact recognised, but to put forward one’s point of view as though one was asking for a favour is not the way to do it. Of course I am not here talking about any question of prestige, which is rubbish in war time or at any other time except in so far as it gets you what you want, but about getting those in authority to recognise what we could do and therefore to give us the job and the weapons with which to do it.  In this respect we have not been very lucky in our Secretaries of State; we have occasionally had some good men, but the other services seem to have got men who could put their case much more effectively. I know that Sir Archibald Sinclair, for example, always had the welfare of the service at heart but he did not have  56 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  attacks on capital ships, and sea mining. In the event, the heavy bombers proved so extremely useful in all these roles that I had the greatest difficulty in preventing them from being continually switched, to meet the demands of one or other service or of one or other of the Government dep