ewed hope and  enthusiasm, in spite of the app  ally kept. If it was a mixed party—whic  at Winston habitu- was not very often—  alling hours  and I could take my wife, I knew that we might get home some- where between midnight and one in the morning, but when I was  asked alone, it would be anyw! Igot back, Not that  we would all go up to the gal  ie rest of the family, and even the military guard from outside—to see the picture, There the Prime Minister would sit, occasionally  making amusing comments a  course, that he was really resting himself in this atmosphere an that this thoughts were often far away. Sometimes one could hear  minded,  After dinner Winston would talk; aloud about how things were going, He would get repeate reminders that a film show was waiting for him, and eventually  ere between three and four before  e was really thinking  lery—the household staff, and ¢  out the drama. One realised, o:  him rehearse a phrase for a te after midnight we woul  to bed, as his doctors  go back down to the hall and he would get down to another batch of work, sending signals, dictating t his secretaries, and so on, while at intervals one of his family, and sometimes his naval A.D.C. would attempt to steer him o! iad advised, but invariably without th  legram he would send later. Wel  Ss  least success, He went to bed when he wanted to, The only man who stood up to Winston about his late hours was Smuts. I have  { WAY  153  e wording of some » some corner of the g. His extraordinary shrase was obviously ngth to him. When ad taken a long time his resolution more 1 to express it. here had been much hether to hold on to sion that the rest of farther East. I have ion of pure strategy; would often have to vosed when the right nacceptable for lack -which were perhaps ls of pure strategy —I never knew him n Winston asked for 1, not because it was ‘absolutely the only though there would Force in supplying ur side, even though ling to the fears and advance far beyond hre