ch damage in Germany—6oo acres as against 780—as all Bomber Command’s previous attacks, including the very successful attacks on Liibeck and Rostock, taken together.  I rang up Winston Churchill, who had just alighted from Washington, and told him that the Operation had been successful, and that only 39 aircraft were missing, one less than my estimate of 40. I always knew from the tone and quality of Churchill's Voice, quite so much as from what he actually said, whether or no he was satisfied. I knew at once that he was satisfied then. Ata time when there was no other conceivable offer ive weapon we could use against the Germans, and when on every front and theatre of war we were confined to purely defensive action, Churchill now knew that we had an immensely powerful weapon  ye  2 pp  »  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 113  which would give us that initiative that only comes from taking the offensive. Churchill was all out to wage war. He certainly did not want the destruction of German cities in and for itself, or in any spirit of revenge, but he wanted above all to get on with the war and no one understood better than he the vast strategic consequences of this single operation, which proved that a serious bombing offensive against Germany itself was a real possibility. The dominating offensive weapon of the war was at last being used, nearly three years after the Germans had invaded Poland. My own opinion is that we should never have had a real bomber offensive if it had not been for the 1000 bomber attack on Cologne, an irrefutable demonstration of the power of what was to all intents and purposes a new and untried weapon.  The enemy understood the implications of the attack on Cologne as well as anyone in England and it had an immediate effect on their whole air strategy; this effect was enormously more important than the actual damage to war production, or the effect on the morale of industrial workers, which resulted from the attack on Cologne. It was not long after t