d have to act quickly. A second attack was made, also by No. 617 and No. 9 Squadrons, but this time there was unexpected bad weather and complete cloud cover over the ship. In a third attack the ship capsized after at least two direct hits by 12,000 pound bombs and a number of near misses. One hit amidships tore over 100 feet out of her side.  During the remaining months of the war Bomber Command disposed of nearly all the rest of the enemy’s collection of large warships, often with ordinary 1000 lb. bombs, which was certainly preferable to drawing on our small stock of 12,000 Ib. bombs. In a single raid on Kiel in April 1944, the Admiral Scheer was capsized at the quayside and the Admiral Hipper was hit while in dry dock by three bombs, which made her entirely unseaworthy. The battleship Schiesien had to be beached and the Elbe was burnt out and beached. In the same month we attacked the pocket battleship Lutzow in the canal at Swinemunde and sank her. In December, 1944, the cruiser Koln was attacked and damaged when in Oslo Fjord; she returned for repairs to Wilhelmshaven where the Eighth U.S.A.A.F. finally bumped her off.  This exertion of sea power by aircraft, in the last year of the war, cannot be said to have been of vital strategic importance, though it certainly served to demonstrate the hopeless fragility of battleships and may therefore influence the course of future wars if not the naval mind. One recalls pre-war years in which the Admiralty scoffed at the very idea of an aircraft ever succeed- ing in approaching a warship. The destruction of 88 of the enemy’s light surface craft in attacks on Le Havre and Boulogne on June 14th and 5th, 1944, was of much greater import, since it ensured our lines of communication across the Channel, than  THE FINAL PHASE Hy)  the death ofthese futile capital ships. Even more important an exercse of seaair power was Bomber Command's prolonged minelaying campaign which, on a very conservative estimate, sank or damaged over