about heavy bombers and had seen and handled them.  As early as October, 1941, the Air Ministry had agreed to allow airfields of the size that became normal towards the end of the war, but it was more than a year before this policy was  ————-—  104 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  made effective. And just when shortage of airfields was causing the greatest difficulty—we needed the largest airfields not only for actual operations but also for the work of the heavy con- version units—we had to hand over a considerable number of those which had been scheduled for Bomber Command to the United States Army Air Force. It was, of course, entirely necessary that the Americans should have airfields in Britain—no one had anticipated or could have anticipated this need before Pearl Harbour—and drastic action had to be taken; in May, 1942, we disbanded a whole Bomber group, No. 8 Group, which was then forming but had not yet become operational, and handed over all its stations to the U.S.A.A.F.  It had been confidently expected that 1942 would see a great increase in the strength of the Command because aircraft and formed squadrons had been promised from America. In the event we gained nothing from this source. All the United States heavy bombers allotted to Britain went to Coastal Command and nearly all the United States medium and light bombers were sent either to Russia or to the Mediterranean. No. 2 Group, a purely tactical force which was scarcely concerned with the offensive against Germany, did get Bostons in place of Blenheims, which were taken off operations in the summer of 1942.  So during 1942 Bomber Command remained the smallest and weakest of the Commands and was likely to remain so unless something was done about it and done quickly. Even if I could succeed in convincing those in charge of the war that we could achieve something with adequate strength and equipment, there was bound to be a time lag between the decision to give us a little of what we wanted and the actual fulfilm