of his naval per- also put an immense strain on the ications.  ded Norway we attempted some e enemy, though only the southern- hin range. The Hampden was cold smy fighter in daylight, as I knew or two pretty serious knocks. The eebly armed aircraft with a single underneath, manned by a gunner ition, together with a gun firing , was of no value at all. The mounts ce rickety and had a limited traverse  ld have to be done, and done quickly, e armament for my aircraft. I had tknowing that it is quite impossible through the proper channels within ot dealt directly or indirectly with long without realising that if you hrough the proper channel you find m. That is, you find yourself made small enough to make repayment e salary of a regular officer. I have that if you want to do anything Service, you must do it on a large d the bounds of practical possibility for it. With these facts in mind I d Station commander in my Group, 4 forth into the countryside to visit  town, Gainsborough, where we sh “family” firm, Alfred Rose and ‘m which can do anything without  38 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  damage had been done to the seaplane base; it was, of course, a most unsuitable target for attack by night for a force of 50 aircraft dropping a negligible load of bombs, and however heavily and successfully it had been attacked it could have been repaired in a few days, during which the enemy could have used a number of alternative bases. 2  I was much interested in this German minelaying campaign. Years before, when I had been head of the Operations and In- telligence Branch of the Air Ministry, I had put out a specification for the magnetic mine, virtually in the form in which it after- wards appeared. I concluded my original minute on the subject, which is still in existence, by pointing out that the introduction of this weapon would be very much to our detriment as a seafaring nation and that logically we should therefore do our utmost to develop this weapon, because it is only by developing a