some American light bombers equipped with these guns for operations by No. 2 Group, which, of course, had really nothing to do with our main striking force and the main offensive. Early in the war it became obvious that our normal gun, the .303 inch, was of far too light a calibre for defence against the German night fighters, which had thick protective armour as well as guns of heavier calibre than ours. The result was that the bombers were invari- ably outranged while at normal range the .303 bullets would not penetrate the fighter’s armour. Our turrets were also not well designed to give the gunner a good field of view or to enable air- crew to abandon ship with necessary speed. Eventually, as I had done before with the Hampden’s armament, I despaired of the official channels and went again to Rose Brothers of Gains- borough. They produced a first-class turret of revolutionary  design equipped with .5 guns, with a large field of view from which the gunner could readily escape if he had to; we had this in less than a year, and one whole Group, E. B. Rice’s Group, was equipped with it.  Rose’s and Bomber Command personnel,  164 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  including the technically minded Rice himself, worked together on the turret, and, of course, we should never have got it if we had not ordered it on our own and in an entirely irregular way. The Americans would certainly have got their turret in a matter of months, but that is because their commanders in the field have the say-so, and this is not liable to be disputed by everyone in any appropriate or inappropriate ministry who thinks he knows better. Nor is his order subject to interference by pseudo-technicians and civil servants in the Supply ministries. In my mind there is no doubt whatsoever that the main reason for the speed and efficiency with which the Americans get things done in war is simply because America has no civil service that can interfere. In the American fighting services they ask for the money they wan