athe in his descendant and most emphatically was he going to war. Whether it was coincidence at first and habit thereafter I do not know. Whatever. it was, the mixture of Chequers moonlight, Winston’s inspiring courage, and my knowledge of the desperate state of the war always sent me home whistling or singing that oldest, or one of the oldest, of war songs.  We made our preparations for the thousand bomber attack during May; it had the code word “Millenium” although I believe there was some trouble about this because there was an idea that the army wanted this to be the code word, a very appropriate code word as it seemed then, for the second front. The organisation of the force involved a tremendous amount of work throughout the Command. The training units put up 366 aircraft. No. 3 Group, with its conversion units put up about 250 aircraft, which was at that time regarded as a strong force in itself. Apart from four aircraft of Flying Training Command, the whole force of 1047 aircraft was provided by Bomber Command, but Army Co-operation Command lent us fifteen light aircraft to join with the Blenheims of No. 2 Group in a diversionary attack on enemy airfields. Fighter Command supplied 39 aircraft to attack airfields along the route. By the time of the moon period, at the end of the month, the whole force was standing by.  The moon was full on the night of May 30th and that morning we were promised good weather over the home bases. On the other hand thundery cloud was known to cover much of Germany; the weather often helped the enemy throughout the war, and at this time it was much to his advantage that the winds which brought good weather over our bases tended to produce cloud over Germany. If I waited, I might have to keep this very large force standing idle for some time, and I might lose the good weather over England; to land such a force in difficult weather would at that time have been to court disaster and for so many aircraft it was necessary to have a la