raft appeared the next morning he still would not break wireless silence, but the captain of the Repulse, astonished by the omission, signalled on his own responsibility. The fighters arrived only in time to see the ships sinking. So died a dear friend, a brave man, a most able man, with no thought but of his duty and of his country.  Now that the Japanese war is over, the sailors of both the English and American navies are declaring that Japan has been defeated by sea power. I am quite prepared to admit that Japan could not have been defeated in the precise way that she was defeated without sea power being used to provide transport facilities. But there were other ways of going about it. It would have been perfectly possible, by choosing the right islands, to hop from one to the other under cover of air power, and this would have been much quicker than using ships; in fact, aircraft did most of the Fleet’s work. Full advantage could also have been taken of the increasing ranges of aircraft so that island hopping would have largely become unncessary. It has for some time been quite possible to design an aircraft which would fly right round the world without stopping, but there is no need for it; if it can  276 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  go halfway round the world it can get at anything on the earth’s surface by going either one way or the other, and in point of fact a radius of three to four thousand miles is all that is generally necessary.  The real answer to all these disputes is that sea power is of course vital, but that it is not necessarily exercised by ships. It can be, and indeed nowadays it mostly is, exercised to a far greater extent by aircraft—here I need only point to the record of Bomber Command against the German navy and the German merchant fleet, or to the record of Coastal Command in their battle against the U-boats. It will in future be exercised by directed atomic missiles.  The navy with its battleships—the most expensive and the most utterly useless we