ncing the coastal fortifications. Here the main problem was how to give no indication to the enemy of where the actual landing was to be made. The only way of doing this was by the wildly ex- travagant method of bombing at least two coastal batteries or defences elsewhere for every one that was attacked on the invasion coast of Normandy. The guns were, of course, extremely small objectives, and the only chance of putting them out of action was by covering a quite considerable area round them with bomb craters. Many of these guns were enclosed in thick concrete casemates, though the casemates for some were still under con- struction. It was at first thought impossible that where the building of casemates was complete we could do any real harm to the guns by bombing, but this quite reasonable opinion proved to be wrong. On the night of May 28th-2gth, 64 Lancasters, guided by seven Oboe-equipped Mosquitoes, attacked the coastal battery at St. Martin de Varreville, and a captured German report said that, after several direct hits on one of the casemates there, it “apparently burst open and then collapsed.” In any case, even when the casemate itself was undamaged, the command posts, fire director gear, and signal equipment were often smashed and the batteries thus made ineffective. aE  On the night of the invasion ten batteries in the actual area of the landing had to be attacked, and this took more than 5000 tons of bombs, by far the greatest weight of bombs dropped by Bomber Command in any single attack up till then. In all 14,000 tons of bombs had to be dropped on the defences of the Atlantic Wall. ty  Besides railways and fortifications, a number of other military objectives were put on the list of priority targets. During May Bomber Command wrecked the military depots at Bourg Leopold and Mailly-le-Camp. Mailly-le-Camp was the more important of  204 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  though in some few instances attacks by lighter bombers were thought advisable to destroy some parti