d and the frequency range of the Gee transmission was enlarged and varied; these methods were successful from time to time, but there was always the risk of interference. ;  Oboe developed out of the methods used by the R.A.F. to “bend” and interfere with the beams used as navigational aids by the German bombers during the blitz. It was then discovered that an aircraft could fly along a certain beam and that its position on that beam could be calculated by measuring the distance of the aircraft, by means of radar, from a given point. A primitive version of the Oboe system was actually used during the Com- mand’s attacks on the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau in Brest, but it proved unreliable; the equipment was liable to break down and we had not yet got the right aircraft to use it. But it seemed likely that when these difficulties were overcome, Oboe would be far more accurate than any other then ting navigational aid; later tests showed that this was in fact the case. The system depended on the re-radiation from the aircraft of radar signals sent out to it, and use was made of the fact that it is far more easy to find the distance than the precise bearing of an object by radar. There are two ground stations. One controls the aircraft by signalling to it by a system of dots and dashes whenever it deviates from a given course; this course is a part of the circum- ference of a circle passing through the target, the centre of the circle being the ground station itself. Meanwhile a second ground station measures at intervals how far the aircraft has got along this arc of a circle; from these measurements the position and speed of the aircraft is calculated at the ground station and not in the aircraft—an important advantage. When the aircraft is  GETTING THE WEAPONS 125  in the exact position at which the bombs should be dropped a signal is sent, and the bombs are released. For the bomber’s crew, the whole thing is pretty well automatic.  The main drawback to this system is