t if you order things otherwise than through the proper channel you find yourself made to pay for them. That is, you find yourself made to pay provided the bill is small enough to make repayment conceivable out of the meagre salary of a regular officer. I have therefore learned long ago that if you want to do anything drastic on your own in the Service, you must do it on a large enough scale to put it beyond the bounds of practical possibility for you to be forced to pay for it. With these facts in mind I collected a technically-minded Station commander in my Group, E. A. B. Rice, and we forayed forth into the countryside to visit the nearest manufacturing town, Gainsborough, where we discovered a typically English “family” firm, Alfred Rose and Sons. This is the sort of firm which can do anything without  38 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  damage had been done to the seaplane base; it was, of course, a most unsuitable target for attack by night for a force of 50 aircraft dropping a negligible load of bombs, and however heavily and successfully it had been attacked it could have been repaired in a few days, during which the enemy could have used a number of alternative bases.  I was much interested in this German minelaying campaign. Years before, when I had been head of the Operations and In- telligence Branch of the Air Ministry, I had put out a specification for the magnetic mine, virtually in the form in which it after- wards appeared. I concluded my original minute on the subject, which is still in existence, by pointing out that the introduction of this weapon would be very much to our detriment as a seafaring nation and that logically we should therefore do our utmost to develop this weapon, because it is only by developing and experimenting with weapons that it is really possible to arm yourself in time with the antidote. This proposal of mine led to a furious fight between the Air Ministry and the Admiralty about which of the two was to make the magnetic mine. The Air Mi