arge of the war that we could achieve something with adequate strength and equipment, there was bound to be a time lag between the decision to give us a little of what we wanted and the actual fulfilment of that decision; there was clearly no time to spare. I had to regard the operations of the next few months not only as training or trial runs from which, and only from which, we could learn many essential lessons, but also as commercial travellers? samples which I could show to the War Cabinet.  It is somewhat ironic that the first completely successful operation carried out after I took over the Command should have been -not only a diversion from the main offensive against Germany but also a precision attack on a keypoint factory. This was the attack on the Renault works, near Paris, one of the French factories most actively engaged in producing war equipment for the enemy. This was a very short range target and it was almost undefended, which meant that we could attack it in clear weather  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 105  and brilliant moonlight and that aircraft could come down very low to identify the factory. The attack was therefore no sort of test of our capacity to destroy heavily-defended targets at much greater range within Germany itself. But the bright moonlight in which the attack was carried out enabled us to plan a con- centrated raid without having to rely on the small quantity of Gee equipment we then had; it was, in fact, the first attack in which the principle of concentration in time and space was effectively employed. The Renault factory was high in the list of collaborating French factories which had been given to me and this extremely destructive raid not only deprived the enemy of a considerable quantity of equipment, but was also of some value in discouraging the production of war material for the enemy elsewhere in France.  On the night of March 28th-29th the first German city went up in flames. This was Liibeck, a rather distant target on the B