aining organised. About a dozen new schemes for rearmament, each scheme more ambitious than its predecessor, succeeded each other up till 1938, but in 1939 almost everything was still on paper.  As I saw it, the position on the outbreak of war was that our fighters—what there were of them—were up to the standard of any that the Germans had produced, and that some of our bombers—especially the Wellingtons and the “Heavies” which were just getting into production—were going to be good. But what we actually had was not much good, being totally insufficient in number and with no reserves either of crews or aircraft adequate for any sort of sustained operations. Nor, indeed, was there any adequate organisation for training crews up to the standard or in the numbers required for modern war. As I felt convinced that neither France nor our own forces on the Continent would survive for long, I could see no possibility, after the inevit- able débdcle, except a direct grapple between the Boche and ourselves alone. From a good deal that I had read about the previous war, and from what I had seen during the last peace, I felt confident that the United States would not come in unless she was pushed, and I could not for the life of me conceive that our enemies would again be fools enough to push her. Neither could I see Russia coming in.  FACING THE WAR I  wn  But I never had any fear that the enemy would succeed in getting across the Channel, with the equipment then available. I knew we could and would stop him. All past experience of combined operations pointed to the impossibility, at that time, of a cross-Channel invasion on the scale that would be necessary in the face of anything approaching serious opposition. I could therefore see only one possible way of bringing serious pressure to bear on the Boche, and certainly only one way of defeating him; that was by air bombardment. It consequently looked as it was going to be a straight fight between our own and the enemy’s produ