ed to reduce a tribe to submission by independent action to the point where the Army could walk in at the last moment and take the credit and the K.C.B. Although this was up to a point a necessarily primitive essay in the “air control” we were later to use in Irak—the inhabitants were always given fair warning before their villages were destroyed, and casualties were extremely few—the special characteristics of the new weapon, its flexibility and its capacity to strike anywhere within a very wide area at any moment, were certainly and deliberately given no chance to show to advantage. A good example of what happens when old Services can suppress new weapons. Tai  When I got to Irak, or Mespot as we called it in those days, Sir John Salmond had just taken over the “air control” of the country and most of the very large army forces which the British taxpayer refused any longer to support there had departed. A rebellion had broken out in 1920, because the Arabs had been led to expect complete independence and had got instead British Army occupation and a horde of Jack-in-Office officials; the British Army forces occupying the country were then being heavily reduced for economy’s sake, but they were still numerous enough to get the rebellion under after some months of hard fighting with heavy casualties on both sides. The military control of Irak was transferred from the army to the R.A.F. entirely in order to save money. At that time the newspapers at home were running a campaign to cut down overwhelming and world-wide expenditures and were suggesting that we should abandon such useless and expensive responsibilities as Irak. If we had done so we should have been hard put to it for oil during Hitler’s war. The decision to hand the control of the country to the R.A.F.—which was of course Winston Churchill’s—was made in 1921 and took effect on the ist of October, 1922. Four  20 BOMBER OFFENSIVE rn  to supply us with them. Any of the new equipm of the Disposal Board could