es over the target in an hour instead of six as before, but there was always the risk, especially as the Mosquitoes could carry no great number of target indicators, that there would be intervals when no target indicators were burning on the ground. This was what the 22 heavy bombers of the Pathfinder force were for; they were to drop a large number of green target indicators, aimed at the red target indicators which the Mosquitoes had dropped, at intervals of one to two minutes throughout the attack. If the bomb-aimers of the main force could see the few but more accurately placed red target indicators they were to aim at these, but if not, at the green target indicators. In this way, though the ground might be quite invisible through haze or low cloud, it was hoped that the main force would have a clearly distinguishable mark at which to aim at every moment throughout the attack. The weather on this occasion was clear, but there was the usual industrial haze of the Ruhr, and this in itself made the use of target indicators and a blind-bombing aid absolutely essential.  In the event the red target indicators proved to have fallen very close to the aiming point if not on it, the green target indicators were most accurately aimed by the highly trained bomb-aimers of the Pathfinder force, and the main force bombing was equally good. A conflagration which seemed to cover, almost without a break, a circular area some two miles in diameter surrounded the target indicators. The municipal archives of Essen afterwards revealed that the greater part of the bomb-load had in fact fallen within the built-up area under attack. The concentra- tion of the bomber force had been so great that only 14 aircraft  B.O. K  Chapter Seven  THE OFFENSIVE UNDER WAY  The main offensive begins. A successful attack on Essen. The  Battle of the Ruhr. Showing the results to the world. Field  Marshal Smuts sees the bomb-damage. Winston Churchill and  the offensive. Propaganda in the R.A.F. The Moh