abit of prowling round the country near Springfield once got him into trouble with the village policeman; he was investigating a hedge when he felt a hand on his shoulder. When Saundby had explained what he was doing the policeman said that he thought Saundby was after birds’ eggs; there was quite a trade in these—they were sent up to London and used by the restaurant in salads. Saundby naturally wanted to know why, even if he had been after birds’ eggs, this should have been considered a crime; the policeman said that those who go after birds’ eggs for the restaurants are not the sort of people who stop at that. He did not in the least mind being seen in his Air Marshal’s uniform chasing a butterfly with a net, and when he went to London used to stop his car near Lord’s cricket ground to search there for an addition to his collection.  Saundby had less side than almost anybody I have known; out of office hours anyone could talk to him and he would talk to anybody; a pilot officer could have played with him. He was liked by everybody in the Command, and his sociability in the  Chapter Four  BOMBER COMMAND  Appointed C.-in-C. Bomber Command. The bomber force in  1942. What we were up against. The need for speed. Attacking  German morale. Area and Precision bombing. Previous failures.  Target finding by night. Using the wrong bombs. Early  bombing tactics. The principle of concentration. The lesson of the Blitz. Bombing policy.  BECAME Commander-in-Chief of Bomber Command on February 23rd, 1942. The headquarters of the Command was about five miles from High Wycombe, in Buckinghamshire.  It was the only Command headquarters in this country to be built as such; work was begun on it before the war, though it was not ready until the spring of 1940—before that the Command was at Richings Park at Langley, near Iver. The site near High Wycombe was chosen because the country thereabouts was thickly wooded, and the headquarters themselves were right among beech trees and almos