task, the strategic bomber forces no less than any other. At the same time it seemed to me necessary to take a realistic view and to appreciate the fact that if Bomber Command was now to engage almost exclusively in army co-operation work, then all the work of our single year of strategic bombing could be undone in about five months. No one could tell how soon it would be before the armies could dispense with the heavy bombers but, as it seemed to me, the part that the destruction of German  Chapter Nine  THE INVASION OF EUROPE  veh sul  The Atlantic Wall. Appreciation of the situation. The heavy bomber made invasion possible. Attacks on French railways. Precision bombing and the Master Bomber. The Operational Research Section. The coastal guns. Otter tactical targets. The feint attack on the Pas de Calais, The 12,000 Ib. bomb. Daylight | Operations. Close support of the army. The capture of the sadmfy CDAnnel ports. The flying bombs. A night-fighter lands in  ict England.  bara N THE face of it, the invasion of Europe seemed to present Be ty the Western allies with an insoluble problem. The Germans be evidently thought so, and took the risk of putting their  why ‘timistic appreciation of the situation before the German people. duty ATE Was first the “ Atlantic Wall,” a ring of strong fortifications inh all the accessible stretches of the coast, with very long nge, very heavy, radar-sighted guns which could sink any .,arships before these could shoot back, and, of course, could ,tash any convoy to pieces. The beach obstacles and other con- } nai suctional works were equally strong. For some time the enemy  ,; Pears to have put his main trust in the Atlantic Wall, which d been constructed by the Todt organisation at vast expense equipment and slave labour, but eventually he seems to have a ilised that no system of fortifications could be regarded as ttitth ™Pletely unbreakable; the German propagandists then put it dyn CUt that the allies might be able to get a beachh