ing that py the and a a : » y we now intended to use GH, not primarily for precision attack first GH transmissions were made by the aircraft. The advantage on German industrial targets, and it was for this reason that in was that the bomber crew could find their position at any time June I made an urgent request for enough GH sets to equip one they chose, and as I said above, that a fair number of aircraft bomber Group. I chose No. 3 Group for this. When Bomber could use GH simultaneously. The main disadvantage by com- Command began to attack the synthetic oil plants of the Ruhr parison with Oboe, was that the necessary calculations, which, there were nothing like enough aircraft e juipped with GH to use  with Oboe, were made at the ground stations, had to be made in the aircraft with GH. Obviously such work would, in general, bemore efficiently done in a ground station, where the men could be picked for this particular job and where they would not be distracted by the enemy. As against this, where a number of aircraft bombed on their own GH fixes this would tend to cancel out the cumulative errors that arose from a system that could  dequate; the ir as possible early in the at organiser, uilding, and sible priority mn worked day lest informa- he largest oil ‘eks and were ner output in attack. The extent, below st, and it was : got news of race between small plants alligence was  largest of the ath after the by the end of 1 ten of these  by Oboe in had any right > face of such ce for tactical 1 complicated he Ruhr and deriod the air icient than in lly impractic-  the Ruhr oil ‘ficiency, and  S826  Re  ave  ‘crumbled to ance and the ime time the ved on to the atly extended. of the enemy were planned  228 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  for this work, and the first operations, apart from experimental attacks, made with GH were against flying-bomb sites in July and August, when it was essential for the defence of London to continue bombing these without waiting for clear weather. St