ded, looked into the matter and recommended that the Air Defence of Great Britain should always  Vy the strongest  air force within striking distance, ‘The home defence squadrons were to be increased to 52—the whole front line strength of the ALR, at home and abroad was then 34 squadrons, At the same isbury Committee stopped a naive scheme of the War Office which would have left the Air Ministry powerless to control  iment, and the  supply of aircraft, presumably for the use of the War Office, The perennial row between the Admiralty and the Air Ministry over  WAR I  wn  enemy would succeed in ‘quipment then available. . AIL past experience of apossibility, at that time, e that would be necessary rious opposition. I could bringing serious pressure ily one way of defeating It consequently looked as etween our own and the We might be helped by rom America, but getting new (I had been there to ar before) at that time a ash at that. Lease-Lend. as yet to come. the predominant weapon oable course that the war nce, and to explain them may as well begin at the  mt, and my parents were 1892. I was not regarded he family; at any rate, t to Eton and the other yn school. My father had fness prevented him, and rly wanted me to go into And as it was either the rkest Africa. After some epted a ticket and a fiver teen. My first job there ing coaches. They were ere always dying of fever tad; I drove some of the  I also took to general  Rees a i Arm was also smoothed over for a time, and, in then explicitly in force for some twenty years which could not iy  have been more effectively designed to secure our unreadiness for war. This was the iniquitous “Ten Year Rule,” as it was called. After the 1914-1918 war the Chiefs of Staff sought political guidance on which to base the establishments and plans of the three services. They were told to base their plans on the assump-  : was hard work, but the n, a Rhodesian. I never intended to return, and  fact, the Royal Air Force was given perm