obvious place in which to bomb the be found in the production or transport of flying bombs. We knew  “We had Panzer divisions and their equipment—the enemy had also by now that air attack on the railways was having the most positions, in established a supply point there. This time Bomber Command serious effect on the fighting power of the German army; fuel road nets, tr attacked in daylight and dropped 1100 tons of bombs; the Panzer and motor transport were being kept from the battlefield, rein- for us to mo visions had to call off the planned attack. forcements were held back for long periods, and the Panzer  210 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  load which could be dropped in any given 24 hours. The first daylight attacks were against coastal targets, where it was un- likely that the enemy fighters would have time to engage our fighter escort in strength. The targets were the enemy’s fleet of light naval vessels in Le Havre and Boulogne, which were attacked on June 14th-15th. They were attacked just before sunset, when we could be certain that the vessels would be out of their concrete shelters and collected together in the harbours, getting ready to operate during the night. These attacks were rightly considered of extreme importance by Shaef; the enemy had already shown us how dangerous these light vessels armed with torpedoes could be against shipping in the Channel and if they had been able to operate successfully at this time the results would have been very serious for the invasion.  There could be no more convincing demonstration of the effectiveness of air power than these two operations. Within twenty-four hours, at wholly negligible cost to our forces, the enemy lost all power of seriously disrupting the passage of convoys to Normandy. At Le Havre very nearly every ship in dock, more than 60 all told, were sunk or damaged, and at Boulogne 28 vessels were sunk and many others damaged. In all, some 130naval and auxiliary craft were put out of action, virtually the whole o