ubtedly they took the main idea of the strategic use of air i power from the R.A.F, and only because of the incredible efficiency lof their industrial organisation were they able to produce strategic  52 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  moment. Having in mind what was being done at that time to produce heavy bombers in Britain I said out loud as we turned away from the scene: “Well, they are sowing the wind.” Portal also made some comment to the same effect as mine, that the enemy would get the same and more of it.  If the Germans had gone on using the same force for several nights against London and if the majority of aircraft had got to the target they would have got the whole of London in flames. The fire tornado they would have raised would have been worse than anything that happened later in Hamburg and the whole of London would have gone as Hamburg went.  We were then well in the war and entirely on our own. There was no reason why anybody should be fool enough to join us. Nobody then anticipated that the Germans would be idiotic enough to kick Russia into the war, though’ in fact Hitler had already made his plans to do so, or the Japs idiotic enough to kick America into it; it looked then likea complete show-down between Germany and ourselves alone. That being so, it was obviously outside the bounds of possibility to invade the Con- tinent, though the British army wished to make plans for doing so, and there therefore remained three alternatives. The first was to give in, which was unthinkable. The second was just to sit down, accept a stalemate, and defend ourselves, which in the long run would be impracticable and absurd and mean eventually a victory to Nazidom. The third was to get at Germany by the only means left to us, which was by the bombing offensive.  I most certainly regarded this, not only as the only alternative then available to us, but also as an entirely practicable method of beating the enemy, provided only that we got on quickly enough to keep ahead of the