n the survival of a weapon in order to ensure the survival of the service which uses it are as immediate as they are disastrous. There is no better example of the tendency to cling to old weapons than the history of the battleship in the last quarter of a century. Even now, when the absolute mastery of the aircraft over surface ships has been completely demonstrated, the American admirals have staged an exhibition of atom bombing against capital ships, as though there could be any need to study the effect of atom bombs on warships when a 12,000 pound bomb filled with ordinary explosive had already taken 100 feet out of the side of the Tirpitz and capsized and sunk her ina matter of minutes. And, as if this was not enough, there is the example of the Bismarck, which was reduced to perambulating slowly in a circle, with no power to protect herself, by a torpedo from a single aircraft which hit her in the rudder, and the example of what remained of the German navy after the Zirpitz had gone, when most of the rest of the enemy’s major units were sunk, set on fire, or capsized by ordinary 1000 Ib. bombs. And in the Pacific, too, there were many examples of aircraft defeating capital ships. The army’s reaction to the atom bomb is not less optimistic; it is argued that such bombs cannot be used in the battelfield without wiping out all the troops on both sides, a theory which overlooks the fact that modern armies are useless without an industrial civilisation behind them and that such a civilisation would obviously be the first objective for the atom bomb. After this had done its work, an enemy army could be arrested by the police.  The consequence of being tied to one weapon were often very tragic. I shall never forget how Admiral Tom Philipps and his men went down with the Prince of Wales. He and I had worked for years together on the Joint Planning Committee and shared the same lodgings in Ebury Street. He was a delightful man, and very able and hard working. But he wou