fact that the enemy would obviously do everything possible to increase the defences of the place after the first attack. This warning would, it was hoped, ensure that the crews would make even greater efforts than usual to destroy the target in one attack. They were to bomb from 8000 feet, much below the usual operational height. ‘  We had to accept the grave risk of operating in moonlight against a distant target close to many fighter defended areas, but everything possible was done to protect the bomber force. The route taken was almost the same as that used in previous attacks on Berlin, and in order to make the enemy think that Berlin was going to be the target, a small force of Mosquitoes was sent to attack it.  About 600 aircraft were dispatched on the night of August  182 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  place, a large research establishment and factory on the shores of the Baltic, at Peenemunde.  On July 7th I held a conference at my headquarters to consider the best method of attacking this objective. It must be remem- bered that at that time our only successful attacks on single factories in Germany had been made by small forces of exception- ally experienced crews, either in daylight, or, as in the attack on the Heinkel aircraft works at Rostock in the spring of 1942 or in the shuttle attack on the Zeppelin works at Friedrichshafen, when there was an unusually good chance of identifying the target by night. In the attack on Peenemunde, I knew that I should have to use the main force to ensure the destruction of a target of such great strategic importance; and that the attack would have to be made in moonlight; there could be no question of trusting only to H2S for the identification and marking of a target of this nature and Peenemunde was far beyond Oboe range. Even in moonlight, it would be an extremely difficult task to destroy the whole establishment. Its buildings lay scattered in a narrow strip along the coast line and there was obviously a great risk of wasting m