rol of the air over the Channel in the autumn of 1940 could no longer be attained. What Hitler wanted was protection from air attack for a seaborne invasion and at that time our fighters could not have been a serious threat to shipping. In those days there were no rockets or bombs on fighters, and the protection he wanted was therefore against bombers.  It was definitely Bomber Command’s wholesale destruction of the invasion barges in the Channel ports that convinced the Germans of the futility of attempting to cross the Channel, especially as Fighter Command’s victory meant that our bombers could have fighter cover over the Channel if necessary and so could attack by day in addition to their normal operations by night. Our attacks on the barges began in July of 1940, well before the main air battle of Britain developed, and were highly successful. They were carried out by night and here it was of decisive importance that we could identify and hit coastal targets, even on a moonless night, unless the weather was very unfavour- able. The Channel ports proved such easy targets that it eventually became the custom to allot the routine bombing of these ports to crews in the final stages of their operational training, freshmen, as they were called. Wing Commander Guy Gibson, V.C., has described in his book Enemy Coast Ahead how the ports were allotted to bomber stations and the individual basins in the ports to squadrons. The crews studied photographs of the ports taken day by day and were easily able to count the barges they had smashed. Stations and even squadrons had their own “private” docks—and great was the competition to bust all the barges in them.  In the past I had done a good bit of ditch-crawling in the French canals and rivers and sailing round the French coasts,  42 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  of the planning for them. There were occasions when the Air Staff had to refuse to attack targets chosen by the French Com- mand because we knew that the attack would have caus