embargo had at all costs to be kept secret from the enemy, and so it was impossible to let flying personnel know exactly why they were required to be more careful than ever before not to waste a single aircraft.  I returned to England in February, 1942, and was appointed Commander-in-Chief, Bomber Command. Though I myself had not been connected with the bomber offensive since I left 5 Group at the end of 1940, it would be as well for the sake of continuity to give a brief account of the Command’s operations in the meanwhile, up to the point when I took over in February, 1942.  In December of 1940 the Command gradually began to drop its policy of attacking with entirely inadequate forces keypoint  factories which were supposed to constitute a bottleneck in the German war industry. That month an attack was made on an industrial area—a genuine industrial area where there were  IN THE AIR MINISTRY AND U.S.A. 67  scarcely any houses but a lot of factories, railway yards, and so forth—in Mannheim. All the Command’s available aircraft were put into a single attack, whereas previously it had been the policy to send small batches of aircraft to a number of different targets on the same night. This attack on Mannheim may be considered the Command’s first attempt at a concentrated attack; the principle that all the available force should be concentrated on one target seems an obvious policy for a very small bomber force, but it was not given effect until then. It seems to have been thought that roo aircraft were too large a force for an attack on an individual factory, and, in fact, the reason given at the time for attacking a group of industrial targets instead of single ones was that the Command had expanded. Afterwards we discovered that a force of two or three hundred heavy bombers—the Com- mand had none of these in December, 1940—was not too large for an attack on a single important factory.  The attack on Mannheim caused an appreciable amount of damage and in consequence