th the USAAF,  SUMMING UP 267  carried out a campaign against the enemy’s oil supplies which in the spring of 1945 left all the German armed forces without fuel. In the war at sea our minelaying campaign sank or damaged over 1000 ships, and bombing virtually destroyed the enemy’s light surface forces in the Channel and about half the number of heavy warships—including the Tirpitz, the Lutzow, and the Scheer—sunk by all methods during the war.  These far-reaching successes were not gained without grievous casualties. During the whole period of the war approximately 125,000 members of air-crew entered Bomber Command units. During the period of my Command alone it is estimated that nearly 44,000 men were killed, about half that number injured, and in addition more than 11,000 men held prisoner by the enemy. Seven thousand one hundred and twenty-two aircraft were lost on all operations during this period. Yet these casualties were far lighter than were anticipated and the rate progressively fell as against the steady increase which was expected.  There are no words with which I can do justice to the air-crew who fought under my command. There is no parallel in warfare to such courage and determination in the face of danger over so prolonged a period, of danger which at times was so great that scarcely one man in three could expect to survive his tour of thirty operations; this is what a casualty rate of five per cent on each of these thirty operations would have meant, and during the whole of 1942 the casualty rate was 4.1 per cent. Of those who survived their first tour of operations, between six\ and seven thousand undertook a second, and many a third, tour. It was, moreover, a clear and highly conscious courage, by which the risk was taken with calm forethought, for their air-crew were all highly skilled men, much above the average in education, who had to understand every aspect and detail of their task. It was, furthermore, the courage of the small hours, of men vi