eased to mention any specific dates when the V-weapons could be expected. There was never, of course, any question of putting a complete stop to the use of V-weapons by bombing Peenemunde; we knew very well by then that if the  LONG RANGE ATTACKS 185  enemy chose to give first priority to the production of anything, a single attack on any plant could only cause a delay of a month or two at the most. But in the war of V-weapons time was everything and every delay we could cause the enemy, however brief, was thoroughly worth while.  The destruction of Hamburg was, and remained, the greatest success gained by the use of H2S; by itself, it would have more than justified the time and labour spent on developing equipment. But H2S continued to be an uncertain bombing aid, and not only when used against Berlin; it was the exception rather than the rule for an attack which depended on H2S marking to go com- pletely according to plan. A new type of H2S was, however, expected before long, which it was hoped, would give a much clearer definition of landmarks; this was H2S Mark III, working on a shorter wave length. But in the meanwhile, in the autumn of 1943, the ordinary type of H2S did bring about a few remark- able successes. In a devastating attack on Kassel on the night of October 22nd-23rd, more than go per cent of the whole bomb load fell on the target and attacks on Mannheim on the night of September 5th-6th and on Hanover on October 8th-gth were extremely successful. Towns were now being chosen for attack because they were centres of German aircraft production and in these and later attacks on other large cities the direct damage to aircraft assembly and component factories was very heavy.  By the end of September, 1943, H2S was being supplied to the main force; all the heavy aircraft of the Pathfinder Force were by then equipped with it. A question of policy then had to be decided, whether H2S should continue to be used as a Pathfinding device, or whether it should be