he 21st Army Group. d Wesel once again the Rhine was crossed and pied by a Commando force which sustained it had been expected that this would prove a m. In a message to me after the attack on : of March 23rd-24th, Field Marshal Mont- grateful appreciation for the quite magnifi- ou have given us in the Battle of the Rhine. esel last night was a masterpiece and was a tking possible our entry into that town before the allies had crossed the Rhine and struck we were ordered to stop all strategic bombing, »viously at hand, but we continued to attack ach centres of organised resistance, together vay communications, as still confronted the  period the Admiralty continued to worry avy and in particular, in the autumn of 1944, our own battleships with their usual large lary craft, were kept hanging about at home should decide to send the poor old lone Zirpitz : that some use might be found for these large avy in the Pacific. I was accordingly asked to itastic “war” between these dinosaurs which managed, at great expense and after vast re from their long overdue extinction. I was io, but only if this did not seriously interfere nt operations; I gave an undertaking that Tirpitz in our spare time. In September the Alten Fjord, in the North of Norway, and neasters carrying a normal bomb load. I nd No. g Squadrons to a base in Russia with Tirpitz on the way back to England with apacity bombs; by attacking from the East ance of taking the enemy by surprise and of ortion of the bombs before the smoke-screen ap for the protection of the battleship could er. The plan worked fairly well in so far as 't a sight on her and the Tirpitz was hit by n the bows, the only place in which she could The damage was not very obvious in air  1 there could be no doubt that the ship had  254 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  Vith on December 26th. Many roads met in this town, which was right in the centre of the bulge made by the enemy advance, and every one of them was blocked by our attack; it was not even possib