Arabs had been led  had got instead British ck-in-Office officials; the country were then being t they were still numerous ter some months of hard oth sides. The military 1 the army to the R.A.F. that time the newspapers cut down overwhelming suggesting that we should ponsibilities as Irak. If we d put to it for oil during he control of the country Winston Churchill’s—was st of October, 1922. Four  20 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  to supply us with them. Any of the new equipment in the hands of the Disposal Board could have been bought by the Indian Government at scrap-metal prices to make good our terrible deficiencies. It was no joke to fly over the mountains on the frontier with worn-out and out-of-date equipment, where a forced landing meant probably being killed outright in the crash or, if you survived this, a still less pleasant death on the ground. In this, as in all the R.A.F.’s many operations over savage countries, including Germany, capture by the natives was one of the worst things we had to fear.  Lord Montagu wrote a letter to The Times and this raised such astink at home that Sir John Salmond was sent out from England to inquire into the charges. The moment it was known that Salmond was being sent out, the attitude of the Army High Command to us completely changed. They obviously panicked. Mobilisation stores were opened up and all the spares which we had been unable to obtain for a year and more in the past were rushed up to us before he could reach India.  I well remember that during one of our expeditions on the frontier, one of the less pleasant types of general came up to see us from army headquarters. I was operating with my last four aeroplanes, the last four in flying condition, if you could call it that, in the whole of India. The general told us that we were to stop operating until we got further operational orders from headquarters, on which I said I would take my machines back to Peshawar, get them under cover, and nurse them there until we were want