hey were running the show without having to take the responsibility for the results. As far as my own staff was concerned, I quickly disabused them of that attitude. I stopped subordinates from writing to Commanders-in-Chief saying that they were “ directed” to say this, that, and the other. I looked upon Commanders-in- Chief in the field as responsible people who were not to be bothered by the trumpery opinions of young Jacks-in-office who felt that they could blow themselves up with the full authority  B.O. 49 D  50 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  of the Air Council. But the same thing began again when I left the Air Ministry and was myself a Commander-in-Chief,  It has always been my principle to prevent negative-minded- ness amongst my staff and wherever I have held a Command, until the time when I went to Bomber Command, I always issued a definite order that, while the head of any branch of the staff could say “yes” to anything which the units asked for from headquarters, I was the only person entitled to say “no.” At Bomber Command itself I had slightly to modify that rule; the force and the staff were too large and the pace too hot for it to be workable. But 1 always instructed the heads of departments to reserve negative replies for themselves and to disabuse their juniors of the idea that they were running the show, or were there for any purpose but to help the Units.  I was greeted on arrival at the Air Ministry with stacks upon stacks of files from every department of the Air Staff, each file arguing from the general to the particular against the reduction of any member of the staff in a particular department. Much of the Air Ministry, in fact, seemed to be spending the greater part of its time in justifying its own existence. This was a legacy from my predecessor, who had suggested reducing the staff. It was quite obvious that to discuss every individual appointment mentioned in the files would offer no solution and would take up all my time. A much simpler and more e