ng all our plans for the future on the hypothesis that it would do all that was claimed for it. And, in any case, GH, like all naviga- tional aids dependent on ground stations, was limited in range, whereas Germany’s synthetic oil plants were scattered all over the country and many of them were far to the east.  GH exactly reversed the method of Oboe. Whereas the Oboe ground stations made the first transmissions, which were received by the aircraft and re-radiated back to the ground stations, the first GH transmissions were made by the aircraft. The advantage was that the bomber crew could find their position at any time they chose, and as I said above, that a fair number of aircraft could use GH simultaneously. The main disadvantage by com- parison with Oboe, was that the necessary calculations, which,  THE OFFENSIVE AGAINST OIL 227  with Oboe, were made at the ground stations, had to be made in the aircraft with GH. Obviously such work would, in general, be more efficiently done in a ground station, where the men could be picked for this particular job and where they would not be distracted by the enemy. As against this, where a number of aircraft bombed on their own GH fixes this would tend to cancel out the cumulative errors that arose from a system that could only be used by one aircraft at a time.  Like everything else, GH was supplied to us some time after it had been promised. But by Octoberof 1943 four Lancaster squadrons, equipped with modified bomb-doors for the dropping of 8000 Ib. bombs, could have operated with it. This was too late in the year, at this stage of the war, to make good use of the equipment, since with the winter nights coming on the Command would be required to operate in full strength against distant targets out of range of GH and, in particular, the Battle of Berlin was due to begin.  But one light experimental attack was made with GH on the night of November 3rd-4th against the Mannesmannrohrenwerke on the outskirts of Dusseldorf, and