; he finally turned to me and said: “I believe you, and I will support you to the finish.” He certainly did as he said, and without his support and that of the Daily Telegraph life would have been much more difficult than it was; and it was difficult and wearing enough.  Though I wanted no publicity for myself and did not wish anything I said to be quoted, mainly on grounds of security, I was far from overlooking the importance of getting support in the Press. It was the greatest help to get the facts fairly presented and, on occasion, to have something published to set against the nonsense which gets written in wartime when correspondents do not know the facts and, “for reasons of security,” are not told them. I have had a good deal of experience of correspondents both in America and England. In America I found that corres- pondents never let you down and that you could give them “off the record” stuff straight away. It was just the same with the best of the English correspondents, only more so, because the best of the English correspondents were more intelligent. But it was obvious to me that the Press was being treated in such an extraordinarily cautious manner by the Air Ministry that it was by no means easy to get journalists of repute to visit Bomber Command and its stations.  The Air Ministry had certainly had the idea that it would be a good thing to get the support of the Press and to have the operations of the Air Force reported as fully as possible. No doubt it was hoped to compensate in this way for the obvious inability of the Air Ministry, by comparison with the ministries of other services, to get the attention and the favour of those who matter; public support was to be called in to redress the balance. For this purpose a huge Public Relation Department was set up, too large to do the work without everybody interfering with everybody else, usually with people at the top who knew very little about the Press and even less about air matters, and who wer