en going on. We got quite worked up about it, but it turned out that it was only a training aircraft that had gone slightly adrift over the Bay. We had understood that casualties were not negligible. Early war fever twice in one war (we had enough at home) was an odd experience.  I was also rung up by an old and much valued friend of mine who owned a factory at Trenton, New Jersey. He told me that  he was making up the factory’s A.R.P. layout and wanted my advice about how to deal with incendiary bombs—would I tell him what they did in England? So I explained that one got a long-handled shovel and, holding the lid of a dustbin as shield, one picked up the bomb and put it in a heavy iron bucket or slung it out of the window. I concluded by saying that if he would  B.O. E  BOMBER OFFENSIVE  64  dominions and colonies made any serious conti the wars of the British Empire. I have been an one does in almost every history or novel about the past, what magnificent horsemen and “nat the colonial troops were, as compared, by impli British cavalryman or the British infantryma ridden with colonial troops and shot with cok been shot at by colonial troops, and I have no hes in saying that the dominion and colonial tr average, with remarkably few individual excepti horsemen and damned bad shots unless and unti put through the standard riding school proced when horsemen meant something, and the stz drill of the armed forces. After which they are worse than the British themselves. I have mys‘ great amusement a complete regiment of thes¢ shots,” over 500 of them, open fire at half a doi targets out in the desert at 500 yards range with Later I examined the targets for myself and fc 2500 rounds fired precisely three hits had been sc no doubt that if they had been put through a  course these 500 “hard riding hard shooting” have been just about as good as the ordinary Bri —and no better.  There is, in fact, nothing to choose betwee: and colonial or dominion troops except that tl in gen