e done if the target, or a specified alternative, could not be identified.  The idea that the main object of bombing German industrial cities was to break the enemy’s morale proved to be wholly un- sound; when we had destroyed almost all the larger industrial cities in Germany the civil population remained apathetic, while the Gestapo saw to it that they were docile, and, in so far as there was work left for them to do, industrious. But it seemed quite a natural opinion in 1941. The argument was that the German nation had been enduring a frightful strain since 1933, when it first began to work for rearmament. The quick and easy victories they had been promised did not always come and certainly did not bring the end of the war; meanwhile, their menfolk were dying by the hundred thousand in Russia. England, with America’s help, was getting stronger every day; the U-boats were not stopping this inevitable process. They had been told that England was defeated, and, before that, they had been promised they would never be bombed; what, then, ‘must be the effect of English bombers dropping four thousand pounders night after night? It was also believed that in the last war the rot started from within; this belief, that Germany had been defeated in 1918 because of a crack in morale on the home front had, of course, been vigorously put about by the Nazis themselves. There was also the fact that after the policy of attacking key factories  BOMBER COMMAND 79  had broken down, no obvious alternative except an attack on morale presented itself at once; it was only after careful study of the blitz in England that it was observed how immediate and serious was the effect on war production itself of the destruction of large town areas. Added to this was the fact that the Air Force, through no fault of its own, had unfortunately got itself a good deal mixed up with political warfare, and so with questions of morale, in the beginning of the war. First there were the leaflet raids, then