oblem is moving reserves and material at the right moment to the right place.”  For a whole fortnight after D-Day the weather was most un- favourable for bombing, with continuous low cloud, more often than not completely unbroken. In thé circumstances it was far more difficult for the American heavy bombers to operate than it was for my Command; the Americans were compelled to cancel many operations and in those which they were able to carry out many sorties were abortive. On the other hand, Bomber Command was able to attack from below cloud, even when the cloud base was at 2000 feet, in operations in the invasion area. On every one of the seven nights after D-Day Bomber Command was able to operate, mostly against roads and railways of im- mediate tactical importance, and, with the American heavy bombers largely inactive, this was of critical importance for the success of the invasion. Besides bombing railways, we were able to block essential road junctions by blowing up buildings round them and choking the cross-roads with debris; this is just what the R.A.F. had tried and failed to do in the Battle of France with wholly inadequate forces and no aids to navigation; we were now able to keep the German reserves out of the battlefield during a most critical period by a whole series of heavy and extremely accurate attacks.  But tactical bombing of the German lines of communication was very far from being our sole commitment. Within a few days of the landing in Normandy we were called upon to take part in a long campaign against German synthetic oil plants in Germany and, as soon as the first flying bombs were launched, to give very high priority to the new flying bomb launching sites and supply depots in the Pas de Calais. Besides this there was an even more urgent call to destroy the enemy’s large fleet of E-boats and other light naval craft in the Channel which the Navy thought an extremely serious threat to the invading army’s sea communi- cations.  There was only o