ience in my aeroplane?” That sugpes- tion he again accepted enthusiastically, whereupon I pointed out to im tha the harpoon was not ballistically very sound, Why’ ive it alisic properties to enable it to be more accurately To this heagred, but not being knowledgeable on the of ballistics he asked me for my help, Whereupon 1 sketched for him on pape, instead of the harpoon an article H  Shaped exactly ikea bomb, This he agreed, shoud certainly ,ifithit the Zepplin, Lneplid: “That is precisely w have four bombs hanging under my aeoplane a the present moment.” He was furious, and went off in the local taxi, He was  ut one ofa legion, more ot les ited into the RA, as a regular after the wat, [had beni the job so long that thought might aswel continue. 1 had become a major by the end of the way, and was,  FACING THE WAR 19  quite unexpectedly granted a permanent commission as squadron leader in the R.A.F. It was to me a heartbreaking decision not to return to Africa, but by then I had a family. I still felt the urge to return to the sunshine, and after many applications I managed to get transferred to India, where I commanded a squadron on the North West Frontier. In 1919 the Amir of Afghanistan launched a holy war against India, expecting that a general uprising of the Moslem population would follow. This did not happen and he was quickly driven back into his own country. One 20 Ib. bomb in his palace grounds decided him. But his attempt exacerbated the normal troubles among the warlike tribes on the North West Frontier, and especially in Waziristan; these tribes have always been difficult to control; they inter- mittently sympathise and intrigue with the Afghans, inhabit the wildest of country where it is difficult to reach them, and are always glad of an opportunity to fight. The army had the job of controlling them but the Air Force contributed some squadrons of Bristol fighters and D.H.gs.  My service on the North West Frontier was always to remain in my mind as a b