d Intelligence, and after a year I became head of the Air Ministry Planning Department, which meant that I was a member of the Joint Planning Committee, with Ronald Adams and Ted Morris at various times the army representatives, and Tom Phillips and Daniels at various times the naval representatives. I stayed at the  24 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  depression but no astonishment, that since the last war the army had reduced its artillery and machine-gun content to almost pre-1914 level in addition to abolishing the Tank Corps. I used to get into trouble there occasionally. I remember a one-time C1.G.S. giving us a lecture in the course of which, looking pointedly at me as the sole surviving airman on the course, he, to all intents and purposes, dared me to challenge his assertion that Gibraltar was so small that a bomber could not even hit the place; he then asked me what percentage of hits on Gibraltar I would consider reasonable. I replied 99 per cent, allowing for a 1 per cent hang-up on the bomb racks. He was much upset at this answer, which created considerable amusement among the students on the course. But he asked for it. In the same way Iremember getting into hot water when I was asked in my turn, after a week’s intensive study of tank warfare (and this at a time when the army had just got rid of the Tank Corps) to give my opinion of the week’s work. I included in my answer a remark to the effect that, after I had watched the army mind at work disposing of the tank as a useless thing because it could not do exactly what the cavalryman and his horse had always done and in precisely the same way, I was sure the army would never succeed in choosing a tank that would meet all their requirements until somebody invented tanks that ate hay and thereafter made noises like a horse.  I was at least once asked to leave, during my first year, but after the second I was asked to stay on another two years as an instructor. That prospect appalled me. Nevertheless, I made many very g