at is precisely why I have four bombs hanging under my aeroplane at the present moment.” He was furious, and went off in the local taxi. He was but one of a legion.  I more or less drifted into the R.A.F. as a regular after the war; I had been in the job so long that I thought I might as well continue. I had become a major by the end of the war, and was  FACING THE WAR 19  ite unexpectedly granted a leader in the RAF return to Aftica, but by then  the North West Frontier.  launched a  . bomb attempt exacerbate  these tribes  wildest of country where it always glad of an o of controlling them but the Ai of Bristol fighters and D.H.  in my mind asa bitter remin or any other forces equippe  keeping our aircraft serviced  blew up on the frontier, out my crews in aircraft whi  to the Air Ministry, because of Beaulieu, who was visiti stations and saw for himsel existed. For instance, it was  ave always been difficult to control; they inter mittently sympathise and intrigue with the Afghans, inhabit the  ortunity to fight, The army had the job  My service on the North West Frontier was always to remain  control of another and older service and subordinated tot! uses of previously existing weapons, We lacked everything in th way of necessary accommodation and spares and materials fo  any shortage of was demands for our services when the troul  permanent commission as squadron  .A.F, It was to mea heartbreaking decision not to  Thad a family, 1 still felt the urge  to return to the sunshine, and after many applications I managed to get transferred to India, where I commanded a squadron on  In 1919 the Amir of Afghanistan  oly war against India, expecting that a general uprising of the Moslem population would follow. This did not happen and he was quickly driven back into his own country. n his palace grounds decided him, But his the normal troubles among the warlike tribes on the North West Frontier, and especially in Wazirista  ny  is difficult to reach them, and are  ir Fo