ears of disarmament. . journey to America. Palestine and ag ahead to a bomber’s war.  39 I was on my way home from en Air Officer Commanding R.A.F. during one of the worst of the period- \ the Anglo-Jewish-Arab controversy. : teaching the British army the ad- effectiveness of air power. My wife trived off Plymouth on a bright and the breakwater, some naval multiple »s”—resumed their firing at sleeve I was depressed to see how ineffective ntrast, after being abroad for a year, : preparations on every hand as we lbury. I remember my wife asking circular patterns in the foredecking it covered the sites which had been t; the ship was obviously destined e event of war. She was in fact the the bottom of the Denmark Straits, like so many of these poor armed ssimony of governments.  should be at war within a matter of ting man I knew that I had absolutely iing to lose by war. If the regular yung enough when war breaks out ippled during the period when the forces ready to come to the support e is too old for active service or a  9  Chapter One  FACING THE WAR  Arriving in England from Palestine in 1939. Certainty of war. Appointment as Air Officer Commanding No. 5 Bomber Group. My service career. Previous experience of air war. The last war and “ police bombing” in the East. The years of disarmament. The Army Staff College. A journey to America. Palestine and Montgomery. Looking ahead to a bomber’s war.  Palestine, where I had been Air Officer Commanding R.A.F.  Palestine and Transjordan during one of the worst of the period- ical rebellions resulting from the Anglo-Jewish-Arab controversy. I had had there a busy year teaching the British army the ad- vantages, and the rebels the effectiveness of air power. My wife and I returned by ship and arrived off Plymouth on a bright and blustery day. As we rounded the breakwater, some naval multiple pom-poms—“ Chicago pianos”—resumed their firing at sleeve targets towed by an aircraft. I was depressed to see how ineffective the shoot