continued to worry about the German navy and in particular, in the autumn of 1944, about the Zirfitz; our own battleships with their usual large complement of ancillary craft, were kept hanging about at home in case the Germans should decide to send the poor old lone Tirpitz to sea, and it was felt that some use might be found for these large units of the Royal Navy in the Pacific. 1 was accordingly asked to intervene in this fantastic “war” between these dinosaurs which both sides had just managed, at great expense and after vast argument, to preserve from their long overdue extinction. I was quite willing to do so, but only if this did not seriously interfere with more important operations; I gave an undertaking that we should sink the Zirfitz in our spare time. In September the Tirpitz was lying in Alten Fjord, in the North of Norway, and out of range of Lancasters carrying a normal bomb load. I dispatched No. 617 and No. 9 Squadrons to a base in Russia with orders to attack the Tirpitz on the way back to England with 12,000 Ib. medium capacity bombs; by attacking from the East there was a good chance of taking the enemy by surprise and of aiming a good proportion of the bombs before the smoke-screen which had been set up for the protection of the battleship could provide effective cover. The plan worked fairly well in so far as one bomber crew got a sight on her and the Tirpitz was hit by one 12,000 lb. bomb in the bows, the only place in which she could stand such a wallop. The damage was not very obvious in air photographs, though there could be no doubt that the ship had  254 BOMBER OFFENSIVE Mims = g§:S ss THE FINAL PHASE 257  Vith on December 26th. Many roads met in this town, which role ete eas apt, futile capital ships. Even more important an was right in the centre of the bulge made by the enemy advance, jap iatiabtiewngial ° power was Bomber Command’s prolonged and every one of them was blocked by our attack; it was not even ‘om nsw yoomad feethd weed s