irements in plywood, fitted complete in every detail, with two alternative noses hinged on to a real aircraft all ready for our inspection. The first alternative was our idea of our own requirements, and the second was Lockheed’s idea of the same thing, but showing how it could be better done by themselves—and it was this second alternative that we chose. As I was well aware that at home we were never able to get a mock-up of any description produced in less than months, I was entirely convinced that anyone who could produce a mock-up in’twenty-four hours would indeed make good all his promises—and this Lockheed’s most certainly did.  I met one very efficient aircraft manufacturer who was afflicted with verbal diarrhoea to an extent I have never known before or since. He talked me into a coma and, when I was just about to pass out, invited us to lunch with him at his home. The prospect appalled me, but there was no polite way of getting out of it. When we got to his very pleasant house outside the city and were introduced to his very charming wife, I could not help thinking, while I was still in a daze and the continuous babble went on, that it was astonishing that any woman could possibly live with a man like that. Some time later I learned the explana- tion. She was very deaf but an expert lip reader; she did not have to listen unless she looked, so she didn’t look. Afterwards I  expressed to General Arnold my astonishment at this gentleman’s capacity for talking. “Talk,” he replied, “you have never heard him talk. You ought to see him on his knees in my office, with  FACING THE WAR 29  the tears running down his face at the prospect of gaining or losing aircraft orders, and still talking.”  When the rest of the mission left America I stayed on for another week to try and see a few things in the American Air Force and to investigate the possibility of getting certain naviga- tional instruments and other equipment that we needed. I was allowed by Colonel Olds, then