the target, and if the whole squadron had been able to attack.  The breach of the Méhne Dam released a flood of one hundred and thirty million gallons, but the destruction caused by flooding was not, and was never expected to be, as serious as the subsequent shortage of water for industrial purposes. This shortage was most serious in the eastern districts of the Ruhr, but the enemy still had the water from other reservoirs whose dams were un- broken and from wells. The Eder dam was primarily intended not to provide water for industry, but to prevent flooding of agricultural land, to make the river Weser more navigable, and to supply some of the water for the Mittelland Canal. The dam held back 202,000,000 tons of water and the release of this flooded considerable areas in Kassel. Such a disaster, brought about by only nineteen aircraft, must undoubtedly have caused great alarm and despondency in Germany.  The greater number of our attacks during the Battle of the Ruhr were equally successful, but they did not always go accord- ing to plan. We were now very largely independent of the  weather, and we had even made provision for the unexpected arrival over the target of clouds thick enough to hide the target indicators. The Oboe Mosquitoes carried not only the usual target indicators but also “sky-markers,” as they were called, a  160 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  kind of firework which floated slowly downwards and which made a point of aim above the clouds. Naturaily the aim was not so accurate as when the target indicators could be seen, but the use of sky-markers did prevent the total failure of an operation and certainly produced enough damage to be worth while. It is an indication of the accuracy of Oboe that in one of the earliest experimental attacks in January, 1943, sixty per cent of a small force dispatched to Essen bombed within three miles of the aiming point by aiming at sky-markers; in all previous attacks on Essen without Oboe the highest percentage of aircraft att