bers in 1942 our expansion was limited, especially in the first half of that year, by trouble with our airfields. The need for runways of adequate length for heavy bombers was not understood, except by, those who knew something about heavy bombers and had seen and handled them.  As early as October, 1941, the Air Ministry had agreed to allow airfields of the size that became normal towards the end of the war, but it was more than a year before this policy was  102 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  introduce crews to the new ai w aircraft, no longer a pr \ : ; ‘ocess tha cnr ae a crew from Whitleys to Walineuna "Buy it aan pas ear ped a complete and thorough course, often involving ours flying together with consi ini siderable trainin; ground, was absolutely indispensa eanbaetieg pensable for the efficient handli : : i in, “ ie more complicated aircraft. Further delay was caused Pe e fact that the new aircraft had to be modified to bring phd bday the src required for operations, and this took on an yerage 400 man-hours per aircraft. I i 4 . It became vita! to : S pet ; J to carry ou oe and conversion as rapidly as possible. It cae 08 ses a mee git loss of effort if one squadron loses Sek yhile engaged in re-equipment, but if h r if 50 squadrons | i this would be equival oppi pee alent to dropping 10,000 t f ; on Germany. Every conceiv: : spe richer } 5 eivable effort was mad time taken for re-equi| i i ei sens ais pment, but in 1942 it undoubted] our effort against the ener ince Coke my and e x i E Sebo i y checked the expansion of the mee however, unlike the loss of squadrons to other Com — dish unavoidable. The effect of the introduction of heay pe ie 1942 is pies: by the fact that, although sanefiol was negligible, over the wl ¢ hole year there wz increase of 44 per cent as i ate as compared with 1 i i j ones i 941 in the weight of ped. But it must be rememb: E ered that we lack eS n acked an ee naig bh age Ng setae throughout the whole year, pee is not much difference betwei i h