oo, an enemy army ie,  ‘Theconsuence of bing to one weapon wee often very tragic Thal never forget how Adit Tom Phil pps and his ten Went down wit the Prin of Was, He and had worked for years together onthe Joint Planning Comite and shared the sume lodgings in hur Sr, He wis a dightul man, and very able and hard working, Bu be would never bring him self toad that air power cul havany serio eft on aa Operations; Joint annng Commite papers signed by him and aselfalvayssetouhis des of what the navy should do without  SUMMING UP 275  any serious regard to the air, with a subsequent qualification by me of his opinion. ;  I said good-bye to him after a meeting of the Deputy Chiefs of Staff in King Charles Street in 1941, just before he left for the Far East and I for the United States. After the loss of the Prince of Wales, Colonel “Joe” Hollis, then our secretary, reminded me of my parting words to Tom Philipps; what I had said was: “Tom, you’ve never believed in air. Never get out from under the air umbrella; if you do, you'll be for it. And as you flutter up to heaven all you’ll say is—‘ My gosh, some sailor laid a hell of a mine for me! ’” Poor Tom Philipps—he was the bravest of the brave. He and John Leach, captain of the Prince of Wales, and another old and valued friend of mine from Staff College days, walked down the side of the ship together and into the sea as she rolled over and sank.  He could have had some fighter cover, though there would not have been much of it and it would probably have been in- effective, from Buffalo fighters based at Singapore. But he would not break wireless silence to ask for fighter protection when he saw a Japanese aircraft shadowing the Prince of Wales the evening before. Well he knew that he was looking for trouble with only two ships against the Japanese fleet, but he did not regard the air as dangerous. When a second shadowing aircraft appeared the next morning he still would not break wireless silence, but the captain of the R