rom the aiming point, so much so that the whole attack might by the end have gradually shifted as much as three or four miles away from the the aiming point. The shift was always in one direction, towards the point from which the bombers approached the target. After considerable trouble, the reason for this shift was discovered. As the bombers approached the group of target indicators the bomb-aimers naturally saw these in perspective, and it is very easy to make a mistake in finding the centre of a surface seen in perspective. The reason for this can be most easily shown in a diagram. The natural tendency is to put the centre too near to the point from which one is looking at it. The result was that a large proportion of the backers-up as well as of the main force persistently undershot the aiming point, and this explains why the whole attack gradually shifted in the direction from which the bombers approached. We made an attempt to put this right by directing the backers-up to aim at the far side of the concen- tration of all the markers that could be seen, but there still remained a tendency for the attack to creep back from the aiming point; the tendency was not cured until a year later, when  17° BOMBER OFFENSIVE  Krupps at Essen had been so heavily damaged. Unfortunately both attacks were unsuccessful; the bombing concentrations were remarkably good for so distant a target, but the main force had aimed with great accuracy at markers placed a mile or two away from the aiming point.  By April we had developed a standard H2S marking technique which, with some small changes, we continued to use until the end of the war. The attack began with a wave of H2S aircraft all of which at the same moment dropped target indicators and illuminating flares. These aircraft were called “Blind Marker Illuminators” and they were followed about two minutes later by a smaller number of aircraft called “visual markers” who were to identify the target visually in the light of the fla