ed of being vengeful during our subsequent destruction of German cities, this was the one occasion and the only one when I did feel vengeful, and then it was only for the  50° BOMBER OFFENSIVE  of the Air Council. But the same thing began again when I left the Air Ministry and was myself a Commander-in-Chief,  It has always been my principle to prevent negative-minded- ness amongst my staff and wherever I have held a Command, until the time when I went to Bomber Command, I always issued a definite order that, while the head of any branch of the staff could say “yes” to anything which the units asked for from headquarters, I was the only person entitled to say “no.” At Bomber Command itself I had slightly to modify that rule; the force and the staff were too large and the pace too hot for it to be workable. But 1 always instructed the heads of departments to reserve negative replies for themselves and to disabuse their juniors of the idea that they were running the show, or were there for any purpose but to help the Units.  I was greeted on arrival at the Air Ministry with stacks upon stacks of files from every department of the Air Staff, each file arguing from the general to the particular against the reduction of any member of the staff in a particular department. Much of the Air Ministry, in fact, seemed to be spending the greater part of its time in justifying its own existence. This was a legacy from my predecessor, who had suggested reducing the staff. It was quite obvious that to discuss every individual appointment mentioned in the files would offer no solution and would take up all my time. A much simpler and more effective way of reducing staff was suggested to me. This was merely to issue a fiat that the whole of the Air Staff should be reduced by so much per cent, and no back answers; 4o per cent was put forward. We issued the fiat and as the missive crept round the corridors I almost thought I could hear the wail of despair with which the embusqués in t