Treasury’s terms. This at last brought them to their senses, though in such matters it is perhaps an exaggeration to speak of the Treasury as having senses; they are purely opportunist and have no qualms whatever about grinding the faces of the poor, that is, of the serving officer.  I was delighted when I heard that I could take my wife and small daughter with me, and still more so when we were offered passage in a battleship, H.M.S. Rodney. At one time we thought we had missed the Rodney, because we found she had already left for a much needed overhaul in the U.S. naval yards on the other side of the Atlantic. But she was then involved in the Bismarck fracas and had to return to England for more fuel before going on to America for her overhaul, so we caught her after all.  The navy looked after us with their usual hospitality and efficiency in such matters; my daughter, then aged eighteen months, had a six-foot-four marine as nanny. The only trouble with battleships as passenger vessels is that they roll like blazes, and although I am a very good sailor—this is nothing to boast about but is due to malformation of the inner ear—my wife is not. Dalrymple-Hamilton, who commanded the Rodney when the Bismarck was sunk, gave us an interesting account of the action. It will be remembered that a single torpedo from an  IN THE AIR MINISTRY AND U.S.A. 61  aircraft had hit the Bismarck’s screws and rudders and reduced them to such a state that she could only steam in a circle. While she was thus running round in circles the Rodney plugged most of her ammunition through the hulk. The Rodney closed to such short range that she had in the end depressed her guns so low as to tear up her own deck planking and slightly depress the steel decking underneath. The Rodney’s great guns were all still blis- tered and peeling and you could see where her deck planking had been patched up, but apart from this she had no other damage from this encounter except a hit by one shell fragment whi