he moment we have to maintain such forces as we have, or a reasonable proportion of them, with such weapons as they possess. But there is no doubt that to-day the atom bomb momentarily holds the field, though there is a possibility that what has hitherto been a by-product of the atom bomb, the radio- active particles which send out lethal rays, might be produced independently of the explosion of such a bomb and used as a deadly weapon against the people of large cities or large con- centrations of troops. But as things stand now, we may regard with equanimity the threats, or even the warlike gestures and advances, of any powers anywhere in the world, provided we have a few atom bombs and the means of using them. This situation will quickly pass as the scientists provide all and sundry with the new weapons and the counter-measures against them. The whole key to our defence is encouragement of science and the scientists. Whoever gets far enough ahead in science will prevail —for the time being.  Quarrels do, of course, occur within a single service and often amount to quite serious feuds between the advocates of one weapon or another. These we must expect to continue, but I do not think we need fear that if we organise a single service the quarrels between the ex-soldiers, ex-sailors and ex-airmen who have been forced to wear the same uniform will be just as destructive as before. For one thing, new men will enter the single service who will have no reason to practise the old totem worship of the horse, the battleship, the tank, or the heavy bomber. And for another there is the example of the Air Force, which in the beginning was mainly composed of ex-soldiers and ex-sailors who settled down very well together to work for the  278  Air Fo betwee: native i in ever) them c weapon of usele co-oper: and hay called tl “Deferx Suck pendent only co contem] regret 1 shows \ and eas} This do control the gow. intellige has alwz the best overwh« favour commar With fundam: have n