be long and narrow, as some obje lt were, a great many bombs would have to be wasted to ¢ ltt hitting both ends of the area. To overcome this difi 5 Group divided the attacking force into a number of se lt and instructed each of them to approach the marking poi !é1 different lines of approach and to bomb a different numi # seconds after the marking point, with the markers burning had appeared in the bomb sights. In an attack on Bremer! ' for example, a very straggling and difficult target, on the of 18th-1gth September, 1944, the force was divided int ‘ionithry sections, each with separate instructions, which in fact ; ‘tuk that the force bombed five separate aiming points to whicl * were guided by only one marking point; it would, of c ™ have taken a long time and have been excessively dangero ™ low-flying aircraft to place actual target indicators accurat "i all five aiming points. The reason for using this procedure a “jill! Bremerhaven in particular was that it is a long and narrow "tj and if the bombs had been aimed at a single aiming point Vail centre of this elongated area a great number would have ] ™" be wasted to ensure the destruction of the place. tall This attack was a comparatively primitive example Group’s methods of area bombing. A further developme use against targets which were not elongated in shape, v '  THE FINAL PHASE 247  Holland. The bombers could therefore approach to within 4o miles of the German frontier before the enemy knew of their approach, and usually the enemy had less than an hour’s warning. The enemy’s night fighters were now based on new airfields and had lost all the elaborate communication and control centres in France and Belgium. It was estimated that they needed at least forty minutes warning of the approach of our bombers if their opposi- tion was to be effective. The fighters therefore had scarcely enough time as it was, and we decided to deny them even this by jamming the early warning stations with airborne apparatus carr