orks at Augs- burg, which produced a large proportion of the enemy’s U-boat engines; the Diesel-engine shed in the midst of the very large factory was the precise target. The attack was very carefully planned; Augsburg was far beyond the then range of fighter cover, but Fighter Command laid on diversionary sweeps, which, however, did not go altogether according to plan. The Lancasters also flew at a very low level, because it was at that time difficult to detect very low flying aircraft by radar and also because this gave some protection against fighters and flak. Seven out of the twelve Lancasters were missing, a loss which was not excessive in proportion to the importance of the objective and the serious damage that was done to it, but which did demonstrate beyond all question that daylight attacks on Germany could at that time only be carried out by Bomber Command at a prohibitive casualty rate. Dusk attacks on coastal targets were still possible, but proved inaccurate. The U-boat building yards at Flensburg, Liibeck and Danzig were attacked in this way, but only those at Flensburg were hit.  In France and elsewhere in the occupied West the enemy’s defences were still so weak that we could afford to attack several  140 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  : ‘ . GETTING THE WEAPONS yl «=| APONS 143 Intercept our convoys. We laid many more than the usual number i of mines in the approaches to the U-boat bases, and these held barrier ofthe Alps and the distance of the target, and these were «the fighters and the light up U-boat sailings at a most critical time. It was also our practice easily surmounted. Against such weak defences and with the bel of Europe. Amongst to lay mines in the U-boat’s exercising grounds in the Baltic excellent visibility that was usual in the Italian climate it was Ais change and I am glad which we knew then and have since confirmed caused great delays csy to gta good concentration of atack without any age ‘Ommand was eventually and complications in U-boat c