e at Spezia on the way back. The Ze elin we ns were in themselves an important target, but a fetus peat f : carrying out this rather elaborate operation was that it Seat) help to spread the enemy defences; Friedrichshafen had ev reason to consider itself safe from attack, especially in eee tee months, and this unexpectedly deep penetration might well rT other places outside the more vulnerable areas to scream ‘iy defences, and it might prevent the defences from bein kerng a from similar areas. A “shuttle service” attack was ne a ° i tion that could be at all frequently carried out because, as I cai very well, bases outside England would not have aay ad ie facilities for maintaining and servicing heavy bombers; as Fs the arrangements on the airfield in North Africa wher been Lancasters landed were far from satisfactory. But it w a mn worth while on this occasion to keep some of our Lane vin inactive for a week or so. The attack on Fededeichilsntesl eli successful; the Zeppelin works were heavily damaged—about half its equipment was probably destroyed—and a tank engine f: ; close to the Zeppelin works was also damaged. n Kies The only possible navigational and bombing aid f  outside Oboe range was H2S. At the beginning of 1 is had very few aircraft equipped with H2S, and very little ie if h best method of using it in operations. During the cscs ite three months of 1943 we only had an average of about 1 incr ft equipped with H2S for use in any one attack, and it te obuiol 5 that bie rae — being H2S, like Oboe, would have os be tied as a Pathfinder device. Later on we mig’ e to ti ek Hf the re that H2§, unlike Shue teal ett i imited number of aircraft at the same ti i ‘ we nat ae our tactics on the use of I ia by atoll Geet aft of the Pathfinder Force. On the aha r dy that H2S would not be as cee on Db aa  aisle that some of the markers dropped on H2S alone, with no  visual identification of the target, w: ;  S arget, would scatter. To  this we used a new method of i te