ent was being planned there seemed to be no reason why we should not have the best of both worlds and add something like a thousand or so light bombers to the four thousand heavies, Unlike the Germans  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE Ior  rasped the point that any ordinary bomber is cold meat to tay okay siuteet! and so a light bomber, the Mosquito, was designed which should be at least as fast, and probably faster, than the average fighter. But in the end the wisdom of con- centrating on the heavy bomber was conclusively proved. The decisive factor was the supply of pilots; the heavy bomber carries about three times the load of the medium type, but both aircraft only need one pilot. It is certain that even with the whole resources of the Empire Training Scheme we should never have got enough pilots to fly enough medium and light eres e drop the bomb load that was dropped by the heavies. An ie course, the problem of concentrating the bomb load, if it . been carried by many light bombers instead of by a comparatively few heavies, would have been insoluble.  In January, 1942, we had an average of only forty-two heavy bombers’ available, and in December of that year we had an average of 261 heavies. In terms of squadrons, we had 36 heavy bomber squadrons at the end of the year as against 15 the ise before. In February we were operating with Hampdens, Whit! it Wellingtons, Manchesters, Stirlings, and Halifaxes, and we se two Lancaster squadrons non-operational while re-equipping wit this new type. This list excludes the light bombers of No. 2 Group. At the end of 1942 the Hampdens and Whitleys had on the Whitleys during the summer, and the Hampdens in September. The Manchesters had also proved a failure and were withdrawn from operations in June. Halifaxes formed the bulk of the heavy bomber force, Stirlings, the first of the four-engined bombers to become operational, were falling behind in number, and there were ten Lancaster squadrons operational, together with one temporarily