NSIVE  Vith on December 26th. Many roads met in this town, which was right in the centre of the bulge made by the enemy advance, and every one of them was blocked by our attack; it was not even possible to clear a way through the side-streets of the town. Two whole divisions on their way up to critical areas in the battlefield had to make a wide detour and were so much delayed that many units were unable to dig in before the allies counter-attacked. Troop concentrations at Houffalize were afterwards bombed, on the night of December 3o0th-31st and once again on the night of January sth-6th; the town was almost entirely destroyed and bomb craters over a large area hampered the movements of troops and supplies at another focal point.  The Runstedt counter-offensive was of particular interest to us at Bomber Command because it was quite clear from the reports of prisoners of war taken during the battle that the German army was getting very short of fuel and of its best tanks; the Panzer divisions invariably went into battle with many fewer tanks, and less fuel in these, than they were intended to have; they were often forced to tow each other into the battle areas. After the war the Ardennes counter-offensive was cited by Speer in answer to the question whether the German High Command were ever forced to modify, postpone, or abandon any operations because of the effects of strategic bombing. His answer to this question was a curious one; he said that the High Command never altered any plan for a projected operation on account of the effects of our air attacks. But this was not because these attacks had no effect; it was because the High Command simply refused to admit their existence or their effect. So the Ardennes counter-offensive was punctually carried out on the appointed date although Model and Dietrich had already pointed out that many essential supplies were wanting. We ali now know, as we then knew, what a forlorn hope that offensive was.  In February and March