cember. The jamming was done both by ground and by airborne equip- ment; air losses fell off appreciably after it was begun, but as this came at a time when wintry weather might be expected to reduce the efficiency of the enemy’s defences it was difficult to estimate precisely how much good the jamming did. In any case, the jamming war at this time was a minor affair by comparison with what was done later. This wholly new kind of warfare, which had been begun by Bomber Command, was eventually to develop to such a point that it became a major factor in deceiving the enemy about our intentions and action by air, sea and land on D-day.  The main objection to the use of “Window” (the strips of metallised paper) which proved to be the most important and effective of all the weapons used against enemy radar, continued  134 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  to be the fear of its effect on our own defences. It was hoped that our own radar would be developed to the point where the strips of paper would not cause any very serious interference, but even so, defensive radar might never be quite so effective after its introduction as before. When I continually pressed for the introduction of this weapon, other objections were also made. It appeared that we were short of suitable plant for the manu- facture of the strips in quantity, and that it would be very difficult to get priority for the supply of aluminium needed. There can be little doubt that if we had been able and allowed to use this weapon in the first months of 1943 we should have saved hundreds of aircraft and thousands of lives and would have much increased the accuracy of our bombing.  In December of 1942 we had, as a daily average, 78 medium and 261 heavy bombers available in the front-line squadrons. The number of heavy bombers had therefore increased by 219 during the year, and the number of medium bombers decreased in pro- portion. Thus we were now able, at the end of 1942, to drop a much greater bomb load than at the beginnin