er necessary. And now that France had been cleared of the enemy the army’s demands for our services, though by no means few, were rather less frequent; for the moment Bomber Command was only asked to clear the approaches to Antwerp, and when this port could be used the enemy’s advantage over the allies in the matter of communications, which had had to be countered by air attack, would no longer be as great as before.  Antwerp had been occupied by the 2nd Army without any serious fighting on September 3rd, but it was useless to the allies while the enemy occupied Walcheren and other fortresses on the mainland at the mouth of the Scheldt. Operations against the enemy positions at the approaches to Antwerp were somewhat delayed by the attempt to force a crossing of the lower Rhine at  THE FINAL PHASE 237  Arnhem and Nijmegen by airborne divisions, but Bomber Com- mand began attacking them early in October. Walcheren is almost entirely below sea-level and the water is kept back by a sea-wall more than 200 feet thick at its base, tapering upwards until it is 60 feet thick at the top. On this wall, and inland, the enemy had a number of powerful batteries which would have made any landing a perilous if not impossible operation. Bomber Command was required to attack the batteries themselves, together with others in an old fort on the mainland, and at the same time to breach the sea-wall in a number of places with a view to drowning the batteries inland. During September and October 6000 tons of bombs were dropped en the batteries and on October grd the first attack was made on the sea-wall. 243 Lancasters made a breach within an hour, and other Lancasters which I had sent to follow up this first attack with 12,000 Ib. bombs were able to report that the object of the attack had already been achieved and to bring back their bombs, which we badly needed, since, as I have said before, these were always in short supply. The sea began to spread over the island and swamped four ba