sure to bear on the Boche, and certainly only one way of defeating him; that was by air bombardment. It consequently looked as it was going to be a straight fight between our own and the enemy’s production of heavy bombers. We might be helped by whatever we could beg, borrow, or buy from America, but getting aircraft from America was, as I well knew (I had been there to buy them some little more than a year before) at that time a matter of hard cash, and damned hard cash at that. Lease-Lend— “the most unselfish act in history”—was yet to come.  My belief in the heavy bomber as the predominant weapon for the war, and my views on the probable course that the war would take, were based on past experience, and to explain them I shall have to go back to the past. I may as well begin at the beginning.  My father was an Indian Civil servant, and my parents were on leave in England when I was born in 1892. I was not regarded as the most promising member of the family; at any rate, although one of my brothers was sent to Eton and the other to Sherborne, I went to a less well-known school. My father had always wanted to be a soldier, but deafness prevented him, and he fathered his ambition on us. He dearly wanted me to go into the army. I was dead set against it. And as it was either the army or the colonies, I plumped for darkest Africa. After some domestic discord over the matter I accepted a ticket and a fiver and went to Rhodesia. I was then sixteen. My first job there was gold mining. Then I took to driving coaches. They were horse coaches at first, but the horses were always dying of fever and we used mules and finally cars instead: I drove some of the very first cars that came to Rhodesia. I also took to general farming, tobacco, maize, and cattle. It was hard work, but the best of all lives. I was, and I still am, a Rhodesian. I never wanted to leave Africa. I have always intended to return, and now at last I am back there,  In August, 1914, | was away in the bush, an