the code name of S.N.2, worked on a wavelength such that it could be jammed or confused by a type of Window already in use against the enemy’s early warning system. We had in hand a small but sufficient stock of this type of “ Window” and decided to use this at once, without waiting fora trial. We used it against the enemy night fighters for the first time on the night of July 23rd-24th in an attack on Kiel and it was at once proved useful. The use of the second new instrument, which had the code name Flensburg, was discovered when a night fighter pilot took up the Junkers 88 and used it in an exercise against our bombers. It was found that by this equipment the enemy could readily home on to the transmissions from a radar set with which most of our bombers had been equipped to give the crews warning of the approach of an enemy fighter. We had this warning equipment modified at once, and sent the Junkers 88 up again to see if it could intercept a considerable number of bombers which had been fitted with the modified warning equipment. It was found that the modification did no good, and the equipment was therefore discarded at once. At the same time the type of Window that was effective against the S.N.2 was tried in the same exercise against the instrument called Flensburg and it was found to be very useful against this as well. Later new types of Window were produced which were even more effective against the new equip- ment than the type originally intended for use against the early warning coastal radar which had served admirably as a stopgap.  Chapter Ten  THE OFFENSIVE AGAINST OIL  Panacea targets. A molybdenum mine. Ball-bearing factories.  Tactical objections. The raid on Ploesti. G.H. The Ministry of  Economic Warfare. The oil offensive begins, Miraculously good weather. The results of the campaign.  attacks against German synthetic oil plants, and a week after  D-Day Bomber Command was directed to take part in the same campaign by attacking the ten syntheti