OFFENSIVE AGAINST OIL 227  The loss of these squadrons for many n ound markers coud not be en, the American build-up for the main 0: _ pimsblnatdn tages itself. Even the extraordinarily suce — jybonivinancthyahn Mohne and Eder dams did not have: eh German war economy as was predicted yikes ee Ok rf and I had therefore learnt from bitter « tango sal ages; pres cold predictions with the greatest suspicior " iy wast bomb dey on their claims in advance. we vhen Oho art ly f ints ad  i  sy td een net  aha with Oboe, were made at the ground stations, had to be made in ‘indi fcorks  the aircraft with GH. Obviously such work would, in general, be more efficiently done in a ground station, where the men could be picked for this particular job and where they would not be distracted by the enemy. As against this, where a number of aircraft bombed on their own GH fixes this would tend to cancel out the cumulative errors that arose from a system that could only be used by one aircraft at a time.  Like everything else, GH was supplied to us some time after it had been promised. But by October. of 1943 four Lancaster squadrons, equipped with modified bomb-doors for the dropping of 8000 Ib. bombs, could have operated with it. This was too late in the year, at this stage of the war, to make good use of the equipment, since with the winter nights coming on the Command would be required to operate in full strength against distant targets out of range of GH and, in particular, the Battle of Berlin was due to begin.  But one light experimental attack was made with GH on the night of November 3rd-4th against the Mannesmannrohrenwerke on the outskirts of Dusseldorf, and the bombing accuracy, as far  Hula  boning eft  When Bomber Command was requil equi nthe wget a teat  synthetic oil plants in conjunction wit) gateacullalycaptelurbludet 1944, some of these factors were still pre jeqluechinkelliaxes nd  But at least we had by then the meanst tranny f iy in reasonable weather. My main objet