Force and the French occupation of the Ruhr. The French could safely ignore our protests, and they did, because we had no force with which to back them, In particular, the French had, in the previous year, 128 air squadrons, while our whole front line strength amounted to 371 aircraft. The Salisbury Committee, a sub-committee of the Committee of Imperial Defence over which Lord Salisbury presided, looked into the matter and recommended that the Air Defence of Great Britain should always be strong enough to protect us against air attack by the strongest air force within striking distance. The home defence squadrons were to be increased to 52—the whole front line strength of the R.A.F. at home and abroad was then 34 squadrons. At the same time the Salisbury Committee stopped a naive scheme of the War Office which would have left the Air Ministry powerless to control anything except civil aviation, research and experiment, and the supply of aircraft, presumably for the use of the War Office. The perennial row between the Admiralty and the Air Ministry over the Fleet Air Arm was also smoothed over for a time, and, in fact, the Royal Air Force was given permission to exist. So far  so good, but a year later the “Ten Year Rule” was officially laid down, and the result was that even in 1934 the home defence squadrons only numbered 42, of which only 29 were regular squadrons, and this in spite of the fact that, eleven years before, the Salisbury Committee had recommended the formation of  12 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  tions to near the 1914 level, and its artillery to such a point that at one time, by 1918 standards, I think they had about enough left to cover a limited advance on a front of a mile. By 1927 they had also succeeded, though not without opposition, in abolishing the Royal Tank Corps. They could thereafter settle down to what, I believe, was known as “real soldiering.” I knew well enough the army’s plan of campaign; it was a replica of the opening phases of the war in A