his effect was enormously more important than the actual damage to war production, or the effect on the morale of industrial workers, which resulted from the attack on Cologne. It was not long after the attack on Cologne that there began those changes in the order of battle of the German air force, and that drastic modification of the enemy’s aircraft production plan, which eventually stripped the German army of all air cover and of all close support from the air. An air force whose whole purpose was army co-operation had now, from the summer of 1942 onwards, to concentrate more and more on the defence of Germany and to leave the German army more and more to its own devices on the ground. In other words, we were already beginning to give that help to the Russians and to our armies in the Mediterranean which I had foreseen would be the first result of a bomber offensive. The strategic consequences of bombing Germany may be summed up in a few simple figures; in 1941, when the Germans invaded Russia the German army had the support of well over 50 per cent of the whole German air force. At the end of 1943, the German army had the support of less than 20 per cent of the whole German air force. And this change was the result of decisions made by the enemy in the summer of 1942; the decisions were forced upon him by Cologne and by the new threat of daylight operations over Germany by American heavy bombers.  A high proportion of the 3300 aircraft which supported the army when Germany first invaded Russia were bombers and dive bombers; the dive bombers rapidly became obsolete, and the  B.O. u  112 BOMBER OFFENSIVE 1 ue  continued clear all the way to the target. Nearly goo air attacked out of the total of 1047, and within an hour and a dropped 1455 tons of bombs, two-thirds of the whole load b incendiaries. The casualty rate was 3.3 per cent, with 39 air missing, and, in spite of the fact that a large part of the 1 consisted of semi-trained crews and that many more fighters