ritain, on the other hand, we were only too well placed for understanding them. In the attack on Coventry, which seemed to the enemy so successful that they proposed to make it a standard of all bombing and call any city “Coventrated” if it had endured similar damage, about one hundred acres in the centre of the town were devastated. Coventry was a large and important town, with the great majority of its inhabitants engaged in war industries; the light engineering  BOMBER COMMAND 87  industries of Coventry were almost indispensable to the pro- duction of a great range of weapons and war equipment. On the day after this attack production in all the war factories of the town was one-third of what it had been before. Some damage had been done to the factories themselves, but it was very slight compared with non-industrial damage. The loss of production was almost entirely due to the interruption of public utilities, the dislocation of transport, and absenteeism caused by the destruction, of houses, and many other causes. There was very heavy damage, for example, to sewers, water supply pipes, electric cables, gas pipes and so forth, and this had an immediate effect on production. Output was back to normal again in about two months, but there were special circumstances which led us to believe that production would not recover so quickly in Germany as in England. War industries in Britain were not fully expanded at the time of the German attacks on us, and there was therefore much labour to spare for the work of repair. A large army was also standing idle in Britain, with nothing to do except to train for a second front which then seemed infinitely remote; many hundreds of sappers could therefore be spared and they were at once rushed to Coventry to carry out immediate repairs.  After the extent of devastation in a number of towns had been compared with the loss of output in these towns over a period of months, a definite correlation was found between acreage of concentr