e apparatus as soon as it could be got into on. In June, 1941, a few experimental sorties by iped with Gee had been made over enemy territory, en ruled that no more such sorties should be made ald be used on a larger scale; this was because it that the apparatus should not fall into enemy hands its proposed use be otherwise disclosed. For it was vback to Gee that, as we knew, the enemy would be the transmissions of the ground stations when he 2m. It was taken for granted that this would eventu- ad from the first the system was given, as a working 1 operational life of anything up to five months. As aution, in the hope that the enemy would attribute accuracy of our attacks to the use of a radio beam,  Chapter Five  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE  A year of preparation. The first navigational aid. The history of Gee. Excessive optimism about its use. Experiments over the Isle of Man and Wales. Building up the force. Thirteen squad- rons taken from Bomber Command for Coastal Command and overseas. The failure of the Manchester. The Lancaster pro- duced by accident. Some critical operations. The thousand bomber attack on Cologne. A night of suspense. Churchill hears the result. A spurious broadcast.  WAS unable to begin any real bomber offensive for a whole year after I took over the Command for lack of aircraft, proper equipment and trained crews, and also because I was compelled  to use what force I had for many other purposes besides the strategic bombing of Germany. Besides destroying four Ruhr towns in the next three months, I was required to attack targets of immediate strategic importance—a euphemism for targets chosen by the Navy—to support combined operations when asked to do so, and to attack a list of factories in France, with the object of discouraging the French from working for the enemy.  But in the first few months the attack on the Ruhr was my chief concern. Everything depended on the new navigational aid, Gee ; it will be remembered that without it only one airc