aries, salvoes of 30 lb. and 250 Ib. incendiaries were dropped on the aiming point or as near to it as could be managed. Even these were not easy to see in the early stages of the attack, when the target was brightly lit up by flares,  GETTING THE WEAPONS 131  while in the later stages it was difficult to distinguish them from other incendiaries and flares. 4000 Ib. special incendiaries, which went by the name of “pink pansies,” were also tried, but these, though easily distinguishable when they burst, burnt out too soon to be of much use as a mark.  The bombing results after the formation of the Pathfinder Force were investigated by the Operational Research Section—a body of brilliant young civilian scientists and technicians at Bomber Command headquarters who did work of inestimable value in subjecting all aspects of our operations to an impartial scrutiny—and it was discovered that bombing concentration had undoubtedly increased, but at the same time another factor made the attacks as a whole hardly more accurate than they had been before. The bombing was certainly more closely concentrated round the marker bombs than it had previously been round the aiming point, but there was no advantage in this unless the marker bombs had in fact been dropped on the aiming point, which was not always the case. Any error in placing the marker bombs led the whole attack astray. This problem was always before us, but was never entirely solved even by the end of the war.  Towards the end of the year we began to get Mosquitoes equipped with Oboe and these, of course, were attached to the Pathfinder Force. The same squadron which had been used in connection with the work of bending the navigational beams used by German raiders during the Blitz and had thereafter been concerned with the development of Oboe was incorporated in the Pathfinder Force and was ready for operations in December. Aircraft equipped with H2S were also allotted to the Pathfinders and they had twelve Stirlings a