d Chiefs of Staff in Washington who at once relegated it to General of the Army Arnold and Marshal of the R.A.F. Lord Portal in combination. Portal was on the spot in England and Arnold was not and could not be; they therefore agreed to appoint deputies. Arnold appointed General Spaatz; and Portal appointed his Deputy Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sir Norman Bottomley. This was unfortunate all round, because Bottomley as a staff officer could not constitutionally exercise control of a force in the field or issue order direct to a Commander in the field. This was got over, after a fashion, by evolving a formula; orders given to me were supposed to come from Portal through the D.C.A.S. who was thus only acting as Portal’s staff officer. With this extraordinary lack of continuity and with responsibility so uncertainly poised the natural result was a multiplicity of directives embodying one change of plan after another and so cautiously worded at the end with so many provisos and such wide conditions that the authors were in effect guarded against any and every outcome of the orders issued. They were always in the happy position of being able to challenge any interpretation of any order, if they so desired. The kaleido- scopic changes of plans were in practice less important and less confusing than might be thought, because in actual fact the progress of the bomber offensive was governed nine-tenths by the weather, and one-tenth by my own judgment and decision about which of the alternatives, if any alternative offered, was to be adopted on any given occasion. These decisions I simplified  216 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  by installing a senior air staff officer in Eisenhower’s and Tedder’s pocket at Shaef and making frequent visits to Shaef headquarters myself. Having first found out what they wanted—and their requirements were given priority over any others—I could then get on with what had to be done elsewhere.  At the time of the invasion a large part of our effort was b