efined in two different ways, or possibly outlying districts were considered part of the town in one survey and not in the other. Thus the United States survey says that we destroyed 31 per cent of the houses in Hamburg, and 22 per cent of the houses in Dusseldorf, but our Operational Research Section worked it out as 61 per cent in Hamburg and 50 per cent in Dusseldorf.  The representatives of our Operational Research Section in Germany were able to revise the measurements of the extent of devastation in German cities which we had obtained during the war from air photographs; these were taken under operational conditions and did not always give complete cover of the areas concerned. Seventy German cities were attacked by Bomber Command. Twenty-three of these had more than sixty per cent of their built-up areas destroyed and 46 about half of their built-up areas destroyed. Thirty-one cities had more than five hundred acres destroyed, and many of them vastly more than 500; thus Hamburg had 6200 acres, Berlin 6427—this includes about 1000 acres of destruction by American attacks—Dusseldorf, 2003, and Cologne 1994. Between one and two thousand acres were devas- tated in Dresden, Bremen, Duisburg, Essen, Frankfurt-am-Main, Hanover, Munich, Nuremburg, Mannheim-Ludwigshafen, and Stuttgart. As an indication of what this means it may be men- tioned that London had about 600, Plymouth about 400, and Coventry just over 100 acres destroyed by enemy aircraft during the war.  It was, of course, much more difficult to get sufficient informa- tion to measure the loss of production in the devastated areas, but some assessment of this was attempted for a few sample towns.  260 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  of our successful attacks on a single large town to see that this is so. After all, Krupps was in Essen—was Essen, Rheinmetall- Borsig in Dusseldorf, the Bochumer Verein steel works in Bochum, and so on. At the same time it did not always happen that a successful attack on the main factory fo