crete shelters used to house E-boats at armour did not move forward until the morning of July 8th. North-West Le Havre were damaged by a small number of the new 12,000 Ib, The German comment afterwards was that it would have been invasion. H medium capacity bombs. very different if our troops had shown “sufficient initiative in  The bombers were also called upon to intervene even more following up the bombing.” As it was, when our armour did go  “Your st rectly in the fighting in Normandy. On the night of June forward, 24 hours later, the first objectives were taken with transportatic 14th-15th I was called upon to attack a target of immediate and scarcely a struggle, the enemy in the front line being still in in time and leeting tactical importance, a road junction at Aunay-sur-Oden, complete confusion. But after the initial success, the armour tactical deplc where a great concentration of German troops and vehicles had did not push on. bombing of een reported. The bombers dropped 1168 tons of high explosives, Shortly afterwards the view was expressed, among staff officers without you and photographs showed that everything in and around the area of the Allied Expeditionary Air Force, that as the army did not troops, your had been wiped out. On June 3oth it was learned that the and seem able to take advantage of our tactical bombing, or indeed driven out t and gth Panzers division were moving up through Villers Bocage of our attacks on the enemy’s railways, the heavy bombers might failure.” to make an attack that night; there was a network of roads here be doing more good by returning to the attack on German war  panapiee which it would be almost impossible for the enemy to by-pass industry and at the same time by bombing what bottlenecks could and it was therefore the obvious place in which to bomb the be found in the production or transport of flying bombs. We knew  “We had Panzer divisions and their equipment—the enemy had also by now that air attack on the railw