example, of special squadrons to find the target, the use of  BOMBER COMMAND 85  marker bombs with a distinctive colour to be dropped on the target, at the beginning of the attack, and so forth. Whether or no to begin an attack with fire-raising aircraft was much debated. It had been a widely accepted belief that the right time to drop incendiaries was at the end of an attack, and that at other times incendiaries did not do much harm; there was also, of course, the very real danger that crews trained to bomb fires might go straight for the enemy’s dummy fires. At this stage, in fact, the whole theory of bombing tactics was being submitted to agitated revision. Even the principle of concentration had its opponents, on the grounds that, except on really dark nights, this helped the “cat’s eye” night fighter, and because it led to congestion at home bases on landing. There were also serious fears that it might lead to collisions and to aircraft dropping their bombs on each other.  The question of the risk from collision was not finally settled until we put 1000 aircraft over Cologne in an hour and a half. Before this attack was planned the nature and extent of the risk from collision and falling bombs was investigated and found to be small, much smaller than many had expected. It was obviously much better to accept such a risk, which might mean that two or three aircraft were lost in a really heavy attack, if by doing so we could prevent the loss of 40 or 50 aircraft from night fighters and flak. Precautions had, of course, to be taken; the aircraft had all to orbit the target in the same direction, and aircraft with different operational heights had to attack at different times, so that the bombs of aircraft flying high should not hit other aircraft flying below them.  It would have taken Bomber Command longer to learn how to attack Germany if it had not been for the lessons of the German attack on Britain. We learned as much from their few successes as from their fai