rking for the enemy, did much to prevent the Germans from convertingall Western Europe into an arsenal, and while doing so supplied Coastal Command and our Air Force in the Middle and Far East with many squadrons and additional air-crew. The main attack of 1943, before its  interruption by the invasion, compelled the er  hemy tO use more  and more of his air force for the defence of Germany, thereby  267  supplies which forces without ank or damaged ae enemy’s light umber of heavy the Scheer—sunk  ithout grievous approximately ommand units. estimated that umber injured, wisoner by the ty-two aircraft these casualties te progressively cted, : to the air-crew allel in warfare danger over so \s so great that ive his tour of five per cent on at, and during cent. Of those ‘tween six\ and third, tour. It cage, by which r air-crew were : in education, f their task. It ’s, of men vir- in is virtually apprehensions out exception vith the R.A.F. must never be contacts Save se young men  hievements of ae close of the  266 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  depriving the Luftwaffe of all power of taking offensive action and fatally weakening it on the Eastern, Mediterranean, and eventually the Western front. Scarcely less important was the diversion of more and more guns, all of them dual-purpose weapons, for the defence of German cities, and Speer himself was of opinion that the German armed forces were “considerably weakened” by this. At the same time our main offensive, by the unprecedented devastation which it caused in the largest German industrial cities, reduced every form of war production and prevented the development of many new war weapons and industries. It caused the enemy to divert a major part of his effort to defence. It made heavy demands on science and man- power.  Bomber Command’s attacks in the three months before D-Day were so effective, and the new means and tactics of precision bombing were so rapidly mastered (I myself did not anticipate that we should be able to bomb th