therefore increased by 219 during the year, and the number of medium bombers decreased in pro- portion. Thus we were now able, at the end of 1942, to drop a much greater bomb load than at the beginning of the year, although there had been no significant increase in numbers of aircraft, But real expansion was now imminent, and our squad- rons were not going to be taken away from us as fast as we had trained them, although O.T.U. aircraft were still being lent to Coastal Command for anti-submarine patrols. Our expansion was greatly helped by the Royal Canadian Air Force, which provided a whole group, No. 6 Group of Bomber Command, on January Ist, 1943, as well as other squadrons outside its own Group. The Canadian Government paid the whole cost of this Group and of all the R.C.A.F.’s operational squadrons, in- cluding the cost of the fuel and ammunition they used, out of Canadian taxes and domestic loans. In January, 1943, 37 per cent of the pilots in Bomber Command belonged to the Dominion and Colonial Air Forces, and of these 60 per cent were Canadian, 40 per cent coming from other parts of the Empire—mainly from the Australian and New Zealand air forces.  By the beginning of the year 1943, with the long deferred expansion of strength at last becoming effective, I was ready to start the real offensive, with Oboe and H2S for target finding, though as yet only a few aircraft were equipped with H2S, and with permission to use some of the available countermeasures against the enemy’s air defences. We had also at last induced the  GETTING THE WEAPONS 135  authorities to supply the essential Target Indicators for which I had asked in the previous March.  In the autumn of 1942 I was being continually pressed to attack Berlin as soon as the nights were long enough to bring this objective within range. Indeed, throughout the year Berlin had been high on the priority list of targets allotted to me outside the Ruhr. But in 1942 I refused, however much I was urged, to attack Be