ith me when our attacks were at  BOMBER COMMAND qx  Air Vice-Marshal R. H. M. S. Saundby, now Air Marshal Sir Robert Saundby, was then Command S.A.S.0.—senior air staff officer—and had had that job since November, 1940. My first contact with him had been in 1922, in Irak, when he was one of my Flight Commanders in No. 45 Squadron, though we had both been in the same job during the 1914-1918 war, flying night fighters for the defence of London. I knew him to be an out- standing man in Irak, and since then he had done first-class work. He had been a lecturer at the Staff College, and had a great deal to do with planning the eight-gun fighter and so with the win- ning the Battle of Britain. His-ideas about bombing were absolutely sound, and naturally I relied enormously on his experience when I first became Commander-in-Chief, as I did throughout the war; he was with me at Bomber Command the whole time, and left at the same time as I did. He was a keen fisherman, which was why all the main German towns that were our targets had the names of fish for code names, Whitebait for Berlin, Trout for Cologne, and so on. He had lately taken up collecting butterflies and moths and had debated whether to give their names to our German targets, but there were not enough short names of butterflies and moths to go round and it would obviously be inconvenient to use words like “ Broad-bordered bee hawk.” He was one of the hardest workers I know, and this moth-collecting in the evenings was a necessary relaxation for an hour or so. His habit of prowling round the country near Springfield once got him into trouble with the village policeman; he was investigating a hedge when he felt a hand on his shoulder. When Saundby had explained what he was doing the policeman said that he thought Saundby was after birds’ eggs; there was quite a trade in these—they were sent up to London and used by the restaurant in salads. Saundby naturally wanted to know  Then, in Febr to keep the sh going to be