e and anti-cyclone. When, after a very long time, a large scale test was at last carried out, it merely proved what we already knew that a large number of balloon- borne explosives would, if launched at any given place, eventually come home to roost. This did no sort of good to the area from which they were launched, and, in point of fact, greatly disturbed the telephone and electric grid systems and created widespread alarm and despondency—but not to the enemy who were put to no inconvenience whatever. But the test had no effect on the enthusiasts for this weapon. Eventually we were goaded into retaliation and worked out for the War Cabinet the astronomical number of men, wires, balloons, lorries, cylinders and gas needed for the use of this weapon; it was a quantity vastly in excess of the sum total available in the country. And then, and only then, did the enthusiasts succumb, not indeed to argument, but to force majeure.  But it was not only the sailors who produced such amazing contraptions. So great was the urge to find some cheap and quick defence against the Blitz that even scientists of repute were guilty at times of equally impracticable ideas. Such was the scheme of towing mines behind an aeroplane in the path of the raiders. For  IN THE AIR MINISTRY AND U.S.A. 59  many months unfortunate Harrows—obsolete bombers— attempted to drag miles of piano wire with mines attached about the sky—this particular weapon had the code-word “Mutton.” Though the scheme was invariably unsuccessful, those who pushed it could not be persuaded to abandon it until on one occasion all the mines in one of the “ Mutton” aircraft prematurely exploded inside it when it was in the air. Even then the intention was to continue with the experiment until at a conference I interposed with the remark that if all the mines had exploded at one and the same time inside an unfortunate old Harrow with- out even discommoding it, I did not see how in the very unlikely event of one of them catchi