all reasonable expectation, but, even so, it proved in practise that GH was really more efficient in a bombing than against single factories. No. 3 Group was able to destroy a whole series of rather small towns, Houffalize, Bonn, Solingen, Witten, and Wesel among them, in single attacks by GH when we were called upon by the army to attack such places for tactical reasons. But it was found that two attacks were often necessary to. do really effective damage to a synthetic oil or benzol plant. The concentration of bombing was much greater than in an attack on sky-markers through ten- tenths cloud, but so much less than in an attack where ground markers could be seen that we had to expend a great many bombs to be sure of hitting a small target. In general, a single factory  THE OFFENSIVE AGAINST OIL  tau  233  “i of aviation fuel, which had been cut to a tenth of its former level sai! by June 22nd; “only through speedy recovery of damaged plants,” beitli he wrote, “has it been possible to regain partly some of the q terrible losses.” It was after this that the Geilenburg plan was ‘igltt adopted, and it undoubtedly made the task of keeping the synthetic cuit oil plants out of action more difficult than before. But in August yim’ the Germans had to curtail the period taken to train pilots, to mut! save fuel used in training flights; this had already been cut down ii. once before. The German army, and especially the Panzer be divisions, had so much difficulty in getting supplies up, because ‘ign of the bombing of the French railway system, that this counted nip for much more than any shortage.of fuel at home, but by the end itt! of the year the German army, as well as the air force, was desper- wit. ately short of fuel. It is known that when the Ardennes counter- i offensive was planned the enemy counted on being able to capture allied stores of petrol and so keep the armoured divisions going; ‘when this hope was disappointed many tanks were stranded for illack of fuel. B