ssible, they cam« you had a big fleet of bombers. Your airm They bombed London for ninety-two nights made heavy raids on Coventry, Plymouth, Liv: British cities. They did a lot of damage. Fort British men, women and children lost their’ our most cherished historical buildings were  “You thought, and Goering promised you be safe from bombs. And indeed, during ail th only send over a small number of aircraft in 1 it is just the other way. Now you send onl against us. And we are bombing Germany he  “Why are we doing so? It is not revenge not forget Warsaw, Belgrade, Rotterdam, Lo and Coventry. We are bombing Germany, « even more terribly, in order to make it impo go on with the war. That is our object. W remorselessly. City by city; Liibeck, Rostock, Bremen, Wilhelmshaven, Duisburg, Hambu: will grow longer and longer. Let the Nazis d: disaster with them if you will. That is for yo:  “In fine weather we bomb you by night bombers go to one town, like Cologne, and di  ‘Themen shih ea i  Fo  HONE OFTENSTYE  (ost hal wy 1 ta a  st  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE  119  followed by the Daily Worker, has attacked me for having organised and initiated the whole bomber offensive, and has even gone so far as to say that I got my proposals adopted by making grossly exaggerated claims about what was being accomplished. Unless these newspapers had access to the secret files of the ministries, which I very much doubt, they must have been basing their statements on this broadcast; there can be no other pub- lished evidence of any claims made by me.  I never made any broadcasts, apart from an innocuous speech at a Wings for Victory Week. I once’ said a few words on a newsreel in 1941, but there the only definite suggestion I made was that we should wait and see what bombing could achieve. Some people, I remarked, thought that bombing could never win a war. “Well,” I said, “we shall see. It hasn’t been tried yet, and Germany, more and more desperately clinging to her widespread conquests and sti