ners in the Luftwaffe.  However we did, by hook and by crook, get a good deal of support for the bomber offensive in the Press. Arthur Salzberger of the New York Times, a man of intelligence, was as firm a support, once convinced, as a foundation of rock. So also were Ogden-Reed of the New York Herald Tribune, Colin Bedneall of the Daily Mail, and Allan Michie of the Reader’s Digest.  The breaching of the Méhne dam on the night of May 16th- 17th was one incident in the Battle of the Ruhr. This was carried out by a new squadron, No. 617 squadron of No. 5 Group, which was formed and trained expressly for this operation, though it continued to engage in precision-bombing attacks of diverse kinds until the end of the war. On the same night as the attack on the Méhne dam, which was designed to supply water for the Ruhr, the Eder dam farther east was also successfully attacked. There could never have been any attempt on a concrete structure one hundred and forty feet thick if it had not been for an extra- ordinary weapon invented by B. N. Wallis of Vickers Armstrong, a kind of mine, the principle and construction of which must for some obscure reason still be considered secret. It was one of the weapons designed for the Command outside the official Ministry of Aircraft Production and Air Ministry organisation which produced the greater part of our armament; it could be taken almost as a rule that such weapons were successful, while those produced by the official organisation were too often failures. In designing such weapons Wallis was really working outside his own job which was mainly aircraft design; the Command cer- tainly owed a very great deal to his brilliant inventions.  I cannot add much to the published account of the actual  156 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  garden in the dusk; he finally turned to me and said: “I believe you, and I will support you to the finish.” He certainly did as he said, and without his support and that of the Daily Telegraph life would have been muc