ned so that the army moved forward the very moment the bombing was over, or even, at some risk from our bombs, that they should begin moving up to the bomb-line before all the bombs had been dropped.  When the use of heavy bombers in the battlefield, very close to our own troops, was first put forward I expressed doubts; it seemed to me that the army had-no idea of the risk that the troops would be running. In the event, by extremely careful plan- ning and the extraordinary skill of the crews, we brought down that risk to much less than the soldier ran in the last war when his own guns put down a barrage. The main safeguard was the use of a double check, a carefully timed run by each bomber and a very careful assessment of the position of the target-indicators by a Master Bomber. In one out of the eight such operations there was, in point of fact, a small number of casualties among our own troops. An investigation afterwards discovered that some crews had omitted to make timed runs, in spite of the orders that had been given to them, and aimed their bombs at pyrotechnic signals, which were not markers at all, but were being displayed by the army for some purpose of its own although it had been agreed that such pyrotechnics would not be used when we were bombing. The army commanders were on every occasion com- pletely satisfied by the way in which the bombing had been carried out. I will quote a message of congratulation which Montgomery sent to me after our attack on enemy troop con- centrations near Caen on July 7th.  “Again the Allied armies in France would like to thank you personally and Bomber Command for your magnificent co- operation last night. We know well that your main work lies further afield and we applaud your continuous and sustained bombing of German war industries and the effect this has on the German war effort. But we also know well that you are always ready to bring your mighty effort closer in which such action is really needed and to co-operate