llers gave the whole situation up, their instruments behaved as though the sky was filled with thousands of hostile aircraft, and they had to tell the night fighters they were controlling that they could do nothing to help them. A ground controller was over- heard saying, “I cannot follow any of the hostiles—they are very cunning.” In the three main night attacks of July the Command lost 57 aircraft, 2.4 per cent of all sorties; the average loss rate for all previous attacks on Hamburg,a rather distant and very well defended target, had been 6 per cent. It is true that in the un- successful attack on Hamburg on the night of August 2nd-3rd  176 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  our casualties amounted to 4.1 per cent of all sorties dispatched, but this was almost entirely the result of the extremely bad weather, and especially of the icing conditions.  At that moment Germany was therefore faced with a double catastrophe. No air raid ever known before had been so terrible as that which Hamburg had endured; the second largest city in Germany, with a population of nearly 2,000,000, had been wiped out in three nights. And at the same time the whole system of air defence, carefully built up, at the expense of all the other battle fronts in which the Germans were fighting, over a period of years, had been thrown into utter confusion; the night fighters, it appeared, would in future be powerless to detect the bombers in the dark, and the guns and searchlights would be altogether inefficient. The first type of Window used by Bomber Command in the attacks on Hamburg was designed to confuse the enemy’s Wurzburgs, used both for ground control of fighters and for gun laying, and we knew at once that it had been successful in this. But the enemy also knew what we discovered later, that Window seriously interfered with the night fighters’ airborne radar as well.  It is not surprising that the disaster of Hamburg terrified the German war leaders. “We were of the opinion,” Speer said in his interro