dby was after birds’ eggs; there was quite a trade in these—they were sent up to London and used by the restaurant in salads. Saundby naturally wanted to know  Then, in Febr to keep the sh going to be di out of the Atl them to go tc any successful Channel and t waited for jus mand ahead  Gneisenau on | take over the  their height. The Commander-in-Chief's house, Springfield, was about five miles from the Command head quarters; I drove to my office at nine in the morning, but there was, of course, a direct line from my house to the Operations room and I was in constant touch during the night. I lived at Springfield, a pleasant old- fashioned house, with my wife and daughter, and before long Saundby had his quarters there, as well as my P.A.—personal assistant, the equivalent of an A.D.C. in the army—and Harry Weldon when he became my personal staff officer, We had over five thousand visitors at Springfield for a meal or more during those years, so that it was always a busy house,  why, even if he had been after birds’ eggs, this should have been considered a crime; the policeman said that those who go after birds’ eggs for the restaurants are not the sort of people who stop at that. He did not in the least mind being seen in his Air Marshal’s uniform chasing a butterfly with a net, and when he went to London used to stop his car near Lord’s cricket ground to search there for an addition to his collection.  Saundby had less side than almost anybody I have known; out of office hours anyone could talk to him and he would talk to anybody; a pilot officer could have played with him. He was liked by everybody in the Command, and his sociability in the  incubus whicl 70  Chapter Four  BOMBER COMMAND  Appointed C.-in-C. Bomber Command. The bomber force in  1942. What we were up against. The need for speed. Attacking  German morale. Area and Precision bombing. Previous failures.  Target finding by night. Using the wrong bombs. Early  bombing tactics. The principle of concentr