men in the German nz in minesweeping and escort duties, but even th quite unable to clear a passage for essential con was once closed for 15 days, and a single operat of No. 5 Group, which dropped mines in the canal, closed the ports of Konigsberg and Pillar Kiel canal was twice blocked during that year of the Pathfinder Force dropped mines init, adar skilful operation. In September of 1944 the Nay at the German Air Force Operations Division catastrophic position which the minelaying i brought about: “Without training in the Balt through coastal waters and the routes to and fi mid-ocean, there can be no U-boat war. W supplies, it is impossible to hold Norway. Wi movement in the Baltic we cannot use tran: coastal waters. . . . But already we no longer « Toutes within our sphere of influence, as, is shov week long blocking of shipping routes in the B;  h VOTER OFPENGLYE  saat sod ana  tl  fe  ema  is  ln nap  f it ihre  fot ay ‘ode morta  it toe Ge ial pid  nek id  (ia  mt eh et i  bahay by  SUMMING UP 261  cities and partly against specific factories as though this had been a campaign against a single class of industrial objectives; it was, in fact, nothing of the kind, and our economic experts had not even put the last remaining factory at Hanover, on which the whole U-boat industry-then depended, on the list of factories which the Anglo-American bomber forces were required to attack.  There is often a marked discrepancy between the observations of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey and the assessment made by members of the Operational Research Section of Bomber Command when they examined our targets on the spot, and this discrepancy even extends to the simple question of what per- centage of houses in a town were destroyed; possibly the word “destruction” was defined in two different ways, or possibly outlying districts were considered part of the town in one survey and not in the other. Thus the United States survey says that we destroyed 31 per cent of th