their first and rudimentary stage, but it would have been fatal from 1942 onwards.  These difficulties were fully und by a period of intensive training, d  the “p  honey war,” to overcome thei  was how often a crew genuinely  target  when they had bombed mi  looks  back at this period in the lig!  erstood, though it was hoped uring and after the period of m. What was not understood thought they had found the es away from it. When one nt of later knowledge one can  only be surprised by such successes as were gained; that the results achieved were even as good as they were is proof of the courage and determination of the pioneer that was not realised for a considerable time, mainly because  night  photography was little used  crews of 1940 and 1941. But  . And there was, I think, a  general reluctance to disbelieve air-crew who genuinely thought they had hit the target; there was no great enthusiasm for checking the reports of captains of aircraft by independent evidence. As the Command was slowly—very slowly—equipped with night ‘cameras there was a natural tendency to give these  to the  best crews, which meant tha  at the photographs were not a  fair sample. When there had accumulated a sufficient body of evidence from night photographs taken in the act of bombing,  BOMBER COMMAND 81  and accordingly showing the area within which the bombs had fallen, it was possible at last to appreciate the enormous possi- bilities of error in navigation by night.  Complete and accurate assessment of the success of an opera- tion, the first necessity if a campaign is to be adequately planned was not possible until all aircraft in the Command had been equipped with cameras, and this was not until the autumn of 1942; like everything else cameras were in terribly short supply. But a year and more before then, there was enough evidence to show that the odds were enormous against hitting individual factories in Germany with the equipment the Command then had, or with any equipment it w