re up against. The need for speed. Attacking German morale. Area and Precision bombing. Previous failures. Target finding by night. Using the wrong bombs. Early bombing tactics. The principle of concentration. The lesson of the Blitz. Bombing policy.  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE  A year of preparation, The first navigational aid. The  history of Gee. Excessive optimism about its use.  Experiments over the Isle of Man and Wales. Building 5  PAGE  33  49  7o  6 CONTENTS race  : CONTENTS 7 up the force. Thirteen squadrons taken from Bomber Command for Coastal Command and overseas, The : PAGE failure of the Manchester, The Lancaster produced by X. THE OFFENSIVE AGAINST OIL ; 220 cel accident. Some critical operations. The thousand Panacea Targets. A molybdenum mine. Ball-bearing aaa bomber attack on Cologne. A night of suspense, factories. Tactical objections. The raid on Ploesti. Churchill hears the result. A spurious broadcast, G.H. The Ministry of Economic Warfare. The oil  offensive begins. Miraculously good weather. ‘The results of the campaign.  VI. GETTING THE WEAPONS 120  Failure of an attack on Essen, The enemy defences XI. THE FINAL PHASE  : 2 increase, New radar devices, Oboe and #25, Experi- 35  reat An overwhelming Force. The capture of Walcheren. ments and modifications, The Pathfinder OF The attack on Bertier iadceteiel cities resumed. Arguments against ts formation. Jamming the Shortage of high explosive bombs. The second battle enemy's radar, The use of Window’ forbidden, The of the Ruhr. The Dortmund-Ems and Mittelland expansion of the force, First, attacks on Berlin, canals. The collapse of German industry. Dresden. Attacks on U-boat bases. ‘The minelaying campaign, A cancelled attack on Berlin. New methods of bomb-  Attacks on North Italy. ing. More tactical developments. The defeat of the German defences. The dispersal of German industry and underground factories. Runstedt’s counter-  VII. THE OFFENSIVE UNDER WAY \ 144 offensive. The sinking of the Tirpit