at once to convert a number of front line squadrons into afew months, Ludlow-Hewitt saved the situation—and the war inounce that at that very operational training units, each unit consisting of the squadrons, —at his own expense, and did it, as he does all things, with good ‘ombs on Sylt. There was usually two, of one bomber station. We began with eight such grace, and without thinking of himself or what effect i might oyered that no worthwhile  36 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  have on his career. In all wars commanders are faced with deci- sions which are unpalatable to politicians, though often enough such decisions have to be made as a direct result of the previous sins of omission of the same politicians. In the early stages of every war commanders are therefore more often than not removed; they are sacrificed either to provide some sort of smoke screen to hide the shortcomings of those who are really responsible for the country’s unpreparedness, or merely to satisfy some public demand made in necessary ignorance of the true facts.  In losing Ludlow-Hewitt, we lost the finest of commanders. But ofir loss in the end was to the gain of the Service as a whole, because as an Inspector-General, with his immense technical ability and practical knowledge, Ludlow-Hewitt had an influence during the rest of the war on design, production, development, and organisation which was of incalculable value throughout the service. Without him I am sure we should never have prevailed. Inspector-General in the R.A.F. is too often merely a job given just before retirement, but with Ludlow-Hewitt it was very far from being this. We reaped where he had sown and no man deserved better of his country than he did.  As I said before, we all expected violent fighting to start at any minute and to bring us quickly to the end of all our resources. Instead, there was the “ phoney” war, and this saved us. We could never have produced the aircraft or the organisation to train the crews but for the breathing