n of kicking my heels for some days, which ij emed like years, before I received a message telling me to report it) the Air Ministry. There Portal, after ringing up Ludlow- ewitt, Commander-in-Chief, Bomber Command, told me to go  ee id take over command of No, 5 Group of Bomber Command at  rantham the next day, which I did. My task was made none ie easier by the fact that neither the Command nor the Air linistry had thought of informing the Air Officer then com- “anding the Group that I was on my way to take over from itinlim. As he was an old personal friend of mine and an officer ‘ti > whom I have always had the greatest admiration and regard, i! was for the moment an unpleasant situation, only relieved by "ie way he took it. He was fulminating against the idiotic “Yrocedure of bowling the useless 250 lb. bomb on to German 1 ittleships from a height of a few fect, which was what Bomber wpa ommand was doing at that time. nit As I drove myself and my traps in a small borrowed Austin itt 9m Norwich to Grantham, which is without exception the ‘Cl @rst cross-country route in England, I pondered. on the really Nightful and frightening military prospects of the nation. I aew that we had nothing to fight with, and that France had iss; we at any rate had the heart to fight, but the French had ot, rotted to the core as they were with the worst type of St: )litician and politically-minded serving officer. I knew—how it yald I fail to know after two years of the Army Staff College vd five years on the Committee of Imperial Defence and Joint « l|anning Committee?—that the navy had no idea beyond the intlutt ng-defunct battleship; year after year they had reasserted in ‘vii srliamene and outside it, with an entirely unjustifiable confi- mee, that the submarine threat was a busted flush and had been tit" pally and effectively mastered; every year they reasserted that iuiiitk reraft could be no threat whatsoever to any form of naval io seration. I had seen the army preening itse