horised by me. After that, the news- papers and the B.B.C. naturally got hold of the speech and used it; there was a rule against printing pamphlets dropped on Germany because they were officially secret documents, but no one could stop the Press from reprinting broadcasts of this kind when they got hold of them. A word or two from the Air Minister and the Air Ministry behind the scenes would have stopped the whole affair before it developed, but, not for the first or last time I was left holding the baby.  The text of this spurious broadcast may be of some interest; it was as follows:  “We in Britain know quite enough about air raids. For ten months your Luftwaffe bombed us. First you bombed us by day. When we made this impossible, they came by night. Then you had a big fleet of bombers. Your airmen fought well. They bombed London for ninety-two nights running. They made heavy raids on Coventry, Plymouth, Liverpool, and other British cities. They did a lot of damage. Forty-three thousand British men, women and children lost their lives. Many of our most cherished historical buildings were destroyed.  “You thought, and Goering promised you, that you would be safe from bombs. And indeed, during all that time we could only send over a small number of aircraft in return. But now it is just the other way. Now you send only a few aircraft against us. And we are bombing Germany heavily.  “Why are we doing so? It is not revenge—though we do not forget Warsaw, Belgrade, Rotterdam, London, Plymouth and Coventry. We are bombing Germany, city by city, and even more terribly, in order to make it impossible for you to go on with the war. That is our object. We shall pursue it remorselessly. City by city; Liibeck, Rostock, Cologne, Emden, Bremen, Wilhelmshaven, Duisburg, Hamburg—and the list will grow longer and longer. Let the Nazis drag you down to disaster with them if you will. That is for you to decide.  “In fine weather we bomb you by night. Already 1000 bombers go to one t