cular, the Battle of Berlin was due to begin.  But one light experimental attack was made with GH on the night of November 3rd-4th against the Mannesmannrohrenwerke on the outskirts of Dusseldorf, and the bombing accuracy, as far as could be estimated in so light an attack, was very good; all the bombs were dropped blind, entirely on GH. As a result of this attack it was decided that such valuable equipment should not be allowed to fall into enemy hands before it could be used bya sufficiently strong force, and I ordered the GH sets to be taken out of the Lancasters for the time being. In the spring one or two very light attacks were again made in order to calibrate the device, and round about D-Day and afterwards some minelaying was done with this equipment.  A particular advantage of GH was that the ground stations could be rapidly moved from place to place and this suggested that as soon as the Allied armies had established themselves on the Continent GH would prove an extremely valuable aid for tactical bombing; the ground stations could be rapidly moved forward with every advance of the armies and so increase without delay the range of the device. It was, indeed, for tactical bombing that we now intended to use GH, not primarily for precision attacks on German industrial targets, and it was for this reason that in June I made an urgent request for enough GH sets to equip one bomber Group. I chose No. 3 Group for this. When Bomber Command began to attack the synthetic oil plants of the Ruhr there were nothing like enough aircraft equipped with GH to use  226 BOMBER OFFENSIVE THE OFFENSIVE AGAINST OIL 227 ground markers could not be seen. Previously it had been next i 23) to impossible to attack small targets such as individual factories in such conditions, except by a handful of Oboe Mosquitoes. H2S was not accurate enough to identify a target of this size; bombing on sky markers dropped by Oboe was too scattered to do effective damage to small targets; ground m