6 sites for launching flying bombs in the Pas de Calais and another eight on the Cherbourg peninsula. These objectives were naturally very small, but they were well within Oboe range and both Bomber Command and the Americans were able to bomb them so accurately that the enemy was forced to abandon the whole system which he had originally worked out for the launching of flying bombs. These “permanent” sites were called “Ski-sites,” because of the shape of their constructional works as seen from the air. They would have been able to launch a considerably greater number of flying bombs than those which were sub- sequently used, but they had the great disadvantage that they were easily detected from the air and vulnerable to air attack. By forcing the enemy to abandon this first method of launching flying bombs the Allied bombers gained about six months’ vital respite for Southern England, and, when the flying bombs were eventually launched, the enemy was compelled to use a much less efficient form of temporary site.  Nor were these the only precision attacks which could provide us with data for an attack on the railways of North-Western  THE INVASION OF EUROPE 199  Europe. In the new year a considerable list of aircraft and associated factories in France was put down for attack in con- nection with the Allied campaign against the aircraft industry in Germany itself. I ordered No. 5 Group to undertake this task; the Group had already shown remarkable initiative and resource in several precision attacks in the past and by now it contained many crews who had been specially trained in this work, not only 617 Squadron, but enough to carry out a full scale attack on a single large factory. Most of the required attacks on French factories were, however, made by small forces of picked crews; in all twelve targets were attacked, from February 8th-gth until the end of March, and only 350 sorties were needed to destroy or very severely damage all but one of them. In the course of