o produce. They had, in fact, no strategic bombers at all, since their whole force of well over a thousand bombers was designed for army co-operation work and was only used for attacks on cities when not required to support the German army. Even in day-time it was fitted only to carry out the work of a tactical air force, not strategic attack; the bombers were too small, and they were not equipped for weight-carrying. By night, the bomber force was well adapted to wreck itself, without any assistance from the British. We know now that in one month of the London blitz they lost 260 bombers from crashes on the return to their airfields. Kesselring then harangued the German air force leaders and said that not even the Luftwaffe and the entire resources of the Reich could stand that rate of loss. This, then, was why they abandoned the night blitz when it had just reached its most effective stage and when we knew that more of it would prove fatal to the continuance of normal life in London, with all that that meant.  Not only did they have no strategic bombers; they had no real plan of strategic attack on industries and communications. Between the Battle of Britain and the invasion of Russia the enemy left himself no time for the systematic campaign that alone could reduce a country from the air. The enemy remained, in fact, in the stage through which some people in this country were going in 1941, the stage of supposing that the primary object of bombing, when not directed exclusively towards smail military objectives, was to break morale. But this did mean that the Germans, as soon as they were defeated in their aim of hitting military objectives by daylight, passed at once to area bombing. And in this they had such successes as must inevitably come, with however little forethought, when a large force attacks an almost undefended country.  The Germans invented the blitz without appreciating its strategic possibilities; in Britain, on the other hand, we were only too we