successful attack on Essen. The  Battle of the Ruhr. Showing the results to the world. Field  Marshal Smuts sees the bomb-damage. Winston Churchill and  the offensive. Propaganda in the R.A.F. The Mohne and Eder dams. More new equipment. The Civil Service.  T LONG LAST we were ready and equipped. Bomber Command’s main offensive began at a precise moment, the moment of the first major attack on an objective in  Germany by means of Oboe. This was on the night of March 5-6th, 1943, when I was at last able to undertake with real hope of success the task which had been given to me when I first took over the Command a little more than a vear before, the task of destroying the main cities of the Ruhr, In the interval, how- ever, the scope of my instructions had been enlarged, as a result of the Casablanca Conference, when it was decided to proceed with a joint Anglo-American bomber offensive against German war industry. The subject of morale had been dropped, and I was now required to proceed with the general “ disorganisation” of German industry, giving priority to certain aspects of it such as U-boat building, aircraft production, oil production, transportation and so forth, which gave mea very wide range of choice and allowed me to attack pretty well any German industrial city of 100,000 inhabitants and above. But the Ruhr remained a principle objective because it was the most important industrial area in the whole of Germany, which was why it had been originally chosen for morale-breaking attacks; the new instructions there- fore made no difference. Essen had been named as the first town for destruction a year before, as it was the largest and most important manufacturing centre in the Ruhr, and Essen was the target on the night of March 5-6th.  A force of 442 aircraft was dispatched. In the main force there were 140 Lancasters, 69 Halifaxes, 52 Stirlings, and 131 Wellingtons, while the Pathfinder marking force consisted of 22 heavy bombers and 8 Oboe-Mosquitoes, on wh