eard the last word.  As a matter of fact I did my utmost during the war to avoid any sort of publicity for remarks by myself; in fact I considerably annoyed many representatives of the Press by refusing to see them or hold Press conferences. I do not claim to be diffident—far from it—but I had two very good reasons for my refusal. I consider that no Press interview with a Commander-in-Chief in the field can be published without incurring some extra military danger to the success of operations and to the safety of the men under his command. In this respect I am entirely at variance with one or two other commanders of this last war. Secondly—and this reason came up during the last part of the war—the Air Ministry issued an order that no Commander-in-Chief should give an interview for publication in the Press without first submitting to the Air Ministry an account of exactly what he was going to say. This order completely mystified me. If an interview means anything at all it means a series of questions and answers and I cannot imagine how you are to answer a number of unrehearsed questions and at the same time know, and have prior approval for precisely what you are going to say before you start! In the circumstances, I suggested that the Air Ministry should give the interviews themselves. As the Press well knows, they did.  118  Your submarines cannot even try to preven! bombers from getting here; for they fly acros:  “Soon we shall be coming every night and blow or snow—we and the Americans. I have months in America, so I know exactly what is: going to scourge the Third Reich from end to« it necessary for us to do so. You cannot stop it, ¢  “You have no chance. You could not de when we were almost unarmed and stood alon were crazy to attack Russia as well as America leaders are crazy; the whole world thinks so e:  “How can you hope to win now that we a stronger, having both Russia and America as z are getting more and more exhausted?  “Remember this: no matter how f