r Com ahead of them damaged both the Schamforst and the won ther way back, 1 was therefore lucky enough to  over the Command when it had just been relieved of an  incu  hus which had exasperated everyone for along period, One  IN THE AIR MINISTRY AND U.S.A. 69  of my first attacks was on the Gneisenau at Kiel. We hit her hard and she was subsequently towed to Gdynia and dismantled.  In March, 1941, Blenheims of No. 2 Group began a campaign of low-level bombing against enemy coastal shipping, which could not be attacked by the Navy without risking prohibitive losses from attack by shore-based enemy aircraft. These attacks were hazardous in the extreme; the enemy’s anti-aircraft fire was deadly and our losses were very heavy. The gallantry of the Blenheim crews was beyond praise and their determination never wavered though I know that many of the men felt that they were being sent to certain death. It proved extremely difficult to estimate the exact degree of success in many of these attacks, because of the very low height from which they were carried out; oblique photographs of the target were taken at the moment of attack and as the aircraft left for home but these could seldom be interpreted with any degree of certainty. It was believed that about 70 ships were sunk in a period of about six months.  Minelaying was continued by Hampdens of No. 5 Group and continued to be a most effective weapon against the enemy’s  shipping.  68 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  hand, always look impressive; the observer does not consider how much there is undamaged, though this is immediately apparent in photographs taken from the air. At any rate, the clear and unbiased report from Berlin was salutary.  Though our strategic bomber force would in any case have been very small throughout 1941, it was to all intents and purposes greatly reduced when the battle cruisers Scharnhorst and Gneisenau arrived in Brest in March of 1941. The two battle cruisers went to Brest after a successful foray into the