since the end of the war, and how far we were right in our estimates of the effect of air attack. In a last chapter ‘ Bomber ’ Harris looks to the future, discussing the atomic bomb and the scope of Service responsibility in a scientific war.  *Rostock  ‘  } @Konigsberg 5 i  | © Wismar oP eae ee Ham Ee ak Harburg } & ee \ hover BER ‘ RM ANY runswicl? porsdam show Chowing ie ipal Car wrgels Idesh Mas ‘ agdeburg : Dessau ale of Miles usen, glialle eee Canals aces 4 | Lutzendorte Lei pzige! en - Leitz, Bohlen of at es Eceack Freiberg: Chemnikz es - ess ngs / a  chweinfurk ceed Hamm  g~S \ *Kamen ney é Dortmund : * | <a | By  Pegensburg ‘6 Hagen oFeld BARM ' Rrefeld RFE 0@ Wuppertal i ‘M. Gladbach ldorf femscheid “7 Nena emscheic qhugsburg. : a = slingen @Munich  everkusen  Bomber Offensive  OMBER OFFENSIVE is the first important book about the war to be written by any of our Service chiefs. It is of histori- cal value as a war document and of per- sonal interest as the memoirs of an outstanding man. As Commander-in- Chief Bomber Command, Sir Arthur Harris was responsible for directing the policy of a bomber offensive, and his views on the controversial questions— whether the results of this were worth the expenditure of lives and materials or whether area bombing was morally justifiable—will be read with universal interest. A feature of the book is the author’s numerous reports of conversa- tions with Mr. Churchill, Field-Marshal Smuts and other leading men, which took place at critical moments during the war. From 1939 Sir Arthur Harris was con- fident in Bomber Command as a poten- tially decisive weapon, and he now recounts the very complete story of how, from a nucleus of untrained men and obsolete machines, was built up the awe- inspiring force which could carry out the 1000-bomber raids. He tells of the lessons learned from German bombing; of what was achieved during the year of prepara- tion and experiment before the main attack began in March 1943; of the succes