peed and efficiency with which the Americans get things done in war is simply because America has no civil service that can interfere. In the American fighting services they ask for the money they want as a lump sum, or for the aircraft they want as a round number, and once they get either of these they can do what they please with them, equipping or modifying their aircraft according to their own ideas. In war no system that makes for delay is tolerable. After thirty years experience of working under the dead hand of the Civil Service, I am persuaded that the progressive multi- plication of government regulations and controls, operated by civil servants who themselves are multiplying fast, is leading the country to catastrophe, complete, and perhaps irreparable. I have the greatest admiration for the integrity, abi ity, and immense capacity for grinding and often monotonous work which is indeed the hall-mark of the British civil servant. I have none whatever for the results, which have to be experienced to be believed, that he achieves in times of urgent national emergency. Ican recall one civil servant whose whole-hearted devotion to the country and to his work, was worth at least a division to the enemy on every day of the war. But for the human limitations of even his devotion to duty and to an eighteen-hour day he would undoubtedly have been worth two divisions. Luckily he was far from being typical, else should we have perished. Not for nothing was it said in the fighting services that had they only the King’s Enemies to deal with—how easy that would be.  Chapter Eight  LONG RANGE ATTACKS  Targets in Eastern Germany. The use of H2S. Tactics and  marking. The destruction of Hamburg. The Ethics of bombing.  The jamming war begins. Peenemunde and the V-weapons. The  Battle of Berlin. A revolution in tactics. The invasion of Europe ends the campaign of strategic bombing.  T WAS essential, for the whole progress of the offensive, to be able to attack targets east o