il 1941, asked : and plans decided on i then on the engined fig] increasing s fronts. The  116  such metho  BOMBER OFFENSIVE  Is of warfare as wholly ridiculous and a complete  waste of time. In spite of the fact that the alleged speech was intended as a leaflet to be dropped over Germany, it was then  roadcast in  een contem}  ecause they stop the Pres got hold of t Air Ministry affair before  eft holding the baby.  a propaganda programme to the enemy, a use of it  which I believe had never been intended, and certainly had never  lated or authorised by me. After that, the news-  pers and the B,B.C. naturally got hold of the speech and used it; there was a rule against printing pamphlets dropped on Germany  were officially secret documents, but no one could s from reprinting broadcasts of this kind when they em. A word or two from the Air Minister and the y behind the scenes would have stopped the whole it developed, but, not for the first or last time I was  The text of this spurious broadcast may be of some interest;  it was as foll  “Wein  OWS:  Britain know quite enough about air raids, For ten  months your Luftwaffe bombed us, First you bombed us by day. When we made this impossible, they came by night. Then  you had a  big fleet of bombers. Your airmen fought well.  They bombed London for ninety-two nights running. They made heavy raids on Coventry, Plymouth, Liverpool, and other  British citi  es. They did a lot of damage. Forty-three thousand  British men, women and children lost their lives. Many of our most cherished historical buildings were destroyed.  “You thought, and Goering promised you, that you would  be safe from bombs. And indeed, during all that time we could only send over a small number of aircraft in return. But now  it is just tl against us, not forget  and Coven even more  B will grow disaster wi  he other way. Now you send only a few aircraft And we are bombing Germany heavily,  “Why are we doing so? It is not revenge—though we do  Warsaw,