hree 4000 Ib. blast bombs when used in attacks on large areas but was useful in precision attacks on single factories, where the object was to concentrate the destruction into a very small area, even at the cost of losing some explosive power.  The Lancasters of No. 5 Group dropped a few of these bombs on the tunnel at Saumur, which was on a main line leading northward to Normandy, on the night of June 8th-9th. The bombs broke in the roof of the tunnel and also blocked the line by making enormous craters in the deep cutting leading to the tunnel.  After the war almost every German officer who knew any- thing about the subject said that the bombing of the railways of North-West Europe was the main cause of the success of the invasion. Here is one such opinion on the subject:  “Your strategic bombing of our lines of communication and transportation resulted in our being unable to move our reserves in time and prevented our troops from ever coming into effective tactical deployment against your forces. ... Without this strategic bombing of our lines of communication and transportation, without your gigantic aerial coverage of the landings of your troops, your invasion ships and barges would have been sunk or driven out to sea, and the invasion would have been a dismal failure.”  Another opinion:  “We had forty (not all motorised) reserve divisions in strategic positions, in readiness in France. Your effective bombing of the road nets, transportation and lines of supply made it impossible for us to move our troops rapidly, if at all.”  THE INVASION OF EUROPE 209 Yet another:  “You could undoubtedly have landed on the Continent, but it is highly doubtful whether you could have remained there if our transportation system had not been shattered. Any landing is possible; the problem is moving reserves and material at the right moment to the right place.”  For a whole fortnight after D-Day the weather was most un- favourable for bombing, with continuous low cloud, more often