dock, more than 60 all told, were sunk or damaged, and at Boulogne 28 vessels were sunk and many others damaged. In all, some 130naval and auxiliary craft were put out of action, virtually the whole of the enemy’s light naval forces in the Channel area. At the same time the concrete shelters used to house E-boats at Le Havre were damaged by a small number of the new 12,000 lb. medium capacity bombs.  The bombers were also called upon to intervene even more directly in the fighting in Normandy. On the night of June 14th-15th I was called upon to attack a target of immediate and fleeting tactical importance, a road junction at Aunay-sur-Oden, where a great concentration of German troops and vehicles had been reported. The bombers dropped 1168 tons of high explosives, and photographs showed that everything in and around the area had been wiped out. On June 3oth it was learned that the 2nd and gth Panzers division were moving up through Villers Bocage to make an attack that night; there was a network of roads here which it would be almost impossible for the enemy to by-pass and it was therefore the obvious place in which to bomb the Panzer divisions and their equipment—the enemy had also established a supply point there. This time Bomber Command attacked in daylight and dropped 1100 tons of bombs; the Panzer divisions had to call off the planned attack.  THE INVASION OF EUROPE 211  A week later aircraft of Bomber Command were used for the first time to prepare the way for offensive action by our army. The 1st Canadian and 2nd British armies were pressing the enemy hard at Caen, the hinge of the German line, but could make little headway against the strong German positions. Bomber Command was called upon to attack these positions and did so in daylight on July 7th; 2350 tons of high explosives were dropped in just under 4o minutes. A full account of the effect of this attack on the German troops was afterwards got from the enemy. It appears that casualties were comparati