ure that the crews would make even greater efforts than usual to destroy the target in one attack. They were to bomb from 8000 feet, much below the usual operational height. ;  We had to accept the grave risk of operating in moonlight against a distant target close to many fighter defended areas, but everything possible was done to protect the bomber force. The route taken was almost the same as that used in previous attacks on Berlin, and in order to make the enemy think that Berlin was going to be the target, a small force of Mosquitoes was sent to attack it,  About 600 aircraft were dispatched on the night of August  e  185  a of anything, ay of a month ‘ons time was emy, however  d, the greatest ald have more ng equipment. , and not only ither than the 1g to go com- was, however, give a much k III, working n the autumn a few remark- a the night of ole bomb load the night of 8th-9th were sen for attack luction and in lirect damage tery heavy. upplied to the er Force were hen had to be a Pathfinding aent for blind ct that attacks sing could be int suggested with a new th 83 aircraft lind bombing vo cities only i were dropped S alone. The it, and it did, e bombs were d 50 per cent : these results  184 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  17th-18th, the earliest occasion when there was bright moonlight, reasonably suitable weather, and sufficient hours of darkness to allow the flight over enemy territory to be made between nautical twilight in the evening and the morning. The weather close to the target was worse than had been expected, with a good deal of cloud about, so that it was difficult to find the required land- marks. But towards Riigen Island the weather cleared, and it was therefore possible for many crews to start their time and distance runs punctually from this island. Over the target there was again a good deal of cloud and the smoke screen was working, but the very careful planning of the attack ensured a good con- centration of bombs on all the aiming points. The mast