rching performance of an infantry brigade in British military history. It made such an impression on me that to this day I never walk a step if I can get any sort of vehicle to carry me. When the 1st Rhodesian Regiment was disbanded, after we had carried the campaign through, defeated and collected the Boche, and occupied German West Africa, I sailed for England determined to find some way of going to war in a sitting posture. I thought of the cavalry, but I had no faith in horse warfare. The Gunners were full up. I thought I would learn to fly; even before the war I had toyed with the idea of joining the R.N.A.S. and might have done so if it had not meant becoming a professional sailor.  I therefore joined the R.F.C, To me it was just an incident pending the suppression of the Boche and the chance to get back home to Africa. I certainly had no idea that air warfare would be my life’s work. I had an uncle on Kitchener’s staff so I slid round the 6000 “waiting list”—it was sheer nepotism. I was appointed a second-lieutenant on probation, and learned to fly. During the war I had two main jobs. I formed and commanded a detached flight—and later a squadron—in the first Home De- fence squadron of night fighters—in which Leefe Robinson shot down the first Zeppelin—and in France I commanded a flight in a fighter squadron protecting our artillery spotters. I was therefore engaged in defence rather than attack, but in point of fact it was the defensive aspect of the air war of 1914-1918 that  FACING THE WAR 17  first brought about the conception of an air force independent of the other two services, and of independent air operations. Daylight attacks on London by German aircraft in June and July of 1917 caused so much disturbance that General Smuts, then a member of the War Cabinet, was asked to get out a report on the whole subject. In this report he said that the air arm “can be used as an independent means of war operations. Nobody who witnessed the attack on London on 11