e Machine Gun Corps after the last war, and it was the cavalry mind which, when I was at the Army Staff College, attached as much, if not more importance to the student’s prowess as a horseman than to any-  SUMMING UP 277  thing else he might achieve on the course. This was in 1927, and in the army of the nation which had invented tanks; it is no wonder that twelve years later you would have thought that it was the Germans who had invented them.  Separate services not only fight for the preservation of their own favourite weapons; they do all they can to hold in check anyone who may want to use a new and more powerful weapon which might threaten them. Shortly after the 1914-1918 war it was the Air Force that had such a weapon, or rather was in a position to develop it. In 1919 the Air Force was allowed £15,000,000 a year, the cost of one day’s war, but even this had shrunk to £11,000,000 in 1922, and in that year the R.A.F., which in 1918 had a front line strength of 3300 aeroplanes, could only raise 371 front line aircraft. This was the moment when the army and the navy struck. By intrigue resulting in the formation of the Fleet Air Arm, which afterwards became an integral part of the Navy, the Air Force was split in two. The army’s plans were, however, far more destructive, for the War Office proposed that the Air Ministry should have control of nothing but civil aviation, research, experiment, and supply, which meant that in fact the Air Force should cease to exist. But in this the soldiers, who are vastly inferior to the sailors in the arts of propaganda and politics, badly over-reached themselves, and the proposal was successfully resisted.  Thereafter, for nearly twenty years, I watched the army and navy, both singly and in concert, engineer one deliberate attempt after another to destroy the Royal Air Force. Time after time they were within a hairbreadth of success; time after time Trenchard, and Trenchard alone, saved us. If they had succeeded they would hav