em being equipped with Gee. The weather was good, though there was, of course, the usual in- dustrial haze which never disappeared until Bomber Command had put out of action Krupps and a number of other factories in Essen; it was not until then that we were able to get any clear photographs of the pl: Photographic reconnaissance not long after the first attack with Gee showed no damage whatever in the target area. The causes of the failure were investigated and it was established that, although most of the flares had been dropped in the right place, a large proportion of the main force, loaded with incendiary bombs, had arrived after the flares had  gone out; these aircraft dropped their incendiaries over a wide area, mostly short of the target, and the incendiaries burning on the ground in turn attracted the bombs of more aircraft of the main force. Within the next three months there were eleven more major attacks on Essen, all made with the use of Gee, though with a considerable variation of tactics from time to time. On the  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 95  night of the 1o-11th March, the Gee-equipped aircraft dropped 250-lb. incendiaries instead of flares, these large incendiaries being intended to serve as a beacon to guide the main force. During this three months no serious damage was done either to Essen or Krupps, even though one of the eleven attacks was carried out by 956 aircraft; this was in the second of our three “one thousand bomber” attacks. i The bombing, it was discovered, was about a third as accurate as the results of the exercises carried out over Britain. For every hundred aircraft attacking Essen no more than between five and ten sticks of bombs could be expected, by the use of Gee alone, to fall on the built-up area of Essen and only two or three sticks on Krupps itself. But clearly the fault was not entirely that of the Gee apparatus, for in the interval successful attacks had been made on other towns by the use of Gee. None of the targets we attac