circumstances. Even before the war we heard oz ythy attempts to develop yet newer weapons, but it is just a not to use the unready weapons of the next war as it use the outclassed weapons of the last.  Meanwhile, in the first few days, the immediate and  a)  anxiety was that if the war broke out at the tempc Mi! y expected we should certainly run out of aircraft and ¢ :llosdihinydem matter of weeks, if not days. I expressed my feelings at_ tliicbiewmicntstuip: to one of my oldest service friends. “Every time y. tittwnlai-tivala  lamp post,” I said, “take your hat off, because if the » ilitiqahnie seriously the blame is going to be put on us and that iminelloamaysmis we shall finish.” ‘ean ag pt This was my mood as I turned the borrowed Austi) na gloomy gateway of St. Vincent’s, Grantham, the hea i abyseiballualli of my new command. Like everything else in Englan skeleton formation with not enough meat on the bones a rattle which would be audible to the enemy. I hac ! make bricks, and there was no need for my predeces: Command to advise me of the lack of straw.  ines ym, licen anaes (gla stu  THE FIRST BOMBING 35  operational training units, and this was, of course, a very serious drain on our front line strength, even though this training organisation was nothing like adequate for building up a large enough force to do the enemy any real harm; at the peak of our training effort, in December, 1943, we had 22} operational training units to meet the wastage of a front line strength of some 1000 aircraft.  During the first year of the war we were therefore tied down to an absolute minimum of operational work and operational risk, and it would have been the same whether or no we had  * taken squadrons from the front line for training; the only  difference would have been that if we had had no O.T.U.s there could have been no bomber offensive in the future.  Air Chief Marshal Sir Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt was the chief of Bomber Command at that time, and we could not have wishe