ry until they decided to give up, which they in-  FACING THE WAR 23  variably did. It was, of course, a far less costly method of controlling rebellion than by military action and the casualties on both sides were infinitely less than they would have been in the pitched battles on the ground which would otherwise have been the only alternative. At last we were able to plan our action so that the air weapon worked in complete independ- ence of the ground, except when it was necessary to come to the rescue of the Iraqi army, which was gradually being re- cruited with a view to the eventual handing over of control of the country.  Never shall I forget the appalling climate, the filthy food, and the ghastly lack of every sort of amenity that our unfortunate men were compelled to put up with in “peace time,” for two years at a stretch, away from their families. A main result of the economy campaign in the home newspapers was to deprive us of the most meagre and essential comforts; for example, we lacked even adequate bathrooms, though these had been in the original estimates. The swimming pool in Hinaidi Cantonment, an essential to relaxation in such a place, was economised on until it became too unappetising to use, and meanwhile it had infected numbers of men with the dread Bilharzia.  After two and a half years in Irak, 1922-1924, I came home and went through the Army Senior Officers’ School. I was then given command of No. 58 Squadron at Worthy Down. This was the first heavy bomber squadron to be reconstituted as such after the war and the first to get back to night training for night opera- tions. There again I had Saundby as Flight Commander. I believe the squadron did more night flying at that time than all the rest of the world’s then existing air forces put together. It was already becoming obvious that the need to get on with the job was urgent.  In 1927 I went to the Army Staff College, where I learned a great deal about horses and thoroughly enjoyed two years