ot even try to prevent those Atlantic bombers from getting here; for they fly across the Atlantic.  “Soon we shall be coming every night and every day, rain, blow or snow—we and the Americans. I have just spent eight months in America, so I know exactly what is coming. We are going to scourge the Third Reich from end to end, if you make it necessary for us to do so. You cannot stop it, and you know it.  “You have no chance. You could not defeat us in 1940, when we were almost unarmed and stood alone. Your leaders were crazy to attack Russia as well as America (but then your leaders are crazy; the whole world thinks so except Italy).  “How can you hope to win now that we are getting even stronger, having both Russia and America as allies, while you are getting more and more exhausted?  “Remember this: no matter how far your armies march they can never get to England. They could not get here when we were unarmed. Whatever their victories, you will still have to settle the air war with us and America. You can never win that. But we are doing so already now.  “One final thing: it is up to you to end the war and the bombing. You can overthrow the Nazis and make peace. It is not true that we plan a peace of revenge. That is a German propaganda lie. But we shall certainly make it impossible for any German Government to start a total war again. And is not that as necessary in your own interests as in ours?”  The storm which the issue of this raised did not particularly worry me, but I must say that I very much resented the fact that the attacks in Parliament were allowed to develop and to continue for some time. It would have been perfectly easy—parliamentary customs being what they are—for those who brought the matter up by asking questions in the House to be tipped off beforehand; it only had to be privately explained that it was all a departmental mistake and that I had had nothing to do with the broadcast.  _ I went to dinner with the Prime Minister at Chequers soon aft