ction on his own initiative. It was soon discovered that the French High Command was really quite incapable of directing any bomber force at all, and the British Air Staff had to do most  40 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  any fuss and with a comparatively minute staff in the design and drawing office. It is the sort of firm where the workers greet you with a smile wherever you walk and where they address the owner and the managing-director by their Christian names with Mr. or Master in front of them, as appropriate. It took Rose’s no more than a fortnight to produce designs for gun mountings which got rid of all the fearful disabilities of the official type, doubled the effective fire power of the Hampden, and eliminated the blind spots. It was but a few weeks before the gun mountings were in full production and going into action. Through the normal channels it is most unlikely that they would ever have materialised. When asked why I had ordered two thousand of these mountings with no authority to do so I replied that if I had ordered twenty or two hundred I should have had to pay for them myself, and that anyhow they were necessary—as indeed they were.  Later in the war Rose’s—that is, Alfred Rose himself, Curtis the designer, and Fred the foreman—together with Rice, who was by then a Group Commander—were again to pull us out of the soup with beautifully designed and made .5 turrets, when official channels had let us down completely and spent much of their energies protesting that nothing could be done while we and Rose’s got on and did it.  When Germany opened the offensive in the West most of our information about the Battle of France came from what we read in the newspapers. The Command’s effort was directed, or misdirected, to the task of blocking the enemy’s communications, and for my Hampdens this mostly took the form of attempting to push down houses in French towns in such a manner as to block the important crossroads. With the bomb load that my aircraft could carry and