uction of water, gas and electricity supplies.”  After the attack on the night of July 27th-28th hundreds of thousands of the inhabitants of Hamburg were evacuated and only the defence forces were left behind.  A further heavy attack was made on the night of August 2nd- 3rd, but weather proved unexpectedly bad, with thick icing clouds over the target. No real concentration of attack was achieved and we lost a number of aircraft because of the appalling weather. The U.S. Eighth Air Force made two small scale day attacks, dispatching 235 aircraft altogether, on July 25th and 26th, and on the nights when Bomber Command did not operate in force the attack was continued by small forces of Mosquitoes which made nuisance raids. Excluding the attack on the night of August 2nd-3rd, Bomber Command made 2353 sorties against Hamburg on three nights and dropped 7196 tons of bombs. It was some time before the smoke of the burning city cleared away and air photographs of the damage could be taken. When this was done there was at last revealed a scene of unimaginable devastation. 6200 acres in the most densely built-up district had been destroyed, 74 per cent of the mostly closely built-up parts of the city. All four of Hamburg’s main shipbuildings yards, in which great numbers of U-boats had been built, were severely damaged, and it was clear that all work and transport in the city had been stopped. [  The use of Window had an.immediate effect. On the first night of the attack the night of July 24th-25th, the radar-controlled searchlights waved aimlessly in all directions, the gunfire was inaccurate, and in England the stations which intercepted the enemy’s wireless traffic were immediately aware of hopeless con- fusion in the German ground control stations. In fact, the ground controllers gave the whole situation up, their instruments behaved as though the sky was filled with thousands of hostile aircraft, and they had to tell the night fighters they were controlling that they co