ally, so I wrote to him and reminded him of the fact that we were brothers in arms in German West Africa in 1914; actually he was then Chief of Staff to General Louis Botha, the C.-in-C., and I was the junior bugler in the 1st Rhodesian Regiment. I also told him that as a citizen of his country I had, after all, more right to demand his presence than a good many other people in England.  At last we managed to get him down to Springfield. After dinner, and very soon after, because I remembered his South African Veldt habit of going to bed and getting up with the sun, I steered him into what we called the “conversion room” next door and got his nose into one of the stereopticons which showed some of the damage we had already done in Germany; it was small enough at that time by comparison with what came later. At first he had not been remarkably keen on listening to my exposition of bombing theory, but by the time he had seen two or three of the photographs he was fumbling for a focus, pulling up his chair, and obviously sitting down to absorb things. Finally he examined with the greatest care everything we had in the place both in the stereopticons and in the blue books. Beyond a few ejaculations, he made no comment, but when he had finished he walked back into the drawing-room, turned to me, and said: “It is extraordinary, it’s fantastic, it is something entirely new something which I never even suspected; it’s tremendous.” f  There are many outstanding things about Smuts, the brilliance of his intellect, his immense physical hardiness and toughness so that you cannot believe you are looking, not at a man of forty, but of seventy, his great personal bravery, and his delightful sense of humour. Speaking in a clear, high-pitched voice, he will give you the answer to almost any proposition that you put before him. A practical answer, and a better one than most.  Smuts of course puts the welfare of his country first. But he undoubtedly believes that the best thing for th