of failure. We had at that time, in June, 1944, no experience to show whether precision attacks on individual and isolated factories in Germany could be successfully carried out in darkness in any but favourable weather. It is true that we had attacked a great number of small tactical targets and factories in France with remarkable success, but these had only a comparatively few anti-aircraft guns to defend them and it was almost always possible to bomb from a very low level with great deliberation. We had not yet begun attacking in daylight with fighter cover, and when we did begin to do so, shortly after D-Day, it was only against targets on or near the French coast. For us there was no adequate long-range fighter escort force then in sight.  Looking further ahead, I knew that even if we overcame the first difficulties and succeeded in making precision attacks on dark and cloudy nights against targets in Germany, we should  THE OFFENSIVE AGAINST OIL 225  have to keep the offensive up through the winter months when bombing efficiency is normally much reduced. If, as seemed almost inevitable, we got the sort of weather we had had during the previous winters, when it proved extremely difficult to make a concentrated attack even ona target as large as Berlin, extending over many square miles, the Germans would almost certainly get a respite long enough to enable them to repair all the damage we had previously done to the oil plants. We learned later that in fact this was exactly what the enemy counted on; it was only by a conjunction of circumstances which amounted to a miracle that we were able to keep up the attack during those winter months and so disappoint the enemy’s confident expectations. In war it is not wise to count on miracles.  There was one other factor to be taken into account when weighing up the chances for and against a campaign against the enemy’s oil industry, and this was a new navigational aid. This aid was known as GH, and its use had been consi