rver Corps, could be easily misled. At the first the enemy  added to his own confusion by employing several controllers who Were naturally apt to issue contradictory instructions to the  out in thre: air defence. battle front of years, f fighters, it  bombers in altogether i Command  main force then suddenly altered course and attacked the real target.  The controller’s running commentary was also susceptible to interference, and we used two methods to deal with it. A number of our aircraft were fitted with equipment for jamming the transmission of the commentary, and this worked very well until the enemy began using several frequencies at once. In turn, we divided the aircraft equipped with jamming apparatus into several sections, each of them jamming the enemy’s broadcast on a different wave length. This, of course, meant that the jamming was not so intense as when all the aircraft were inter- fering with one frequency, but it forced the night fighter crews to waste time going from one frequency to another to find the one on which the controller’s instructions could be clearly heard. Besides this, we set up ground stations in England to broadcast on the same frequencies that the enemy used for his running commentary, which was not in code—there would have been no time for the air-crew to decipher code messages of any length— but in straightforward German. There was an obvious temptation to broadcast misleading or contradictory instructions to the German night fighters; we could, for example, have sent the enemy fighters to Essen when the bombers were due to attack Berlin. But this, it was realised, would be far too dangerous. The night fighter crews would not be able to distinguish the false from the genuine instructions, but the ground controllers would, and would therefore be able to get useful imformation and make valuable deductions from what we were broadcasting; in the attempt to mislead, we might on occasion give the enemy a very good idea of the real targe