s wanted to know first hand about everything.  I was frequently bidden to Chequers, especially during the week-ends when Winston was normally there. I never failed to return from these visits invigorated and full of renewed hope and enthusiasm, in spite of the appalling hours that Winston habitu- ally kept. If it was a mixed party—which was not very often— and I could take my wife, I knew that we might get home some- where between midnight and one in the morning, but when I was asked alone, it would be anywhere between three and four before I got back. Not that I minded.  After dinner Winston would talk; he was really thinking aloud about how things were going. He would get repeated reminders that a film show was waiting for him, and eventually we would all go up to the gallery—the household staff, and the rest of the family, and even the military guard from outside—to see the picture. There the Prime Minister would sit, occasionally making amusing comments about the drama. One realised, of course, that he was really resting himself in this atmosphere and that this thoughts were often far away. Sometimes one could hear him rehearse a phrase for a telegram he would send later. Well after midnight we would go back down to the hall and he would get down to another batch of work, sending signals, dictating to his secretaries, and so on, while at intervals one of his family, and sometimes his naval A.D.C. would attempt to steer him off to bed, as his doctors had advised, but invariably without the least success. He went to bed when he wanted to. The only man who stood up to Winston about his late hours was Smuts. I have  150 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  but failed—most unfortunately. On a second visit of his I was determined to have a go at explaining the bomber offensive to him personally, so I wrote to him and reminded him of the fact that we were brothers in arms in German West Africa in 1914; actually he was then Chief of Staff to General Louis Botha, the C.-in-C., and I was th