t. I 1 instance of the sort of inquiry that was made. In pected that the enemy night fighters were “homing” 2S transmissions of our bombers over Germany, that iat they were using these transmissions, just as they ny radar or radio transmission from an aircraft, as a > bombers’ whereabouts. An experimental method of iether this suspicion was true, and, if so, what to do yuld have been to dispatch a number of sorties several with instructions to use H2S, and as many with : not to do so; this would obviously be a risky and ceeding. But statistical analysis of pilots’ raid reports siderable period gave the answer with much more ‘ecause so many more factors could be taken into n in an arranged experiment, and with no added risk veafter we were able to base our instructions to crews il compromise, using H2S where it was necessary but it was merely convenient. In the past, of course, ve often been viewed with suspicion and were believed roving anything, but nowadays statistical techniques h more refined than in the past that there is little »f making seriously fallacious deductions from them. rse, essential for the intelligence sections to see to it erational research sections get plentiful data, which ly would not have done at the beginning of the war importance of statistical analysis of operations was d; admittedly it is often difficult to get really accurate reports from the fighting man, who has other things out, but as time went on very great improvements in this respect.  e had our estimates of the tonnage required for each ad to take into account the uncertainties of weather  200 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  a Master Bomber meant that tactics could be flexible and the plan of attack was changed at the last minute. The leader of the force decided to mark the boundaries of the target with 3olb. incendiaries and ordered the rest of the force, 15 Lancasters, to bomb these incendiaries through clouds. Although the factory buildings only covered an area of 70 by go yards, they were