larly wiped out.  During the first year of my command we had been able, in point of fact, to exert a very considerable influence on the war at sea without in any way reducing the weight of the offensive against Germany. In February of 1942 all the minelaying of the Command, which had been made responsible for all air-sea mine- laying in Northern and Western Europe, was still being done by the aircraft of my old Group, No. 5 Group. I at once decided that minelaying from then on should be done byall Groups. I proposed that we should lay on an average 1000 mines a month which would be perfectly feasible if all Groups did the work and a considerable number of four-engined bombers were engaged on it, although in 1941 the average was less than goa month. This proposal was welcomed by the Admiralty, and allowed by the Air Ministry on condition that it did not interfere with the bombing of Germany. There were many occasions when the weather did not permit of an operation in Germany, but would allow us to operate somewhere off the European coast between the South of the Bay of Biscay and the Baltic. Moreover, mines were then laid from between 600 and 1000 feet and aircraft could come safel below cloud to find their targets area at a time when this be have been fatal almost anywhere in Germany, with the result that weather suitable for minelaying was very different from that needed for bombing. So that by dispatching aircraft on mine- laying sorties on nights when there was no chance of operating over Germany we were able to conduct the whole campaign with little or not effect on the main offensive.  The necessary modifications to enable the mines to be carried by several different types of aircraft were quickly undertaken. The mines themselves were improved. The magnetic mines we used in the early days of the war were not absolutely safe to handle, and there were two bad explosions on airfields in the  GETTING THE WEAPONS 139  period 1940-1941, but this was put right, and we