already been achieved and to bring back their bombs, which we badly needed, since, as I have said before, these were always in short supply. The sea began to spread over the island and swamped four batteries, but a single breach was not enough to flood the whole island. We accordingly breached the sea-wall on either side of Flushing, threatening seven more batteries, and again on the north-east coast of the island, until the floods had spread over nearly all the low-lying ground. Towards the end of October we attacked those batteries which could not be flooded in preparation for the land- ings which began on November 1st. By November 6th the enemy no longer commanded the mouth of the Scheldt and the approaches to Antwerp. The flooding of the fertile soil of Walcheren, which it was believed could not be restored to its original condition within many years, was a most unfortunate necessity of war, but access to the port of Antwerp was essential for all future opera- tions by land on the Western front. And, in any case, the wholesale destruction of property is, in my view, always justified if it is calculated to save casualties. After the capture of Walcheren, the Scheldt had to be swept clear of mines, and the first ships were unloaded at Antwerp on November 26th.  We did not wait for the capture of Walcheren to resume the attack against German cities; on the contrary, we dropped 42,246 tons of bombs on industrial cities in October, which was more than twice the weight of bombs dropped on these objectives in any previous month of the war. One reason for this increased weight was that we had to attack the already devastated cities of  236  modified to e In all. 85 pe: targets other September. We had se cities in 1943 proportion oi blitz. I was what the ene months’ respi when the ene new weapons could re-char immune fron did make her temporary dw been made ho have made so all the advant in 1943. But as soon as Cil Command cea Allied Comm: the hands of | this date that m