, but also that there was no reason why the success should not be indefinitely repeated in attacks on any targets within Oboe range. This had never been the case before, every previous success had been dependent on the caprice of the weather and had usually been won by seizing some opportunity that might never recur. But now the whole Ruhr was evidently at our mercy. Five more attacks were made on Essen in the next few months, the last of them being made by 700 aircraft; by this time, the end of July, there had at long last been an impressive expansion in the strength of the Command. All six attacks were extremely successful and after the last of them both Krupps and Essen were largely in ruins; even in the first three attacks of this series about half of the 300 separate buildings of Krupps were damaged, and the last attack, on July 25th-26th did as much damage to Krupps as in all the previous attacks put together. The largest building in the plant, the Hindenburg Hall in which locomotives were built, was so badly damaged that the Germans never attempted to repair it, though the enemy was then giving as high priority to the pro- duction of locomotives as to the production of aircraft, tanks, and U-boats, and though Krupps was, next to the locomotive works at Kassel, the largest locomotive building plant in Europe. From then on the production by Krupps of large shells, previously made at the rate of four hundred a month, and of fuses, previously made there at the rate of two hundred thousand a month, alto- gether ceased. The output of guns was cut by half and the production of aero-engine crankshafts—most important to the enemy at this stage of the air war—was seriously reduced.  In all 3261 sorties were made against Essen between March and July of 1943. This should be compared with the 3724 sorties made against Essen in 1942 which did no significant damage to Krupps and very little damage to the town of.Essen. And in 1942 201 aircraft were missing from the 3724 sor