e remark that if all the mines had exploded at one and the same time inside an unfortunate old Harrow with- out even discommoding it, I did not see how in the very unlikely event of one of them catching a German aircraft it could be expected to have a lethal effect.  However, these things did serve to give us some relief from our desperate cares, and they were indeed no worse than the idea of the gentleman in the last war who perpetually hawked round a scheme for freezing clouds and mounting anti-aircraft guns on them. Nor were they any worse than the idea of the man who wanted me to harpoon Zeppelins in the last war, a story already told.  I was still D.C.A.S. when it was decided, late in May of 1941, to send an R.A.F. delegation to the United States, and the C.A.S. suggested that I should lead this delegation, at least for a time. The object was to expedite the delivery of the warlike stores which the R.A.F. was hoping to acquire there and therefore to send serving officers who could deal with the American serving officers on equal terms. If there was one thing that depressed me more than the idea of going to America, as opposed to getting a command on the field, it was the thought of staying in the Air Ministry, and, as this was the only alternative, I agreed to head the delegation.  I had the selection of my own personnel, including the civilians, among whom I certainly chose two winners. One was Harry Weldon. He had been dean of Magdalen College, Oxford, and was one of the many dons who had been put for the duration into the higher ranks of the service departments of the Civil Service. To judge by his decorations, he had been a gunner of no mean order in the last war, but he was considered too old to be anything but a civilian in this. The other was a professional civil servant, of exceptional quality even in a service where quality runs high, George Cribbet, a man of immense application and ability. He was so completely devoted to his duty that,  58 BOMBER OFF