ase in darkness, but on this occasion it was arranged that the bombers should fi on to North Africa after attacking the Zeppelin works, land that and refuel and reload, and then fly home again. attackin the Italian naval base at Spezia on the way back. The Zeppelin pa were in themselves an important target, but a further reason for carrying out this rather elaborate operation was that it would help to spread the enemy defences; Friedrichshafen had ever reason to consider itself safe from attack, especially in the citatiiee months, and this unexpectedly deep penetration might well cause other places outside the more vulnerable areas to scream for defences, and it might prevent the defences from being removed from similar areas. A “shuttle service” attack was not an opera tion that could be at all frequently carried out because, as I ‘a ' very well, bases outside England would not have any ade die facilities for maintaining and servicing heavy bombers; as ves! the arrangements on the airfield in North Africa where the Lancasters landed were far from satisfactory. But it was well worth while on this occasion to keep some of our Lancketiks inactive for a week or so. The attack on Friedrichshafen was successful ; the Zeppelin works were heavily damaged—about half its equipment was probably destroyed—and a tank engine facto close to the Zeppelin works was also damaged. 7 The only possible navigational and bombing aid for u: outside Oboe range was H2S. At the beginning of 1943 we had very few aircraft equipped with H2S, and very little idea of tl best method of using it in operations. During the first two i: three months of 1943 we only had an average of about 14 air ft equipped with H2S for use in any one attack, and it ie rie ¥ that for the time being H2S, like Oboe, would have to be ‘ed asa Pathfinder device. Later on we might be able to take aie tage of the fact that H2S, unlike Oboe, could be used b aie. limited number of aircraft at the same time, but for the ehadate