red divisions going; when this hope was disappointed many tanks were stranded for lack of fuel. But even more important, in Speer’s opinion, was the destruction of German communications by bombing; it was this, he said, which brought the offensive to a standstill. The shortage of fuel was also felt on the Eastern front, where it was a major cause of the Russian victories in Silesia in February and March, 1945.  The enemy’s jet-propelled fighters, which were far in advance of anything the allies had and could have disputed our air supremacy—they would, however, have been too fast to operate by night against our bombers—were designed to use an inferior fuel to the aviation petrol used by normal aircraft. Jet-propelled fighters would probably have been able to operate long after the rest of the German air force was grounded, but as a result of stoppages and bottlenecks in the chemical industry, largely the result of our general attack on German industry and communica- tions as a whole, even this fuel was in short supply; the jet- propelled fighters were only able to play a very minor part before the end of the war.  In the weeks just before the end of the war all the German armed forces were immobilised by lack of fuel. The amount of oil produced by the synthetic oil plants and other factories was so little that it would not have paid the enemy to use up fuel in conveying it to the armed forces. The triumph of the offensive against oil was complete and indisputable.  It turned out afterwards that we might have saved a good  232 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  rare occasions when a day attack could be carried out in perfectly clear weather. The American system of bombing in formation, like our own formation bombing by GH, was always dependent on the accuracy with which the pilots kept formation and, of course, on the skill of the bomb-aimer in the leading aircraft. It is also true that Bomber Command used heavier bombs than the Americans, and here I am not referring to the 12,000 Ib.