ction would go in his favour. I was equally certain that this showed a complete blind- ness to political realities, and when I léft that night, or rather in the small hours of the next morning, I knew that I should never again go to Chequers as the guest of Winston Churchill. I counted that my darkest hour. But I knew the war was won. At Chequers I had seen three years of history, and the greatest of England’s valiants give it shape.  Winston was, of course, delighted by the way the offensive was developing during the Battle of the Ruhr. He was also distressed, as I was, by the slowness with which the Command had gathered strength, its expansion having been continually checked by the loss of squadrons to other Commands as soon as we had trained them.  I once remarked to Portal that, although hundreds of very important people had gone to all the trouble of coming to Bomber Command to see the results of bombing, the other two Chiefs of Staff had entirely ignored the manner, which seemed to me quite extraordinary. So it was arranged that I should take the blue books and some of the stereopticans to the Chiefs of Staff and explain the bomb damage in Germany to them after one of their committee meetings. This experiment rather failed in its object. The Chief of the Naval Staff did not attend, but sent a deputy, and the reaction of the C.I.G.S. when the Blue Book was put in front of him did not convince me that he had grasped the sig- nificance of the bombing offensive.  Among my many visitors I must especially recall Lord Camrose of the Daily Telegraph. He came to see me one summer evening and stayed to supper. This was in the early days when there was much opposition to the whole idea of a bomber offensive, and he wanted to know for himself. He was far from being already converted when he arrived, rather the reverse, but he had an open mind. He spent hours going into the pros and cons of the whole matter with me and minutely studying what evidence was then available. Ju