e his objectives and in so doing he can plan to concentrate on any vital target such a weight of attack as hitherto has never been possible in the whole history of war. There was consequently no means of defence.”  The situation was even more clearly described by General Engineer Spies. “Ultimately,” he said, “delay in getting semi- finished products to the assembly factories progressively slowed down production until it came almost to a standstill early in 1945. The fact that semi-finished products had to be carried over long distances was due, in the first place to the bombing of factories which forced dispersal, and secondly to the attacks on transport.”  Underground factories are, of course, as dependent on com- munications as any other and in the last year of the war it would have been perfectly easy to attack by concentrating on the rail- ways running to them. But at the same time we were prepared, in the closing stages of the war, for more direct measures if these  252 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  should be needed. We already had Wallis’s 12,000 lb. medium capacity bomb, which was capable of breaking through the roof of a railway tunnel or a very thick concrete roof, and when the success of this bomb was proved Wallis designed a yet more powerful weapon, the 22,000 Ib. bomb, the most destructive missile in the history of warfare until the invention of the atom bomb. This 22,000 Ib. bomb did not reach us before the spring of 1945, when we used it with great effect against viaducts or rail- ways leading to the Ruhr and also against several U-boat shelters. If it had been necessary, it would have been used against under- ground factories, and preparations for attacking some of these were already well advanced when the war ended. Even where a factory was too deeply buried for the bomb to go right through the earth or rock overhead, these large bombs would certainly have brought down the rock ceilings, as happened when we attacked with ordinary 1000 Ib. bombs the caves in wh