ed “in aid of the civil power.” There are two things you can get from aiding the civil power, and two things only—brickbats and blame. If you do not mind either of these things it can at times be quite amusing, especially if you are in a position to watch the machinations and the wrigglings of “the civil power” itself.  Such, in brief, was my service experience before the 1939 war, and to sum up my view of the country’s prospects on the outbreak of war, I could see only one vista through the wood which seemed to end in the faintest gleam of daylight. That was the bomber offensive. But in any case I knew that this would only be under- taken faute de mieux, after older methods had failed. Considering the state of France and the fact that she had nothing that could even be called an air force I saw no hope of successful military operations on the Continent. It never entered my head that the Germans, even after we had been thrown out of the Continent, would succeed in crossing the Channel; what I feared was complete stalemate, with the politicians eventually deciding to call it a day and Germany left free to refresh herself for the next step. Who was to imagine that Germany would be so idiotic as to attack Russia? Or Japan so idiotic as to push America into the war when she had every opportunity to do as she liked with our Eastern possessions while we were entirely preoccupied with Germany? In the circumstances that I foresaw—by ourselves, as I thought we should inevitably be and for a long time were— the bomber offensive would be our only hope of getting at Germany, and I determined to see to it, as far as I could, that the offensive got there, and got where it hurt.  I certainly had faith in the bomber offensive—if it could be got going, and if the Germans did not find effective counter- measures before we had built up the force. The surest way to win a war is to destroy the enemy’s war potential. And all that I had seen and studied of warfare in the past had led me t