compared with 1 i i j ones i 941 in the weight of ped. But it must be rememb: E ered that we lack eS n acked an ee naig bh age Ng setae throughout the whole year, pee is not much difference betwei i hesiredireesh dis een the load of a medium 1 misses the target and the E which also misses it. ' dint be gpiecintie ste BE sat failure of the Manchester inevitably added to the del on eae and at the time was a real disaster to us. Four wh of adro: a “equi is ai ; off sce aie re arse when this aircraft was taken off pera ne, and of course, it had been an i 5 pease gun : s been an immense was - Bee gery industry to produce an aircraft which could ee ised, The Manchester itself was a fine aeroplane, b i engines with which it was fi fai Lena idaiear ee ace was fitted failed to produce the necessa: powcr t yf were also unreliable because overloaded. The rege sikek therefore quickly proved itself to be virtually ter ay “ oe But this disaster proved a blessing in disguise. hs ‘paren was oo discovered, a considerable time an ully ceased to operate, the aircraft was rapidly  re-designed, as an em: ergency measure, to take fi i eae ; ¥ ake four engines. ps rechristened the Lancaster, and this resents on * out to be without exception the finest bomber of ie ie  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 103  Its efficiency was almost incredible, both in performance and in the way in which it could be saddled with ever increasing loads without breaking the camel’s back. It is astonishing that so small an aircraft as the Lancaster could so easily take the enormous 22,000 Ib. “ Grand Slam” bomb, a weapon which no other aircraft in the world could or yet can carry. The Lancaster far surpassed all the other types of heavy bomber. Not only could it take heavier bomb loads, not only was it easier to handle, and not only were there fewer accidents with this than with other types; throughout the war the casualty rate of Lancasters was also consistently below that of other types. It is true that in 1944 the wast