last—must inevitably take the risk of war. Just as our merchant seamen who man ships which the U-boats (equipped with Humboldt-Deutz engines) would have tried to torpedo. Were not the aircraft workers, their wives and children, at Coventry just as much ‘ civilians’ as the aircraft workers at Rostock and their families? But Hitler wanted it that way.  “It is true that your defences inflict losses on our bombers. Your leaders try to comfort you by telling you that our losses are so heavy that we shall not be able to go on bombing you very much longer. Whoever believes that will be bitterly disappointed. I, who command the British bombers, will tell you what our losses are. Less than 5 per cent of the bombers which we send over Germany are lost. Such a percentage does very little even to check the constant increase ensured by the ever-increasing output of our own and the American factories.  “America has only just entered the fight in Europe. The squadrons, forerunners of a whole air fleet, have arrived in England from the United States of America. Do you realise what it will mean to you when they bomb Germany also? In one American factory alone, the new Ford plant at Willow Run, Detroit, they are already turning out one four-engined bomber able to carry four tons of bombs to any part of the Reich every two hours. There are scores of other such factories in the United States of America. You cannot bomb those factories.  116 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  such methods of warfare as wholly ridiculous and a complete waste of time. In spite of the fact that the alleged speech was intended as a leaflet to be dropped over Germany, it was then broadcast in a propaganda programme to the enemy, a use of it which I believe had never been intended, and certainly had never been contemplated or authorised by me. After that, the news- papers and the B.B.C. naturally got hold of the speech and used it; there was a rule against printing pamphlets dropped on Germany because they were officially sec