con to guide the main force. During nths no serious damage was done either to Essen or though one of the eleven attacks was carried out t; this was in the second of our three “one thousand cks. ing, it was discovered, was about a third as accurate of the exercises carried out over Britain. For every caft attacking Essen no more than between five and »ombs could be expected, by the use of Gee alone, to 1ilt-up area of Essen and only two or three sticks on But clearly the fault was not entirely that of the 1s, for in the interval successful attacks had been or towns by the use of Gee. None of the targets we essfully was, however, in the Ruhr, and the obvious as that our attacks on this area failed because of its cteristics, first, the invariable smoke and haze, and absence of any good landmarks. In the Ruhr it was sy to mistake one town for another and this was often e night of March 9-1oth, 1942, Bomber Command aborn by mistake for Essen. There was also the fact my used many decoy fires with good effect in this g March of 1942 a serious proportion of the whole ell on decoy fires lighted at Rheinburg, about n Essen. The large incendiary bombs dropped as a he night of March 10-11th did not provide the iark that had been hoped for, and though our flares story when the weather was perfectly clear, their variably scattered by haze; the crews said that the dazzling in the Ruhr that it was almost easier to see n. ‘ee was quite inadequate as an instrument for blind- yur attacks succeeded when the target could be sually after Gee had brought the aircraft into its ‘od; they failed when visual identification was r very difficult, as it was now clear that it always the Ruhr. So for the time being the only thing to do Il the good we could out of Gee, but, until the new ration, Oboe and H2S, came along, to concentrate on he visual identification of targets. We had to accept always fully recognised in 1941, that visual identifica-  94 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  This exercise, which was call