hink they had about enough left to cover a limited advance on a front of a mile. By 1927 they had also succeeded, though not without opposition, in abolishing the Royal Tank Corps. They could thereafter settle down to what, I believe, was known as “real soldiering.” I knew well enough the army’s plan of campaign; it was a replica of the opening phases of the war in August, 1914, or as exact a one as could be produced, with the help, it almost seemed, of the original blue- prints, even to the point of “paying rent for the same trenches.” But I also knew that the best of the army itself had no faith in that plan, and none whatever in the French army; they had agreed to adopt the same old plan again only because the French had intimated that they wouldn’t fight at all if we didn’t agree with their ideas. The French had also got us virtually to promise that in the event of an invasion of France we would use the whole of our bomber force to protect the frontier; they had no idea that a bomber force could be used for any purpose whatever except as long range artillery in support of their army. Their air force was hopelessly deficient in every way, a dire state for which their politicians were responsible. Their air force, too, was in complete subservience to their army.  I had every reason to know what the Germans possessed in the way of aircraft, tanks, artillery and anti-tank weapons, and I was also familiar with their ideas of warfare; on the other side an old and valued soldier friend had told me that we had only one type of tank that was any good, and only one serviceable tank of this type. No one would have thought that a quarter of a century before we had actually invented and been the first to exploit the tank. I was convinced that in these circumstances we were going to be thrown out of the Continent neck and crop just as soon as it suited the Boche to do it, but like everybody else I had not foreseen the possibility of the long “phoney-war” period. To say that I