tity of ; railway. In fact, mathematically ¢ the German arm ashore, then ther beachhead, surro1 divisions.  This appreciat except one—it ov More particularh mand, which at weight of bomb Fortresses of the  It was perhay mistake. The A entirely to strate; employed on a lk used in this way precision bombin targets, but witl that the allies w: bombs to have < Command had a far the greater pa trial cities, and 1 force could be rag on the contrary, the R.A.F.’s heav ment, could not tion, and could 1 opposition was ni good. Any susta tactical targets c of time if the bo  It was obviou conceivable meat enemy’s interior army to break ou strength. Of the  198 BOMBER  materials for the work, Nei  OFFENSIVE  arly all such shops and depots are  situated in or beside railway marshalling yards, and the plan was  to select one or more aiming such a way that a heavy and  points in the marshalling yards in effective concentration of bombing  round these aiming points would destroy or severely damage the repair centres. It was not the principal aim of this campaign to damage the marshalling yards or destroy rolling stock, but if this  were done, as it inevitably v  would be, this would be all to the  good; the enemy would then have more and more to repair at the very moment when our bombing was more and more depriv- ing him of the means of doing so, Most of this work was to be  done by the heavy bombers of the R.A.F. and  S.A.A.F., but the  Allied tactical air forces were also to take part in the campaign;  suitable targets. of the targets. In planning to move the  small targets in the past. W y March of 1944, there was a in the previous year. In December of 1943, ther  aunching flying bombs in ¢  system which he had origina  because of the shape of their the air, They would have  sequently used, but they ha were easily detected from the forcing the enemy to aband lying bombs the Allied bom! respite for Southern Englan  Nor were these the only p  on the Cherbourg peninsula, very smal