mbers—the Com- mand had none of these in December, 1940—was not too large for an attack on a single important factory.  The attack on Mannheim caused an appreciable amount of damage and in consequence attacks were carried out by the whole available force on similar areas in Bremen, the naval bases of Wilhelmshaven and Kiel, and elsewhere.  During the Blitz there was a most natural demand for retalia- tion against Berlin, and the Command had to make great efforts to attack this very difficult and well defended target. The railway stations were usually aimed at. An acute and intelligent report by an American observer on the spot reached the Command after the attack on Berlin had been resumed in the late summer of 1941; during the summer it was not, of course, possible to attack so distant a target in the short hours of darkness. This report was undoubtedly disturbing. It pointed out that the damage in Berlin was very slight and had been greatly exaggerated in newspaper and broadcast reports in this country, that the enemy’s morale was not seriously affected by our raids, that our bombing was in- accurate but did not appear to be wholly indiscriminate, and that the attacks seemed to be carried out in such a way as to give the enemy’s defences the maximum advantage.  In the first two years of the war a good deal of information was brought out of Germany by business men and others from neutral countries, and their reports often led to the belief that our attacks were causing considerable damage. No doubt they were often based on rumours which the visitors had overheard and were therefore thoroughly unreliable. It is also the case that isolated examples of bomb damage, when seen from close at  66 BOMBER OF]  then wrap it up and send it to me cendiary bomb that fell on Americ:  Here is a story the Americans t Pearl Harbour a lot of anti-aircraft mounted on roofs of buildings. It guns at Los Angeles one night le ammunition at an imaginary airci a number of roofs in Hollywoo