y serious threat to our shipping might develop. The threat never came to anything for two reasons. The change of plan and design in the middle of a war caused endless delays, and  THE FINAL PHASE 251  by the time that the industry was ready for a considerable produc- tion of the new U-boats, German communications were in such a state of disorganisation as a result of air attack that dispersal, instead of protecting the industry, made it all the more in- efficient. Many U-boat hull parts manufactured inland were too big for anything except transport by barge, and the blocking of the Dortmund-Ems and Mittelland Canals took care of that. In varying degree these two factors constantly worked against the dispersal of industries, and by 1945 there was absolutely no industry which we could not be confident of attacking with success by one means or another, provided only that we could afford to give that industry first priority as a target for an adequate period; I should say that a fortnight would have been about enough for all but the very largest, most essential, and most widespread industries such as the oil industry, coal mining, or steel production. Here the opinion of Speer is of great importance; referring to dispersal and underground factories, “I was not of the opinion,” he said, “that the effects of planned air operations against industrial targets could be avoided by measures of this nature. The choice of when to deliver attacks on industrial objectives and of sustaining these raids as consistently as might be required lay exclusively with the enemy bombers.” In particular, Speer thought little of the German attempts to put essential industries underground. “One cannot meet air attack with the slogan ‘ Concrete versus Bombs.’ The opponent in the air is able to choose his objectives and in so doing he can plan to concentrate on any vital target such a weight of attack as hitherto has never been possible in the whole history of war. There was consequently no means