ank 22 ships. ' they could easi ing to the ph hostile fleet, t force which m In Brest tk shallow water and were dam serious enoug] difficult to det lot of convinci also arrived ir made a brief ¢ Brest, and the in which a fev on the Scharni at Brest. Thi enough to sen: The hits o time while the enough to ke  Chapter Four  BOMBER COM  Appointed C.-in-C. Bomber Commani 1942. What we were up agai German morale, Area and Pre  MAND  . The bomber force in  The need for speed. Attacking ion bombing. Previous failures,  Target finding by night. Using the wrong bombs. Early bombing tactics, The principle of concentration. ‘The lesson of  the Blitz, Bombing  olicy.  Bomber Command on  February 23rd, 1942, The headquarters of the Command was  | BECAME Commander-in-Chief o  about five miles from Hig  Wycombe, in  uckinghamshire,  It was the only Command headquarters in this country to be built as such; work was begun on it before the war, though it was not ready until the spring of 1940—before that the Command  was at Richings Park at Langley, near  Iver, The site near High  Wycombe was chosen because the country thereabouts was thickly wooded, and the headquarters themselves were right among beech trees and almost impossible to spot from the air, About a quarter of a mile from the headquarters buildings the officers’ mess, married quarters and other buildings had been laid out to look like a housing estate. Although the Germans knew perfectly well where the site was, we were never molested by the enemy, One incendiary bomb was dropped, of course entirely by accident,  on the W the country not far aw: We also had some para  but these were  .A.F, quarters; we also ha  some flying bombs in overshoots from London.  hutist scares and some definite informa-  tion of a plan to make away with me when our attacks were at  BOMBER COMMAND qx  Air Vice-Marshal R. H. M. S. Saundby, now Air Marshal Sir Robert Saundby, was then Command S.A.S.0.—senior air staff officer—and had had that job si