ants, artichokes, onions Phy HA ae SG aR a deodars, and so forth. y ‘3 damage that was done to it, but which did demonstrate beyond In the late autumn of 1942 there began the offensive which all question that daylight attacks on Germany could at that time was to throw the Germans out of Africa. To support this the only be carried out by Bomber Command ata rohibitive casual ty Command was required to attack the industrial cities of North Heese isl arp ere) pos, VUE Te  inaccurate, The U-boat building yards at Flensburg, Liibeck and Danzig were attacked in this way, but only those at Flensburg were hit,  In France and elsewhere in the occupied West the enemy's defences were still so weak that we could afford to attack several  Italy. There were six night attacks against Genoa, seven night attacks against Turin, and one daylight attack against Milan. The fact that we were able to operate by day shows how weak were the defences of Italy; almost the only difficulties were the  142 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  of the collaborating factories which were on my list by daylight. But this was no great advantage, because, against few or no defences, we were often able to attack by night with equal pre- cision. I was therefore able to fulfil to the letter my instructions to discourage production of war material for the enemy, not only in the Renault works, but also in a good many other factories, including the Gnome et Rhone works at Gennevilliers, the Ford works at Poissy, and the Philips works at Eindhoven. The Philips works were attacked by the light bombers of No. 2 Group, which during 1942 rearmed, first with Bostons, and then with Mos- quitoes. The Mosquitoes carried out a number of dashing attacks with hitherto unexampled precision on a series of small targets in the occupied countries, including a molybdenum mine at Knaben in Norway without which material, according to the Ministry of Economic Warfare, the enemy would be most gravely embarrassed in his special steel production. The