er and I have 75, and what I should like to know before attempting this is—who goes home with whom?” Whereupon he said, “But then, of course, you see I have not quite completed this. My subsequent intention is to provide an explosive grenade ona ring. When you have harpooned the Zeppelin, you slide the grenade down the wire and it bursts on reaching the harpoon.”  Seeing the chance to get rid of him for a time, I suggested that he should go home and complete his invention on those lines—which he did. That disposed of him for some three weeks or so. He then returned with his explosive:grenade on the ring and explained it all again to me. I suggested innocently enough that when I had achieved the markmanship necessary to hit the Zeppelin with the harpoon in the first instance it might be a good idea to have an explosive harpoon rather than to go to the additional trouble of sliding a grenade down the wire to a captive harpoon. This kept him away for a few more weeks, but he eventually produced an explosive harpoon and then went through the whole process with me again. I then said: “Well, now we hit the Zeppelin with an explosive harpoon, what is the need of having 500 feet of wire cable, which is, after all, a fatal additional load and a great inconvenience in my aeroplane?” That sugges- tion he again accepted enthusiastically, whereupon I pointed out to him that the harpoon was not ballistically very sound. Why not give it ballistic properties to enable it to be more accurately dropped? To this he agreed, but not being knowledgeable on the subject of ballistics he asked me for my help. Whereupon I sketched for him on paper, instead of the harpoon, an article shaped exactly like a bomb. This, he agreed, should certainly do the trick, if it hit the Zeppelin. I replied: “That is precisely why I have four bombs hanging under my aeroplane at the present moment.” He was furious, and went off in the local taxi. He was but one of a legion.  I more or less drifted into the R.