ay. Before the war the American navy had exacted the concession that no aircraft of the U.S.A.A.F. should fly beyond a limit of 300 miles from the nearest coast, and they tried to forbid any aircraft whatever from operating over any water unless under naval control. The American Air Force leaders had to risk their careers when the agitated for big bombers. There was more than one Billy Mitchell. In France there was no attempt whatever to develop aircraft for anything except army support, but as no aircraft fit for anything in modern war were in any case developed, the only effect of this way of thinking was, as I have said in an earlier chapter, that Bomber Command, in order to fulfil a promise exacted by the French, sustained heavy casualties in a futile attempt to hold up the German invasion of France.  In no future war can we count on such folly as the Germans and the Japanese showed or such neglect by our enemies of what- ever may be the most powerful weapon to hand. In 1939, as no one needs reminding at the present time, we risked losing the war outright because we had no adequate supply of weapons of any sort, rather than because we had not developed the right weapon, and it is possible, though unlikely, that our hairbreadth escape from total destruction may have taught us a lasting lesson; that particular danger, the danger of confronting a fully armed enemy with no adequate weight of arms, may perhaps not recur. But in the future it will be as fatal to rely on an antiquated weapon as to have no weapons at all, and, as I see it, there is a very great danger of this happening. For in the next war whoever has charge of the most powerful weapon then developed will have a worse time than the Air Force had in the 1939 war. He will have not only the admirals and the generals against him, but the air marshals as well. Already there has been a far too easy accept- ance of the idea that the atomic explosive is necessarily an atomic bomb, a weapon to be carried in airc