n able to put up as many crews and aircraft as the front line squadrons. To resist invasion, that force would have been available, and it did in fact contribute to the bombin  of the invasion barges in the Channel ports. .  Chapter Three  TNE EE ATR. MLNISTRY. AND, _U.S.AC  Appointed Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. Cutting down our staff. The Blitz in London. We plan for 4000 bombers. Strategic bombing a British idea. The Air Force and the Army. Lunatic weapons. A visit to America. “Imperial Troops.” Bomber  Command’s operations.  HEN Ludlow-Hewitt left Bomber Command in 1940 he  was succeeded by Portal. Portal then sent for me at  Bomber Command Headquarters to tell me that he had just been appointed Chief of the Air Staff and was to take up his new duties at the Air Ministry within twenty-four hours. He had been considering what sort of team he wanted to work with him and he asked if I would go with him as Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. After an active command in the field the prospect of returning to the Air Ministry horrified me.  The working hours were appalling. As D.C.A.S. I used to leave my flat at 8.30 and start with a meeting at nine o’clock every morning. I never got back to bed until one a.m. at the earliest, often not until three or four, sometimes not at all. This went on continuously for three to four weeks without a stop, and then I had just 48 hours in which to go home and get my breath back.  My first impression on arriving at the Air Ministry was that the staffs of every department were fantastically bloated. Junior officers were to my mind quite needlessly named directors of this and that, and they all imagined themselves as commanders in the field of the commands they were supposed to direct—a very nice job too, because they thought—mistakenly—that they were running the show without having to take the responsibility for the results. As far as my own staff was concerned, I quickly disabused them of that attitude. I stopped subordinates from writin