ht bombers of No. 2 Group. At the end of 1942 the Hampdens and Whitleys had gone, the Whitleys during the summer, and the Hampdens in September. The Manchesters had also proved a failure and were withdrawn from operations in June. Halifaxes formed the bulk of the heavy bomber force, Stirlings, the first of the four-engined bombers to become operational, were falling behind in number, and there were ten Lancaster squadrons operational, together with one temporarily non-operational. We also had half a Mosquito io pre therefore a much better-equipped and better balanced force at the end of the year than at the beginning, but the re- equipment could not be carried out without taking many squadrons off operations for the time being. In February, 1942, one-third of the whole front line strength was actually i operational, either because new squadrons were in process 0: forming, or because old squadrons were in process In re-equipping with better aircraft. The introduction of the heavy bomber did, in fact, very considerably increase the period of training for each crew, and this lasted until the end of the war. At first it was thought that it would be a comparatively simple matter to  100 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  squadrons, but in April, 1942, we put all the crews intended for overseas into two special O.T.U.s where they could have some specialised training in such matters as overseas intelligence, though otherwise there was little difference between this and the normal course at other O.T.U.s. It would obviously have been a good idea to have these crews trained by instructors with operational experience overseas. We repeatedly asked for crews who had had this experience to be sent home from the Middle East, but for a long time we could not get them. No proper record of the whereabouts of air-crews trained in Bomber Command O.T.U.s was kept by the Air Ministry and no arrangement was made to ensure that these indispensable men were properly employed. In the Middle East and elsewhe