nant weapon and British sea power had destroyed the  even of continental countries by blockade, But in submarine had ousted the battleship from its long  authority. By the same token, in 1939 the bomber was the new weapon and the submarine was already getting out-of-date. How long the authority of the bomber would last I could not tell, but for the time being it seemed secure, and it was all we had, in the  t of probable developments, that was suited to our purpose ard of German  just as essential  lig  and to circumstances. Even before the war we hi attempts to develop yet newer weapons, but i  Not to use the unready weapons of the next war as it is not to use the outclassed weapons of the last,  Meanwhile, in the first few days, the immediate and the worst anxiety was that if the war broke out at the tempo that we  expected we s! matter of wee  ould certainly run out of aircraft and crews in a ks, if not days. I expressed my feelings at that time  to one of my oldest service friends, “Every time you pass a  lamp post,” I seriously the  we shall finish,  said, “take your hat off, because if the war starts blame is going to be put on us and that is where ‘  This was my mood as I turned the borrowed Austin into the gloomy gateway of St. Vincent’s, Grantham, the headquarters of my new command, Like everything else in England it was a skeleton formation with not enough meat on the bones to prevent  a rattle whic make bricks, Command to  h would be audible to the enemy. I had come to and there was no need for my predecessor in the advise me of the lack of straw.  Chapter Two  THE FIRST BOMBING  The Hampdens of 5 Group. The bomber groups. Operational Training. Ludlow-Hewitt. A change of command. The leaflet raids. The magnetic mine. 5 Group’s minelaying. Our defence- less aircraft. The Battle of France. The Battle of Britain and the invasion barges. The beginnings of strategic bombing.  as when I arrived at Grantham to take over command of  No. 5 Group. For one thing, th