net, was asked to get out a report on the whole subject. In this report he said that the air arm “can be used as an independent means of war operations. Nobody who witnessed the attack on London on 11th July could have any doubt on this point. . . . As far as at present can be foreseen there is absolutely no limit to the scale of its future independent war use. And the day may not be far off when aerial operations with their devastation of enemy lands and destruction of industrial and populous centres on a vast scale may become the principal operations of war, to which the older forms of military and naval operations may become secondary and subordinate.”  I shall describe later how I showed General Smuts, when he visited us at Bomber Command, the proofs of the extraordinary accuracy of his prophecy. But the bomber was in no way an important weapon of the 1914-1918 war; the predominant weapon of that war was, of course, the submarine, and if the German admirals and generals had grasped this simple fact they would certainly have defeated us. As it was, they missed victory through submarine power by weeks. Aircraft were then tied to the long and bloody siege war in France, and though we had just got aircraft ready for an “independent” attack on Berlin when the war ended, it can hardly be said that there was any real use of air power during this period. Although the accuracy of gunfire was much improved by artillery spotting from the air it was still quite possible to fight effectively against an enemy even if he had command of the air over the battlefield and the contribu- tion of the air to sea power was insignificant, compared with the outstanding possibilities of the submarine in those days.  While I was on anti-Zeppelin defence at Northolt I had a good deal of trouble, as I have had from time to time throughout my life, with inventors of lunatic weapons who too often obtain the ear of the authorities. One particular maniac had got the ear of the War Office—we were