like Oboe, could be used b ra see limited number of aircraft at the same time, but for the eager  we had to base our tactics on the use o: D’ e: ba ne f H2S b y a small number of  aft of the Pathfinder Force. On the other hand we k  already that H2S would not be as precise as Oboe mt pits expected that some of the markers dropped on H2S alone ‘ads visual identification of the target, would scatter. To cou i okt this we used a new method of marking. After the we ike indicators had been dropped blind by H2S the main fetes hs  LONG RANGE ATTACKS 167  instructed to aim, not at the markers themselves, but at what was estimated to be the centre of them, or to put it more technically, their mean point of impact. This was obviously a pretty difficult thing for the average crew to attempt under operational con- ditions and in the face of heavy defences, so to help the main force we appointed a number of Pathfinder crews flying heavy bombers to estimate this mean point of impact and mark it with target indicators of a different colour from those dropped by the first H2S marker aircraft.  The forces used to mark the mean point of impact were called “backers-up” and later “visual centerers.” In the first H2S opera- tion, against Hamburg on the night of January 30th-31st, 1943, there were five backers-up, but this proved to be far too few to keep up continuous marking throughout an attack, and thereafter we used about 20 backers-up. When the weather was good enough, the backers-up were instructed to look for the aiming point in the light of flares dropped by the H2S markers.  This plan of attack, though rather elaborate, sounded all right at first. In practice it worked badly, and out of 15 major operations with H2S marking in the next two months, only three could be considered reasonably successful. The H2S apparatus was liable to get unserviceable even more often than the Oboe equipment in the early stages of its use; scarcely more than half the sets worked properly in the ave