o a miracle that we were able to keep up the attack during those winter months and so disappoint the enemy’s confident expectations. In war it is not wise to count on miracles.  There was one other factor to be taken into account when weighing up the chances for and against a campaign against the enemy’s oil industry, and this was a new navigational aid. This aid was known as GH, and its use had been considered as long ago as 1940, when the re-development of Gee was under discussion. The question then was, which of these two navigational aids should first be introduced. GH was in theory likely to be far more accurate than Gee, but whereas every aircraft in the force could be equipped with Gee and use it simultaneously, only about too aircraft at best could use GH in any one operation. When it is remembered that in 1943 we had to be satisfied with a naviga- tional aid, namely Oboe, which could only be used by a dozen or so Mosquitoes in any one operation, it may seem extraordinary that in 1940 GH should have been rejected because no more than 100 aircraft could use it simultaneously. But at that time the principle of using a small Pathfinder Force, which should only be regarded as a measure we were forced to use for want of something better, had not been accepted; the idea then was that every man should be his own Pathfinder and every aircraft have adequate equipment for finding any target. In actual fact things changed so much between 1940 and 1944, and we had to moderate our ambitions to such an extent, that in 1944 the main reason for using GH was the fact that it could be used by as many as 100 aircraft at a time.  GH was put forward not as a navigational aid but as a blind- bombing instrument; its accuracy, we were told, would in theory approach that of Oboe. If so, it would be of the greatest value to Bomber Command, because it could be used against small targets when these were covered by thick, unbroken cloud and  B.O. i?  224 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  The loss of th