certain mild amusement not long afterwards when Monty became as urgent in his requests for air support as the rest of them, indeed he was more insistent than most of them, since he appreciated realities more quickly.  I always pride myself that Monty, who is only too willing to learn anything new and learns at speed, got his first real understanding of air co-operation from me, during his very short term of office in Palestine in 1939. It was short, because he was taken desperately ill not long after his arrival in the country and left for home on a stretcher. Knowing that more serious war was close upon us, I thought with dismay that we were to lose a man whom I considered to be one of our best generals. But whatever bug it was that bit Monty on that occasion—and it bit him so hard that we never expected him to reach home—he got the better of it.  The rules for rebellion in Palestine appeared to me to get simpler every day. For the British forces they amounted to this; you must not get rough, no matter how rough the “enemy” is. If the “enemy” gets particularly rough and you get rougher and kill any noticeable number of his men, even if only with the aim of saving your own men, then it is just too bad for you. My advice to all young commanders in all services is, whenever you see any prospect of being called out “in aid of the civil power” in any part of the world, to get to hell out of there as quickly  FACING THE WAR 31  and as far as you can. If you fail by being too soft you will be sacked; if you succeed by being tough enough, you will certainly be told you were too tough, and you may be for it. Therefore I say that the best thing to do is to take long leave, or to get trans- ferred, or to retire and buy yourself a farm; do anything, in fact, sooner than get involved “in aid of the civil power.” There are two things you can get from aiding the civil power, and two things only—brickbats and blame. If you do not mind either of these things it can at times be quit