couraging the production of war material for the enemy elsewhere in France.  On the night of March 28th-29th the first German city went up in flames. This was Liibeck, a rather distant target on the Baltic coast, but not difficult to identify because of its position on the River Trave, by no means so well defended as the Ruhr, and from the nature of its buildings easier than most cities to set on fire. It was a city of moderate size, of some importance as a port, and with some submarine building yards of moderate size not far from it. It was not a vital target, but it seemed to me better to destroy an industrial town of moderate importance that to fail to destroy a large industrial city. However, the main object of the attack was to learn to what extent a first wave of aircraft could guide a second wave to the aiming point by starting a conflagration: I ordered a half an hour interval between the two waves in order to allow the fires to get a good hold before the second wave arrived. In all, 234 aircraft were dispatched and dropped 144 tons of incendiaries and 160 tons of high explosives. At least half of the town was destroyed, mainly by fire. It was conclusively proved that even the small force I had then could destroy the greater part of a town of secondary importance.  In the attack on Liibeck 13 aircraft were missing, most of them being shot down along the route, a loss rate of 54 per cent, and no more than could be expected on a moonlight night and with the target at so great a distance from base. However, if this casualty rate had continued as an average for any length of time it would largely, if not entirely, have prevented the expan- sion of the Command, or as an alternative, would have prevented the Command from operating at the fullest intensity of which it was capable. There were two occasions during the later offensive  106 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  when the losses were for a considerable period more than 5 per cent of the total operational sorties of the Comm