portions, though it is true that it was still little more than a quarter of the size of the force originally projected. In 1943 we had throughout the year an average of 570 heavy, 106 medium, and 41 light bombers available with crews; in 1944 the average number of aircraft available with crews was 1119 heavy, no medium and 97 light bombers, figures which do not include the aircraft of 100 Group. But in April of 1944, as for much of the remaining year, there was little opportunity of using this force for the work for which it had been designed.  From April till September all strategic bomber forces, both R.A.F. and American, were placed under the direction of the Supreme Allied Commander, General Eisenhower, when these were engaged on operations connected either with the reduction of the German air force or with the invasion of Europe. All such commitments in preparation for, or support of, the invasion had absolute and overriding priority. Thus the strategic bombing of Germany had lasted for almost exactly a year, and for no longer. This is a point which I cannot emphasise too strongly. The average man considering the effects of the bombing of German industrial towns is apt to think of it as a campaign which went on for three years during which a force of 1000 bombers regularly hammered away at all the enemy’s main industrial centres. Actually only 45 per cent of Bomber Com- mand’s effort during the whole of the war was directed against German cities and this 45 per cent includes a number of exception- ally heavy raids carried out towards the end of the war which were tactical rather than strategic in their aim and were designed to have a short term effect on the land campaign by blocking the communications of the Germany army. In April of 1944 I certainly had no illusion that the strategic bombers had done their work; it never occurred to me that we could reduce the  190 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  In spite of all the various ways in which we hindered the enemy’s defences, o