beginning of the attack but at intervals throughout it. The difficulty was to plan an attack in such a way as to arrange for the H2S aircraft either to mark the target altogether, or simply  LONG RANGE ATTACKS 17  at intervals, according to thestate of the weather; it was obviously very difficult to organise an attack in such a way that either of two entirely different systems of timing could be used at the last moment. We did our best to get over this by dividing the H2S blind marking force into two sections, one to mark the target at the beginning of the attack and the other to mark it at intervals throughout the attack. But this meant that we had, in fact, to double the blind marking force if either method of marking was to be carried out really effectively, and we never had enough crews who were fully experienced in blind H2S marking for this. Asa result, there was seldom any very close concentration of attack when the target was marked entirely by sky markers, though occasionally we did achieve a remarkable success.  Even when the target indicators could be clearly seen on the ground and had been accurately dropped around the aiming point a curious and rather unexpected difficulty turned up. If Ha had been as accurate as Oboe there would have been no trouble, but it never was, and therefore a very great deal depended on finding the mean point of impact of a considerable number of target indicators distributed over a comparatively large area. It was found that even when everything was satisfactory at the begin- ning of an H2S attack there was a persistent tendency for the focus of the bombing to shift gradually away from the aiming point, so much so that the whole attack might by the end have gradually shifted as much as three or four miles away from the the aiming point. The shift was always in one direction, towards the point from which the bombers approached the target. ‘After considerable trouble, the reason for this shift was discovered. As the bombers appr