olk, Jean and Adeline Tresfon. Jean had been an officer in the Dutch army, and became a naturalised Englishman shortly after the 1914-1918 war. He is quite one of the ablest men I have ever met. He farms 1200 acres in Norfolk; it is better farming than I have seen anywhere in this country—and I am a bit of a farmer myself—but he does it as a spare-time job, a hobby, betweeen running half a dozen big firms and factories. It was nice to be back in the green countryside in the late summer.  On September 3rd, 1939, we were still with the Tresfons. We sat round the log-fire and listened to Chamberlain’s uninspired and uninspiring broadcast; when he announced that we were now at war with Germany he was about as stirring as a school- master confirming the fact that mumps had broken out in his prep. school. A lifeless call to the blood and tears, the toil and sweat of war. There was silence at the end of his speech, until Jean Tresfon turned to me and said: “How long will this one be?” I drew a bow at a venture and answered: “Five years.” I do not know why I said five years, except that I knew we could not hope to reach our full effort before five years and that it  FACING THE WAR 11  would take at least our full effort to stop the Boche and consider- ably more to beat him.  I then went to the telephone and rang up Portal and told him that I wanted a job. I had finished with my holiday, no matter what might be said to the contrary. There was complete chaos on the telephone lines and I only got through to the Air Ministry by demanding “immediate priority’—a meaningless term and quite unauthorised, but one which had the desired effect. I had the mortification of kicking my heels for some days, which seemed like years, before I received a message telling me to report to the Air Ministry. There Portal, after ringing up Ludlow- Hewitt, Commander-in-Chief, Bomber Command, told me to go and take over command of No, 5 Group of Bomber Command at Grantham the next day, which I did. M