n this I was supported by all my Group Commanders. My own plan was to train and form target- marking squadrons in each Group; this would lead to a good deal of healthy competition and new ideas could be more easily tried out in this way. Eventually we were able to supplement the Air Ministry’s plan of an independent target-finding force with the system of forming target-finding squadrons in an ordinary, unspecialised Group, No. 5 Group; not only were these squadrons as successful as those of the specialised target-finding force, but we were able to get the benefit of two opposed and distinct approaches to the problem being worked out at the same time. Some marking was also done on occasions by aircraft of No. 1 Group, and later on No. 3 Group did its own target-finding. However, though I opposed the formation of the special target- finding force for some months, preferring with my Group Commanders our own plan, I was overruled by the Air Ministry. In other circumstances I should not have accepted the position, but we were now faced with the fact that Gee had failed as a bombing aid and that the new radar aids, Oboe and H2S, which had been promised for the autumn of 1942, were not to be forth- coming until the end of the year. For the time being it was essential to improve our methods of finding the target visually and marking it, and this seemed to require the whole-time activities of a specialised force, not only for leading but for practical experiments. Accordingly the Pathfinder Force, as I christened it, was formed on August 15th, under the command of then Air Commodore D. C. T. Bennett. It seemed likely that the  GETTING THE WEAPONS 129  squadrons which were required to find and mark the target visually would have to stay longer in the target area, while they searched for distinguishing features, than aircraft of the main force; the enemy might also be expected to concentrate all his defences on the Pathfinder squadrons who got to the target first, in the hope