do not know why such papers should not be published by the Stationery Office, if only for the purpose of showing that the Ministry staffs of the fighting services are not quite so incompetent as they are widely beliéved to be.  It was while I was at the Air Ministry, in 1935, that the specifications for the heavy bomber which later developed into the Manchester, Stirling, and Halifax were laid down. Three years later it was decided that all the main bomber force should i 9 be of this type. In 1936 the shadow factory system came into batches of Hudsons and ae The Hudsons beyond doubt being, a method of using the automobile and related industry pulled us out of thesatip Ww : ii used rb for ee in Britain as a second line behind the aircraft industry, and in patrols in the fist years of the mets oat A aS s broke the the same year the R.A.F. was divided up into the various com- back of our problem in Tee ee sane 6 mands, Bomber, Fighter, Coastal and Training Commands. Iwas much nua sare suerte dpe efficiency,  In 1938 I took command for a short time of No. 4 Bomber Deon i . ; uk te ae ts ia ama EAE Group, in Yorkshire, which was just forming and sadly lacked varie a avo eet i ae Hee sr eae every sort of equipment. We did cross-country flights and ra wine on i sae ging es a Peacane me 2 night bombing training in Whitley aircraft, but we were up pte : pela a ae etl ae Mapa Lan against every conceivable sort of trouble when we tried to get ve saehed er ey he * Lees sli En ai cae 4 training areas for bombing. We wanted Abbotsbury, but the use other aye eee te os ain i res Hy i anh of this as a bombing range was postponed by prolonged and Ea e sor nic a alk aa ie o pea bitter opposition, with a vast correspondence in the Press; the Pee ee seal ie a Ae cues mea objection was that the swans at Abbotsbury would not lay eggs eae AR peter doing HRS ted if we used this as a range. In actual fact, once the site was given; . + + =p to us and we started boateag: the swans laid more be