a flying boat base and squadron. I had three aims, to do something to break what we called at that time “the flying boat trade union,” to clear the black magic out of the trade, and to help solve the difficulties they were having with night flying. The flying boat branch of the service had succeeded in surrounding itself with an esoteric atmosphere, based on largely spurious nautical lore, and wished it to be understood that there were so many difficulties in the way of taking up a flying boat by night that for ordinary human beings to attempt this feat was suicidal. It did not take me long to discover that the only difference between night flying in a flying boat and in an ordinary aeroplane was that it was in every way much simpler and safer in a flying boat. The sea landing areas provided aerodromes of comparatively unlimited extent, and a flying boat could be flown down on to the water blind in con- ditions in which no land-based aircraft could, at that time, be landed. Don Bennett, afterwards A.O.C. of Bomber Command’s Pathfinder Force, was one of my Flight Commanders in the flying boat squadron and from there I got him his subsequent job, when his short service commission expired, with Imperial Airways. He was, and still is, the most efficient airman I have ever met.  I have always looked upon that as the most enjoyable year I had in the service. There was the delight of plenty of boat sailing, and the flying boats themselves I regarded with great affection as almost entirely useless but splendid yachts for the upkeep of which somebody other than myself had to pay. Nothing could have been pleasanter, but I knew that I was wasting time and that time was short. I was not in the job for long. I was sent to the Air Ministry to serve as Deputy Director of Operations and Intelligence, and after a year I became head of the Air Ministry Planning Department, which meant that I was a member of the Joint Planning Committee, with Ronald Adams and Ted Morris at various tim