strial cities in October, which was more than twice the weight of bombs dropped on these objectives in any previous month of the war. One reason for this increased weight was that we had to attack the already devastated cities of  been made homeless by bombing. I feared that the enemy might have made so much headway with this that,we might have lost all the advantage from the damage we did to his industrial towns in 1943. But in any case the only thing to do was to begin again as soon as circumstances allowed. On asth September Bomber Command ceased to be under the general direction of the Supreme Allied Commander and operational control passed once again into the hands of the Chief of the Air Staff; and it was round about this date that we resumed the offensive for which Bomber Com- mand’s striking force had been called into being, The last flying bomb had been launched from the ground on September 3rd, and a diversion of effort which amounted to 24,000 tons of bombs a month for a period of two and a half months was no longer necessary. And now that France had been cleared of the enemy the army's demands for our services, though by no means few, were rather less frequent; for the moment Bomber Command was only asked to clear the approaches to Antwerp, and when this port could be used the enemy’s advantage over the allies in the matter of communications, which had had to be countered by air attack, would no longer be as great as before.  Antwerp had been occupied by the and Army without any serious fighting on September 3rd, but it was useless to the allies while the enemy occupied Walcheren and other fortresses on the mainland at the mouth of the Scheldt. Operations against the enemy positions at the approaches to Antwerp were somewhat delayed by the attempt to force a crossing of the lower Rhine at  236 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  modified to enable them to carry 4000 lb. high capacity bombs. In all. 85 per cent of the Command’s effort was used against targets other than Ge