, as I have had from time to time throughout my life, with inventors of lunatic weapons who too often obtain the ear of the authorities. One particular maniac had got the ear of the War Office—we were, of course, under the War Office then and the R.A.F. had not yet been formed—and I was instructed to give him carte-blanche. However, I demurred when he proposed sawing out a large part of the essential structure from my aeroplane as a preliminary to fitting in his anti-Zeppelin gadget. He eventually fixed this in with a reasonable degree of security  B.O. B  16 BOMBER OF  town and heard the news I tried at Regiment. There was no room k office again and again, to receive heard that there were two remain in the regiment, one for a machi bugler. I applied for the job of m viewed by Hope-Carson, the adjuta strong. I was unable to convinc whatever about machine-guns—] demanded the job of bugler. Dur All Hallows, I had become a ge second prize in the annual Public the job, and the unkind have acc: trumpet ever since.  The 1st Rhodesian Regiment’s West Africa. In it we had to carry of such length—and on starvat famous even in the annals of the B greatest marching performance of military history. It made such an day I never walk a step if I can get: When the 1st Rhodesian Regimen carried the campaign through, def and occupied German West Africa, ] to find some way of going to war of the cavalry, but I had no faith i were full up. I thought I would le I had toyed with the idea of joinin, done so if it had not meant becom  I therefore joined the R.F.C, pending the suppression of the Bo home to Africa. I certainly had r be my life’s work. I had an uncl round the 6000 “waiting list”—i appointed a second-lieutenant on During the war I had two main jc a detached flight—and later a squ fence squadron of night fighters— down the first Zeppelin—and in F a fighter squadron protecting o therefore engaged in defence rath fact it was the defensive aspect of  8 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  and he the