r air-crew were all highly skilled men, much above the average in education, who had to understand every aspect and detail of their task. It was, furthermore, the courage of the small hours, of men vir- tually alone, for at his battle station the airman is virtually alone. It was the courage of men with long-drawn apprehensions of daily “going over the top.” They were without exception volunteers, for no man was trained for air-crew with the R.A.F. who did not volunteer for this. Such devotion must never be forgotten. It is unforgettable by anyone whose contacts gave them knowledge and understanding of what these young men experienced and faced.  No award could be commensurate with the achievements of the men who flew our aircraft, but I did ask, at the close of the  266 BOMBER OFFENSIVE SUMMING UP 269  SUMMING  depriving the Luftwaffe of all power of taking offensive action . een a e a and fatally weakening it on the Eastern, Mediterranean, and Hoc amp ei the cyl is whi eventually the Western front. Scarcely less important was the __ Mlltsgrogof ys i ie Goma me fs it diversion of more and more guns, all of them dual-purpose fide wratei agscalor damaged weapons, for the defence of German cities, and Speer himself was \ gia rye ey ig of opinion that the German armed forces were “considerably tht heh dl hn obey weakened” by this. At the same time our main offensive, by the "ifthe oo le es unprecedented devastation which it caused in the largest German __ilathas day, th  industrial cities, reduced every form of war production and ia su eet gid wb pi prevented the development of many new war weapons and __ lls Dui te wie pid otha industries. It caused the enemy to divert a major part of his eof ase ete re Coli, effort to defence. It made heavy demands on science and man- atl that  industries and sites) and in almost every s demonstrably had that effect. Without »mber Command the invasion of Europe gone down as the bloodiest campaign in it had failed outright—as it would