young intellectual’s habit of underrating experience and over- rating knowledge. All this is, of course, rather unusual in a fighting man and we were lucky to get a man of such attainments to lead and form the Pathfinders.  The formation of the Pathfinder Force coincided with the jamming of Gee by the enemy, and for the rest of 1942 the force was hampered by the lack of any special equipment for target- finding as well as by the lack of any proper target indicator; in spite of all our efforts this simple requirement, which I had urgently asked for in March, 1942, and the development of which I had suggested many years before, was not yet in production. No obvious and immediate successes could therefore be expected to follow the formation of the Pathfinder Force, but the Force did discover much that was important and useful about marking and illuminating targets.  The basis of Pathfinder tactics at this time was visual marking of the aiming point, either in the light of flares—these were still of an unsatisfactory type—or occasionally in moonlight. Flares were dropped with the help of Gee in the few instances where a target still remained within range of Gee, but the usual method was to make a timed run from a visually identified landmark. In September a new technique was used and proved effective. The flare dropping aircraft were divided into two groups, one of which, called the finders, dropped long sticks of flares right across the target area, and the other, called the illuminators, were detailed to search for the aiming point itself and, when they had found it to illuminate it with much shorter sticks of flares; the visual markers then marked this aiming point with incendiary bombs, in default of target indicators. Because of the difficulty of distinguishing incendiaries, salvoes of 30 lb. and 250 Ib. incendiaries were dropped on the aiming point or as near to it as could be managed. Even these were not easy to see in the early stages of the attack, when the tar