erations in France,or when there was no imperative call for tactical bombing in support of the army, or attacks on flying bomb sites, railways, U-boat bases, and oil plants. For the two months around D-Day it was im- possible to make any heavy attack on a German city, and all that could be done was to begin a long offensive against Berlin by light bombers, Mosquitoes, which subjected the enemy’s capital to a rather heavier bombardment than London was receiving from the flying bombs; a number of the Mosquitoes were  235  234 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  deal of trouble, if we had been asked to attack four factories, three in Germany and one in France, which produced ethyl fluid, a small quantity of which has always to be mixed with high-grade aviation petrol. Possibly the Germans would have been able to scrape up enough ethyl to keep going if these four plants had been bombed—they were highly vulnerable to air attack—but in any case here was a panacea target which offered the greatest advantage with no considerable effort. -Probably there were many other similar targets which the Germans could have told us about. The difficulty was that we had no means of finding which were the general panacea targets at any given moment, whereas anyone could see for himself that such targets as Essen and Berlin con- tained a vast number of vital war industries.  Chapter Eleven  THE FINAL PHASE  An overwhelming force. The capture of Walcheren. The attack on German industrial cities resumed. Shortage of high explosive bombs. The second battle of the Ruhr. The Dortmund-Ems and Mittelland canals. The collapse of German industry. Dresden. A cancelled attack on Berlin. New methods of bombing. More tactical developments. The defeat of the German defences. The dispersal of German industry and underground factories. Run- stedt’s counter-offensive. The sinking of the Tirpitz. Views on battleships. Sea power exerted by Bomber Command.  damage as an attack by the whole Command in the previous  year. There