his decision was frequently discussed  those who took the same orce, that bombers should  eed and manoeuvrability to evade the The Mosquito, was, in fact, the direct out-  porters of the light and  supporters of the heavy bomber; when rearmament was being planned there seemed to be no reason why we should not have  the best of both worlds an light bombers to the four ¢  add sometl  hing like a thousand or so  housand heavies, Unlike the Germans  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE Ior  we grasped the point that any ordinary bomber is cold meat to any ordinary fighter, and so a light bomber, the Mosquito, was designed which should be at least as fast, and probably faster, than the average fighter. But in the end the wisdom of con- centrating on the heavy bomber was conclusively proved. The decisive factor was the supply of pilots; the heavy bomber carries about three times the load of the medium type, but both aircraft only need one pilot. It is certain that even with the whole resources of the Empire Training Scheme we should never have got enough pilots to fly enough medium and light bombers : drop the bomb load that was dropped by the heavies. And, of course, the problem of concentrating the bomb load, if it ha been carried by many light bombers instead of by a comparatively few heavies, would have been insoluble.  In January, 1942, we had an average of only forty-two heavy bombers available, and in December of that year we had an average of 261 heavies. In terms of squadrons, we had 36 heavy bomber squadrons at the end of the year as against 15 the year before. In February we were operating with Hampdens, Whitleys, Wellingtons, Manchesters, Stirlings, and Halifaxes, and we had two Lancaster squadrons non-operational while re-equipping with this new type. This list excludes the light bombers of No. 2 Group. At the end of 1942 the Hampdens and Whitleys had gone, the Whitleys during the summer, and the Hampdens in September. The Manchesters had also proved a failure and were with