sion to the United States, who was also present, suggested that I should go up and see the fun. But the figure of a duffle-coated snotty appeared in the doorway and reported without a blink at my presence; “The Captain’s com- pliments, sir, but we were only firing at a friendly aircraft.” This seemed so normal to me that I required no further reassurance, but as a matter of curiosity we went up to have a look. A poor innocent old Whitley was then circling round that part of the Atlantic; it appeared that she had come out of the low clouds and had been received in the usual manner by the Navy, and no questions asked. I must say it annoyed mea little; the airman  60 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  although he was a healthy specimen by nature, he worked himself to a shadow.  As America was not then at war I knew well, from my previous experience there when I spent six weeks buying aircraft in 1938, that we should have to do a considerable amount of return entertaining. But there was the usual frightful struggle with the Treasury to obtain the wherewithal even to exist in the country, let alone to do any entertaining. In all such battles the Treasury plays the same game. They find out the date when you are due to leave and then fight to the last ditch to prevent any decision before you go, with the idea that when you are out of reach you cannot argue effectively by post while they can always delay any decision.  I anticipated this usual tactic of theirs by getting the V.C.A.S. to inform them, before I was due to leave, that it was impossible for the mission to go on the terms the Treasury proposed; it was suggested that they should find some member of the idle rich who could be turned into an ersatz airman and head the delega- tion, since nobody else would be able to afford to go on the Treasury’s terms. This at last brought them to their senses, though in such matters it is perhaps an exaggeration to speak of the Treasury as having senses; they are purely opportunist and have no qua