e used in the early days of the war were not absolutely safe to handle, and there were two bad explosions on airfields in the  GETTING THE WEAPONS 139  period 1940-1941, but this was put right, and we had no such accidents for the remainder of the war. In 1942 we dropped the first airborne acoustic mine, operated by the sound waves sent through the water by ships, and thereafter many ingenious mixtures of the magnetic-acoustic firing gear were devised. In March of 1942 there had, of course, to be an immediate and more than tenfold increase in the production of mines, but this was managed without any difficulty. Indeed, the whole minelaying campaign was marked by a total absence of all those production problems and difficulties in getting priorities which in everything else was our normal lot. Whenever anything was wanted in a great hurry, because we learned that the enemy had found out how to cope with the mines we were laying at that time, it was designed by a small factory largely staffed by Wrens and produced with a rapidity which would have been inconceivable if we had gone through the usual channels or if we had not had the Ad- miralty at our back. The workshops of the Navy’s research establishment were at our disposal and everything went like clockwork. It was a lesson in how to get what you want, a lesson which the Navy learned long ago. On the other hand, if the Navy had had to struggle for anything and everything in the same way as the R.A.F. had, they might have lost some of their liking for obsolete and enormously expensive weapons. Our relations with the Naval mining authorities were always excellent and in Captain de Mowbray and his staff, Bomber Command had a wonderfully efficient mining team.  The minelaying campaign had considerably more effect than the destruction of Lorient and St. Nazaire on the U-boats using these other bases on the west coast of France. The soundings off that coast were by no means ideal for minelaying, but even so we managed to