whether Gee would or would not be very useful to a bomber force, but just how accurate it was. Was it, in fact an aid to navigation, enabling the navigator to get within a mile or two of the target but leaving him to find the rest of the way by using his eyes? Or could Gee be used for blind bombing, that is, would it give the bomb-aimer so accurate a fix that he could release the bombs on this alone, without sight of the target? Opinion at the Air Ministry was that Gee could definitely be used for the blind bombing of large industrial towns, though not of individual factories. It was believed that a large town could therefore be attacked through ten-tenths cloud; the estimate was that if Essen was attacked through cloud, nearly half of all the bombs dropped would fall on the city. With the independence of weather over the target that this would give, it would be possible for the force to operate on something like seven times as many nights as before. In effect, this would be equivalent to multiplying my force of 300 aircraft by seven, and quite a lot can be done with 2100 bombers, especially if half their whole bomb load can be trusted to hit even such a difficult target as Essen. Hence the expectation that I should be able to destroy completely Essen and three other towns in the Ruhr within a period of three months. On the other hand, only a small pro- portion of the force was so far equipped with Gee, but presumably it was thought that there would be some way of getting round this.  Up to the end of 1941 a front line strength of 4000 heavies,  TENGE ME  ae ital aie tom al ci  tt pda algal ex kl ot te  erage Tis Ieern cc woe  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 95  ro-11th March, the Gee-equipped aircraft dropped iaries instead of flares, these large incendiaries being erve as a beacon to guide the main force. During nths no serious damage was done either to Essen or though one of the eleven attacks was carried out t; this was in the second of our three “one thousand cks. ing, i