ss so that you cannot believe you are looking, not at a man of forty. but of seventy, his great personal bravery, and his delightful sense of humour. Speaking in a clear, high-pitched voice, he will give you the answer to almost any proposition that you put before him. A practical answer, and a better one than most.  Smuts of course puts the welfare of his country first. But he undoubtedly believes that the best thing for the world is the extension of the ideas that have produced the British Common- wealth. The most brilliant, if not the most bitter opponent of ours during the Boer War, he has never forgotten the aftermath when the Transvaal and the Orange Free State were handed back, and indeed the whole of “South” Africa including such pre- dominantly “British” places as Natal and the Cape, and the Union of South Africa at last brought into being. He regards that as  THE OFFENSIVE UNDER WAY 151  a most extraordinary example of far-sighted statesmanship, as indeed it was; not only because it brought into the Common- wealth such great Boer patriots as Smuts and Botha, but it healed also to a large extent the spiritual wounds of Boer and British in South Africa, and not the least those of the “dear irreconcil- able” Deneys Rietz.  Though Smuts had predicted how the air war would develop as long ago as 1917, I could see that he was astounded by what I showed him at Bomber Command; it was then that he realised in full for the first time what our boniber offensive meant to the war as a whole. I knew I was assured of his support in military affairs if I should require it. He told me that he would talk to Winston about what we had done, but I do not know whether he in fact got the opportunity to do so. I did not worry much about that, because I knew that Winston himself always wanted to know first hand about everything.  I was frequently bidden to Chequers, especially during the week-ends when Winston was normally there. I never failed to return from these visits invigora