king for the enemy.  But in the first few months the attack on the Ruhr was my chief concern. Everything depended on the new navigational aid, Gee ; it will be remembered that without it only one aircraft in ten had been able to get within five miles of any Ruhr target. This fact was perfectly well known by those who laid down the campaign I had to undertake, and the whcle idea of beginning this attack at the present stage rested on a theoretical estimate which had already been made, not by Bomber Command, of the accuracy and usefulness of Gee.  The principle of Gee had already been worked out before the war, and we could have had this device much earlier if every priority had not been given to the air defence of Great Britian and to the defence of our Atlantic communications. It was not only that priority had hitherto been given to the manufacturers of radar-equipment for Fighter and Coastal Commands, and for the Navy, but also that the rather few scientists who were able to devise such equipment were entirely preoccupied with defensive  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE gI  measures; priority in the use of brains was at least as important a matter as priority in production. The principle of Gee is simple enough. Two stations, a master and a slave station, simultane- ously transmit a radar pulse signal. The Gee apparatus in the aircraft measures the difference between the times at which the two signals are received, and so indicates the difference between the aircraft’s distance from one station and its distance from the other. This shows the navigator that the aircraft is somewhere on a certain line, and this line is marked on a chart prepared for use with the Gee apparatus. But the same master station and a second slave station—there are threé stations in all—also transmit another pair of synchronised signals, from which, by the Gee apparatus, the navigator can place aircraft on a second line on his chart. The actual position of the aircraft is therefore at the point of inte