to explain that the training at O.T.U.s only comes right at the end of a long period of flying training for each individual; the training we gave in Bomber Command was for the crew as a whole; it was a specialist course in bomber opera- tions. The education of a member of a bomber crew was the most expensive in the world; it cost some £10,000 for each man, enough to send ten men to Oxford or Cambridge for three years.  Training was of tremendous importance in 1942 because a formidable increase in the strength of the Command was expected to occur during the year. At the same time many medium bomber squadrons were to be re-equipped with heavy bombers, and this involved the re-training of all their air-crew. At first it was thought that the conversion of a crew to a different type of aircraft could be quickly and easily done, but it was soon seen that there was much more in it than this. It is not generally realised how astonishingly good was the work of the O.T.U ss. They produced an endless flow of crews whose ability to cope with every conceivable sort of weather was far in advance of what any pre-war crew, civil or service, could have achieved. All this was done by instructors during what were called their “rest periods” between operational tours, and it was not done without casualties. It was quickly realised that only air-crew with actual experience of operations could train the O.T.U. crews, and until the last year there was a continual shortage of men who could serve as instructors, and particularly of pilots with operational experience, so that they all had to work overtime. In the most  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE 99  dangerous flying conditions the instructors and instructional crews ran almost as much risk as the fighting crews, and they ran these risks over a much longer period than that of an opera- tional tour. It was and is a matter of great distress to me that recognition of their work and of the risks they ran was refused. In preparation for the expansion o