destruction of Lorient and St. Nazaire on the U-boats using these other bases on the west coast of France. The soundings off that coast were by no means ideal for minelaying, but even so we managed to cause the enemy much trouble and repeatedly delayed the operation of his U-boats; channels had to be con- tinually swept before they gave safe passage to submarines and this not only interrupted operations but also put a great strain on the enemy’s local naval resources. Some U-boats were sunk or damaged, but this was of no greater importance than the wide- spread dislocation caused by minelaying. The most important minelaying operation of the year against these U-boat bases, was in November. Operation “Torch,” the landing in North Africa, was imminent and large convoys were on their way from England to Gibraltar. At that time many U-boats were being held in the French bases, and they would have had only a short way to go to  138  major operation. delay were of cc advantageous to offensive against for about twelve 1 seemed a small ai seen in its proper in which I recei capacity as Minis accepted their de wiped out. During the fir point of fact, to e sea without in a against Germany. Command, which laying in Norther the aircraft of my minelaying from 1 that we should la would be perfect] considerable num| it, although in 19, proposal was welc Ministry on condi of Germany. The not permit of an \ operate somewher the Bay of Biscay i from between 600 below cloud to fin have been fatal al that weather suital needed for bombir laying sorties on r over Germany we little or not effect The necessary n by several differen The mines themse used in the early handle, and there  140 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  Intercept our convoys. We laid many more than the usual number of mines in the approaches to the U-boat bases, and these held up U-boat sailings ata most critical time. It was also our practice to lay mines in the U-boat’s exercising grounds in the Baltic, which we knew then and have si