the army used to carry out laborious encircling movements over the extremely difficult mountain country, and generally found, when the circle was complete, that they had drawn a blank. We then did the encircling with aircraft, and we did it at a few minutes’ notice anywhere in the country; we dropped messages to the encircled village or area telling the inhabitants that no one would be hurt if they did not try to get out of the ring. After that the army, instead of struggling over the hills for forty-eight hours, could have a proper breakfast before they started and arrive in buses; by such  30 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  means we were assured of far larger hauls of rebels and arms, and we obtained them. We called this system the “ Air-Pin.”  While I was in Palestine, Monty arrived to take command of a division at Haifa; I remembered him well from my two years on the Army Staff course. I met him at Headquarters, where he had come to discuss the military aspect of the rebellion with the G.O.C. He greeted me with his usual precise intonation: “air- craft, aircraft, this is no job for aircraft. It’s a iob for policemen.” I answered that while I recognised that it was a job for policemen and not for aircraft, or for soldiers for that matter, the strength and determination of the rebels and the weakness of the police in arms and numbers were in themselves sufficient reason for using all the few military and air resources available. But I said that if he himself did not require air assistance I should be only too pleased to allot the share we should otherwise have held for him to the other army commanders; their calls for assistance from us were incessant and their appreciation of its value un- qualified, if only because of the saving in effort and casualties to their troops. I felt a certain mild amusement not long afterwards when Monty became as urgent in his requests for air support as the rest of them, indeed he was more insistent than most of them, since he appreciated realiti