ould not know what to do with a production of more than 360 fighters a month, but General Milch, in charge of aircraft procurement from November, 1941, asked for an eventual production of 1000 fighters a month, and plans for increased fighter production were eventually decided on in September of 1942, after much controversy. From then on the diversion for the defence of Germany of single- engined fighters and twin-engined converted bombers was of increasing strategic importance and had a profound effect on all fronts. The growing strength of the enemy night fighter, from  THE PRELIMINARY PHASE IIs  1942 onwards, naturally had a marked and almost immediate effect on Bomber Command’s casualty rate, and if we had not been able to change and improve our own tactics either the expansion of the Command would have been stopped or a policy of conservation of effort would have been as necessary for us as it was for the German bomber force.  Some little time after the 1000 bomber attack on Cologne, there was some astonishment, and even a considerable amount of irritation, in certain quarters, when a report was published in the newspapers and by the B.B.C. that I had broadcast to Germany. The broadcast itself was printed and re-broadcast in translation; it threatened the Germans with dire pains and penalties to be inflicted upon them by the bombers, though in point of fact with far less than was actually meted out to them in the event. Much ink was spilled and there was considerable discussion for and against the broadcast in the newspapers. There was no little indignation expressed by certain people, and this found outlet in Parliament. In particular, I was, I recall, attacked by Lord Addison in the House of Lords. But however much surprise the broadcast caused elsewhere, it was as nothing to what I myself felt when I learned that I had addressed the enemy as a Commander-in-Chief in the field, and what is more, in fluent German, of which I know not a word.  The fact is that I