s railways, especially as 5 Group’s attacks on the French factories had often been carried out in bad weather. The weather was, for example, almost impossible when an attack was made on the needle-bearing works at St. Etienne-la-Ricamarie, a very small factory; it proved impossible to see the target except from immediately overhead; the clouds were at 6000 feet, and flares could not be used to light up the target. But the presence of  198 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  materials for the work. Nearly all such shops and depots are situated in or beside railway marshalling yards, and the plan was to select one or more aiming points in the marshalling yards in such a way that a heavy and effective concentration of bombing round these aiming points would destroy or severely damage the repair centres. It was not the principal aim of this campaign to damage the marshalling yards or destroy rolling stock, but if this were done, as it inevitably would bé, this would be all to the good; the enemy would then have more and more to repair at the very moment when our bombing was more and more depriv- ing him of the means of doing so. Most of this work was to be done by the heavy bombers of the R.A.F. and U.S.A.A.F., but the Allied tactical air forces were also to take part in the campaign; heavy bombers in the Mediterranean area were to be used against suitable targets. Bomber Command was given the largest share of the targets.  In planning to move the whole Command over to precision bombing the first thing to be done was to study our attacks on small targets in the past. We did not have much to go on, but by March of 1944, there was a good deal more than there had been in the previous year.  In December of 1943, there began a most successful attack, in which Bomber Command played some part, on 56 sites for launching flying bombs in the Pas de Calais and another eight on the Cherbourg peninsula. These objectives were naturally very small, but they were well within Oboe range and both Bomber C