mber Command. By sawing a sighting hole in the nose of our troop carriers and making our own bomb racks we converted them into what were really the first of the post-war long-range heavy bombers.  During our first year in Mespot the Turks made a determined attempt to regain the Mosul Vilayet. They began this before the R.A.F. took over and had already roughly handled a column of Imperial troops. Wars were very unpopular in those days and as a result hardly anything appeared in the home newspapers about this particular war, though the Turks eventually sent large forces over the frontier to make a determined and deliberate invasion of the Mosul area. Sir John Salmond, by concentrating all the squadrons up at Mosul and sending us straight on to the Turkish columns as they crossed the border, very quickly im- pressed upon the Turks that they were not getting the place without a fight, or without heavy casualties, as they had hoped, or indeed at all. They withdrew and gave it up.  The truculent and warlike tribes which occupied and still controlled, after the rebellion, large parts of Irak, also had to be quelled, and in this our heavy bombers played a major part. We were hundreds of miles up river near Baghdad and in the very centre of thoroughly turbulent and wholly unpacified tribes on whom we were endeavouring to impose government of local Baghdad i Effendis whom the tribesmen have naturally held in utter contempt from time immemorial. When a tribe started open revolt we gave warning to all its most important villages, by loud speaker from low-flying aircraft and by dropping messages, that air action would be taken after 48 hours. Then if the rebellion continued, we destroyed the villages and by air patrols kept the insurgents away from their homes for as long as necessary until they decided to give up, which they in-  FACING THE WAR 23  variably did. It was, of course, a far less costly method of controlling rebellion than by military action and the casualties on bo