culty in identifying the target by Gee than when a small force was required to penetrate the defences in depth of the Ruhr. The attack on Cologne had also shown that dummy fires were of little use when a really large area was set alight, since the decoy could readily be distinguished from the much larger conflagration in the target area. Since I had 1000 bombers mobilised and intact, I decided to send the whole force to Essen two nights later, and so continue the campaign against the Ruhr which I had been instructed to begin with such inadequate forces in the spring. On the night of June tst-2nd the weather was expected to be suitable, and there was still, of course, a bright moon. I did not expect that the attack would be as great a success as the raid on Cologne, but there seemed a good chance of doing serious damage to Essen,  and possibly to Krupps. I have little doubt that this would have happened had not a  sudden and unforeseen change in the weather given almost 120  GETTING THE WEAPONS 121  complete protection to Essen that night; when the force got to the target area it was found that the whole town was covered with low stratus cloud. In several parts of the Ruhr, and especially in Oberhausen, the attack did a fair amount of damage. But, though the attack on the objective itself failed, losses were no heavier than in the raid on Cologne, which showed that con- centration of the bomber stream was an effective protection even over the most heavily defended area in Germany.  We tried one more attack on the same scale in the next moon period, a month later. I had originally intended to make Hamburg the target, since the Battle of the Atlantic was then at its height and Hamburg was the largest centre for the production of U-boats in Germany. But the weather compelled me to choose Bremen, another U-boat centre, and once again we were let down by the unexpected arrival of cloud. However, the damage to Bremen, though not concentrated, was by no means negligible; am