quickly to the end of all our resources. Instead, there was the “ phoney” war, and this saved us. We could never have produced the aircraft or the organisation to train the crews but for the breathing space this gave us.  In the earliest stages of the war we were not allowed to bomb anything on land, and our only possible targets were therefore warships, which we could attack only by day. Our losses from enemy fighters and flak were prohibitive and we therefore desisted before we had done ourselves or the enemy much harm. Mean- while the Whitleys and Wellingtons were put to the questionable employ of dropping pamphlets all over Europe, a game in which we never had the slightest faith. My personal view is that the only thing achieved was largely to supply the Continent’s require- ments of toilet paper for the five long years of war. You have only to think what any man of sense would do with an obviously enemy pamphlet when he picked it up, how he would regard it, and how he would react to the statements in it. Our reaction to enemy pamphleteering had always been to jeer and at the most to keep some of their leaflets as souvenirs. News to occupied territory was another matter.  THE FIRST BOMBING 37  Years before, the idiotic expansion of secret files at the Air Ministery once drove me to send a minute round pointing out that at the rate we were going we should be making newspapers secret next. But never did I think to see the day when not only were newspapers made secret, but moreover newspapers expressly produced for the sole purpose of being delivered as rapidly as possible and by any and every means to the enemy. Yet they still had to be handled under all the complicated secret document procedure on our bomber stations and, in spite of repeated appli- cations, we could never get these instructions withdrawn. Many of these pamphlets were patently so idiotic and childish that it was perhaps just as well to keep them from the knowledge of the British public, even if w