factories. Run- stedt’s counter-offensive. The sinking of the Tirpitz. Views on battleships. Sea power exerted by Bomber Command.  damage as an attack by the whole Command in the previous  year. There were several reasons for this; more efficient navigational aids, improved tactics, and the disintegration of the enemy’s defences. No. 5 Group, using bombing tactics which they had worked out for themselves, destroyed quite a number of industrial cities, and so did No. 3 Group using GH. The devasta- tion caused by such small attacks by a single Group was as wide- spread as that brought about by a normally successful major attack by the whole Command the year before. At the same time the Command as a whole had on the average about 1100 heavy bombers available, as opposed to about 600 the year before.  But it was not until September, 1944, that I was able to use this overwhelming force against the enemy’s main industrial centres, which had been given an almost complete respite from bombing for a period of nearly six months, from April onwards. During this period I only carried out attacks on German cities when the weather was unfavourable for operations in France,or when there was no imperative call for tactical bombing in support of the army, or attacks on flying bomb sites, railways, U-boat bases, and oil plants. For the two months around D-Day it was im- possible to make any heavy attack on a German city, and all that could be done was to begin a long offensive against Berlin by light bombers, Mosquitoes, which subjected the enemy’s capital to a rather heavier bombardment than London was receiving from the flying bombs; a number of the Mosquitoes were  235  [- 1944 a single attack by a single Group often did as much  234 236 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  : ' : . THE FINAL PHASE 237  deal of trouble, if modified to enable them to carry 4000 Ib, high capacity bombs. Zz , rn three in Germany In all. 85 per cent of the Command’s effort was used against Arnhem and Nijmegen by airborne