nistry. There Portal, after ringing up Ludlow- Hewitt, Commander-in-Chief, Bomber Command, told me to go and take over command of No, 5 Group of Bomber Command at Grantham the next day, which I did. My task was made none the easier by the fact that neither the Command nor the Air Ministry had thought of informing the Air Officer then com- manding the Group that I was on my way to take over from him. As he was an old personal friend of mine and an officer for whom I have always had the greatest admiration and regard, it was for the moment an unpleasant situation, only relieved by the way he took it. He was fulminating against the idiotic procedure of bowling the useless 250 Ib. bomb on to German battleships from a height of a few fect, which was what Bomber Command was doing at that time.  As I drove myself and my traps in a small borrowed Austin from Norwich to Grantham, which is without exception the worst cross-country route in England, I pondered on the really frightful and frightening military prospects of the nation. I knew that we had nothing to fight with, and that France had less; we at any rate had the heart to fight, but the French had not, rotted to the core as they were with the worst type of politician and politically-minded serving officer. I knew—how could I fail to know after two years of the Army Staff College and five years on the Committee of Imperial Defence and Joint Planning Committee?—that the navy had no idea beyond the long-defunct battleship; year after year they had reasserted in Parliament and outside it, with an entirely unjustifiable confi- dence, that the submarine threat was a busted flush and had been finally and effectively mastered; every year they reasserted that aircraft could be no threat whatsoever to any form of naval operation. I had seen the army preening itself, even as carly as 1927, on having reduced the machine-gun content of its forma-  10 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  specialist he will be employed on the staff or in high command.