that my particular aircraft, the Hampden, was the only aircraft that would carry the mine; sthis  THE FIRST BOMBING 39  was exactly what might have been expected of it, since in general it would do little and carry little that our specifications had demanded of it, but it would do a great deal else, including this minelaying.  The one really bright spot in No. 5 Group’s operations was the minelaying that followed. This was the beginning of a highly successful campaign which forced the enemy to divert more and more of his war effort to anti-minelaying devices, and shipbuilding for replacements and repairs, and, before the end of the war, drove him to engage 40 per cent of his naval per- sonnel in minesweeping; it also put an immense strain on the enemy’s alternative communications.  When the Germans invaded Norway we attempted some daylight operations against the enemy, though only the southern- most part of Norway was within range. The Hampden was cold meat for any determined enemy fighter in daylight, as I knew it would be, and we got one or two pretty serious knocks. The Hampden was then a most feebly armed aircraft with a single gun on top and a single one underneath, manned by a gunner in a hopelessly cramped position, together with a gun firing forward which, as it was fixed, was of no value at all. The mounts of the two moveable guns were rickety and had a limited traverse with many blind spots.  I saw that something would have to bedone, and done quickly, to get some sort of reasonable armament for my aircraft. I had not served for 25 years without knowing that it is quite impossible to get anything drastic done through the proper channels within reasonable time, and I had not dealt directly or indirectly with the Treasury for almost as long without realising that if you order things otherwise than through the proper channel you find yourself made to pay for them. That is, you find yourself made to pay provided the bill is small enough to make repayment conce