andard H2S marking technique which, with some small changes, we continued to use until the end of the war. The attack began with a wave of H2S aircraft, all of which at the same moment dropped target indicators and illuminating flares. These aircraft were called “Blind Marker Illuminators” and they were followed about two minutes later by a smaller number of aircraft called “visual markers” who were to identify the target visually in the light of the flares dropped by the blind marker illuminators, and, when they had done this, to mark the aiming point with target indicators of another colour. If for any reason they could not identify the aiming point, they were not to drop their target indicators. Last came the “Backers-up” who would either aim mare target indicators, at intervals of one or two minutes throughout the attack, at the target indicators laid by the visual markers, or, if the visual markers had failed to identify the aiming point, would strike an average of the target indicators dropped on H2S by the blind marker illuminators and mark their mean point of impact. Improvements in this technique were made from time to time but the principle remained the same. The great merit of this technique was that it made every possible allowance for changes in the weather, and the Pathfinder Force was ready either for visual or for non-visual marking of the aiming point. Moreover, if it seemed probable that there would be so much cloud over the target that the normal target indicators would be hidden, the Ha aircraft had an alternative load of sky-marking flares, red with green stars, or green with red stars. If these had to be used. the subsequent technique was rather different. These flares normally drifted so much in the wind that it would have been hopeless to drop them at the beginning of the attack and trust to backers-up to keep the target continuously marked by aiming new flares at those previously dropped. r  It was therefore necessary, when the cloud was ver