mportant revolution in bombing tactics, the significance of which might well be overlooked. For in the last two years of the war it was possible to get from the Operational Research Section a very fair estimate of the weight of attack that would be required for the destruction of any given target. Natur- ally the estimates became more and/more accurate as more operational data were accumulated, and as a result we were able to use our force with increasing economy of effort. Scarcely a month passed during these last two years when some new com- mittment was not given to my Command, and as our strength  THE INVASION OF EUROPE 201  in terms of numbers of aircraft scarcely increased it became ever more imperative to get the most out of our force.  An Operational Research Section is indispensable to every Command in modern war. The main work of such a section is statistical analysis, a method which in some sciences has largely taken the place of arranged experiments; it is used, for example, if it is desired, to find out what is the best fertiliser for a given crop in given circumstances. In war it is of enormous value to be able to substitute a statistical probe for an experimental operation, and the work of the large research section at my Command saved thousands of lives and hundreds of aircraft. I will give an instance of the sort of inquiry that was made. In 1944 we suspected that the enemy night fighters were “homing” on to the H2S transmissions of our bombers over Germany, that is to say, that they were using these transmissions, just as they might use any radar or radio transmission from an aircraft, as a guide to the bombers’ whereabouts. An experimental method of deciding whether this suspicion was true, and, if so, what to do about it, would have been to dispatch a number of sorties several times over with instructions to use H2S, and as many with instructions not to do so; this would obviously be a risky and wasteful proceeding. But statistical analysis of pi