erial troops” to mean troops who come from outside the British Isles. We made repre- sentations which, I believe, put things right to some extent, but the damage had been done—and it sticks.  I am to all intents and purposes a colonial myself, so I feel myself at liberty to say something about this. I am always astounded by the idiotic behaviour of the British islanders in crying down their own efforts and giving all the credit to others. I do not myself ascribe this habit, which is a widespread one, to any highfalutin ideas about decency or “old school tie” behaviour or anything of that sort. I regard the habitual reluctance of the British to claim their own rights and seek credit for their own good points as a manifestation not so much of diffidence but as of of stupidity.  Our newspapers were always full of the wonderful fighting qualities of Australians, New Zealanders, Canadians, South Africans, Rhodesians, Gurkhas, and what have you—anybody except the British. It has, in fact, become a parrot cry to praise our admittedly magnificent fighting men trom the colonies and dominions at the expense of the British Isles. And this has been done, not only recently in the latest war but ever since the  62 BOMBER OFFENSIVE  is shot at by everybody, and usually without the slightest justifica- tion. Certainly there can be no mistaking the Whitley; its design was so cock-eyed that it always flew in the most astonishing and unusual attitude with its tail right up behind its ears.  We had a couple of destroyers with us, one of them of the old American type. The journey took us seven days on a zigzag course, calling at Halifax and arriving at Boston in the dark. I recall the staggering effect, after the months of black-out at home, of the lights and neon signs shining miles out to sea.  At Washington I found the only accommodation that could be got for me not much to my liking. I discovered something better, but it seemed difficult to get rid of the rooms that had long been re