nverted when he arrived, rather the reverse, but he had an open mind. He spent hours going into the pros and cons of the whole matter with me and minutely studying what evidence was then available. Just before he left we strolled through the  154 BOMBER OFFENSIVE i  want, that is the thing to do with them. The farther he ad itt the more you threaten, the more he has to fear. That ti answer, a sally port . . .” Having found his phrase, the it Minister was off into the charge at once, and no holding tht he harangued until he had everyone round to his way of thit fivin; That was why we came to stop in Tobruk on the first occ and, as I think can be fairly claimed, why the enemy never Alexandria. I had nothing to do with the decision to s ty Tobruk on the second occasion, but I am sure that this de ki was as right as the first one had been. Why we failed tc k the place on the second occasion will probably come out history of the campaign.  I do not remember a single occasion of the many on w } appealed to Winston for help or advice when either or bott iti not forthcoming, no matter how overwhelmed he might mW other weighty affairs. He never failed in encouragement, j he never failed to apply the spur. When a week or two c litidn weather prevented us from doing anything much to get on the offensive he would express his disappointment, but then it was amazing to watch this—his better judgment would a “'m prevail and he would always conclude his harangue by sa ltt “I am not pressing you to fight the weather as well «i Germans; never forget that.” Always what he had to sa la both a comfort and an inspiration, and I doubt if any natic ill ever had such a leader in war. I like to think that scieno mi some day give us the means of recalling past scenes, so th: littay descendants may be able to visit Chequers, switch on the se see anew this Prime Minister of England on the prowl—sirer 1 embroidered slippers, dressing-gown, all complete—disp iit with sonorous phrase and valiant g