trated in August and October 1943. With loss rates of 15 and 16 1⁄2per- cent respectively, and 201⁄2 percent on a second Schweinfurt raid, a total of 118 bombers failed to return from those three missions. At final tally,the raids succeeded in destroying a number of buildings but not the heavyindustrial machinery inside. 24The destructive capability was just not present, but planners did not know this until after the war. So how didanalysts make real-time combat appraisals in 1943? The Assessment The short answer is photo intelligence. This chapter’s opening epigraph, stating, “the problem of bomb damage assessment involves more than amere appraisal of physical damage,” alludes, however, to the longer, moreaccurate answer. In fact, intelligence collection in World War II involvedeconomic studies based on prewar statistics and extrapolated wartimeproduction levels, elaborate networks of informants, well-placedobservers, and analyses of system components and designs by techni-cians thousands of miles from any combat theater—all this in addition tophoto intelligence. 25Not to be forgotten, however, is signals intelligence (SIGINT), which evolved into a primary source of air intelligence. But evo-lution takes time, if it occurs at all. In the beginning, was the photograph and for the strategic air opera- tions of World War II photo intelligence remained the backbone of air intel-ligence to a very great extent. Photographs were essential for planning, exe-cuting, and evaluating practically every aspect of air combat operationsand were so essential for target folders that, for the majority of the war,missions were canceled unless the proper photos were available. Photo-reconnaissance provided the basis of bomb damage assessment (BDA), andSpaatz declared them to be “of utmost importance” because the “determi-nation of [follow-up] operations depends on photographic reconnaissanceunit (PRU) reports.” Consequently, acquiring and interpreting the necessary 27 This content down