tial enemies.” This being the only national policy guidancegiven, the Joint Army–Navy Board tasked each service to develop its ownrequirements within the guidance of ABC-1 and Rainbow-5. The Air WarPlans Division of the Air Staff wrote Air War Plans Document (AWPD)-1,which established the basic strategy later employed in Pointblank. 3This document tasked US air forces with conducting a sustained air offensiveagainst Germany to destroy its capability and will to continue the war andmake an invasion either unnecessary or feasible without excessive cost. 4 Other tasks, such as supporting land forces, followed. From these tasksflowed the strategic targeting priorities of disrupting German electricpower, transportation, and oil/petroleum systems. Not to ignore Germanair defenses, the plan also included an “overriding intermediate objective”of neutralizing the Luftwaffe. As AWPD chief of the European branchHaywood S. Hansell would later note, “The key element in the entire planwas the proviso that the full bomber force should devote its entirestrength to these targets for six months after it had reached maturity.” On1 September 1941, Gen George C. Marshall and Secretary Stimsonapproved AWPD-1 without change. 5 Exactly one year later, in response to a presidential tasking for a state- ment of Allied requirements “to have complete air ascendancy over theenemy,” Army Air Force (AAF) planners issued AWPD-42, essentially arestatement of AWPD-1. 6The most significant changes involved including the British RAF in a nighttime bombing role to complement American AAFdaylight attacks, providing air support for a land offensive in NorthwestAfrica and operations in the Middle East, and adding German submarineyards as a second priority behind Germany’s aircraft industry. 7This guid- ance then served as the basis for AAF strategic planning until FranklinRoosevelt and Winston S. Churchill met in January of 1943. The American and British heads of state and their Combined Chiefs of Staff (