acted as a target planning staff for the American bomber forcesin Europe. 16By conducting economic analyses of German systems, their work served as the basis for selecting broad target systems.17Additionally, one of their principal contributions to the CBO were aiming-point reports.By war’s end, the EOU was credited with “the minutely detailed researchinto the operation, design, and construction of every individual targetwhich the Eighth Air Force decided to destroy by bombing.” 18Given their influence, it is enlightening to examine their mode of operations. The EOU insisted on choosing targets in light of explicitly defined mili- tary goals, as opposed to attacks designed simply to weaken the Germaneconomy or cause political disruption in some general sense.Consequently, they sought systems in which destroying the minimumnumber of targets would have the greatest, most prompt, and most long-lasting, direct, military effect. Their aiming-point reports were analyses ofparticular German industrial plants designed to establish the most vul-nerable point of attack. Accompanying text would state a. the effect on the plant if the vulnerable point was destroyed, b. how long it would likely take the Germans to repair the damage, and c. the effect on German war potential if the plant was out of action to the extent given in (a) for the period of time given in (b). 19 The EOU was very much aware that “a more difficult and more impor- tant problem is the measurement of impairment of the enemy’s wareffort.” The answer, at least initially, seemed to be “that some arbitraryindex must be set up if an answer in quantitative form is to be obtained.”They determined another solution would be to set a more specific objec-tive, such as injuring enemy air strength, instead of impairing his effort. 20 Given these discussions, it is evident that effects played a key role in tar-get identification; however, selecting targets was one thing, actually hit-ting them from the air was something en