no measurable effect on essential war production due to German reallocation, equipmentredesign, and use of unaccounted-for stockpiles. The assistant chief of AirStaff and Intelligence disseminated this appraisal almost verbatim in a 15November 1944 memorandum. 43Once the Luftwaffe threat had been reduced, oil became the priority target; and from May 1944 on, Germanconsumption exceeded production. Consequently, by the spring of 1945,gas shortages immobilized increasing numbers of the German tankforce. 44Again, Allied authorities made similar appraisals and predictions in late 1944.45According to the USSBS , the attacks on German railways and waterways completely disorganized the enemy’s economy, reducingwar production in all categories and limiting the German ground forces’tactical mobility. An interesting observation regarding this target categoryis not in the appraisal of the situation but in the Allies’ unintended andunforeseen impact upon themselves. After successfully invading atNormandy, the Allies were unable to break out of the area rapidly via railbecause they had previously destroyed the marshaling yards. As a result,they had to resort to less efficient truck convoys. 46Nevertheless, in the end, Allied airpower proved decisive with complete victory in the air andsubstantial contributions elsewhere. Summary In the CBO against Germany, the Allies eventually succeeded in creat- ing systemic effects that impeded the enemy’s war-sustaining and war-making operations. This outcome tends to support interwar theories thatairpower would create such effects by striking key points or vital economiccenters; however, this success must be qualified. Combat experiencerevealed that it was very difficult, given existing technology, to deliverweapons precisely enough to execute strategic bombing doctrine. Wartimeexperience also revealed how critically dependent airpower strategists areon timely intelligence collection, interpretation, and assessment. Lessthan a quarter centur