his basis we unquestionably magnified our expected capabilities and minimized our limitations. ... Our doctrine held that bombers in proper formation could conduct a running fire fight and preserve themselves against fighter attacks. Unquestionably this was based on hope and not on existing fact. ... Inthe period before the war our lack of experience led us to be far too optimistic in gauging the number of bombs and the number of trials it would take to destroy a target.”  Reflecting the absence of an outside umpire, someone who might have been able to identify and prevent such errors, the bombardment theory evolved at the Tactical School contained shortcomings that will be brought out in later chapters. For the moment, however, it is necessary to consider how this theory, evolving into a doctrine, came to be incorporated in America’s basic war strategy, and how it fared in its initial test.  Strategy Finds a Place for Air  With the outbreak of war in Europe in 1939, the military and naval staffs in Washington began to prepare for the possibility of the United States’ becoming involved. Numbers of Air Corps officers, drawn from various specialties, were sent over to Great Britain to spend months observing and studying the Royal Air Force. Into Washington from outlying billets came many of the brightest, most energetic officers of each service. Ranking officers of long and faithful (if often pedestrian) service were cut from the ranks with what, to some of them, appeared all but ruthless abandon. The fledgling Army Air Corps, still looked upon by the War Department General Staff (WDGS) as a vexing, presumptuous stepchild overly fond of going outside the family for sympathy and assistance, soon found that it had important friends in high places.  Whether they intended it or not, the two men who did most to assure a significant role for air forces in the approaching war were President Franklin D. Roosevelt and General George C. Marshall, the Army chief of staff.25 Work