00 feet. Both of these changes were severe tactical gambles, but the savings in fuel consumption and the ele- ment of surprise—coming in at low level and under cover of dark-  ness—were thought worth the risk. The area attacked was a rec- ©  tangle measuring approximately four by three miles of the most built up part of Tokyo. The results exceeded all expectations. Almost six- teen square miles of the city had been burned out, including 18 percent of the industrial area, 63 percent of the commercial area, and the heart of the residential district; 267,171 buildings were destroyed;  1,008,005 persons were rendered homeless; 83,793 people were killed; | /  and 40,918 wounded.?  The Tokyo fire raid, the most devastating air attack in history, not / excluding the attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, became the pat- | tern for most of the remaining operations of the XXI Bomber Com- \  mand.! By 14 August, the final mission, sixty-six cities and towns » had been fire-bombed. As the Survey was to find, the effects of the | attacks on the Japanese government had been profound; although |  the “peace movement” in the Cabinet dated back as far as July 1944, its leading spokesmen accelerated their efforts after the fire raids be- gan. In the end it took the two atomic bombs of 6 and 9 August to break the deadlock, but there can be little question that even with- out the atomic bombs the Japanese government would have sued for peace prior to the home islands’ being invaded.  ! |  } }  Ly) \O  A Change of Scene 107  The success, in a destructive sense, of the incendiary raids on Japan marked the ultimate demise of the prewar theory of precision bombardment, a theory characterized throughout by a tendency for the wish to become father to the thought. Once again the grim logic of war had prevailed over those who sought to find some surgically precise method for the application of force. Arter the war there would be much hand-wringing and remorse over the results; indeed, even within