he main center for aircraft manufacture. Establishment and control of the Regional Headquarters were centered in G-3 of the Services Division.  Outside of Tokyo working conditions were essentially primitive, research teams frequently putting up in any building they could find and working, as often as not, in unheated buildings by the light from kerosene lamps. At Hiroshima and Nagasaki the teams were billeted offshore on APDs (two stack destroyers converted to destroyer trans- ports), there being no other available facilities.  Conditions of work at Hiroshima were undoubtedly the worst in the Survey. Teams could sleep only on the APDs, so that they had to ride five miles in a landing craft, clamber out on to the docks, and then drive about forty miles to work, reversing the process in the evening. .. . the reason for the ships staying at Hirowan when good anchorage was available quite close to  A Change of Scene 117  Hiroshima was that the Inland Sea had not been cleared of mines laid by our 20th Air Force.  Daily staff conferences began in Tokyo with the arrival of Paul Nitze on 27 September, and continued through 21 December. Nitze chaired these meetings until the arrival on 24 October of Mr. D’Olier. (With the departure of D’Olier and Nitze for the U. S. on 4 December, General Gardner took charge.) The essence of Nitze’s executive style was a hard-driving, aggressive, and confident approach to the problem at hand; and the problem, as defined by D’Olier, was to get the job done thoroughly and at the same time quickly. From the beginning, 3 December was set as the target date for completion; for most participants this meant that they would have a maximum of six to seven weeks to complete their research. For this reason the emphasis was almost exclusively on data gather- ing with considerably less importance attached to report writing, a task that could be completed jst as well back in Washington.  As he had in Europe, Mr. D’Olier relied heavily on his vice-chair- m