mulated. The man who not only recognized this difficulty but also set about resolving it was Major General Muir S. Fairchild, and it is for this reason among others that will appear later that he can be looked upon as the intellectual father of the Strategic Bombing Survey.  In 1935 ‘‘Santy” Fairchild was graduated from ACTS, returning as an instructor in 1937. Remaining until June of 1940, he rose to the position of Director, Department of Air Tactics and Strategy, and throughout his tour on the faculty was a recognized leader among those who developed the Tactical School’s theory of strategic bombardment. A major general by 1942, Fairchild had served as Director of Military Requirements, overseeing the unprecedented expansion of the air forces. Late in that year Fairchild, along with an Army lieutenant general and a Navy vice admiral, was designated a member of the Joint Strategic Survey Committee GSSC), an advisory board reporting directly to the JCS. It was designed to act mainly as a body of senior, experienced officers that could provide an overview to the major strategic problems facing the JCS. Its work could result either from its own initiatives or from matters referred to it. Even while so involved, Fairchild continued to maintain his interest in several technically unrelated problems, like that of resolving the target selection problem in some systematic manner.  AWPD.-42, the Air Staff's most recent strategic plan, had been completed in September 1942. Although varying only in details from AWPD.-1, the plan was severely criticized when presented to the Joint Intelligence Committee. Particularly questioned were the assumptions underlying the target recommendations contained in the plan. After pondering the problem at some length, General Fairchild paid a visit to the office of Colonel Byron E. Gates, Director of Management Control, early in December. In the course of his remarks Fairchild observed that  he was disturbed at the preparation and handling of