e Survey to Japan, he rounded up an impressive band of sociologists to man the Morale Division under Mr. Burton R. Fisher, a former colleague of Likert’s in the Bureau of Program Surveys, Department of Agricul- ture. Benefiting from the European experience, the Morale Divi- sion’s efforts were more precise than in Europe, but their definition of morale was such as to make their findings of little more than aca- demic interest.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 77 --- 116 Strategic Bombing in World War Two On the Job  When General Gardner and Admiral Ofstie led the advance party from Guam to Tokyo on 4 September, their main purposes were to make the Survey known to the occupation authorities and to scout around for working and billeting space. Permission was arranged during their visit to General MacArthur's headquarters for the Sur- vey to locate its own headquarters in the Meiji Seimei building in the Marunouchi section of Tokyo, overlooking the grounds of the Im- perial Palace.93 Billeting space was found at the Imperial Hotel (for those of the highest rank), the Tokyo University Club, and two former office buildings in the city. These proved insufficient and some one hundred men had to be put up on the USS Ancon, a Navy communications ship anchored in the harbor.  Redeployment and recruitment of new personnel proceeded rapidly. By 26 September when Paul Nitze departed Guam for Japan, the rosters in Tokyo already totalled some 485 men on the scene or en route. Following the European pattern, a series of four regional Headquarters was established; Hiroshima and Nagasaki were “natural” choices to which were added Osaka—the second city of Japan, over 1,600 years old and at one time (300 A.D.) capital of Japan—and Nagoya, the latter by virtue of its having become the main center for aircraft manufacture. Establishment and control of the Regional Headquarters were centered in G-3 of the Services Division.  Outside of Tokyo working conditions were essentially pri