ssful until the end of March 1945.  The whole process of recruiting people for the Survey was remark- ably similar to that which characterized recruiting for the Commit- tee of Operations Analysts. A small group of well-connected execu- tives, lawyers, and professors (some of them in uniform) got together, outlined the specific fields of interest to the group, and informally suggested the names of friends and former colleagues (or classmates) who might be able to help. Then came telephone calls and personal  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 47 --- 56 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  visits to sound out the top choices, the aim being to obtain at least tentative agreement to serve. And then, finally, as first one and then another agreed to participate, the process would begin again as the new recruits offered further suggestions. All in all, the process was rather more ‘‘clubby” than most Americans might tend to presume. And the proof of this is the inordinate lengths gone to on occasion to cover the tracks of the recruiters and make it appear that the even- tual appointments were based solely and exclusively on the fact that so-and-so was quite obviously the most logical choice for the job.12 Whatever may be the virtues and vices of such a procedure in general terms, it must be agreed that for a task as difficult as that facing the Survey it was the only sensible way to approach the prob- lem. This is especially true since D’Olier’s mandate unequivocally gave him the right to choose his associates as he saw fit.  In the week following the meeting on 25 October, the majority of Mr. D’Olier’s activities revolved around the recruiting problem. There were two other important matters of concern, however. The first was that of obtaining a specific directive of some sort that would spell out the authority and responsibility of the Survey, not only for its own members, but for the guidance as well of the numerous head- quarters (SHAEF, USSTAF, MAAF, etc.) that wou