File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 1 --- STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WORLD WAR TWO  THE STORY OF . THE UNITED STATES STRATEGIC BOMBING SURVEY  BY DAVID MacISAAC  Garland Publishing, Inc., New York & London 1976  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 2 --- CHAPTER ONE ALL THE WINDS OF DOCTRINE  Though all the winds of doctrine were let loose to play upon the earth, so Truth bein the field, we do ingloriously by licensing and prohibiting to misdoubt her strength. Let her and falsehood grapple: who ever knew Truth put to the worse in a free and open encounter?  John Milton, Areopagitica  Autumn 1944, the eighteenth of October. Early in the afternoon, glancing from the window of his office on Broad Street in Newark, Franklin D'Olier could see that the weather report had been correct for once: clear skies with moderate winds, temperatures in the high sixties and lower seventies. Mr. D’Olier was sixty-seven years old and president of The Prudential Insurance Company of America. Born in Burlington, New Jersey, on 28 April 1877, he had been graduated from Princeton in 1898 and now, having achieved remarkable success in the business world,1 he could count among his honors that of being a Trustee of his alma mater. What might he have been thinking of when his secretary informed him that General ‘‘Hap” Arnold, com- manding general of the Army Air Forces, would like to talk with him on the phone?  If he had found time to look through The New York Times that Morning, he would have had to go beyond page three to find news of anything save the war. Banner headlines proclaimed ‘Japanese Fleet Flees at Sight of U.S. Force; Americans Mop Up Aachen.” Further down the page glowing reports of the Russian drive towards Germany from the east competed for attention with a report that ‘1300 U.S. Bombers Smash at Cologne,” dropping 4,000 tons of missiles. After  2 Se aR RE Sor  oa tas een = SS > EES  arse  A hn Ato Tes  SSB Re ete se  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 3 --- 2 Strategic