sort that would spell out the authority and responsibility of the Survey, not only for its own members, but for the guidance as well of the numerous head- quarters (SHAEF, USSTAF, MAAF, etc.) that would be affected. Colonel Gaylord took this matter in hand, completing the staff work by 27 October and with Mr. Lovett’s intercession obtaining the necessary signatures from General Arnold, General Marshall, and Secretary of War Stimson. This series of implementing directives, all dated 3 November 1944, comprised the following: (1) D’Olier’s formal letter of appointment from Secretary Stimson;!¥ (2) letters from General Marshall to the commanders of the European and Mediterranean Theaters of Operation advising them of the priority they were to attach to their support of the Survey;!4 (3) a letter from General Marshall to Admiral Ernest J. King, Chief of Naval Opera- tions, asking that the Navy make available an officer of flag rank to join other non-Air Force officers who would participate in a proposed board of military advisors to the Survey; S and (4) letters from General Arnold to General Spaatz (formally advising him of the Sur- vey’s establishment and noting that Mr. D’Olier would be arriving in London in a few days)? and to General Fickel (advising him of the Survey’s priority over the AAF Evaluation Board).!7 With this series of letters the Survey was officially set in motion and christened the United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS), the last of several  The Survey Is Organized a7  designations more or less appropriate.!8  The third matter—after recruiting and formal establishment— was that of making Mr. D’Olier familiar with the background of strategic bombing. Essentially this was the task of Colonel Perera, but on Saturday, 28 October, Perera took Mr. D’Olier to the office ot General Fairchild to get the personal views of fhe man who origi- nated the idea of the Survey. In a long meeting taking up most of the morning, General Fairchild provided Mr. D’O