ng to get above enemy antiaircraft guns and defensive fighters) for several hundred miles, and arrive over a carefully chosen enemy target. There, grouped together in a large formation (to multiply both the amount of force delivered on the target and the detensive firepower, if needed, of the bombers’ guns), they would carefully “sight in’’ the target (with the new bombsights), trigger their bomb loads, and then return several hundred miles to their base. Behind them they would leave a badly crippled, if not devastated, industry (actually only one factory, perhaps, but so chosen that its destruction must inevitably cripple an entire industry). The question ot whether such attacks would take place at night or in daylight was decided for the latter on the basis of the improved accuracy to be expected. The question whether the bomber fleet should be escorted to the target by fighter aircraft was decided in the negative primarily for the reason that no such aircraft of sufficient range existed.  Such, in rough and perhaps ungenerous outline, was the theory of “daylight, high altitude, precision bombardment of selected targets” that the Army Air Forces brought with them into World War II. As Mr. D’Olier and his associates were to discover—indeed, as its very progenitors were to discover—this theory, constructed without conscious precedents in the peacetime vacuum, contained some assumptions that failed to prove out. Some of these were discussed in 1951 by Major General Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., who had been a bombardment instructor at the Tactical School.  The fanatical belief of the bombers in their own defensive fire  power was not so much a choice and election to operate unescorted as it was a conclusion that fighters could not be built  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 24 --- 10 Strategic Bombing in World War II  with sufficient range to accompany them. The Pursuit Section, on the other hand, wanted no part of the escorting problem. They just as fanatically con