ll underway and that its outcome would largely be decided by a weapon of which they were to know nothing for another three months.> As the Field Teams moved from target to target on the continent, the hub of the Survey's activities remained at 20 Grosvenor Square in Mayfair, a section of London virtually under American ‘‘occupa- tion” for most of the war. Situated in a seven-story residential build- ing divided into apartments and flats, the headquarters itself provided office space for only the chairman’s staff and a few of the more prominent directors. D’Olier’s large office doubled as a confer- ence room and Alexander had a smaller office adjoining. Close by was another large office shared by Judge Cabot, Colonel Perera, and Colonel Ames. (Surely some resident wag must at least have con- sidered hanging a sign outside that office reading, ““USSBS, Boston District Office.”’) Soon after V-E Day, however, it was decided to establish a ‘‘forward’’ headquarters closer to the scene of action. The place chosen, once again discovered by Lieutenant Colonel  Strickland of the Services Division, was the Park Hotel at Bad Nau- heim, some twenty miles from Frankfurt. Beginning on 19 May, it became customary for the chairman and directors to meet there each weekend to discuss progress and plan future operations. The facil- ities were lush, and left a lasting impression on the contemporary historian.  In addition to the hotel proper the Survey took over the  Trinkanlage, a municipally operated spa adjacent to the hotel.  This consisted of a patio or courtyard with a concert stage and  The Survey at Work 99  bandstand, a reflecting pool and gardens, surrounded by a covered colonnade, which contained the spa, fashionable shops, kiosks, restaurants, and other usual concessions. This was an ideal layout for individual and divisional offices and was used as such. ... [The chairman and directors would come] over trom London on the week-ends, hold large conferences . . . and thus keep