with which to disagree? Koenig chose the latter course, primarily on the basis of the then widespread assumption that the war in Europe might be over within a few months. Two restrictions only were applied to this decision: (1) the relationship of the survey to various outside groups was to remain an open question until decided by the chairman; and (2) the recruitment of ‘‘key top personnel” would be kept ‘‘to an absolute minimum.”  Back in London, Colonel Koenig continued to preside over the build-up of the survey. In the period between his return and the arrival of the chairman on 6 November, the only major develop- ments were the further expansion of the Physical Damage and Economic Divisions. Each of these sent several Field Teams to Belgium and Paris to conduct experimental assessments of the bombing missions that had been directed against railroad mar- shalling yards and automotive plants. Accompanying these teams were a few British bomb damage analysts and some members of the AAF Evaluation Board. The planning stage was rapidly  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 44 --- SO Strategic Bombing in World War Two  advancing into the learning stage, and by 31 October the total strength of the survey was:  Officers: 43 (plus 18 on temporary duty and 2 in Washington) Civilian Technical Experts (full time): 3 Civilian Administrative Help: 8  Enlisted men: 73 (plus 35 on temporary duty)>!  Prior to Koenig’s departure from Washington an office was established there, ostensibly for the future use of the chairman, but manned tor the moment by Lieutenant Colonel J. P. Donahoe. In a series of letterso2 to Colonel Koenig, Donahoe tried to keep him advised of developments in Washington. The main problem, of course, was that of the chairmanship. Assistant Secretary Lovett and General Arnold finally decided on President Sproul of the University of California, carrying their efforts to the point of flying out to California early in October to convince both Sproul, who seemed