om were: from Management Control—Colonels Gates, Perera, and Leach; from AC/AS, Intelligence—its chief, Colonel Edgar P. Sorenson, and the chief of its Target Information Section, Colonel Malcolm W. Moss; from the Military Intelligence Division (G-2), WDGS—Colonel Thomas G. Lanphier.  9. Economist and student of military affairs from the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, New Jersey; invited to participate by Colonel Moss.  10. Formerly a professor of economics at Harvard; came to Washington to organize the Research and Analysis Branch of OSS; a member of the Joint Intelligence Committee; added at the suggestion of Mr. Earle.  11. Attorney; senior partner in the New York firm of Root, Clark, Buckner, and Ballentine; a director of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company; first approached by Colonel Leach, who had already borrowed Mr. John M. Harlan (in 1969 an associate justice of the Supreme Court) from Root’s firm to organize and head up the Operations Analysis Section, Eighth Air Force.  12. Attorney; had served as an assistant to the solicitor general on anti-trust matters; left Department of Justice to become chief of the Enemy Branch, Board of Economic Warfare; added at the suggestion of Mr. Earle.  13. Banker; senior officer of J. P. Morgan and Company of New York; added in January of 1943 at the suggestion of Mr. Root and through the personal intervention a General Arnold; like Root, a long-time personal friend of Secretary of War  timson.  14. From the Washington office of the British Ministry of Economic Warfare;  SA ANIA AT +  Notes to Pages 25-29 179  formerly professor of political economy, University of London, and director of Britain’s National Institute for Economic and Social Research; added at the suggestion of Mr. Earle.  15. The COA’s report, in the form of a long “Memorandum for Lt. General Arnold,” was entitled “Report of Committee of Operations Analysts with respect to Economic Targets within the Western Axis.’’ The report contribu