agency having priority in each case. In the confusion that accompanied the advance of the armies, however, Survey teams often found that one or another Intelligence agency had beaten them to the spot, seques- tered the available records (or persons), and shipped them. back to London or some other point. The interrelationship between this problem and others was recorded by Paul Nitze.  Writing to Henry Alexander in Washington, Nitze pointed out that the German measures for controlling documents had worked quite well. Noting that they had a procedure in force calling for the automatic destruction of all classified documents after six months unless an immediate operational necessity required otherwise, he  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 62 --- Strategic Bombing in World War Two noted that they had also been very proficient about destroying docu- ments whenever the Allied armies came near.  Furthermore, our combat troops, in the excitement of battle, have broken into most of the offices in which we are interested and have scattered the records helter-skelter. C. 1. O. S., G-2 of SHAEF, O.S.S., the 30th Assault Group (on behalf of the British Admiralty), and other intelligence agencies have general- ly been next on the spot and have selected from the remaining documents those which appeared of interest... .Our field teams conducting their investigations on the spot are greatly handicapped by not having the important documents available there.  To combat the problem of being beaten to the spot by other agen- cies, the Survey established a number of ‘‘Spearhead Teams’’ whose function was to get there first and prevent the sequestration by others of the records of most interest to the investigators of the Field Teams of the various Divisions. Attaching themselves to advance units of the ground armies, members of the Spearhead Teams spent a good deal of their time dodging enemy bullets.26 Remaining for the most part insoluble, however, was another problem cited by N