it to the office of Colonel Byron E. Gates, Director of Management Control, early in December. In the course of his remarks Fairchild observed that  he was disturbed at the preparation and handling of air matters _for presentation to the JCS and that it was inevitable, with the pressure of daily affairs, that officers holding responsible  A Question Is Raised 25  positions ... found themselves unable to give the amount of time to the research and analysis necessary to the . . . solution of strategic bombardment problems. He also pointed out that this type of activity was one for which a regular army career did not necessarily prepare an officer.  Colonel Gates suggested that perhaps some assistance might be available from among the men then being recruited to man the operational research sections of the various overseas commands. Such men, civilians for the most part, had proved useful to the RAF in bringing to bear on critical tactical problems the special and presumably detached analytical skills of scientists, economists, and lawyers.4 Colonel Gates offered to General Fairchild the services of Major (later Colonel) W. Barton Leach? who was in charge of organizing operations research for the AAF. In addition, Colonel Guido R. Perera® of Gates’s office was charged with setting up the organizational machinery that could be expected to produce a systematic analysis of target data. Out of this discussion emerged only oné week later the quite remarkable ad hoc committee that came to be known as the Committee of Operations Analysts (COA).  The work of the COA involved not only the analysis of all the target data already accumulated but also a search for previously untapped sources. Its various subcommittees called upon the services of economic and industrial experts throughout the United States. The composition of the main committee reflected the diversity of skills and backgrounds brought to the task. In addition to its military members,8 the committee included such me