apan prepared by the Military Analysis Division. 4. This statement was made to General Anderson and with his agreement. S. As a result of this assurance the Navy Depart- ment agreed that the overall report of the Naval Analysis Division would not be published either by the Survey or by the Navy Department. They indicated, however, that the Navy Department might have prepared an entirely different report on the same subject matter which might be published by the Navy Department, but in which no support by the Survey of its findings could be inferred. 6. In view of the above the Survey does not feel it can now go back on an assurance given the Navy Department in which the Military Analysis Division concurred. 7. The War Department may wish to consider publishing an overall analysis of the air effort against Japan written by the War Department and published in such form that no support by the Survey of its findings could be inferred.  Connoisseurs of the bureaucratic style will have little difficulty interpreting the implied finality of this response, larded as it is with references to the highest authorities and injunctions about not going back on one’s word. But now it was General Anderson’s turn not to give up, and he quickly seized upon the inadequacies of the memoran- dum as they appeared to him. In the first place, Ofstie’s published re- port was notessentially different from earlier draft reports prepared by his Division, certainly with regard to the scope of its coverage; and it had been published under the aegis of the Survey. Second, the report’s title gave a false impression inasmuch as the report did not include a presentation of the B-29 campaign against Japan. Third, the Naval Analysis Division having been allowed to publish “its report,” by what logic was the Military Analysis Division to be denied the same right?54  While all this was going on, even Mr. D’Olier, at home in New Jersey, was becoming confused. Having noticed news- report on Admiral Ofstie’