tary informed him that General “Hap” Arnold, com- manding general of the Army Air Forces, would like to talk with him on the phone?  If he had found time to look through The New York Times that morning, he would have had to go beyond page three to find news of anything save the war. Banner headlines proclaimed ‘‘Japanese Fleet Flees at Sight of U.S. Force; Americans Mop Up Aachen.” Further down the page glowing reports of the Russian drive towards Germany from the east competed for attention with a report that ‘1300 U.S. Bombers Smash at Cologne,” dropping 4,000 tons of missiles. After  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 20 --- 2 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  nearly three years of worry and frustration, Americans were in a buoyant mood. The war was going well, and if the boys wouldn’t be home by Christmas, that in itself was no reason not to hope for Easter. Although FDR’s fourth campaign was approaching a climax, politics took second place in the American mind to the progress of the war. Optimism was the order of the day,“ so much so that some feared the consequences of a general letdown in enthusiasm and effort. Appearing with the President in Omaha the evening before, at the national convention of American War Dads, Captain Eddie Ricken- backer warned that ‘tone of the greatest underlying menaces of the moment with respect to maintaining the high pressure of our war effort is too much optimism.’’ He warned that “swivel chair strate- gists” and “typewriter tacticians”’ were ‘threatening the backbone of our will to sustain the war effort . . . with their twaddle about the early conclusion of the war.”  Perhaps Mr. D’Olier noticed this report, appearing as it did close by extensive coverage of Wendell L. Willkie’s funeral in Rushville, Indiana. War was not new to Mr. D’Olier, who had been commis- sioned a captain in the Field Artillery in 1917 and had accompanied the A. E. F. to France where he had organized the A. E. F. Salvage Service. Discharged in 191