ier to the office ot General Fairchild to get the personal views of fhe man who origi- nated the idea of the Survey. In a long meeting taking up most of the morning, General Fairchild provided Mr. D’Olier with a capsule history of the theory of strategic bombing. The concept of strategic bombardment, Fairchild told him, had been developed by Air Corps officers between the wars and was based on the premise that air power furnished an instrument with which it was for the first time possible to strike directly at the sustaining sources of enemy strength. The old technique of blockade offered similar possibilities, but blockade was not a selective instrument. Destruction of selected targets, Fairchild said, offered the chance of high success with rela- tively small forces compared to those necessary for either blockade or menace raids on large industrial centers. The major problem, however, was that no system had been devised before the war to select the most vulnerable and productive targets.  Fairchild then recounted the history of AWPD-1, AWPD-42, the COA, and the CBO Plan. Each of these, he said, was based on apparently reasonable assumptions allied to meagre intelligence data. D’Olier’s task would be to determine not only how well the bombers had performed and to what effect, but also how well the planners had done their work. Complicating the whole task would be the purely operational factors affecting the bombing campaigns, many of them unforeseen by the planners. In this category Fairchild mentioned the numerous ‘‘diversions” from the basic plan, diver- sions brought on by the requirements to support the North African and Normandy invasions, to attack the launching sites of V-1 and V-2 weapons, and generally to support General Eisenhower’s move- ments in the three months following the landings in France. But most difficult of all, Fairchild noted, had been the effects of bad weather either over the preferred targets or over the bases in Eng- land.  The developme