present the Navy on the Strategic Bombing Survey could not be undertaken lightly. In addition to providing technical advice, he had to assure as best he could that the Navy’s interests were well served. From the beginning of the war an informal agreement at the highest levels had awarded to the Army primary responsibility for the European theater. This accorded with the assumption that a great land battle would necessarily precede victory over Hitler. Similarly, the war in the Pacific was generally conceded to be the province primarily of the Navy. Not only was the embarrassment of Pearl Harbor to be overcome, but the extent of Japanese conquest and the enormous over-water distances involved ruled out any other decision.  From the Navy point of view, however, the War Department had not very well lived up to the bargain. Just to put the Army on the continent of Europe had involved a huge expenditure of Navy effort, assisting the Royal Navy in winning the Battle of the Atlantic and  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 81 --- 124 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  then in transporting the Army and its equipment. Then there had . been General MacArthur and the inability of the Navy to establish under Admiral Nimitz true unified command in the Pacific parallel to Eisenhower's in Europe. And finally, with ultimate victory in sight, their theater had been invaded by those bumptious, uncul- tured airmen with their big bombers. Establishing themselves on bases captured and established by Navy-directed assault forces, the Army’s airmen, with much attendant publicity, had then struck at Japan with such force as to induce surrender. .  Worse, the airmen seemed to imply, both in private conversation and public announcements, that much of the Navy effort in the Central Pacific drive had been unnecessary. The airmen did this less by assertion than by careful omission coupled with a tendency to damn with faint praise. But even worse yet were the new semantics. Rather than spea