eturning to Paris on the 24th and to London on the 25th.  In the absence of D’Olier and Alexander, Mr. Nitze struggled with the problems of the Economic Section, meeting again with Mr. Pin- cus on the 20th.“” His most important meeting, however, was at Bury St. Edmunds on the 22nd with Colonel Frederick Castle, comman- der of the Fortieth Combat Wing. A top combat commander and veteran of Schweinfurt, Colonel Castle would be killed in action be- fore the year was out. Among his last services, however, was present- ing Mr. Nitze with a most complete and lucid commentary on the whole conduct of bombing operations since 1942. The resultant memorandum prepared by Nitze and the two papers provided Nitze by Colonel Castle had a profound effect on the civilian directors of the Survey. Going into precise detail where General Fairchild had been able to offer only generalities, Castle made it clear to the Survey members that their conclusions would have to take into account the consistently changing character of operations as they had been affected by weather problems, increased numbers of aircraft and crews, improving skills, and changing defensive tactics of the Ger- mans. He stressed that the Survey should consider the effectiveness of air power not from the standpoint of techniques available at a given moment, but in the light of the trend of developments. At the same time he made a strong plea for the Survey to distinguish be- tween what he called ‘Strategic Military Bombing” (in syppart of the Ground Forces) and “Strategic Economic Bombing."”3  The day after D’Olier’s return from France, he gathered his advisors for a strategy session. Out of this meeting came a resolve to return at once to Washington to work on three major difficulties. The first of these, of course, was the need to obtain a much larger number of civilian technical and industrial experts. The second mat- ter reflected the concern shown by the top commanders he had  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Pa