ns that proved wanting in the test of battle were essentially unnecessary. No one, for example, needed to be reminded that unescorted bomber formations had suffered unacceptable losses. By the same token, the airmen themselves had come to realize that enemy civilian morale could be affected decisively only when the extent and weight of attack reached proportions altogether unacceptable to the humani- tarian instincts of the governments and peoples the bombers were defending. Similarly, the airmen themselves learned that their prewar bombing experiments—primarily aiming single bombs at X’s drawn on the ground—had failed to provide any really useful data about bomb effects on various types of structures. Nor did the airmen need to be reminded that prewar intelligence about potential enemies had proved hopelessly inadequate; with or without the Survey’s recommendations, the CIA, or some similar organization, was bound to be created.  In one respect, however, the Survey told the airmen something that needed to be said and said loudly, both to airmen— congenitally aggressive optimists—and to politicians—often unem- barrassed by any precise knowledge of air warfare. This was that decisive results can be expected only when bombing attacks are repeated, sustained, and heavy. Events since 1945 have shown that this lesson of World War II needs repeatedly to be drawn lest modern air forces, anxious to perform tasks allotted to them, fall into the same error of expecting too much from sporadic attacks. 10 In recent years two former members of the Survey have, with varying success, done their best at the highest levels of government to make this point.  During the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962, Undersecretary of State George Ball was the first among the top advisors to come out whole- heartedly against the idea of responding by means of a ‘‘surgical air strike” aimed at destroying the missile sites in Cuba. Later, in 1965 and 1966, his dismay over President Johnson’s decisions to