ing functions of the Empire. In the United States the Army’s Air Service, led on by the exploits of Brigadier General Billy Mitchell and the hopes and dreams of a few aircraft manufacturers, began its long battle to achieve institutional parity with the Army and Navy.!3 The apparently logical path to such an achievement lay in the direction of identifying, seizing upon, and exploiting a unique “‘role”’ or ‘‘mission”’ that air forces alone could apply in warfare. If that could be achieved, if a powerful case could be made for the efficacy of the ‘third dimension to warfare,” then a third service might well follow.  As time passed some of the airmen, not unlike other visionaries, gave their own meaning to certain words; two of these, ‘‘strategic”’ and “independent,” require explanation. The general tendency that developed was to use these words to mean virtually the same thing, bombing operations conducted independently of surface forces, whether on land or sea. When used in a technical sense, to be sure, “strategic bombing” was identified as that directed against the sustaining resources of an enemy’s war capability. But from the begitining—and, indeed, ever since—critics have pointed out that bombing missions designed to assist the advance of surface forces have as much right to be called “‘strategic’’ as any other type of bombing operations. No easy solution to this semantic difficulty has appeared. The innovators among the airmen, convinced that they had at hand a new way of waging war, needed to call it something and they chose the term “‘strategic bombing.”’ They might have called it something else, but to what purpose?  The airmen might, for example, have chosen to distinguish between “strategic military bombing’’ (in support of the ground battle) and “strategic economic bombing.”’ Doing so, however, could only have  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 22 --- 6 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  reduced the force of the argument in favor of “independent” o