bing.pdf --- Page 126 --- 214 Notes to Pages 163-164  Alexander on 10Sep45: “The reason advanced for denying that there is any valid distinction between strategic and tactical air power is simply that the distinction is not absolute; it is muddy, the two things merge together, it is impossible to form a neat definition that will fit all cases. All this may be granted. To reject the distinction, however, because it is not absolute is to be purely theoretical. In practical affairs distinctions are never absolute. It might as well be argued that there is no difference between a young man and an old man since you cannot say just when youth ends and age begins... ."” NA, 243, 1, 34, 300.6-B.  7. By “centrally controlled,”’ airmen have traditionally meant that all aircraft in a given theater be deployed from a central air headquarters rather than have the aircraft parcelled out to support specific ground or naval units. By this means, air power can be applied in mass at the decisive points. In the bombing of North Vietnam, however, central control, exerted from within the White House itself, was carried to such extremes as to destroy its original raison d'etre—flexibility. See Colonel (USAF, Ret.) Jack Broughton's Thud Ridge (Philadelphia & New York: J.P. Lippincott Co., 1969), passim; the Introduction by Hanson Baldwin says much in few words. ‘  8. Ina presumably satirical article, Mrs. Drew applied the comparative method to the recent history of government commissions, drawing up eight “rules’’ on ‘‘The Uses of Commissions:” three on “How to Choose a Commission;” five on “The Process of Commissionmanship;” and five on ‘How to Handle the Report.” Examples are cited for each rule; the three on how to choose a commission are as follows: 1. Neither commissioners nor staff should be controversial; 2. Commissioners should be bipartisan and otherwise representative of constituent groups, as long as they are respectable; 3. The chairman should be able, and safe, but better safe