Page 24 --- 10 Strategic Bombing in World War II  with sufficient range to accompany them. The Pursuit Section, on the other hand, wanted no part of the escorting problem. They just as fanatically contended that fighters should be built purely and solely for operation in anti-aircraft defense. swe We had a tendency to build our doctrine around the drawing board designs and the expected performance of aircraft still in the design stage. On this basis we unquestionably magnified our expected capabilities and minimized our limitations. . . . Our doctrine held that bombers in proper formation could conduct a running fire fight and preserve themselves against fighter attacks. Unquestionably this was based on hope and not on existing fact. .. . Inthe period before the war our lack of experience led us to be far too optimistic in gauging the number of bombs and the number of trials it would take to destroy a target.  Reflecting the absence of an outside umpire, someone who might have been able to identify and prevent such errors, the bombardment theory evolved at the Tactical School contained shortcomings that will be brought out in later chapters. For the moment, however, it is necessary to consider how this theory, evolving into a doctrine, came to be incorporated in America’s basic war strategy, and how it fared in its initial test.  Strategy Finds a Place for Air  With the outbreak of war in Europe in 1939, the military and naval staffs in Washington began to prepare for the possibility of the United States’ becoming involved. Numbers of Air Corps officers, drawn from various specialties, were sent over to Great Britain to spend months observing and studying the Royal Air Force. Into Washington from outlying billets came many of the brightest, most energetic officers of each service. Ranking officers of long and faithful (if often pedestrian) service were cut from the ranks with what, to some of them, appeared all but ruthless abandon. The fledgling Army Air Corps, sti