ad left some hard feelings behind, feelings that could only exacerbate the natural spirit of competition that could be presumed to exist between the RAF and USSTAF. And making matters worse for the idea of cooperation in a bombing survey was the battle of ideas being waged at this very moment over the RAF (and Eisenhower) Rail Plan and USSTAF’s Oil Plan. Thoroughly convinced in his own mind that the British and all the Allied ground commanders were as wrong as wrong could be on this matter, General Spaatz was in no mood to look favorably upon a joint survey of a not-so-combined bomber offensive.  Before General Spaatz’s follow-up letters of 20 and 22 April reached General Arnold, the latter had signed a reply to the original letter of S April. Stating that he considered the proposed survey ‘‘a splendid idea,” the commanding general added:  Of particular interest to me would be some idea as to the most effective mixture of high explosives and incendiaries against heavily built-up areas. If possible, a specific comparison of some of our larger operations, together with our appreciation of their results, with the actual military, economic, and morale effect would be helpful.  1 am casting around in an effort to discover the proper head for this important job and will submit suggestions to you when I feel the possibilities have been canvassed. I would appreciate your specific views on the skeleton organization in order a we may give you additional help in the personnel problem.  The planning group working under Colonel Ames and General Cabell quickly came up with a proposed arrangement of functions, and on 12 May General Spaatz signed another letter to General Arnold, enclosing this time a proposed organizational chart. The real purpose of this letter, however, was once again to seek a final answer regarding cooperation with the British. Noting that there  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 37 --- 36 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  seemed to be growing pressure