tive service after the war, Anderson became a balloonist for many years; in 1935 he was pilot of Explorer II when it set a world altitude record of 72,395 feet. After the Air Corps Tactical School (1937) and Command and General Staff School (1938), he joined the Air War Plans Division at AAF Headquarters, eventually becoming its chief. He arrived in the United Kingdom in 1943 where he became chairman of the Combined Operational Planning Committee and soon thereafter Deputy Commander for Operations, Eighth Air Force.  SO. Its members were: General Omar N. Bradley, Vice-Admiral Robert L. Ghormley, Lieutenant General Lucius D. Clay, Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd, and Brigadier Generals Rupert E. Starr, Ludson D. Worsham, and Edgar P. Sorenson. The most important contribution of the Board was the so-called ‘Bradley Report,” a 19S-page book published at Wiesbadan, 15Jul4S, Effect of Air Power on Military Operations, Western Europe. On the whole, the report expressed the principal complaints of ground commanders; e.g., “The method of obtaining employment of strategic air forces in a tactical role was too ponderous and difficult. ... This campaign proved that ground direction of aircraft to targets was extremely effective and did not cause loss of flexibility of air force control.”’ A copy of this report is in the Special Collections, Air University Library, Maxwell AFB, Alabama.  $1. Information in this paragraph is based on an interview with Major General (USAFR, Ret.) Ramsay D. Potts, Jr., 26Apr68. Then a colonel, Potts was Orvil Anderson's chief of staff for the Military Analysis Division. Although General Potts did not name names, a reading of the minutes of the Survey's staff conferences leads one to conclude that Galbraith and occasionally Nitze were among those who might have made such statements. The attitude in question is elsewhere revealed in such statements as: ‘‘In December 1941, we had the machinery set up for ultimate victory.”  Notes to Pages 98-102 201 Edw