twaffe rose to unacceptable levels. Worse yet, the British experience with so-called precision bombing had failed miserably, many crews having missed their intended targets by distances up to five miles and more. In an effort to reduce losses to the Luftwaffe, RAF Bomber Command had switched over from day to night operations. This changeoever only further compounded the diffi- culties associated with finding and hitting precise targets. So, as a  Allthe Winds of Doctrine 13  result, Bomber Command had adopted the technique of aiming at target areas, principally cities geared to war production, hoping to maximize the effects—whatever effects—that their bombs might have. By mid-1942 it is fair to say that the operational goal of Bomber Command had become that of destroying the ability and will of German production workers to continue their War efforts.  It is important to remember that the British had been driven to adopt this technique by the operational limitations inherent in their equipment and prewar training. As early as July 1941 the chief of staff, Royal Air Force, had declared that ‘the most suitable target from the economic point of view is not worth pursuing unless it is tactically attainable.” By 14 February 1942 a directive had been issued to Bomber Command to the effect that the primary object of the bombing campaign was to be the morale of the enemy civilian population, and, in particular, of the industrial workers. Eight days later, with the appointment of Air Marshal Sir Arthur Harris as commander of Bomber Command, the goal of ‘de-housing” the German industrial workers was effectively set in concrete for the re- mainder of the war.3!  The American commanders were horrified at all this, not so much at the sequence of events that had been described, as at the conclusions that had been drawn. There must be a way, they felt, to apply force more selectively. One thing was certain, and that was that they were going to try, at least, to proceed according to