began to appear that the proposed committee would want to sequester virtually all German official documents that became available, the various agencies contacted for suggestions began to consider whether they should arrange for surveys of their own.  That either his own command, USSTAF, or AAF Headquarters in  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 36 --- 34 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  Washington should control or direct the proposed survey was never General Spaatz's design or intent.8 But that other, already existing “outside agencies,” be they American or British, should obtain any degree of control was anathema to him from the start. Aware of the interest being shown by such agencies, and having as yet received no reply from General Arnold, Spaatz wrote again on 20 April. His object was to urge the importance of getting the project underway without delay and, if possible, approved by the President. ““‘Other- wise we may find that some other organization has been authorized to do the job, and we will be left playing second fiddle.”’ Since his original letter, he reported, ‘‘we have had reports that the Office of Scientific Research and Development (Dr. Vannevar Bush) may be interested in making such a survey themselves. There are also indications that O.S.S. may be contemplating a similar survey.” Two days later Spaatz gave copies of both letters (6 and 20 April) toa senior member of his staff then on his way to Washington. Urging him to discuss the matter with General Arnold, Spaatz directed his envoy to emphasize “the importance we attach to setting this thing up as a completely independent American survey, staffed by American personnel from top to bottom.”  The British interest in the tentative American plans for a survey had become evident from the moment Colonel Ames began his series of impromptu conferences, the general idea advanced by the British being, “Why shouldn't a ‘combined’ bomber offensive be the subject of a combined survey?” In talking w