the conclusions that had been drawn. There must be a way, they felt, to apply force more selectively. One thing was certain, and that was that they were going to try, at least, to proceed according to their own theory of daylight, precision bombing. If circumstances should prove them wrong, they felt, change could always be introduced; but the idea of changing before they had even begun was anathema to the American commanders.  On 17 August 1942 twelve B-17s of the newly created Eighth Air Force launched the daylight bombing experiment. By late November some twenty-three attack missions had been flown, most of them against targets in France and Holland and in formations numbering less than thirty aircraft. Although encouraged at first by negligible air opposition from the German Air Force, the Operations Staff at Eighth Air Force soon felt the pangs of discouragement. Most of their crews had been sent overseas before their training had been com- pleted in the States, the idea being to complete their training in England. But the autumn weather over England was less than cooperative and in the event most “training” had to be accomplished on actual bombing missions.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 26 --- 14 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  Perhaps most galling to those with high hopes for early success was the series of diversions, so-called, from the basic plan for the air attack on Germany, diversions demanded by the grand strategy es- tablished by the Combined Chiefs of Staff (CCS).* The first of these was a bombing directive of 20 October 1942 naming as first priority for attack the submarine staging bases on the coast of France. This decision reflected the growing concern of the CCS over the outcome of the Battle of the Atlantic as well as a desire to offer additional protec- tion for the shipping requirements needed to support the November landings in North Africa (Operation TORCH). Soon thereafter the two most proficient Bomb Groups of the Eighth Air