example was the discovery by IBM experts of the Tabulating  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 65 --- 92 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  Services Section of 150 tabulating machines in the cellar of a brewery and another 140 in a small inn near Salfeld. All of this equipment was put to good use in compiling statistical data of con- cern to the Survey.  But in the end, the adventure most likely to attract the imagina- tive powers of a television script writer was that entered upon by Colonel Ames when he led a “‘raiding party’’ into Russian-occupied Berlin in July. Accompanying Ames were Captain L. Van B. Nichols (Equipment Division), Lieutenant Max Weingarten (Munitions Division), Technical Sergeant Paul Baran49 (Overall Economic Effects), and Sergeant Alfred Krause, driver of the jeep they airlifted into Berlin with them. Arriving at Tempelhof on the afternoon of Monday, 16 July, the team unloaded their equipment and checked in with the senior American military officials in the western zone of the city. They then set out immediately after their primary target, Dr. Rolf Wagenfuehr, formerly chief economist and statistician of the Planning Board of the Speer Ministry. -  Not finding him at his home, they then visited one of his associ- ates, a man personally known to Paul Baran. After some academic small talk about their former associates at Harvard, Baran convinced his friend to arrange a meeting with Wagenfuehr the fol- lowing morning. At this meeting Baran obtained a copy of a book manuscript of some 130 pages that Wagenfuehr had just completed on the history of the German economy from 1919 to 1945. Baran spent the whole day and part of the next with Wagentuehr, trying to get him to agree to leave Berlin to work with the Survey for a few weeks. Wagenfuehr, however, had surrendered to the Russians and was now working for them.  Giving up on Wagenfuehr for the time being, Ames and Baran followed another lead to a Dr. Passauer who had been charged by the Germ