its title, is the best single-volume account of Bomber Command yet to appear.  32. This problem continued for some time. “I cannot state too strongly the importance of training for this Theater in the United States. This is a hell of a poor place to train. If the weather permits flying we go on an operational mission. If it doesn’t, you can’t train anyway. That certainly is learning the hard way.” Ltr, Brigadier General Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., commander, First Bombardment Wing, to Major General Muir S. Fairchild, 11Feb43, in Hansell Collection.  33. See Craven and Cate, 1, Chapter 9, “The Casablanca Directive.” The last sentence of the quotation, stating specifically that the purpose of the offensive was to make possible an invasion, is not quoted in Craven and Cate and was apparently added to the statement sometime after April 1943, for reasons that are obscure at best (ltr, Major General Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., to the author, 24Aug7S). The version in Webster and Frankland, 4, 273, includes the sentence in question.  34. See Craven and Cate, 2, Chapter 8, ‘‘The War Against the Sub Pens.”  35. Craven and Cate, 2, 317, 322.  36. Reproduced in full in Webster and Frankland, 4, 273-83. Its full title was “Combined Bomber Offensive Plan (Operation POINTBLANK).”  37. The COA and Advisory Council are treated in Chapter 2.  38. Although looked upon by some airmen as “diversionary” targets, “the submarine facilities were selected without coercion, essentially as being good targets for on-the-job training and for the testing of tactics, while at the same time  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 106 --- 174 Notes to Pages 15-19 pertorming a function that would please the Navy Members of the Combined Chiefs of Staff and so predispose them to favor the plan. ... The submarine targets were  consistent with our recognition that preservation of the U. K. as a base for all future attacks against Germany was an essential. The submarines also fitted in with Arnold's continuing