th the Equipment Division in Europe, Hales in civilian life was an electrical engineer with the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company.  In Europe the Area Studies Division had been classed among the Civilian Studies, and its purpose had been to evaluate the effects of RAF area attacks on various cities, attacks avowedly aimed at breaking the morale of workers. In Japan the renamed Urban Areas Division was placed under Economic Studies since its primary pur- pose was to evaluate the effects of air attack on the urban economy, morale considerations being left entirely to the Morale Division. Appointed chief of the Division was Mr. Jack W. Lydman who had served with the Military Intelligence Service (MIS) in New York prior to becoming a Target Specialist for the Twentieth Air Force on Guam.  The Basic Materials Division concerned itself with the effects of air attack on the supply of iron, steel, nonferrous metals, coal, coke, and salt. In charge was Major W. Park Armstrong, Jr., also formerly with MIS and bringing with him thirteen years of experience in civil- ian life as an industrial analyst. The Manpower, Food, and Civilian Supplies Division was under Lieutenant Commander (USNR) Charles N. Spinks, formerly with the Office of Naval Intelligence in Washington. Spinks had lived in Japan for a number of years before  the war, teaching at the Tokyo University of Commerce and editing, until May of 1941, the magazine Japan News Week.  The Transportation Division, redesignated as the Shipping and  A Change of Scene 115  Rail Transport Division, was placed under Mr. Albert C. Ingersoll, Jr., a shipping expert who had led a team in Europe. Mr. Ernest Wil- liams, chief of the Division in Europe and the man who had strug- gled so hard along with Paul Nitze to convince the JTG to give trans- portation the highest priority in Japan, remained active in Washing- ton on a consultant basis. The Electric Power Division was the old Utilities Division somewhat reorganized and headed