k to bring them material aid in reconstruction. . . .  For all the careful laying of plans, however, timely displays of ingenuity and resourcefulness accounted for much that the investi-  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 64 --- 90 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  gators were able to accomplish. A few examples must suffice.  Recruiting in the aircraft and light metals (principally aluminum) industries had proved especially difficult, owing to the immediacy and priority of their production to the war effort. Also troublesome had been the procurement of aircraft to move the Field Teams from place to place on the continent. A lucky coincidence and some fast talking by Commander Johnston late in April went a long way to- wards solving both of these unrelated problems. One morning he received word that a group of some twenty aircraft production ex- perts, brought together at Wright Field to form a post-hostilities Air Technical Intelligence group, had arrived in London earlier than expected. The officer in charge, Major General K. B. Wolfe of Air Technical Service Command, was so pleased with Johnston’s offer to keep his group occupied for several weeks that he graciously offered to let the Survey use the three C-47 transports he had at his dis- posal.39 The energetic tracking down of unexpected leads became the norm on the continent.  One very busy and highly effective group of three men was the Interrogation Section of G-2, Services Division, made up of Captain George M. Perry, Lieutenant Wolfgang G. Sklarz, and Lieutenant Walter A. Steene. It was Perry, for example, who entered Schwein- furt with the Infantry and captured Georg Schafer, owner of the company that controlled forty percent: of German ball-bearing manufacture (Kugelfischerwerke) and head of the government’s Ball-bearing Production Board. It was also Perry, on 10 May at Salz- burg, who interrogated two Polish Jews, just escaped from a concen- tration camp. These men told of being on a team of engr