pany.4 Perera added that Alex- ander was a personal friend of Bob Lovett’s and had earlier offered his services in any capacity that Lovett thought serious enough to warrant his acceptance. A check with Lovett elicited the assistant secretary's enthusiastic approval and agreement to call Alexander in New York. D’Olier then concluded his morning at the Pentagon with a visit to Colonel Koenig’s Pentagon liaison office where he met Lieutenant Colonel J. P. Donahoe, who described the efforts already afoot to obtain both officers and enlisted men with special qualifica- tions in industry and European languages. Before breaking up, the group agreed to reconvene the following Wednesday.  Mr. D’Olier returned to Newark where on Monday he received a telephone call from Henry Alexander in New York. Alexander told him that at Lovett’s urging he had agreed to join the enterprise as vice-chairman for a period of sixty days, long enough to get the Sur- vey through its organizational phase. At the same time he agreed to come down to Washington for the Wednesday meeting in room 3D1000 at the Pentagon. At that meeting Mr. D’Olier outlined his views on what should be the basic organizational framework of the Survey.  Taking his lead from some suggestions of Colonel Perera, D'Olier proposed that the highest level of the Survey should be an executive committee on policy, made up of from eight to ten top experts in the various subjects the Survey would investigate. In addition to serving on this committee, each of its members would be responsible also for the actual conduct of the investigation into matters within his area of specialization. While the precise number of experts and the precise fields each would look into were left up in the air for the moment, it was generally agreed that for a start there would have to be special- ists in each of the following industries and specialties: transportation (rail and water), oil, steel, munitions, ball bearings, machine tools, aircraft (desi