te Kennedy at the Air Force Archives at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama. At the Air Force Academy Library in Colorado Springs, Mr. Donald J. Barrett, Miss Betsy Coxe, and Mrs. Betty Fogler put up with requests ranging from the reasonable to the ridiculous. Frederick E. Seiler and Ralph Carlson of Garland Publishing, Inc., got the project off the back burner in the summer of 1975. Finally, George B. Cooper of Trinity College and Franklin LeVan Baumer of Yale University played a bigger part in all this than they probably know.  And then there were my children, Donna, Paul, Pamela, and Patrick—whose patience is unending—and my wife, Charlotte— whose name belongs on every page.  D.M. Newport, Rhode Island November 1975  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 19 --- CHAPTER ONE ALL THE WINDS OF DOCTRINE  Though all the winds of doctrine were let loose to play upon the  earth, so Truth be in the field, we do ingloriously by licensing and  prohibiting to misdoubt her strength. Let her and falsehood  grapple: who ever knew Truth put to the worse in a free and open * encounter?  John Milton, Areopagitica  Autumn 1944, the eighteenth of October. Early in the afternoon, glancing from the window of his office on Broad Street in Newark, Franklin D’Olier could see that the weather report had been correct for once: clear skies with moderate winds, temperatures in the high sixties and lower seventies. Mr. D’Olier was sixty-seven years old and president of The Prudential Insurance Company of America. Born in Burlington, New Jersey, on 28 April 1877, he had been graduated from Princeton in 1898 and now, having achieved remarkable success in the business world,! he could count among his honors that of being a Trustee of his a/ma mater. What might he have been thinking of when his secretary informed him that General “Hap” Arnold, com- manding general of the Army Air Forces, would like to talk with him on the phone?  If he had found time to look through The New York Times that mornin