ties. Working from some tentative suggestions drawn up by Colonels Perera and Donahoe, D’Olier and Alexander considered a list of some thirty individuals, five of whom eventually became directors of the Survey. These were: (1) Mr. George W. Ball, then a member of General Fickel’s AAF Evaluation Board for the ETO, at this time back in Washington on a mission for General Fickel. A Chicago lawyer, Ball had been an associate general counsel for the Foreign Economic Administration and while working with the Air Statf on some of General Fickel’s problems had made an exceptionally favorable impression;» (2) Mr. Paul H. Nitze, an investment banker from the New York firm of Dillon, Read and Company, who had been in government work since 1941, most recently as director of the Foreign Procurement and Development Branch of the FEA. Like Ball, Nitze had a well-earned reputation for keen analytical abilities, but unlike Ball—a quiet, thoughtful man— he was also known to be an aggressive, energetic executive with a knack for “getting things done in a hurry;’© (3) Mr. J. Fred Searls, Jr., vice-president of the Newmont Mining Company, then working closely with James F. Byrnes as a special assistant in the Office of War Mobilization; 7 (4) Professor Harry L. Bowman, chairman of the Department of Civil Engineering at Drexel Institute of Technology in Philadelphia. Bowman, selected to head up the physical damage study, had worked on several projects for OSRD including in the summer of 1942 an intensive study of bomb damage to industrial  The Survey Is Organized SS  centers in England;8 and (5) Dr. Rensis Likert, a specialist in public opinion sampling, then in charge of the Division of Program Surveys of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, Department of Agricul- ture.  Tentative assignments were made as follows: Ball, Transportation Division; Nitze, Ball-bearing and Machine Tool Division (later expanded and renamed Equipment Division); Searls, Munitions Division; Bowman, Physical Dam