d von Ranke, in the Preface to his History of the Reformation in Germany  Anyone undertaking to compile a history of this sort owes it to his readers to explain at the outset why, for him, ‘‘studies apparently so dry ....had a peculiar interest.” In my own case, an awareness of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey dates back to 1964 when I first came across its reports while teaching military history at the Air Force Academy in Colorado. A perfunctory library search revealed the availability of the majority of reports in the Academy library. But I could find nothing that told me how, why, and when the Survey was set in motion; who the people were who made it up; what attitudes and ideals those people brought to their task; and, most important, how agreement was reached in what had obviously been one of the largest committee projects ever undertaken. True, most of the published reports contained a brief Foreword purporting to explain the origins and composition of the Survey, but the wording of the standard Foreword was in the style best described as transparent bureaucratise. ‘““The United States Strategic Bombing Survey,” it began, ‘‘was established by the Secretary of War on  ix  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 18 --- x Strategic Bombing in World War Two  3 November 1944, pursuant to a directive from the late President Roosevelt.”  “Was it really Roosevelt’s idea?” I wondered. “If so, whatever made him think of it?’’ With these questions began a search that led from Colorado (and, later, Duke University) to the National Archives, the Library of Congress, the Army’s Office of the Chief of Military History, and the Historical Archives of the Air Force at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama. Some knowledge of the internal history of the Survey, it became clear, was an obvious prerequisite to understanding and interpreting its published reports. Put briefly, the problem that came to hold my interest was simply this: if, as already seems to be the case, the