. Also contributing to what I have called the unevenness of their use by historians and other writers has been a tendency shown by some to use selected parts of the reports to provea point already decided upon. Some examples of such use are described and commented upon in the General Introduction to The United States Strategic Bombing Survey, edited in ten volumes by David Maclsaac (New York: Garland Publishing, Inc., 1976).  In the formulation of air strategy in the years since the war, the one area in which one would expect the Survey’s findings to have been most useful, the reports have had little discernible impact. For a few years, while the numbers of nuclear weapons remained small, occasional recourse was made to the Survey reports by those charged  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 103 --- 168 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  with selecting targets for a possible future war. By the 1950s, however, the increasing numbers and destructive power of weapons becoming available led to a general feeling among target planners that precision in the identification of discrete targets was of less concern than assured delivery of a weapon in the general vicinity of a target, as often as not an entire city. Later, during the bombing debates of the Vietnam era, the distortions of the Survey’s principal findings by defenders and critics alike served to frustrate the rediscovered relevance of the Survey reports. These matters and others, including the possibility that new technology may once again make possible precise targeting against interlocking elements of an enemy eco- nomic system, are thoughtfully examined in John A. Lauder’s “Lessons of the Strategic Bombing Survey for Contemporary Defense Policy,” Orbis, 18, 3 (Fall 1974), pp. 770-90.  And yet in one respect, surely, the directors of the Survey were successful: they wrote the Domesday Book on strategic air warfare in World War II. Perhaps it is not too much to hope that future historians using those report