s component parts of the Army and Navy’’? Ander- son had fussed at Henry Alexander for refusing to ‘‘draw the lessons for the future’’ in the European report; now here was Paul Nitze doing just that, but in a way apparently calculated to restrict the ability to concentrate air resources under a single command.  Even before the report was released to the public late in July 1946, Anderson took the extraordinary step of writing to the secretary of war to express his reservations. Arguing that the report ‘lacks the focus, strength, and impact required to make it a compelling instru-  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 93 --- 148 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  ment of constructive military reform,’’ Anderson noted that ‘‘in its present form it may invite controversy through divergent interpreta- tions of the facts as presented.” Particularly galling to Anderson were the comments cited above about the mission of the third establishment.  Facts assembled by the Survey give full support to its conclusion that a third establishment is required in the immediate interest of national security. However, no factual data gathered by the Survey will support its prediction of the mission for the third arm. In defining this mission, the Survey is preconceiving the pattern of future war and is restricting and limiting the agency which operates in the third element to passive and active defense and long-range attack. It is imperative that no military arm be restricted in the scope of the operations it may conduct in its own element... . Likewise, the Survey’s implied proposal to trisect the Air Arm between the Navy, Army and the third establishment cannot be supported by the data which was assembled. This proposal is contrary to the broad objectives of unification and, if adopted, will effectively vitiate the military potentiality of Airpower. If this policy is pursued, Airpower will be robbed of its flexibility and will lose the ability to effect decisive concentration duri