the enterprise, draw on their specialized schools as well as industry for personnel. I put the matter up to the White House and got a partial clearance from Hopkins....The day before yesterday we talked to  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 42 --- 46 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  President Conant who... said that the Harvard Corporation would have to pass on_the matter... and expressed his doubts as to their approval.  On the same day that Lovett in Washington dictated this letter to General Spaatz, Colonel Koenig in London resolved to return to Washington to impress upon the Air Staff the importance of getting underway at once. The ground armies were by this time advancing rapidly across France, many targets on the preliminary lists for inspection by survey teams were becoming available, and it was beginning to appear that the war might end with the survey still in the planning stages. Several experimental field teams had already been despatched into France and among their unanimous findings was that targets had to be visited immediately they became available. Otherwise, rebuilding efforts or the depradations of advancing troops had the effect of destroying, as it were, the evidence.  After telling General Spaatz of his plans, Koenig departed London on 6 September for Washington, carrying with him an elaborate Progress Report covering the period 5 July through 1 September 1944. This sixty-four-page document contained a com- plete history of the survey concept since its inception in March, specific proposals governing the necessary allotment of men and materials, and detailed lists of targets to be visited.43 After outlining the way in which the survey had by now been tentatively organized into five divisions (Physical Damage, Strategic Ly sepa Political and Morale, Economic, and Military Effects)** supported by an Administrative and Services section, Koenig’s report described the functions each would perform. He proposed that these divisions should oper