ting “Battle of the Bulge” had the effect for the Survey of increasing the already turbulent character of the milieu in which its members were trying to organize themselves.  As a senior military advisor to the Survey, D’Olier tried to obtain the services of Major General Grandison Gardner, commander of the AAF Proving Ground at Eglin Field, Florida. (While in Italy D’Olier had tried to convince General Cabell to take this post, but acceded to Cabell’s view that his personal involvement in drawing up the CBO Plan disqualified him as an evaluator.) When General Arnold pleaded that Gardner should not change jobs at least until victory in Europe, D’Olier accepted instead Brigadier General Edgar P. Sorenson, an AAF career officer formerly with the coa.34 It was while discussing these matters with Generals Arnold and Kuter that Mr. D’Olier arranged for the reassignment to other duties of Colonel Koenig.  Prior to leaving London, D’Olier had decided that it would prob- ably be in the best interests of all concerned that the newly appointed chairman and directors be from the start established as the single point of authority within the Survey and that the principal source of any prior loyalties be removed. While relationships be- tween the civilian directors and the officers on Koenig’s staff had been cordial on the surface, neither group as yet felt very comfort- able in the unusual working arrangements that characterized the organization of the Survey. Accordingly, it was agreed that Koenig should stay on until the arrival of General Sorenson, while in the interim Koenig would be offered the opportunity to find a new posi- tion. A kind letter of thanks from Assistant Secretary Lovett to Col- onel Koenig served to smooth over any open disappointment.  On the third major item of business, securing access to targets  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 51 --- 64 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  likely to come under Soviet control, D’Olier was unsuccessful. His approa