blem of a higher order. Where Nitze had taken the lead in forcing through the reorganization into multiple Divisions, Alex- ander took it upon himself to supervise the attempt to define, in  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 55 --- Ep. Strategic Bombing in World War Two  advance of actual operations on the continent, the overall scope and limits of the task. In addition to encouraging the early efforts of Perera and Nitze to devise an overall model for the economic study, Alexander sought help from another quarter. In December he prevailed upon Major General F. L. Anderson at USSTAF to release to the Survey Colonel James B. Ames. Writing to Anderson, Alexander explained that  From all we have heard, we believe that he has the background and is equipped with the capabilities for occupying... a very key post in our organization. This position should act as a kind of control point for the intellectual phases of our work. For instance, we must make at least a tentative determination now of the subject matter of the final report, in order that the training of our Field Teams and the on the ground information to be obtained by them will supply answers to the questions in which we are interested. ...In other words, all of us in our organization, from the Chairman to the Field Team workers, must know what it is we are seeking; otherwise, ... we will lack consistent direction. Unless we have this, much material gathered will _be irrelevant, and much relevant material will not be gathered.»  So after an absence of several months, Colonel Ames returned to the Survey in January as Mr. Alexander’s personal assistant. Drawing on Ames, Nitze, and Perera, Alexander sat down and drew up a tentative outline of what would be included in the Survey’s final report. This outline, continually circulated among the directors and revised innumerable times, listed each topic for investigation and designated the Division or person primarily responsible for gather- ing data under each hea