hatsoever to the Survey.  The reports compiled by the predominantly civilian Divisions of the Survey had much smoother sailing. In virtually every case they represent calm, dispassionate attempts to cite the evidence applica- ble to their field of interest. Perhaps the only exception was the final report of the Transportation Division. Reflecting the vigorous attempt by the directors in June 1945 to get the JTG to make Japanese shipping and rail transport the primary target, that report was frankly critical of the failure to have done so early in the war.! On the whole, however, the civilian elements of the Survey managed to complete their work while remaining on speaking terms with one another.  The original plan to dissolve the Survey by 30 June 1946 proved  Home at Last 151  incapable of attainment. It was not until late in the spring of 1947 that the last reports were sent to the Government Printing Office, and someone had to remain on hand, at least in a part-time capacity, to keep track of last minute details. A final problem that proved to be time-consuming centered onthe disposition of the Survey’s records. Originally established as a special activity under the Office of the Secretary of War, the Survey had no natural heir; this was especially true by late 1946 when it became apparent to most observers that OSW’s days were numbered—that legislation then pending before Congress would result in a thorough reorganization of the armed services. After a number of meetings, Mr. D’Olier decided that the Survey’s independent status should be preserved even as concerned the disposition of its records. Rejecting suggestions that a new Department of the Air Force would be the ‘‘natural’’ place for the records to go, D’Olier elected instead to negotiate with the National Archives.  Late in 1946, Dr. Solon J. Buck, then archivist of the United States, agreed to maintain the records provided some agency more qualified than his would assume responsibility for controlling a