onths following the landings in France. But most difficult of all, Fairchild noted, had been the effects of bad weather either over the preferred targets or over the bases in Eng- land.  The development of navigational and radar aids had not reached the point where instrument attack against pinpoint objectives could be relied upon. The greater number of selected  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 48 --- 58 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  targets were under cloud cover a major portion of the time. This resulted in part from the necessity of flying at high altitude in order to avoid anti-aircraft fire....As a result it became necessary to operate against secondary, tertiary, and even lower priority targets rather than against prime objectives. In addition to the problem of weather, numerous feints had to be made in order to contuse the enemy as to target systems upon which we planned to concentrate. !  But having listed all the difficulties, all the trials and tribulations, Fairchild remained true to his initial purpose, concluding with the admonition that the Survey’s task was not to find excuses but to judge results, not to paper over difficulties but to call the shots as it saw them, to let the chips fall where they may. Much impressed with General Fairchild’s candor, Mr. D’Olier left his office feeling that General Arnold's characterization of his task as a “tough job” repre- sented a formidable skill at understatement.  The following Friday, 4 November, Mr. D’Olier and ten others enplaned at Washington's National Airport for their first trip to London. Making the trip with D’Olier were Alexander, Ball, Nitze, Searls, Bowman, Likert, Perera, Donahoe, Captain Gaston Co- blentz, Staff Sergeant L. J. Povse, and Adlai E. Stevenson (the latter recruited by Ball to take his place on the AAF Evaluation Board).20 The flight over was uneventful, the party arriving in London on the morning of 6 November. Later in the day D’Olier, Alexander, and Perera called at 20