perhaps the present account may keep still other writers from assuming, for whatever reason, that 71a, Air Campaigns of the Pacific War, represents the final conclusions of the Survey as a whole, or of its civilian directors or chairman. (See, for an example, Clark G. Reynolds, The Fast Carriers: The Forging of an Air Navy, New York, McGraw-Hill, 1968, pp. 380-82.)  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 87 --- CHAPTER SEVEN  HOME AT LAST: REPORTING TO THE NATION AND CLOSING UP SHOP  -.. people have preferred to feel rather than to know about ‘ strategic bombing.  Noble Frankland  Late in 1945 the Strategic Bombing Survey returned to the United States from Japan. During the spring and summer of 1946 most of its reports were completed and many of the most important among them were released to the public. A few reports were not approved in their final form until the late spring of 1947, and a number of others—primarily those treating the details of physical damage— remained classified documents for several years. This chapter will conclude the narrative account of the Survey's activities; a brief Epilogue will summarize some of the author’s reflections and conclusions.  On 25 November 1945 Mr. D’Olier returned from his trip through the Pacific battle areas. The following day he and Paul Nitze discussed their trip at the daily staff conference and approved the final plans for redeployment. The last formal conference of all Divisions was held on 28 November, and two days later the USS Ancon departed Tokyo for San Francisco bearing 555 members of the Survey; by 3 December a total of 860 had departed, most of those remaining being military personnel pending reassignment, many of them with occupation forces. After a final courtesy call on General  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 88 --- 138 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  MacArthur, D’Olier and Nitze departed via aircraft early on S December. General Gardner, as deputy to the chairman, remained in Tokyo for ano