ded to provide a general background for the lay reader, is necessarily very selective and brings to mind a sentence from Vannevar Bush's Modern Arms and Free Men: ‘‘We examine in order to see trends, and shall omit much.”  7. Actually, the first American bombing mission into Axis-occupied Europe  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 104 --- 170 Notes to Page 4  occurred on 12 June 1942 when twelve B-24s took off from Fayid, Egypt, to attack the oil refineries around Ploesti, Rumania. Craven and Cate, $ 341-42; 2, 9-13. A detailed account of this extraordinary adventure is contained in the opening pages of James Dugan and Carroll Stewart, Ploesti: The Great Ground-Air Battle of 1 August 1943 (New York: Random House, 1962).  8. New York, Macmillan, 1908. Though taking second place to none in imaginative fancy, Wells had many precursors. The title of Air Marshal Sir John Slessor’s memoirs was taken from Tennyson's lines in ‘Locksley Hall” (1842):  “Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rained a ghastly Dew  From the nations’ airy navies grappling in the central blue.”  And Gray’s “Luna Habitabilis” (1737) feared:  “The time will come, when thou shalt lift thine eyes  To watch a long-drawn battle in the skies,  While aged peasants, too amazed for words,  Stare at the flying fleets of wond'rous birds."  For “The Idea of Flight in the Middle Ages,” see Chapter | of M.J. Bernard Davy’s Air Power and Civilization (London: George Allen & Unwin, Ltd., 1941), or Beril Becker's Dreams and Realities of the Conquest of the Skies (New York: Atheneum, 1967).  9. An evaluation unlikely to inspire universal assent, yet one thought valid by the present writer. On the level of the spectacular, there is little debate; on the level of increasing importance, one must consider a// aspects of aviation and such effects on armies as ordering troop movements at night to avoid observation by enemy airplanes; largely unessential implies a judgment that the course of the war as a who