to force the air battle, Spaatz  was adamant in pressing his views, forcing meeting after meeting in which acrimony, both stated and implied, reached hitherto un- exampled heights.47  After hearing the arguments of both sides, General Eisenhower decided the issue in favor of the ‘‘Rail Plan’’ rather than the “Oil Plan.’ This was hardly surprising in the circumstances. Whereas most of the invasion planners could visualize and calculate satisfac- torily to themselves the effects, and particularly their presumed immediacy, of the railway attacks, it was not so easy to visualize the results of the oil attacks. This matter was decided in a series of meetings during February and March. The Combined Chiefs of Staff then confirmed their long-standing commitment to General Eisen- hower that beginning on a date of his choosing and against targets of his selection, he would control the effort of all strategic and tactical air  forces. This passage of control took effect at midnight on 13/14 April 1944.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 29 --- 20 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  It is at this point, where the most optimistic airmen in USSTAF thought they saw their most ambitious hopes and dreams go a’glimmering, that this narrative must pause. Precise mission statements to the contrary, there had been moments when some airmen had glimpsed the possibility of “victory through air power” alone. Such a victory had never been their assignment, but the line between hopes, dreams, and beliefs is often a thin one. Now the invasion would be launched with air forces playing only an Samriary’ poles and making Matter Worse Was a real fear that the selection of targets was such that the Allies would suffer unnecessary casualties in the attempt. While this bitter pill was being swallowed, both in Washington and London a definitive move was afoot that would lead to the creation of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS). The London end of that move was being made partly b