had been taken only about two weeks before, and the people were just beginning to drift back and were trying to make some sense out of what they had left.... Again, as in Frankfort, we were able to secure the services of liberated Russians to perform the housekeeping jobs. These people appeared to be perfectly willing to do any amount of work simply for their food and lodging.  Incidentally, everyone in Germany appears to be on the move. The roadsides are lined with groups of old men, women, and children, all going someplace, either carrying what things they can or pushing small carts, baby carriages, or anything that will hold what is left of their possessions. The astonishing part of it is that the people are for the most part very well dressed and appear to be in excellent physical condition. This is true of the people we saw in the cities and the people in the country. You also see on the road many groups of men, apparently from the forced labor camps, who are heading back towards their own countries. You will see six or eight men in non-descript uniforms tramping along together, possibly carrying a French flag or some sort of arm band or other identifying mark. Some of them are riding in “liberated” vehicles, but most of them are on foot.  The Survey at Work 89  Frequently large convoys of POW’s go along packed solidly in huge Army trucks. We passed several POW enclosures on the way. Besides the human wreckage on the road, the ditches are full of burnt and broken military vehicles, anything from jeeps up to tanks, both German and American. All along the way however, in spite of the evident disruption of war, the people are out tilling the fields. Everyone seems to be busy and th  orchards and gardens everywhere looked very well organized 35  The basic techniques of the Field Teams have already been des- cribed: armed with detailed Target Folders and standardized check- lists, their object was to get themselves on the scene at selected tar- gets as quickly as po