dentify any obvious short- comings in the composition of the Survey? I would suggest three areas or specialties that seem curiously lacking at the director’s level. First, where was the “‘labor representative”? Manufacturing involves workers, and while the morale of factory workers was never an AAF target, it nonetheless seems odd that neither a former secretary of labor nor a noted union official was included among the directors. On the other hand, there was a certain aura of the Eastern Estab- lishment banking-and-commercial ‘‘complex’’ (a forerunner to the so-called ‘‘military-industrial complex’’) hanging over the meetings of the directors; in all probability, neither D’Olier nor Alexander ever gave the matter a thought. As a result, what little was done to measure the real effects of bombing on the labor situation was carried out by statistically-oriented economists (in Overall Economic Effects) or psychologists (in Morale). One cannot help wondering whether either group was really competent either to ask the right questions_or to interpret the answers with empathy and under- standing.>  It seems equally improvident for the Survey not to have included one or more senior and experienced ground force commanders on a continuing and active basis. The failure to do so led the Survey to abandon, in favor of the AAF Evaluation Board, the task of evaluating tactical support. True, General Omar Bradley was on the Board of Military Advisors and submitted a report (Chapter Five), but that report was drawn up largely by Army men unfamiliar with the workings or intent of the Survey and inclined to concentrate on the shortcomings rather than the achievements of heavy bombers used in the tactical support role. Here the AAF more than D’Olier made the decision and, in the event, may have missed the boat. Often angered, or at least displeased, at the requirement to “divert” the  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 99 --- 160 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  bombers to tac