the Survey were, on the whole, ignored, at least in part because ley made for something less than pleasant or inspirational reading.! That, however, was only a part of the reason and not the main part. If my contention—that the reports of the Survey, especially their military applicability, have been largely ignored—is correct, then the real reason has nothing whatsoever to do with their intrinsic value. Rather, it has to do with the appearance in 1945 of nuclear weapons. Put succinctly, the atomic bombs had the effect of turning the Survey’s reports into instant ancient history in the minds of most people, whether military officers or civilians.  On the very day that the first of the Survey reports was released to the public, John O’Donnell’s column in the Washington Times Herald mentioned the Survey and how its report might have been important in future debates over air strategy.  What might have become a good old fashioned row now becomes an academic discussion thanks to the atom bomb. Come the next war, there will be no fleets of bombers pouring down death on civilian populations. Just one little atom bomb will do the work of a thousand blockbusters.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 102 --- 166 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  This attitude—that the Survey reports treated of matters not applicable to the future—was shared by officers of the highest rank. In October 1968, the present writer had the opportunity to discuss this matter with General Spaatz. He responded by relating the reaction of General MacArthur to the news, brought by Spaatz to Manila on | August 1945, that an atomic weapon had been built and would shortly be employed. Upon explaining the weapon’s apparent capabilities to MacArthur, Spaatz went on, ‘‘General MacArthur said, ‘Well, this changes warfare!’ "’ Speaking then to his own feelings in the immediate postwar years, General Spaatz made it clear that virtually all senior airmen shared MacArthur's initial reaction and, as a conseque