nually circulated among the directors and revised innumerable times, listed each topic for investigation and designated the Division or person primarily responsible for gather- ing data under each heading. Begun in January, this task was not completed until August; the final outline of topics forms the Table of Contents to the Over-all Report (European War).  As work on the outline continued it became apparent to Alexander that not only the chairman’s final report, but also the reports to be prepared by the individual Divisions, would have to be organized and edited in some consistent manner. Unable to take all of this on his own shoulders, and harking to the advice of Ames and George Ball, he began to lay plans for the creation of a Secretariat. Early in March, Mr. D’Olier (in Washington) invited a former partner in Colonel Ames’s Boston law firm to become secretary to the Survey. Then serving as an associate justice of the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Judge Charles C.  The Survey Is Organized 73  Cabot obtained a leave of absence from the govern i October) and departed Boston for London.69 . or Sane  A last-minute addition to the Survey’s organization, the Secretari- at grew by leaps and bounds. At its top level was in essence a “board of editors,’’ headed by Cabot with help from Ames and Perera.©! [ts first efforts were devoted to devising standard formats for the two basic types of reports that each Division would write: “plant” (or factory) reports and “ministerial” reports.62 As time passed the Secretariat became responsible for coordinating and drawing up in final form any procedure that had across-the-board applicability, e.g., Standard checklists and questionnaires to be completed during the inspection of each industrial target. When a decision was made to adopt an IBM punch card system for compiling the record of USSTAF and RAF attack data, the Secretariat expanded to include a Tabulating Services Section.3 Still later, when the fin