r support capacities, or in the interrogation phase. As early drafts of various reports began to come in, Nitze established a Secre- tariat under the direction of Lieutenant Commander Walter Wilds. Wilds, with help from Commander Reeve, established routing pro- cedures so that report drafts might be coorginated with all interested parties. Final clearance and approval of the drafts, however, was the function of a four-man group made up of Paul Nitze, General Anderson, Admiral Ofstie, and General Gardner. In the words of the contemporary historian, ‘‘No report was considered final until it had received the signature of the ‘Big Four’.""44 As it happened, however, agreement between two of these four was the exception rather than the rule, and it is to this very human, very understand- able, but nonetheless regrettable tale that we must now turn.  The Great Anderson-Navy War  One result of the Survey’s work in the Pacific was the emergence of a bitter, internecine squabble between two of its Divisions. This squabble—any other word would add dignity where it doesn’t be- long—began in the summer of 1945 and continued through the sum- mer of 1947. Among its effects were the publication of certain USSBS reports, one in particular, whose true origins have been  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 79 --- 120 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  called in question by later writers and, indeed, slandered by some. The remainder of this chapter, aimed at setting the record straight once and for all, will treat the dissension that arose between the Military Analysis Division and the Naval Analysis Division. It will conclude with a bibliographical note tracing the cavalier manner in which certain writers have presumed to instruct the public on the origins of USSBS Pacific Report #71a, Air Campaigns of the Pacific War, a report whose uniqueness is attributable to its bias rather than its legitimacy.  “The great Anderson-Navy war,’ as Edward Mead Earle once facetiously referred t