- heartedly against the idea of responding by means of a ‘‘surgical air strike” aimed at destroying the missile sites in Cuba. Later, in 1965 and 1966, his dismay over President Johnson’s decisions to set in  - motion the limited bombing of North Vietnam was partly respon-  sible for his resignation. Still later, during the agonizing that preceded the bombing halt of March 1968, both Ball—“Ol’ stop- the-bombing George,” as he is reputed to have been called by the Pyesident—and Paul Nitze, then deputy secretary of defense, played  pee roles in bringing about the education of Secretary of Defense  Looking Back: An Epilogue 165  Clark Clifford.11  Nitze (and Ball, too, for that matter) had argued as early as 1961 against the “limited commitment’ of U.S. combat troops to Vietnam. His point was that in war it is not possible to be ‘‘a little bit pregnant;” that to commit any ground troops at all meant, in the end, to commit as many as might be needed to ensure the security of those already committed. Again, in 1965, he took the same stand, arguing that any such commitment of troops tended to be open- ended. As for the decision early in 1965 to bomb North Vietnam’s industrial and communications network, while avoiding Hanoi and other population centers, Nitze  drew on his experience as a member of the.. . Strategic Bombing Surveys. The surveys showed that in both Japan and Germany production and morale tended actually to improve while bombing was limited. Production declined and morale began to disintegrate only after the really brutal—and morally repugnant—bombing of population centers began.  One question raised at the beginning of this chapter remains to be answered—To what use was put the work of the Survey? This question was preceded by an intimation that the reports of the Survey were, on the whole, ignored, at least in part because ley made for something less than pleasant or inspirational reading.! That, however, was only a part of the reason and not the main part