ide down. Desks, chairs, typewriters, lamps, files, and everything else have been smashed up and spread indiscrimi- , nately on the floor. In most places you wade knee-deep in debris of that sort. The problem of getting worthwhile information out _ of records scatjered as much as most records are is almost a ’ hopeless one.  7 Even when production records were found in good condition, further problems were encountered. Statistical records, whether applicable to a single plant or an entire industry, were rarely com- plete over any considerable length of time;28 the very bases on which figures were compiled involved semantic nuances whose logic was not always apparent to the investigators;29 and increasingly evident among figures compiled late in the war was the perennial problem faced by those who place great faith in statistical reports—the com- pilers of statistics, under pressures from above, tended to become self-serving in their.reports, either telling higher headquarters what they wanted to hear or fudging figures to cover up their own inade-  quacies.  A final problem for the Field Teams, though one not equal in scale to those already mentioned, was that occasioned by the questionable conduct of some team members. As reported by one team leader, ‘‘looting and general enjoyment of the privileges of con- querors provide very strong attractions to those whose zeal for re- search is not personal.” So-called “improper looting’’ and ‘‘the yen to go sightseeing” had continually to be combated, and on a few occasions civilian members had to be disciplined for trying to obtain information of more direct use to their parent corporations in the U.S. than to the goals of the Survey. Also not infrequent was a tendency among some of the higher ranking civilians (not the direc- tors) to take their “assimilated rank’’ to mean that they could give orders to soldiers on matters not related to research. Some who held the assimilated rank of colonel, and hence were referred to co