g the situation after his return to London, Alexander related how  all the services had a great desire that the Survey should throw everything it had into the hopper. They wanted our judgment and some even wanted us to take over the job of target selection in the Pacific. The nelly was that the current situation was the most important thing.  But such reservations, repeated continuously during the discus- sions, did not prevent the directors from severely questioning the line of thinking then ascendant in Washington. With roots going back at least to early 1943, this line of thinking held that the most effective attacks that could be launched against the home islands would be massive incendiary raids against urban industrial concentrations. Early intelligence reports had concluded that the structure of Japa- nese cities, unlike those of Germany, was such that manufacturing was centered in downtown areas, much of it parcelled out to small home workshops. Also relevant was the assumption that building materials used by the Japanese would prove much more vulnerable  to incendiary attack. To the directors, fresh from the scenes of  horrible destruction in Germany, it appeared that AAF Head- quarters had embarked upon and sought to continue a style of air warfare parallel to that of Air Marshal Harris’s RAF Bomber Com- mand. Appalled at such a prospect and convinced of its indecisive-  The Survey at Work 101 or  ness in Germany, they argued at length against its continuance.  Speaking out as strongly as they dared, the directors argued that the primary target in Japan should be the transportation network, primarily railways and ‘‘coastwise’’ shipping, both along the coasts and between the islands. This thinking reflected their tentative con- clusion that the most effective bombing in Germany had been that which, in the final three months, had destroyed the Germans’ ability to transfer goods between factories and the front lines. Numerous instances had been uncovered wher