g capability that an invasion, if necessary, could be accomplished. To do so would require an immediate start, the creation of 239 combat groups, and the provision of 63,467 aircraft and 2,164,916 men. Given such emphasis and resources, reasoned the planners, such an air offensive could reach full strength by April 1944. The plan recom- mended that the primary target objectives be Germany’s electrical power grid, transportation network, and petroleum industry.  A Brief Sketch of Operations Over Europe Through Spring 1944  Less than three months after the presentation of AWPD-1 the United States found itself at war with Germany. In the hectic months that followed, the AAF worked night and day to organize, train, and equip a strategic bombing force that could begin operations from bases literally thrown together in England.3 From the outset the American commanders were beseeched by their Royal Air Force counterparts to set aside, as unworkable, their theory of daylight bombing. The British had started out with a theory of employment remarkably similar to that derived at the Air Corps Tactical School. They had quickly found, however, that once their bombers ventured beyond the range of fighter escort the rate of loss inflicted by the Luftwaffe rose to unacceptable levels. Worse yet, the British experience with so-called precision bombing had failed miserably, many crews having missed their intended targets by distances up to five miles and more. In an effort to reduce losses to the Luftwaffe, RAE Bomber Command had switched over from day to night operations. This changeoever only further compounded the diffi- culties associated with finding and hitting precise targets. So, as a  Allthe Winds of Doctrine 13  result, Bomber Command had adopted the technique of aiming at target areas, principally cities geared to war production, hoping to maximize the effects—whatever effects—that their bombs might have. By mid-1942 it is fair to say that the operational goal of Bomber Co