eport at hand to guide those planning the air campaign against Japan. For this latter rea- son, the activities of the Survey group would have to remain ‘‘Top Secret”’ until final victory was assured.  The combination of Lovett’s calm, dignified assurance and Arnold’s ‘dynamic, explosive, contagious, enthusiastic prompting” proved enough to overcome any initial doubts D’Olier may have had. Agreeing to take on the task, he asked for suggestions as to where to start. General Arnold suggested that he should first of all select some of his key associates and then fly over to Europe to get a first- hand glimpse of the situation there. ‘‘But these are only sugges- tions,’ Arnold concluded. ‘This is your job, and when you've finished you report not to me, but directly to Secretary Stimson and the President.”  Leaving General Arnold’s office, Colonel Gaylord took Mr. D’Olier directly to the office of Colonel Guido Perera, who had only a few days before finished up his work with the Committee of Opera- tions Analysts.3 Impressed both by his qualifications and personality, Mr. D’Olier asked Perera if he’d like to work with him on his new job. Perera said he would, but that the decision would rest with his boss, General Kuter, AC/AS, Plans. D’Olier then went to Kuter’s office and upon receiving assurances of all possible assistance immediately asked for the assignment to him of Perera as ‘‘assistant to the chairman.” This having been granted, D’Olier, Perera, and Gaylord retreated to Perera’s office to discuss the next step.  When D’Olier mentioned that he’d like to have a vice-chairman of  The Survey Is Organized 53  really exceptional executive ability, Perera suggested the name of Henry C. Alexander, a lawyer and banker who was director and vice- president of J.P. Morgan and Company.4 Perera added that Alex- ander was a personal friend of Bob Lovett’s and had earlier offered his services in any capacity that Lovett thought serious enough to warrant his acceptance. A check wi