nment’s Ball-bearing Production Board. It was also Perry, on 10 May at Salz- burg, who interrogated two Polish Jews, just escaped from a concen- tration camp. These men told of being on a team of engravers and printers, under control of Himmler’s ministry, who had counter- feited 130 million British pounds. Perry’s fast work resulted in keep- ing at least sixty million pounds from entering circulation. It was Sklarz, at Flensburg and also on 10 May, whose alertness uncovered the hiding place of Albert Speer, Hitler’s minister for armaments. Quickly summoning other members of the Survey to the scene, Sklarz conducted a series of interrogations of Speer lasting some ten days. Steene, though not responsible for any such coup, was none- theless exceptionally valuable during carbene ston by virtue of his ability to take shorthand notes in German.  Lieutenant Peter Jacobi was with a Field Team that entered Essen two days after hostilities ceased there in early April. Heading straight for the main offices of the Krupp works, he found all the  The Survey at Work 91  important officers of the company still on the scene. Perhaps be- cause it seemed the efficient thing to do, or perhaps because the opportunity was too much to pass up, he forthwith called a meeting of the board of directors. Among those interrogated at some length were Friedrich and Alfried Krupp.37  Believed to be the first USSBS man to cross the Rhine was Major (Flight Surgeon) Cortes F. Enloe of the Medical Branch, Morale Division. Attaching himself to the Tenth Armored Division, Enloe entered Heidelburg while it was still under fire. His ‘target’ was the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Medical Research, and more particu- larly its director, Reichard Kuhn, a Nobel laureate for his work in vitamin research, and Kuhn’s assistant, a Professor Boethe who had been Enloe’s professor at Heidelburg in the early thirties. After two days of interrogating both men in their laboratories, Enloe became suspicious that Boethe