General Arnold finally decided on President Sproul of the University of California, carrying their efforts to the point of flying out to California early in October to convince both Sproul, who seemed willing, and the California Board of Regents, who did not, that Sproul’s services were required. 3 Finally, Donahoe wrote Koenig on 17 October that  Dr. Sproul yesterday afternoon told Colonel Gaylord, who had called him, that he had written General Arnold a couple of days ago saying that due to the delay which will have to ensue before the California Board of Regents can formally approve his release (at a meeting of 27 October), it might be better for General Arnold to invite someone else to act as chairman of the mission.  The following day, Donahoe wrote again.  Candidates considered for chairman at meetings held yesterday and this morning . . . were: (a) Mr. Franklin D’Olier, President, Prudential Life Insurance Company; (b) Dr. Isiah Bowman, President, Johns Hopkins University; (c) Mr. Arthur H. Bunker, Executive Vice President, War Production Board. General Arnold called Mr. D’Olier today and Colopsl Gaylord is going up to New York to talk to him tomorrow.  CHAPTER FOUR THE SURVEY IS ORGANIZED  The Survey should consider not only the development of the  _ CBO Plan and the effect of attacks upon selected target systems, but also the effect of attacks upon secondary and other target systems. It should answer the question whether any target systems that were not attacked should have been attacked. One of the fundamental purposes of the Survey is to determine whether the results obtained were commensurate with the expenditure of men and material.  General Fairchild to Mr. D'Olier 28 October 1944  When Colonel Gaylord brought Mr. D’Olier to General Arnold’s office in the Pentagon on the morning of Saturday, 21 October, the two: of them were met by both the commanding general and Assistant Secretary Robert A. Lovett. Sensing at once that Mr. D’Olier seemed pleased at b