dred miles to their base. Behind them they would leave a badly crippled, if not devastated industry (actually only one factory, perhaps, but so chosen that its destruction must inevitably cripple an entire industry). The question of whether such attacks would take place at night or in daylight was decided for the latter on the basis of the improved accuracy to be expected. The question whether the bomber fleet should be escorted to the target by fighter aircraft was decided in the negative primarily for the reason that no such aircraft of sufficient range existed.  . Such, in rough and perhaps ungenerous outline, was the theory of  daylight, high altitude, precision bombardment of selected targets” that the Army Air Forces brought with them into World War II. As Mr. D Olier and his associates were to discover—indeed, as its very Progenitors were to discover—this theory, constructed without conscious precedents in the peacetime vacuum, contained some ee failed to prove out. Some of these were discussed in be roel Major General Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., who had been a  mbardment instructor at the Tactical School. The fanatical belief of the bombers in their own defensive fire  Power was not so much a choice and election to operate unescorted as it was a conclusion that fighters could not be built  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 7 --- 10 | ‘ Strategic Bombing in World War II  with sufficient range to accompany them. The Pursuit Section, on the other hand, wanted no part of the escorting problem. They just as fanatically contended that fighters should be built purely and solely for operation in anti-aircraft defense. . . . We had a tendency to build our doctrine around the drawing board designs and the expected performance of aircraft still in the design stage. On this basis we unquestionably magnified our expected capabilities and minimized our limitations. ... Our doctrine held that bombers in proper formation could conduct a running fire fight and preserve th