rcraft, ships, etc.) rather than mén.27 In the second place, a fleet of bombers stationed in England might provide a capability, should war, in fact, come, of striking quickly at Germany. Whether the President, after the fashion of Winston Churchill, actively sought such an option is open to ques- tion. But down at the working level in the planning offices of the Air Corps, “the word from the top” was that the President was “open to suggestion.”  Like the President, George C. Marshall could find many reasons actively to encourage the creation of a viable air force. If his armies should, in fact, have to come to grips with the Wehrmacht, their fate would be sealed unless there were a force able to deal with the by then world-famous Luftwaffe. The immediate problem of bolstering the defense of the Philippine Islands led him by 1941 to adopt an earlier Navy view that a buildup of air power in the Philippines might deter Japanese aggression in the Far East. Also relevant was his awareness, from the very beginning of any talk about invading the European continent, that any landing on the shores of Europe was unthinkable in the absence of assured air superiority over the point of assault. For these and many other reasons, the occasionally bitter wrangling between soldiers and airmen that had marked much of the inter-war period was laid to rest ... for a season.  Thus encouraged from above, the Army Air Corps planning staff set to work in the summer of 1941 to create an overall plan for the  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 25 --- 12 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  employment of strategic air forces in the European war. The immedi- ate occasion of their doing so was a request from the President in July, addressed to the secretaries of war and navy, to prepare an estimate of the “overall production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies.” Although the request was intended to produce a basis for planning munitions production, a group of brilliant yo