il the replies had come in to his round-robin memo of 28 April. By that time he had accumulated on his desk the follow-up letters from Spaatz of 20 April and 12 May and General Anderson’s letter of 15 May worrying about British pressure for a combined Survey. After adding to this pile the twelve separate answers to his memo to the Air Staff and the responses to his earlier request for suggestions regarding a civilian chairman, it must have seemed to him that he had on his hands a major undertaking. After further discussions with General Arnold, the latter decided he should not proceed further before receiving the blessings of his colleagues on the JCS. On 25 May a cable was despatched to General Spaatz advising him of this decision,2> and on S June General Arnold sent out a letter in reply to Spaatz’s letter  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 39 --- 40 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  f 12 May.  °" Arnold “heartily” agreed that ‘‘we should resist a combined US.- British investigation and report,’’ and gave it as his belief that the British could be convinced that cooperation should be limited to the data-gathering phase of the venture. To keep Spaatz up to date on thinking at AAF Headquarters, he attached to his letter the suggestions received from the various staff agencies. On the matter of a civilian chairman he suggested that either Dr. James B. Conant or Justice Owen Josephus Roberts “seem worthy of considera- tion.”  Two days prior to the despatch of his letter, another letter from Arnold to Spaatz had been mailed out. Apparently representing the last-ditch effort of AC/AS, Intelligence, to monitor the proposed Survey, it also mentioned by name some potential nominees for the position of chairman. More importantly, it suggested a philosophy of approach that had a considerable influence on planning over the next several months.  In any presentation of the project, we teel that you should stress the time factor and operational requirements of the war ag