etts (where his father was then professor of romance languages), 16 January 1907; A.B., Harvard, 1928. In 1929 became a cost accountant for Container Corporation of America, later in that year made a report on the German economic situation for Bacon, Whipple and Company, Chicago invest- ment bankers, and soon thereafter joined Dillon, Read and Company of New York. A director of United Light and Power; American Light and Traction; Continental Gas and Electric; American Gas and Power; St. Lawrence Paper Mills; the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad; and the St. Louis-San Francisco Railroad. Came to Washington in June of 1940 as an assistant to Mr. James Forrestal, then Navy under- secretary and formerly president of Dillon, Read.  7. Born at Nevada City, California, in 1888; B.S., University of California, 1909. In Speaking Frankly (New York: Harper & Brothers, 1947) Byrnes described him as “a New York industrialist—a quiet, unassuming man, with extraordinary knowledge of industrial processes. Throughout the war, he ably filled a number of responsible positions, refusing salary and reimbursement for expenses and avoiding publicity. He served his country well.’’ Although the Survey continued to carry him on its rolls, his service was largely perfunctory, Mr. Byrnes keeping him fully occupied with other duties. He later described himself as “‘a sort of lame-duck Director’’ of the Survey.  8. Born at Philadelphia, 17 May 1889; B.S., Pennsylvania State College, 1911; M.S.,M.1.T., 1914. After working with the American Bridge Company, he joined the M.LT. faculty until 1926 when he transferred to Drexel Institute. As described earlier, his post was originally offered to John E. Burchard. When he refused, Colonel Koenig sought to interest Dr. H. P. Robertson, a member of the London OSRD mission. When OSRD refused to release Robertson, the Survey planners turned to Bowman who had been recommended by Burchard.  9. Born at Cheyenne, Wyoming, S August 1903; A.B., Michigan,