still relatively intact, but looking the worse for wear, and into the Tiergarten. All of this section of the city is an utter shambles. Those buildings that have not been turned into a heap of rubble stand roofless, partially walless, gutted by fire, beyond possible repair. The Tiergarten looks like a no man's land. Its trees have been stripped of all but the largest branches, and are leafing from the trunks. As elsewhere in the city the grassplots now contain the bodies of many Russian and German soldiers who fell in the street fighting. Perhaps more grotesque than anything are the remains of Berlin’s statuary, of which there was a plethora; horses without their former riders, figures without heads or limbs.  (Sunday, 22 July) In the late afternoon a savage windstorm sprang up, lifting half the dust and rubble of the city and distri- buting it around indiscriminately. The remaining pieces of glass in windowless Berlin were flying through the air; documents and papers which had been tossed outside in an effort to clean up buildings soared heavenwards; the walls of some gutted buildings collapsed; the atmosphere was opaque. Later in the evening the wind died, in order to give the mosquitoes, breeding in the stagnant canals and static water pools, a chance to come out for their usual night life, while the team observed the ten-thirty curfew.  Meeting together late in the evening of Monday, 23 July, the team decided “that the time had come to get hold of Wagenfuehr once  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 66 --- 94 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  and for all.” Accordingly, in the dead of night Ames, Weingarten, and Baran set off once again into the Russian Zone. Upon finding the house in which Wagenfuehr was staying, they woke him, forced him to get dressed, and took him into custody. The following day he was spirited out of Berlin on a C-47 by Captain Nichols, and Colonel Ames was left with the task of explaining to the Russian authorities why it had been fel