oken, military leaders were instantly faced with enormous pressures to get the boys back home. Every day, every commander received letters from wives, mothers, maiden aunts, and former employers: ‘‘When is my Johnny  A Change of Scene 123  coming home? His son is three years old and he’s never seen him!" Even within the ranks the pressures mounted. Men who had ‘‘done their bit’’ were less than sympathetic about the long-range fears of the higher authorities and the administrative complexities implied by massive demobilization. There were wives who had stopped writing, parents who were not getting any younger, and those 4-F bastards who had stolen all the good jobs—and not a few wives and sweet- hearts. Responding to the public clamor, Congressmen complained bitterly about the damned militarists who seemed unwilling to give up their private armies.  Whether this welter of confusion in late 1945 might have been alleviated by a war policy that had looked somewhat beyond the simplistic goal of “unconditional surrender’’ will be long debated among historians. For the purposes of this essay, however, that question is irrelevant. The confusions, the fears, and the hopes existed; so also did the bomb and the enigmatic Russians; so also, for responsible senior officers, did the moral burden of providing for the future. (Irreleyant here are any reflections on ‘“‘who started the Cold War.” What is being portrayed is the situation as seen by many, perhaps most, senior American officers; whether they pictured Russian intentions correctly or not is quite beside the point.) It is in this context, then, that one must view the inter-service wrangling about how victory had been achieved and, hence, how the nation should prepare for future eventualities.  Admiral Ofstie’s assignment to represent the Navy on the Strategic Bombing Survey could not be undertaken lightly. In addition to providing technical advice, he had to assure as best he could that the Navy’s interests were well serve