ination of the analysis.”  From an original idea of a committee of perhaps twenty or twenty-five people, the proposed size of the survey staff had increased by May to a number between seventy and one hundred. Throughout the summer this trend towards expansion continued.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 40 --- Chairman (civilian), Representatives of the Armed Services, Representatives of Government Civilian Organizations  } An Idea in Search of Definition 43  Politics and Morale Uni Political Analyst  This tendency was assured by the wide-ranging and occasionally volatile nature of some of the topics that were proposed. Among these were: (1) that the survey should “ascertain whether the U.S. air  forces attacking Axis Europe accomplished what the Combined | Chiefs of Staff intended they should do, or their mission as they  themselves conceived it;’’ (2) that a ““check should be made on the validity of a wide variety of the preconceptions on which air force | strategy and tactics are based;” and (3) that enormous difficulties  Propaganda Analyst  A. F. Officer} !ntelligence Analyst  Chief and staff  and staff  would be encountered in choosing a “yardstick” against which to measure the accomplishments of the air forces, there being such widely differing views on the purposes of air warfare.3! Almost a year later one of the survey members who had been around from the beginning summed up the continuing trend towards expansion: ‘We started out three men on a raft and ended up with the Queen Mary!’"32  In order to get things moving in some formally structured manner,  pm Cc pe > = oO = =  Army Officer,  =< oO e oO hu nn = Oo — < — -—) = oo! < oe Gi Oo  AAF Headquarters tentatively approved the initial manning of the skeleton organization proposed by USSTAF33 and selected a senior officer to take over further planning as executive director. Colonel Theodore J. Koenig, who reported for duty in London on 7 July 1944,  Economic Unit  Economic Analyst Economic Statistic