in to seek a final answer regarding cooperation with the British. Noting that there  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 37 --- 36 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  seemed to be growing pressure for a combined U.S.-British survey, Spaatz urged resistance to such pressures ‘‘whether brought to bear over here, or in Washington through the Combined Chiefs of Staff, or otherwise.’’ He offered two specific reasons for his stand on this issue:  (1) Any other arrangement would defeat our main purpose of getting at the plain facts through a committee headed by an impartial civilian chairman free from influence of official opinion on either side of the Atlantic.  (2) Soviet consent will be necessary to investigate German targets and records in the Soviet Zone of Occupation. Any prior arrangements for combined U.S.-British investigation would be inconsistent with policy indicated in cable of S May 1944 from Joint Chiefs of Staff to General Eisenhower... that in post- hostilities matters we should scrupulously avoid giving Soviets any bngsession of combined... planning excluding the Soviets. !  Whether or not such reasons reflected his innermost feelings on this matter, there could be little argument raised in Washington against the position taken by General Spaatz. He was, after all, the senior responsible officer in the field. He had himself recommended that the results of the campaign he was directing be investigated by an impartial committee headed by a civilian. His cooperation and support would be vital to the success of any such committee. He had, in short, taken an unusually liberal view of the whole question of an investigation. Now he raised one singular and firmly stated objection, backing it up with arguments of weight. It could hardly be expected in such circumstances that General Arnold would counter- mand the position he had taken.  As it turned out, the question was not finally decided until quite late in the summer. In the interim a series of meetings to