e. It was further agreed that immediate service would not be necessary. Rather, the Survey would identify and place in an on-call status those who agreed to help. None would be called until actually needed on the continent, and each man so agreeing could promise his employer that he would be gone for not more than sixty to ninety days. It was in this way that the Survey obtained a long list of names from which, eventually, it recruited most of its specialists. But the process was slow and agonizing, Captain Ward working at the problem full time from early January until late March. The main difficulty lay less with the men approached than with their employers, many of whom were understandably reluctant  The Survey Is Organized 67  to release their best men during a period of peak production. So difficult did the problem loom that by late January Alexander decided to ask for a decreased authorization of civilians—from 300 to 200—and a corresponding increase in his authorization for military officers.46  If recruiting important civilians for duties below the level of director proved difficult, no less so were the problems associated with keeping them happy on the job. Many resented working for military officers who, for practical reasons, were usually in administrative charge of Field Team operations on the continent. And immediately below each director in the pecking order was a “chief” of each Division, in many cases—and again for practical reasons, especially the assignment of enlisted men—also a military officer. Questions of relative status and prestige, aggravated by misunderstandings about rates of pay for civilians, proved a constant source of frustration to Mr. Alexander. It is a tribute to his skill and patience, however, that most such difficulties were resolved quietly ‘and with despatch, the details hidden from the sight of contemporaries.  While most of the directors remained in Washington, Paul Nitze and George Ball returned to London in mid-January. The