tances that General Arnold would counter- mand the position he had taken.  As it turned out, the question was not finally decided until quite late in the summer. In the interim a series of meetings took place, General Cabell representing the American side and Air Commodore Sidney O. Bufton the British. The basic British view of the question came out at one of these meetings when the British participants observed that a combined survey  could present the Combined Chiefs of Staff agreed conclusions over the whole field to be covered; it would continue the arrangements whereby the study of these problems is at present  I  An Idea in Search of Definition 37  being carried out by combined Anglo-American research teams {a reference to the U.S. personnel assigned to R. E. 8], and it would avoid the administrative complications and duplication of effort involved in the establishment of two independent Missions covering very similar fies. It would also avoid the possibility of divergent conclusions. 4  Although impressed by what he considered sincerely held views that were intended by the British to be constructive, General Cabell parried such arguments by agreeing tentatively to cooperation and exchange of information on the level of data gathering, but insisting that the conclusions to be arrived at should be reached independent- ly by each nation; the basic argument used was that the conclusions would probably be pretty much the same and would gain in credibility by having been independently reached.!5  The points raised by each side, however, were perhaps more academic than real. In a note written a year later, Sir Charles Portal, Chief of the Air Staff (RAF), explained, perhaps unconsciously, a view widely shared by air officers of both countries. A combined survey having failed, and the British Bombing Survey Unit (the eventual British equivalent of USSBS) still an uncertainty, Sir Charles contemplated the unhappy prospect of the USSBS findings becoming the sole record