e- cise application of some of his words—e.g., ‘area offensive,” ‘‘As with most other aspects of the strategic air offensive,” etc.—may be adjudged too strong in the particular circumstances of which he writes./2 It is nonetheless true that Verrier’s conclusions accord very  The Survey at Work 81  closely with those of the American historian Kent Roberts Green- field: ‘“The moral of Tolstoi’s War and Peace was receiving a fresh illustration. The grim logic of war had taken it out of the hands of the men charged with its direction.’”!  The view taken by Verrier and Greenfield, whatever its degree of validity, owes much to hindsight. For those charged with executing the strategic air offensive, the past and present realities outweighed any philosophical contemplation of future implications. To be fair to them, it is perhaps appropriate to conclude this sketch of the final months of the air offensive with some thoughts of the late General (USAF, Ret.) C. P. Cabell upon reading an earlier version of these pages in 1969.  What was so wrong, in the light of the realities of German //  practices over the five years of war, in seeking the attainment of |  victory? The sooner it came the sooner would it stop the war |  with its greater slaughter of Allied soldiers and civilians, as well |  as enemy civilians and soldiers. There would be a net reduction |  in deaths. To me the test was whether or not our bombing was |  wanton. I do not think it was, in spite of many urgings by all  kinds of people—not just the military—for all kinds of bombing !  operations. ... And it was not a strain on us military folk toi/  keep it that way. y As for the comment from Craven and Cate cited in note 6, this chap- ter, that the “‘only’’ justification for the experiments with radar bombing ‘‘was the assumption that blind bombing was better than no bombing,’ General Cabell wrote:  The ‘only’ justification!? What about the imperative to develop the equipment and techniques to use, in battle, rad