us of the submarine admirals, this was a life or death question. And what of the Navy’s Marines? Would the semantics of “‘land, sea, and air’ lead to the dismember- ment or transfer to the Army of the nation’s ‘oldest service’’?  For the senior officers most concerned over these issues and their  A Change of Scene 121  potential ramifications, one point seemed clear: the record of World War II would go a long way towards determining which service (or services) would achieve dominance in the postwar period. If one service could convince the American public that victory was owing primarily to its efforts, then it might safely be assumed that Congress, when considering any reorganization scheme, would take that circumstance into account. And to be sure, even excluding any such calculations from the balance, each service owed its fallen members a solemn debt: at a minimum their contributions to total victory, whether or not in themselves decisive, should find their place in the (sometimes fleeting) immortality provided by the historical record. So reasons aplenty existed for those in a position to do so to do everything in their power to assure that the contributions of their own service were not slighted in the final reckoning.  Another factor was crucially relevant to these issues. The senior commanders during the war had most of them matured in their services during the late twenties and thirties, in the era of isolation- ism, reaction from World War 1, the Great Depression, and miniscule budgets. At West Point (and even at Annapolis) they had become familiar with Emory Upton’s thesis that it was “the American Way” all but completely to dissolve the armed forces after a suc&ssful war, and thereafter, with the emergence of a new threat, to scurry about frantically trying to recreate a viable military posture. Fhese senior commanders had been majors and colonels, many of them, in 1939, 1940, and 1941; with their own eyes they had seen and with the sweat of their own la