lict . .. and on some field experience [showing] that it is far better to concentrate a large number of teams and collect the data while the damage factors are still unreconstructed, rather than use a smaller number of teams over a longer’ period of time. .. . This time factor has been decisive in determining the number of teams necessary.  He then went on to add another assumption, one not entirely borne out in the event, but one whose implications were a constant source of worry to the fully-developed survey.  It may be argued that a three month field period is insufficient to gather basic data on fundamental social and_ political questions, insofar as they are influenced by bombing. In this connection, it is felt that it is the function of the survey to draw what conclusions are possible on the basis of the ‘‘sampling” made, and not its function to get into a lengthy historical study of the war, and the part of the AAF in it. These studies will be made, and doubtless the AAF will have an interest in them. The conception of the present project, however, according to the interpretation of the planning group, is limited to an intensive survey of bombing effects, with the objects of drawing conclu- sions while the iron is still hot, and leaving to others the long term sifting out of factors of attrition, economic warfare, manpower shortage, etc. in respect to bombing, in bringing about Germany’s downfall. S  In a covering letter attached to the report and addressed to General Arnold, Koenig wasted no words in defining the major  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 43 --- 48 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  difficulties of the moment:  ... certain fundamental problems basic to the Survey have not been settled. Thus, to date (i) no head of the Survey has been designated; (ii) no directive defining the objectives of the Survey has been issued; and (iii) the necessary personnel with proper qualifications have not been made available largel because no authorization