he effects of the strategic bombing offensive against Germany. Such a study, the letter went on, would have a considerable influence, not only on the future of the military establishment, but also on the planning of future factories, industrial establishments, and even cities. After mentioning that ‘Mr. [Robert A.] Lovett [assistant secretary of war for air] and I feel that you have the necessary qualifications to head this survey as Chairman,” General Arnold concluded with the hope that Mr. D’Olier might find it possible to take on the task “not only as a national service but as a benefit for the Army Air Forces, so that we can be prepared for the future.”’ Attached to this letter was a photo- static copy of an earlier letter from President Roosevelt to Secretary of War Stimson.  After a brief discussion with Colonel Gaylord, Mr. D’Olier spent Thursday evening and Friday morning considering the offer and con- ferring with his family and business associates. Then at noon on Friday he telephoned Colonel Gaylord, who had returned to Washington, to arrange a meeting with General Arnold. At the colonel’s suggestion, Mr. D’Olier agreed to take the afternoon train to Washington where he would meet Colonel Gaylord at the Mayflower Hotel at 7:00 that evening, a conference with General Arnold and Assistant Secretary Lovett having been arranged for Saturday morning.  What might have gone through Mr. D’Olier’s mind while on the train to Washington is lost to history. But whatever it might have been, and it certainly involved wondering about the immediate future, we can certainly hope it did not involve plans for the forthcoming Thanksgiving Day; as matters were to turn out, Mr. D’Olier’s dinner that day would consist of a Spam sandwich, a cup of coffee, and doughnuts at an airstrip near Rome. How Mr. D’Olier came to be considered for the task that lay ahead, how the task itself was identified—these are the basic questions to which these opening chapters will address themselves