d be controversial; 2. Commissioners should be bipartisan and otherwise representative of constituent groups, as long as they are respectable; 3. The chairman should be able, and safe, but better safe than able. The Atlantic Monthly, May 1968, pp. 45-49.  9. It is another question, of course, whether today’s elaborate intelligence network is capable, by its very nature, of answering for the future the precise questions that might be asked of it. That network is made up of eight cooperating (but essentially autonomous) agencies: CIA; Defense Intelligence Agency; National Security Agency; and the Intelligence sections of the Army, Air Force, Navy, State Department, and Federal Bureau of Investigation. Each member of each agency should ponder, each day, the remarks of Mare Bloch about the intelligence functions of the French Army in 1940: “In the first place, too many people were concerned in the business of gathering information, and there was an ugly atmosphere of competition among them. .. . As soon as Intelligence found out anything, it proceeded to put it down on paper, mark the document in red ink “Top Secret,’’ and then shut it away from all those likely to be interested in its contents, in a safe with a triple lock.” Strange Defeat (Oxford University Press, 1949), pp. 83-84.  10. Colonel Broughton (in Thud Ridge, p. 63) makes the point succinctly; after  Notes to Pages 165-168 215  complaining about the selection of targets in North Vietnam and the dictating, from the White House, of aerial tactics to be employed, he goes on: “The pressure was on to get this complex (of targets], and when we got into that configuration, it was amazing how the simple basic portents of warfare dipped by the boards to be replaced by determination to accomplish what we had been directed to accomplish.” Cf. the present writer’s ‘‘Leadership, Strategy, and Reflection: Or, ‘What's An Officer To Do?’ ” in Air University Review, 19, 4 (May-June 1968), pp. 88-93; especially p. 92.  11. S