e degrading mire of bureaucracy—in any of its forms. Nonetheless, before returning to the Survey as a whole, its last days in Japan, its return to Washington, and to the manner in which its findings were reported to the nation, it is appropriate here to take one further time out, in this case to trace the manner in which the origins of USSBS Pacific Report #71a have previously been reported to the public.  * * &  The trouble seems to have begun when the late availability of 71a prevented its appearance by title and number in most early lists of the USSBS reports (although other late-appearing reports, as, for example, The War Against Japanese Transportation, USSBS Pacific  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 86 --- 134 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  Report #54, did include 71a in their appended list of reports). More serious difficulties emerged, however, with the appearance in 1950 of Marshall Andrews’s Disaster Through Air Power (New York: Rinehart & Company, see esp. pp. 115-16). Distressed at the apparent Air Force victory in the 1949 debate over the relative virtues of the B-36 bomber and the Navy’s planned super-carrier, Andrews wrote that ‘“‘only by means of a book could any viewpoint other than that of proponents of strategic air power be brought adequately before the American public’’ (p. xi). In the course of attempting to do so, Andrews charged that 71a, “a wonderful collection of half-truths, misconceptions, distortions, unsupportable claims, and self-praise,"’ was somehow illicitly slipped in among the Survey’s reports by the Air Force, palming itself off ‘‘as the opinion of an impartial civilian board honestly proffering the truth for which it had sought.” To his unawareness of the relative priority among the Survey's reports (only six bear the stamp of the chairman's office; all the others are technically supporting documents), Andrews added an innuendo-laden, Devil theory explanation of its origins.  The following year Major (U.S. Army) Lawr