also known variously as the Transportation Plan, the Tedder Plan, the Zuckerman Plan, the Leigh-Mallory Plan) have convinced me that no matter was more fiercely contested in the field of air strategy than this one. Accounts left by participants on either side of the issue have colored virtually all subsequent accounts. With the notable exception of Webster and Frankland (3, 22-24), for example, most British accounts fail to treat General Spaatz’s position either adequately or fairly. Two prominent examples of uninformed accounts may be found in: John Ehrman, Grand Strategy, Vol. S (London: H. M. S. O., 1956), pp. 286-304; and R. W. Thompson, The Price of Victory (London: Constable, 1960), pp. 123-38. By the same token, itis probably fair to assume that General Spaatz was more concerned with the number of German aircraft that might show up on D-Day than he was with the  Notes to Pages 19-20 175  number of German railway trains that might put in an appearance. In a letter to the author (2Jul69), General (USAF, Ret.) C. P. Cabell recalledahat “the oil attacks, as contrasted to the rail attacks, would serve two purposes: (1) Germany proper would be on the receiving end, and (2) the oil attacks would affect not only the German Air Force, but the economy as a whole and its ability to support the German surface forces." When I pointed out to General Cabell that this argument, if read in a particular light, could be taken to parallel Air Marshal Harris's idea that the bombers simply should not be diverted from targets in Germany, for any reason, | almost lost a riend.  mae. The author is indebted to the late General (USAF, Ret.) C. P. Cabell for help with the preceding paragraphs. As senior member of General Arnold's Advisory Council, General (then Colonel) Cabell had helped write the C.B.O. Plan. Later, from December 1943 to February 1944, he commanded the Forty-fifth Heavy Bombard- ment Wing. From February to July 1944 he was on the staff at USSTAF where he became Directo