amp of the chairman's office; all the others are technically supporting documents), Andrews added an innuendo-laden, Devil theory explanation of its origins.  The following year Major (U.S. Army) Lawrence J. Legere, Jr., incorporated Andrews’s story, despite the absence of documentation in the Andrews book, in his Ph.D. dissertation (‘Unification of the Armed Forces,’ Harvard University, 1951). This might not have been a problem (most dissertations, after all, are really quite harmless) had not the dissertation become so widely read. Major Legere had been granted access to the jealously guarded JCS files, an almost unheard-of occurrence, and as a result his work became widely read among those who populate the ‘defense studies” area of political science. By April of 1967, for example, the names of the following luminaries appeared among those who had read the dissertation: Samuel Huntington (three times), Edward L. Katzen- bach, Jr. (twice), Paul Y. Hammond (three times), Walt Whitman Rostow, Ernest R. DuPuy, Raymond Dawson (twice), John Ries, Vincent O. Davis, and Robert E. Osgood. The inevitable was bound to happen. Legere’s dissertation being on the whole a scholarly piece of work, someone would assume that he had verified the Andrews story about 71a.  Before that happened, however, the Air Force lost the perfect opportunity to set the record straight when the fifth volume of Craven and Cate (The Army Air Forces in World War II) was published in 1953. As it happened, however, the only mention of 71a  . A Change of Scene od 135  (pp. 739-40) was so worded as to disguise the fact of its late appearance. As a result, the suspicious reader moving from Andrews to Legere to Craven and Cate might well be led to feel that Andrews must have been correct. This must have been what happened to Vincent O. Davis in his Postwar Defense Policy and the U.S. Navy, 1943-1946 (University of North Carolina Press, 1966, pp. 154-55) and later in The Admirals Lobby (University of North C