service, see Fredette, The Sky on Fire, pp. 83, 112-113.  12. Common usage at the present time identifies these four roles as follows: recon- naissance, tactical, strategic, and air defense.  13. The best book on Mitchell is Colonel (then Major, USAF) Alfred F. Hurley's Billy Mitchell: Crusader for Air Power (New York: Franklin Watts, 1964; new edition, Indiana University Press, 1975).  14. Hereafter, and with apologies to Liddell Hart, without quotation marks. For the views of a critic on the origin of the term strategic bombing, see Kent Roberts Greenfield, American Strategy in World War II: A Reconsideration (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins Press, 1963), p. 88. Events in Vietnam only further confounded the semantic problem, B-S2s (strategic bombers) flying ‘‘tactical’’ missions south of the DMZ and F-10Ss (tactical fighter-bombers) having flown against ‘‘strategic’”’ targets in North Vietnam. For some observations on the “vocabulary from which on the basis of observed usage the grammar of air power may eventually be compiled,"’ see Noble Frankland, The Bombing Offensive Against Germany, pp. 16-17.  1S. In 1926 Congress advanced the status of the Army's air arm from that of a Service to that of a Corps. The Tactical School grew in size and five years later moved to new quarters at Maxwell Field near Montgomery, Alabama.  16. Then so called. Today the term “fighter aircraft” is more common, but tends to disguise the essential differences required by varying missions, e.g., defensive fighter or intercepter, tactical support fighter-bomber, and escort fighter.  17. In a conceptual sense the theory was well established as early as 1934.  18. For some of the difficulties to be encountered in any attempt to unravel the threads of theoretical development at ACTS, see the remarks of Major (USAF) Perry M. Smith in his article, ‘‘Douhet and Mitchell: Some Reappraisals,"’ Air University Review, 18, 6 (Sep-Oct 1967), pp. 97-101.  19. English translations by Dino Ferrari (New Yor