merican Eighth Air Force upon several fuel plants in central and eastern Germany, a new era in the air war began. It meant the end of German armaments production.  On 28 and 29 May, General Doolittle’s Eighth Air Force conducted successful raids against synthetic oil plants deep in central Germany. General Twining’s Fifteenth Air Force had been conducting similar attacks since April against oil targets around Ploesti and Vienna. Each of these raids proved costly in both crews and aircraft, but Spaatz’s main contention proved out—the German Air Force rose with fury to repel, unsuccessfully, these attacks. The full extent of the German pilot losses was revealed to Reichsmarschal Goering in late  The Survey at Work 77  May when he was informed that the losses were critically in excess of the Luftwaffe's programmed replacement capacity. Like the attacks in February against aircraft production, the attacks in May against aviation fuel production seriously crippled, but did not destroy, a critical industry. Taken together, however, and far more important in view of the upcoming invasion, they did destroy the Lu/ftwaffe's capability either to defend Germany or oppose the invasion.  On D-Day the German Air Force did not contest the landings at Normandy. The mission of the strategic air offensive, as defined at Casablanca and in the C.B.O. Plan, had been so to weaken Germany “as to permit initiation of combined operations on the Continent.” This had been accomplished; the strategic air offensive, when measured against its assignment, had proved an unqualified success. All this is not to say that the transportation attacks during April and May were without effect in limiting the Wehrmacht's capability to redeploy forces in opposition to the landings at Normandy, an undeniably important consideration. What it does say, however, is that exclusive concentration on the transportation attacks would not have allowed successtul achievement of the air forces mission— assured air supe