striking range of the Japanese homeland, and without which there would have been no successful conclusion of the war. .. . The result of the Survey’s effort . . . may well be the basis for the major decisions respecting our post-war national security. This may include the form of our military-naval organization, the relative “weight” of our respective armed forces—ground, sea, and air—and the means of integrating all forces to the end of national preparedness. This imposes a grave responsibility on all personnel selected for the job. It will require of every man his utmost initiative, skill, and effort.  As should be clear, the first sentence quoted above represented an expansion—at least in a literal sense—of the Survey’s charter. The “thorough study of all prior operations’”’ would involve rather a great deal more than an evaluation of “‘all types of air attack.”” When General Anderson voiced objections to Ofstie’s approach, it was pointed out to him: (1) that air elements of one type or another had been involved in every Pacific operation; (2) that it would therefore be necessary within the charter to study all operations; (3) that to study air attack in isolation trom other factors affecting the course of those operations could hardly result in any but a distorted image of what had actually happened; and (4) that besides, the Navy needed certain types of data of questionable value to the Survey but which might as well be gathered at the same time. In short, General Anderson was told, in effect, ‘You are certainly going to tell your story. Let us tell ours, and let the chairman and directors decide between the merits of the two.”  The battle lines having been drawn, the two Divisions—Muitary Analysis and Naval Analysis—went their separate ways insofar as determining what campaigns and operations each would cover. It was agreed that each Division would be given the opportunity to comment on the reports of the other before any report reached the chairman’s level. T