eat majority of missions flown during April, May, and June were directed against transportation centers and military concentrations behind the German lines in France, the Low Coun- tries, and Germany west of the Rhine. For idealists of the theory of strategic bombing aimed at the enemy's sustaining war economy, these were dark days. Whatever progress had been made, they felt, was now being jeopardized, the Germans being given an opportunity to recuperate. Generals Eisenhower and Spaatz, much to their credit, held to a middle position between extremists of both sides, between those who would abandon, if they could, tactical support missions and those who urged that the entire air effort be used in direct support of the Ground Forces.  For Spaatz the only real question was how best to assure air superiority over the assault beaches. Patiently, and with imposing tact, he worked to convince Eisenhower that the answer lay in the destruction of the Luftwaffe in the battle in the air, and that the surest way to flush the German fighters out of hiding to face combat in the sky was to concentrate on the Luftwaffe's fuel supply. Late in April, Eisenhower gave Spaatz verbal permission to strike at German oil refineries when the weather over Germany was such as to promise good results from daylight visual bombing. The first such raid took place on 12 May, against targets located near Zwickau, Merseburg- Leuna, Briix, Ltitzkendorf, Bohlen, and other cities. “I shall never forget the date May 12,” Albert Speer would later write.  On that day the technological war was decided. Until then we had managed to produce approximately as many weapons as the armed forces needed, in spite of their considerable losses. But with the attack of nine hundred and thirty-five daylight bombers of the American Eighth Air Force upon several fuel plants in central and eastern Germany, a new era in the air war began. It meant the end of German armaments production.  On 28 and 29 May, General Doolittle’