ion had been based; results in line with expectations had not been forthcoming.  Another difficult question was that of who was qualified to evaluate a campaign directed at elements of the sustaining economic resources of an enemy nation. Among the officers of the AAF, those looked upon as the best and brightest were fully occupied in key  Looking Back: An Epilogue 155  operations or staff assignments and could be stolen away from such duties only at the risk—as their commanders would insist— of “impeding the war effort.” Yet even among any such hypo- thetical group of “fast burners,” few could be expected to have extensive knowledge and experience in economic planning, produc- tion management, petroleum refining, etc. So it soon became obvious that a large number of highly competent civilian specialists would be required. It then became an immediate question of whether, if the quality of men sought could be obtained, they would be willing to devote their time to an effort controlled by military officers. In considering such questions, the qualities of mind of General Arnold, General Fairchild, and Assistant Secretary Lovett became decisive. ,  No airman—not Douhet, not Mitchell, not Trenchard—was ever more fully aware of the potential effects for air forces of scientific and technological advances than Arnold. This facet of Arnold's personality, made clear in his memoirs, comes through with striking clarity in Theodore von Karman’s report of a conversation at La Guardia Airport in September 1944.  General Arnold wasted no time in coming to the point: “We have won this war, and I am no longer interested in it. I do not think we should spend time debating whether we obtained the victory by sheer power or by some qualitative superiority. Only ong thing should concern us. What is the future of air power and aerial warfare?” . . . I listened with fascination... Arnold was already casting his sights beyond the war, and realizing, as he always had, that the technical geni