inder of Chapter 33, ‘‘The Vision of Hap Arnold.” Cf. also Arnold's Third Report to the Secretary of War, 12Nov45, in The War Reports of Marshall, Arnold, and King (Philadelphia & New York: J.B. Lippincott Company, 1947), pp. 419-70, but especially 452-70.  2. To be sure, there were precedents for using civilians to investigate and evaluate the air arm. The Morrow and Baker Boards, of 1925 and 1934, respectively, were important milestones in aviation history; even earlier, in May 1919, “the Assistant Secretary of War, Benedict Crowell, led an official delegation of Army, Navy, and aircraft industry representatives to Europe . .. for a three-month study of English, French, and Italian aeronautics.” Hurley, Mitchell, p. 48.  3. Over-all Report (European War), p. 8, Chart #6.  4. “The German experience showed that, whatever the target system, no indispensable industry was permanently put out of commission by a Single attack. Persistent re-attack was necessary.” Jbid., p. 108; “The experience of the Pacific war supports the findings of the Survey in Europe that heavy, sustained and accurate attack is required to produce decisive results when attacking an enemy's sustaining resources.”’ Summary Report (Pacific War), p. 28.  5. The absence of a labor representative was not lost on Aneurin Bevan, who commented as follows: ‘We doubt the bona fide purpose of this Survey as little as that of the Allied Control Commission, but in view of the strange composition of the leading personnel of the mission, we cannot help suspecting that some people at least have high hopes of using it for the purpose of killing quite a number of birds with one stone.” London Tribune, 23Mar45 (italics added).  6. To take one example among many, a member of the Secretariat advised  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 126 --- 214 Notes to Pages 163-164  Alexander on 10Sep45: “The reason advanced for denying that there is any valid distinction between strategic and tactical air power is simply that