to recreate a viable military posture. Fhese senior commanders had been majors and colonels, many of them, in 1939, 1940, and 1941; with their own eyes they had seen and with the sweat of their own labors they had carried out the normal switchover into the frenzy of rearmament. That the American reaction at the moment of victory would be any different from what they had been taught to expect, they had no reason, based either on the historical record or their own experience, to hope.  At precisely this stage of developments, mankind presented itself with The Bomb. Fearing the worst, as it is their responsibility to do, military leaders were quick to form in their minds an image of how the next war would begin—with an atomic blitz, in the Pearl Harbor style, yet next time with Washington as the target. The combina- tion of the long-range bomber and the atomic bomb, any fool could see, clearly ruled out the old pendulum system of disarmament after victory and rearmament for war. The next war, many felt, might be decided in a few hours. Any responsible senior commander enter- taining anything even approaching such a viewpoint, then, had a  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 80 --- 122 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  ( definite and clear-cut responsibility to the nation to do all in his power to assure the maintenance, after victory, of a defense estab- lishment eclipsing in mobility and striking power anything hitherto known to America in peacetime.  In this context, what could reasonably be expected from battle-  _© scarred senior admirals other than that they would fight for the  continued provision of powerful naval striking forces? What could be expected of Air Force generals other than that they should stress continually the need to maintain an atomic striking force? For a general to support navies and an admiral to argue for a long-range, land-based strategic bombing force would have been contrary to all the rules of human nature; more important, for eith