et areas, principally cities geared to war production, hoping to maximize the effects—whatever effects—that their bombs might have. By mid-1942 it is fair to say that the operational goal of Bomber Command had become that of destroying the ability and will of German production workers to continue their war efforts.  It is important to remember that the British had been driven to adopt this technique by the operational limitations inherent in their equipment and prewar training. As early as July 1941 the chief of staff, Royal Air Force, had declared that ‘‘the most suitable target from the economic point of view is not worth pursuing unless it is tactically attainable.” By 14 February 1942 a directive had been issued to Bomber Command to the effect that the primary object of the bombing campaign was to be the morale of the enemy civilian population, and, in particular, of the industrial workers. Eight days later, with the appointment of Air Marshal Sir Arthur Harris as commander of Bomber Command, the goal of “de-housing” the —— aac mae was effectively set in concrete for the re-  The American commanders were horrified at all this, not so much at the sequence of events that had been described, as at the conclusions that had been drawn. There must be a way ‘they felt, to apply force more selectively. One thing was certain, and that was that they were going to try, at least, to proceed according to their own theory of daylight, precision bombing. If circumstances should prove Speake ne tae change could always be introduced; but the  anging be / American Eee een they had even begun was anathema to the ni7A i  Force launched the ee ientiaeeiae By itt November ete bon g experiment. By late November a y-three attack missions had been flown, most of them ce targets in France and Holland and in formations numbering ‘ s than thirty aircraft. Although encouraged at first by negligible air Eohhan from the German Air Force, the Operations Staff at eee ie hore soon felt the pangs