officers charged with setting up the British Bombing Survey Unit, still an uncertainty. As a result of these and other meet- ings, a number of decisions had been reached: (1) should the BBSU become a reality, the two groups would cooperate when possible in the collection of data at various target sites; (2) each group would reach its own findings independently of the other; (3) the concern of the British over the possible withdrawal of American personnel attached to R. E. 8 was quieted by the Survey’s agreement to find other sources for its physical damage experts; (4) a final decision was reached not to “farm out” the Survey’s economic analysis to EWD, but rather to conduct the entire task with men recruited in the U.S. by the Survey; and (5) arrangements had been completed for a series of ‘training and indoctrination’’ lectures to be attended by people assigned to the Survey, now beginning to increase rapidly in size.  The Survey Is Organized 65  Two days following their return to London, Mr. D’Olier and Colonel Perera addressed an assembly of the entire Survey. Perera led off with an hour’s talk on the history of strategic bombing, concluding on the theme that the Survey’s main task was to appraise results rather than to concentrate on criticism based on preconcep- tions, cliches, and other variously derived opinions. D’Olier then followed with a shorter talk on the background of the Survey. His conclusion, like Perera’s, reflected his growing concern that the lower ranks of the Survey contained far too many self-appointed experts who had already arrived at, and were trying to promote, personal evaluations of the conduct of the air war.  Let me state definitely the objective of the Survey. Our objective is to evaluate the importance and potentialities of air power as an instrument of military strategy.... We shall proceed in an open-minded manner, without prejudice, without any pre-conceived theories, to gather the facts. We are simply to seek the truth. And when