his plan reflected the efforts of the Committee of Operations Analysts (COA) and General Arnold’s Advisory Council, both in Washington,3” and the RAF, the British Ministry of Economic Warfare, and Eighth Air Force leaders in England. Based on the most thorough analysis yet made of vul- nerable targets in Germany, it identified six systems comprising seventy-six precision targets. The six systems were: (1) submarine construction yards and bases,38 (2) the German aircraft industry, (3) ball bearing manufacture,39 (4) oil production, (S) synthetic rubber and tires, and (6) military transport vehicle production. However, while these six systems were listed as the ‘principal objectives,”’ one overriding ‘intermediate objective” was stipulated; this was the German Air Force, particularly its fighter strength. .  If the growth of the German fighter strength is not arrested quickly, it may become literally impossible to carry out the destruction planned and thus to create the conditions necessary for ultimate decisive action by our combined forces on the Continent.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 27 --- 16 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  The worst fears of the planners materialized during the summer and autumn of 1943. Growing in strength, the Eighth Air Force launched a series of attacks, many of them in formations numbering upwards of two hundred aircraft each, against targets specified in the C.B.O. Plan. But once beyond the range of their fighter escorts, and this meant whenever they penetrated German air space, the bombers suffered severe losses. In August a double mission was launched against the ball bearing plants at Schweinfurt and the Messerschmidt aircraft complex at Regensburg. Of 376 B-17s despatched, 315 found their targets and attacked; but in the ensuing air battles, sixty of the bombers were shot down—a loss of 16 percent of those despatched and 19 percent of those attacking. Worse was to come.  During the second week of October the Eighth laun