ident.  A secret activity like the Survey could not forever escape the notice of Drew Pearson. His column for | September 1945 praised the work of Sergeant Paul Baran and Henry Alexander, concluding with innuendo-laden charges that some business executives had taken advantage of their position to carry home photos of German patents and inventions. Pearson’s source was apparently a letter from a dis- gruntled enlisted photographer who felt overworked and under- privileged. Two weeks later, now certain that skullduggery was afoot, Pearson commented on the still secret plans for redeploying to Japan: “One of the Army’s best boondoggling projects is about to get a new lease on life.” After identifying the USSBS, he went on: “Under this high-sounding title, big shot business executives have been commuting back and forth across the Atlantic by plane... browsing through Germany doing relatively little,” etc., etc., etc. But the first significant report of the Survey’s work was contained in Hanson Baldwin’s column on 2 September, of which the following excerpts suggest a purposeful news leak.  Probably for the first time in history a military campaign is undergoing a minute examination and critique from an official, but predominantly civilian, board.... A complete report and analysis of the air war against Germany, which will cover our objectives and methods of attaining them, will be given by this board, with no holds barred... . It is expected to be ready for the War Department about mid-September or October. Wheth- er it will be published, except in summary, at that time remains to be seen. This precedent, the critical survey of a military campaign by civilians, has been greeted with astonishment and some concern by some of the older and conservative officers in both the War and Navy Departments. The idea does not appeal to them; they fear that the committee may set a precedent for similar reviews and critiques of ground and naval campaigns.  Home at Last 141  Fears that