had com- manded the Eighth’s bomber forces in England, went to Italy to take command of the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces (MAAF), head- quarters at Caserta. (Eaker was replaced at Eighth Air Force by  OO ee  All the Winds of Doctrine 17  Major General James E. Doolittle.) Among Eaker’s new responsibili- ties was general supervision of the activities of the new Fifteenth Air Force. But to coordinate the operations of the Eighth and the Fifteenth, a new headquarters was established in London, the command being given to Lieutenant General Carl A. Spaatz, who had been General Eisenhower's air deputy in North-Africa. The new command, christened United States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF), was made responsible for the overall direction of the American strate- gic air effort in Europe. While these changes were taking place the bomber force, in effect, stood down, waiting for the weather to break and for the arrival in mass of the long-awaited long range escort fighters. During this same period, RAF Bomber Command launched its ill-fated night bombing offensive against Berlin,43 an offensive in which the loss rates paralleled those of the Americans in the months leading up to October 1943. As 1943 turned into 1944 it had become abundantly clear that success over the Luftwaffe in the battle of the air was the necessary prerequisite for the success of any bombing offensive, however conceived and executed. For the Allied bombing effort, the moment of crisis had arrived.  Despite the assumptions of the Air Corps Tactical School in the thirties that long range escort was probably not feasible, the authors of AWPD-1 had urged its development as at least an insurance factor. And although work was intensified on the problem at Wright Field (Dayton, Ohio) in 1942, it was late in 1943 before such aircraft began to arrive in England.44 The eventual answer to the problem was the P-S1 “Mustang,” but improvements on the P-47 “Thunderbolt” late in 1943—essentially the addition of jettiso