s—encoun- tered at 25,000-30,000 feet, the normal pre-planned bombing alti- tudes. Trying to fly in tight, self-defending formations in such winds  proved almost impossible; worse, if the formation succeeded in reaching the target,  . drift was difficult to correct and bomb runs had to be charted directly upwind or downwind. Attacking Japan’s best-defended cities directly in the teeth of a 200-knot wind was unthinkable; going downwind the B-29’s reached ground speeds in excess of 500 miles per hour, in which case neither bombsights nor bombardiers could function properly. Moreover, the high winds made it impossible for crews to make a second pass if the run-in failed; if a navigational error brought a plang in downwind from target it might not be able to attack at all.  Arn¢ A : . / Early in January, impatient over the results thus far achieved From the beginning, operations from the China bases proved / , : : ya difficult. The main problem was that of logistics, since it took ten oe Pee Sethi Ge ere a cur  gallons of aviation gasoline to deliver one gallon over ‘the Hump” European allen whose XX Bomber Commnvel (China) was closing  from India to the Chengtu airfields. Those missions that were flown down operations. Despite Hansell’s close association with high level  had indecisive effects and were valuable primarily for training crews lanning throughout the war, he had made th atic . ;  and breaking in aircraft. It was not really until November 1944, from Lae recognizing that a basic chan sae atttesin er rare aaa a  bases hurriedly constructed in the Marianas, that the campaign Washington. This change reflowed a growing ioe, jeceanills  a sad fo cotumua of ts Wanien Comma in the Marianas among airmen, that some way might be found to bring sufficient  -d in " - pressure to bear to force a Japanese surrender, if possible before the  was Brigadier General Haywood S. “Possum” Hansell, one of the planned invasion ’  ones poms air emia pea pi tenting The comparative cen