the nation to conduct as rigorous an evaluation as possible. ‘How good was the CBO Plan?” he demanded they find out. ‘Where was the plan at fault? Why was it faulty, and what should the plan have been? What do we need to know about the industrial structure of potential enemies? How detailed should this information be? How should it be obtained?” Though Mr. D’Olier had been doing his best to emphasize fact-finding before criticism, he found himself continually reminded by General Fairchild that a report lacking criticism would be of no value.  The main order of business facing the directors, however, concerned the slow progress being made in the recruitment of civilian technicians and production experts. After encouraging each director to do all he could within his own area of responsibility, D’Olier appointed Alexander and Nitze a committee of two to set up some formal method of recruitment to cover all fields. To help in this, Alexander managed to secure the able assistance of J. Harris Ward, a friend of his and Lovett’s then serving as a captain (Ordnance) in the office of the secretary of war. Early in January, Ward—an experienced management trouble-shooter, both in and out of government44—arranged a series of meetings with officials of the War Production Board. The Survey members gave the WPB officials a list of ten industries,45 asking that WPB give them the names of ten men from each industry who could meet the following qualifications: speak German fluently; be American-born and not more than forty-eight years old; be production (rather than sales or financial) men; and be currently active in their specialty. It was agreed that submission of a name would not imply a willingness to serve; the Survey members themselves would undertake individual contact in each case. It was further agreed that immediate service would not be necessary. Rather, the Survey would identify and place in an on-call status those who agreed to help. None would be called until actually n