What is the future of air power and aerial warfare?” . . . I listened with fascination... Arnold was already casting his sights beyond the war, and realizing, as he always had, that the technical genius which could help find answers for him was not cooped up in military or civilian bureaucracy, but was to be found in universities and in the people at large. 1  Thus, unlike many of his juniors, Arnold was unencumbered by forebodings of what any group of highly qualified and independent civilians might find or report; indeed, he actively sought every opportunity to obtain recommendations and viewpoints from outside the normal staff structure. His creation of the Advisory Council under Colonels Cabell and Norstad early in 1942 was only one of many such attempts to assure that someone nearby would be helping him with what he liked to call his ‘‘blue sky thinking.” That General Fairchild held similar views on the utility of civilian specialists was shown in Chapter Two. As for Lovett, though he would  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 97 --- 156 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  hardly have looked upon the matter in such terms, he need look no further than his own example to find that a modern air force needed all sorts of specialist techniques not ordinarily found among the uniformed members of a service. These attitudes, together with the demonstrated effectiveness early in the war of Vannevar Bush's NDRC and the work of operations analysts in the theaters of Operations, created an atmosphere conducive to creating a_pre- dominantly civilian board to evaluate the bombing campaigns.“ All that was lacking was the endorsement of such an irregular idea by the responsible commander in the field.  On S April 1944 General Spaatz, Commanding USSTAF, provided that endorsement in the letter originally drafted by Colonel Ames shortly after the latter’s arrival in London (Chapter Three). Thereafter, only three matters impeded further progress: (1) the press of other busines