Branch of the Morale Division in December, numerous other reports were made public, the order of release depending upon (1) when they were ready, (2) how well they avoided intra-Survey disagreement, and (3) whether the report contained security-classified data. Eventually, a total of 212 European reports were prepared, all but three of which were published in one form or another. Many of them, like Orwell's animals, are more equal than others, only three bearing the unqualified approval of the chairman's office.?  Upon returning from Tokyo to Washington, then, Franklin D’Olier had become somewhat of a celebrity. Washington bigwigs, in and out of uniform, paid him court while he attempted to juggle his three responsibilities: finishing up the European reports, getting underway with the Pacific reports, and tending to his responsibilities at the Prudential Insurance Company, of which he was still senior executive officer. The main order of business, of course, was “the chairman’s report” on the war in the Pacific. As he had done with Alexander in Europe, D’Olier passed this responsibility to Paul Nitze.  When the chairman’s report for Europe developed into a document of over one hundred pages, a decision was made to put out a condensed version (hence the Summary Report in addition to the Over-all Report), hopefully thereby to encourage a wider reading audience. Similar duplication of effort was avoided with the Pacific report, Nitze and D’Olier agreeing that a short, concise report of thirty or so pages would be sufficient. The next question was whether the chairman’s office itself would issue any other reports. Deciding that something, surely, should treat the atomic bomb attacks, and recognizing that the detailed reports being prepared by the Physical  Home at Last tas  Damage Division were bound to contain classified information they decided to issue a brief and very general account of the effects of the two attacks. Finally, there was the endlessly fascinating que