her pilots, bombardiers, gunners, armorers, etc., had received the right  "Chart A, Eventual Organization of the Survey to be made in Germany and German Occupled  Europe of the Results of the Bomber Offensive (Tentative), " attached to Ltr, Spaatz to  Arnold, 12 May 1944. Copy of chart in Beveridge, Vol. Il, frame 842.  ADMINISTRATIVE  Central Office and Field  task of making the survey idea a reality. Figure 1  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 41 --- 44 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  kind of training. Additionally, the boards were to report on the combat effectiveness of aircraft and weapons in general, not to exclude tactical techniques recommended in the training programs and tactical effects of various weapons. Yet owing to a breakdown in the coordinating process at AAF Headquarters, the directive to the AAF Evaluation Boards was so all-inclusive as to contain, for example, instructions to report on “the psychological effect of air bombardment on the enemy nation.” An obvious jurisdictional conflict presented itself, and much time and paper were lost in its resolution.  Another difficulty became apparent to Colonel Koenig when he received the report of an experimental field team that had been despatched to the Normandy beaches early in July to evaluate the effects of the pre-landing aerial bombardments. The report, while interesting, was found to contain little of scientific value. From this trip, and from others conducted soon thereafter, it became painfully apparent that the survey’s investigators would have to be experts in their particular assignments and would have to develop standard techniques and criteria for data collection. As a step in this direction Koenig saw to it that potential survey members were sent to visit the experts at R. E. 8, EOU/EWD, and OSRD. Most of July and August were taken up with these problems.  While Colonel Koenig was doing his best to recruit survey members in London, the matter of finding a civilian chairman was no