o give trans- portation the highest priority in Japan, remained active in Washing- ton on a consultant basis. The Electric Power Division was the old Utilities Division somewhat reorganized and headed by Mr. W. E. Mitchell, chief of the Division in Europe and president of the Georgia Power Company.  From his position as a director, J. Kenneth Galbraith remained technically in charge of Economic Studies as a whole. However, many of the functions of the old Overall Economic Effects Division were distributed among the other Divisions, and Galbraith appoint- ed Dr. Milton Gilbert to oversee the reduced Overall Economic Effects Staff. Gilbert, chief of the National Income Unit of the De- partment of Commerce, was lent to the War Department for this purpose and was ably assisted by Paul A. Baran (discharged and now a civilian).  The main change in the Civilian Studies grouping was the divorce of the Medical Branch from the Morale Division and its establish- ment as a separate Division. Appointed to head the new division was Brigadier General (USPHS) Lewis R. Thompson, assistant surgeon general of the U. S. Public Health Service: Dr. Thompson staffed his Division largely with personnel from the Public Health Service and concentrated its efforts on examining the medical effects of the atomic bombs and the general effect of bombing on medical services in Japan.30 Because of his high rank, Mr. D’Olier appointed Dr. Thompson to the title of a director of the Survey.  The Civilian Defense Division remained technically the responsi- bility of Colonel McNamee who spent most of his time in Washing- ton representing Mr. D’Olier. In active charge of the Division in Japan was Colonel John B. Warden who had been with the Survey in Europe.  Although Rensis Likert was unable to accompany the Survey to Japan, he rounded up an impressive band of sociologists to man the Morale Division under Mr. Burton R. Fisher, a former colleague of Likert’s in the Bureau of Program Surveys, Department o