r a start there would have to be special- ists in each of the following industries and specialties: transportation (rail and water), oil, steel, munitions, ball bearings, machine tools, aircraft (design and manufacture), civilian defense, civil and struc- tural engineering (for assessing physical damage), and ‘‘morale.” The basis for so segregating the analysis lay in a combination of the target systems in Germany that had been attacked (oil, aircraft, ball bearings, etc.) and the instructions contained in the President's letter to Secretary Stimson (morale, civil defense, etc.). In practical terms capable of being transferred to an organizational chart, the  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 46 --- 54 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  arrangement would be into several “Divisions,” each headed by a civilian ‘‘director’” whose authority, paralleling that given to D’Olier, would be complete within his area of specialization.  D'’Olier’s management approach paralleled that familiar to the business rather than the military world. What he seemed to envisage was a broad holding company of which he was chairman of the board, advised by a board of directors each of whom was the director (president) of an operating company of an autonomous nature. The role of the vice-chairman, Mr. Alexander, was to be that of chief executive officer. From the beginning D’Olier established his own role to be that of referee rather than manager; he would take the responsibility, make the important high level contacts, bear the brunt of criticism. But day-to-day operations were to be under the control of the various directors meeting together frequently under the operational leadership of Mr. Alexander.  Management philosophy thus roughly outlined, the meeting addressed itself to personalities. Working from some tentative suggestions drawn up by Colonels Perera and Donahoe, D’Olier and Alexander considered a list of some thirty individuals, five of whom eventually became directors of t