ts of interviews and ques- tionnaires in the absence of industrial production data. Of the sixty- six cities attacked in Japan, only six had been struck before the last three months of the war. The rate and intensity of the fully devel- oped air attack had been so great that the Japanese, except in the aircraft industry, had made little effort to rebuild or disperse dam- aged factories, thereby to resume production. When a plant was des- troyed, therefore, it was simply abandoned; and if any production records survived an attack (something less likely where fire was the primary damage inducer), there was little reason for the Japanese to keep them. In general, the fatalistic attitude of the Japanese towards the destruction wrought by air attack, when coupled with their lesser degree of industrial control and rationalization, created a positive dearth of official records.39  To support the need for widespread reliance on interviews, a Lan- guage Section was established within G-2 of the Services Division. Placed in charge was Lieutenant Commander (USNR) William P. Woodard, who had spent twenty years in Japan as a missionary for the Congregational Church, assisted by Lieutenant Commander (USNR) Edwin Buchanan, who had spent most of his life in Japan. In addition to American-born Japanese (Nisei), a number of Hawai- ians, several graduates of the Navy Language School at the Univer- sity of Colorado, and a number of “old Japan hands,"40 Com- mander Woodard recruited a number of important Japanese civil- ians to assist in the work.4! Transcripts of the important interro- gations were reproduced and circulated to the various divisions. By cross-checking the accounts of various witnesses a degree of reli- ability was assured, but the exceptionally cooperative attitude of most interviewees remained a source of continuing concern.  The Japanese attitude of deference toward their conquerors is re- vealed in an episode recorded by Major Beveridge. While leading a Field Team of