interviewees remained a source of continuing concern.  The Japanese attitude of deference toward their conquerors is re- vealed in an episode recorded by Major Beveridge. While leading a Field Team of the Manpower, Food, and Civilian Supplies Division, Commander Spinks became involved in a rural revolution in the vil- lage of Orihara. The team had gone to the village to observe a farm- ers’ meeting. During a heated discussion of rationing and food dis- tribution, verbal attacks were made on the village headman who was accused of being a puppet of the military caste and of having used the rationing system for political pressure purposes. (The mayor, by the way, owned the local rice mill.) Leading the agitation were two  A Change of Scene 119  men just released from prison where they had been incarcerated on charges of communist activity.  After feasting the Survey team at a banquet, the agitators invited the team to another meeting. The mayor had been caught hiding out in his rice mill and was being roundly denounced before the meeting. The farmers, who seemed to feel that the presence of the Americans lent them moral support, looked to Commander Spinks and his party for approval as they built their case against the mayor; at some point in the proceedings, they appeared to assume, the Americans would declare for the challengers and dismiss the mayor. Spinks finally had to address the gathering to make it clear that he and his group were only spectators, ‘‘and were not sponsoring a peasants’ rebellion, however much it might appear to be an approach to demo- cracy.”43  By the second week of November the Survey was operating at its peak strength in the Pacific theater. Altogether some 1,000-1,100 people were actively involved, either in research teams, in adminis- trative Or support capacities, or in the interrogation phase. As early drafts of various reports began to come in, Nitze established a Secre- tariat under the direction of Lieutenant Commander Walter Wilds. Wi