rive had been unnecessary. The airmen did this less by assertion than by careful omission coupled with a tendency to damn with faint praise. But even worse yet were the new semantics. Rather than speak of Army Air Forces, or even air forces, some of the leading airmen had lapsed into such dangerous barbarisms as “the air effort’ and ‘air power,” thereby conveniently clouding the essential differences between land-based Army aircraft and carrier- borne naval aviation. Presuming that the airmen would win their battle for independence from the Army, Navy leaders became increasingly suspicious that the real aim of the airmen was not only independence but control over a// forms of air effort or air power. And for the Navy that was an unthinkable prospect, a view they could support not only from their own recent experience but also trom the results of its having been tried unsuccessfully by Great Britain after World War |. Thus the Navy—in this instance in the person of Admiral Ofstie—was on the defensive; if they weren’t careful, if they didn’t speak out, they might well lose their shirts and yardarms in less time than it took to defeat Japan.  Admiral Ofstie’s basic strategy, therefore, was to emphasize the Navy's role in making it possible for the AAF to come within striking range of Japan. This strategy, as well as his awareness of the stakes involved, is revealed in a memorandum he addressed on 16 Septem- ber 1945 to ‘‘Navy and Marine Corps Members of the Naval Analysis Division.”’ After explaining what the Survey was and that its primary task was to evaluate all forms of air attack in the war against Japan, he continued:  The assigned mission, however, requires a parallel and equally thorough study of all prior operations which brought us within  A Change of Scene 125  striking range of the Japanese homeland, and without which there would have been no successful conclusion of the war. .. . The result of the Survey’s effort . . . may well be the basis for the major d