cted than its counterpart for Europe. Also contributing to this tendency to give warning of future needs were (1) the growing confi- dence of the Survey’s top echelon in their ability to comment on the potentialities of air warfare, (2) dismay over the absence prior to attack on the home islands of valid intelligence data about the enemy’s war economy, and (3) a striking awareness of how poorly integrated had been the military and naval effort of the Japanese. Where the chairman’s report for Europe had ended with two carefully worded sections labelled “Some Signposts,’ and “Of the Future,” the Pacific report eschewed such language in favor of straightforward ‘‘Recommendations.” These included pleas for (1) an ongoing, forceful program of research and development, (2) an integrated, peacetime establishment for the collection of intelligence data, (3) an integration of U.S. military establishments, and (4) an awareness that carefully husbanded strength could be a force for peace.  It was with regard to the third recommendation, an integration of U.S. military establishments, that the wording of the Survey’s comments caused concern in some circles, confusion in others, and dismay to General Orvil Anderson. Citing the thorough absence of coordination between the Japanese military and naval establish- ments, along with the legislation pending before Congress that called for integrating U.S. military forces, the report stated that the “prompt passage of such legislation is in the national interest.” Along with its recommendation about a continuing intelligence-  Home at Last 147  gathering organization—an endorsement that aided a widespread feeling that led to the establishment of the Central Intelligence’ Agency—the Survey’s comments about service integration—‘uni- fication’’ as it came to be called—were important for the future.  Coming to specifics, the report noted: “‘Within a department of common defense which provides unity of command and is itself oriented toward a