- ing with considerably less importance attached to report writing, a task that could be completed jst as well back in Washington.  As he had in Europe, Mr. D’Olier relied heavily on his vice-chair- man, in this case Nitze, to oversee field operations and establish con- trols over the data input and report compilation. Nitze in turn looked to General Gardner on all purely administrative and logisti- cal matters. Since the Survey’s revised charter from the President required an evaluation of all types of air attack in the war against Japan, the chairman decided that he should visit some of the many places outside Japan where special teams of the Military and Naval Analysis Divisions were conducting studies.  Late_on the evening of 19 November, accompanied by six others,35 D’Olier left Japan on a whirlwind tour similar to that which he had taken to France and Italy one year earlier. Flying in the B-17 that had accompanied General Anderson from Europe, they visited Shanghai,36 Manila, Leyte, Morotai, Biak, Hollandia, Rabaul, Bougainville, and Guadalcanal (where the fare for Thanks- giving dinner represented an improvement over the coffee and doughnuts near Rome the preceding year). Starting back, the party flew via the Admiralty Islands to Guam, passing over Truk en route; from Guam they returned to Tokyo, passing over Iwo Jima.37 On this trip they managed to view, at least from the air, most of the area in which the Island Study Group, under Brigadier General (USMC) Lewis G. Merritt, had been conducting evaluations.  The Survey’s methodology in Japan differed markedly in one  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 78 --- 118 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  respect from what had been the experience in Europe; this was in the reliance that Aad to be placed on the results of interviews and ques- tionnaires in the absence of industrial production data. Of the sixty- six cities attacked in Japan, only six had been struck before the last three months of the war. The ra