the first. These findings, in turn, will assist jgompetent military authority in determining the principles  The Suryey at Work 83 f  involved in the planning, mounting, and conducting of future _ Strategic bombardment operations and in laying down the , necessary procedures to achieve their adoption and smooth . application. This task would not be performed by the Survey; it ' would have to be undertaken by the proper military authorities  at some time subsequent to the submission of the report of the , Survey to the Secretary of War. It is agreed by all corinected with { the Survey that it will not operate as an investigating committee, , but as an impartial finder of facts bearing upon the effects of {our strategic bombardment operations in Europe. The above i views have been expressed by the undersigned to both the j Chairman and the Vice Chairman who are in accord there- with.  Unclouded by Colonel Perera’s curious blend of legal and military jargon is the clear statement that the sort of forceful critique envis- aged by General Fairchild would not be forthcoming. Yet in a very real sense, no approach other than that described by Perera could seriously have been considered by the Survey. They knew by March of 1945 that they were simply not qualified to undertake criticism of either the conduct or the control of operations. In the time remain- ing and with the skills available to them, they could make a real effort to gather facts and compile data. Then they could go one step further: they could seek to determine the effects of bombing on both particular and general elements of the German war economy. That far they could go, but no further; to attempt to do anything more would be to go beyond their own evaluation of their competence to judge in such matters.  Finally, there were considerations of a personal and _ political nature that would tend to place limits on the extent of the Survey’s evaluation. Mr. D’Olier, after all, had been ‘given a job to do’’ by Gen