y have missed the boat. Often angered, or at least displeased, at the requirement to “divert” the  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 99 --- 160 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  bombers to tactical support, Generals Spaatz, Doolittle, and Orvil Anderson overlooked the probable gains to be achieved by actively involving a senior infantryman in their deliberations. The very nature of such involvement—and, hence, enforced cooperation— then as now is such as to produce complimentary rather than critical reports. At the same time, the civilian members of the Survey would have seen much more clearly than they did at the time the effects on bombing policy of the continuing tug of war that went on behind the scenes.  A third specialty lacking in the inner councils of the Survey’s top level was that of the historian. That they should have their historian, someone to keep a record, they had no doubt. But that they should have one or two of the country’s most noted historians working with them in an advisory capacity never entered their heads. It seems evident that the very nature of their task required the presence of an historian noted for his ability to ask tough questions of the evidence.  Put simply, the presence of a questioning and persuasive historian might well have had the effect of bringing into better balance the collection and interpretation of evidence, a matter decided in most part for the Survey by the force of personality exerted in the lawyer's atmosphere of the adversary process, whether in open meeting or private conversation. Trained historians, however, work from different presuppositions than trained ‘‘scientists’—a term taken here to include economists, social scientists including political scientists, and even lawyers when they exert their skills at the rationalization, or the breaking down into discrete parts, of a problem. The sensible historian is never very sure that he can discern the complicated relationships between cause and effect, whe