Joint Target Group, Air Corps Tactical School, Com- mittee of Operations Analysts, and AAF Evaluation Board(s).  Eaker Collection, Library of Congress, Manuscript Division, The personal and official correspondence of Lieutenant General (USAF, Ret.) Ira C. Eaker. The boxes for 1944 and 1945, con- taining correspondence with Generals Spaatz and Arnold, provide insights not available in the USSBS files.  Arnold Collection, Library of Congress, Manuscript Division. The personal and official correspondence of the late General of the Army H. H. Arnold. The 1943-45 correspondence with General  Select Bibliography 219  Spaatz, although not as complete a record as in the Spaatz Col- lection, contains numerous documents in their original, signed form.  Other Unpublished Materials  Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Hq, United States Air Forces, Europe. “The Contribution of Air Power to the Defeat of Ger- many.’’ 3 vols. plus Appendices A through M, all in typescript, 7 August 1945. (NOTE: This is the so-called ‘‘Coffin Report,’’ after Lieutenant Colonel Caleb Coffin, principally responsible for its preparation; copies are in the Air Force Archives, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama.)  Becker, Peter W. ‘‘The Basis of the German War Economy Under Albert Speer, 1942-44.” Unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, Stan- ford University, 1971.  Behr, Robert M. “An Analysis of the Factors Which Limited the Strategic Air Offensive Against Germany in World War II.” Max- well Air Force Base, Alabama: Air War College Research Report No. 2671, April 196S.  Beveridge, James. “History of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey.’’ Unpublished four-volume typescript (two of narrative and two of supporting documents). Washington, July 1946. (NOTE: The typescript is available in the files of the Office of the Chief of Military History, the Forrestal Building, Washington, D.C. Microfilm copies can be obtained through the same office; in 1967 the cost-to-purchaser for the complete microfilm copy was