lities, bridges, etc. Two important airmen, less well instructed in the strategical reason for the inability of the Allied Powers to pene- trate the German lines between 1915 and 1917, did not agree.  ST  ee  All the Winds of Doctrine 19  Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris of RAF Bomber Command resented the basic idea of thus diverting his forces from their primary object. Accordingly, he argued that Bomber Command was simply not capable of effecting the degree of precision implied in the basic idea, a matter of some consequence since the bombs would be falling in France, Belgium, and Holland. °  General Spaatz and his staff at USSTAF also did not agree, but for a decidedly different reason. They were convinced that the best way to assure air superiority was to defeat the German Air Force. In their eyes this could best be accomplished by attacking its fuel supply, especially the synthetic oil refineries. These targets, they reasoned, were far more important to the Germans than was the French railway system. Accordingly, it could be assumed that attacks launched against them would serve to flush the German Air Force and lead to a series of air battles that would greatly deplete its operational strength. They agreed that time was of the essence and that it would no longer serve to destroy aircraft factories; but an attack against aviation gasoline sources, leading inevitably to a contest with the front line German fighter strength, was seen as the most promising way to deplete the numbers of aircraft that might contest the landings. Also, by attacking into Germany the Allied air forces would require the Germans to hold back part of the fighter strength that might other- wise be deployed into northern France. Having at long last attained the means—the long range fighters—to force the air battle, Spaatz  was adamant in pressing his views, forcing meeting after meeting in which acrimony, both stated and implied, reached hitherto un- exampled heights.47  After hearing th