ors antedated the appointment of the chairman. The earliest experimental teams sent out by Colonel Koenig, when meeting up with the ground forces in France, had great difficulty explaining who they were and what their  business was. At every point they were asked, “Where,in writing, i your authority?’”’*? After formal activation ofthe ema l  -Jeadefs were provided copies of the implementing directives, but  these did not necessarily solve the problem. “‘A true copy of our governing directives is not heavy enough ammunition for a junior officer to fire at a Colonel or General,”’ bewailed one captain in his report of efforts to investigate the Renault plant near Paris. Generally, nonrecognition by other Allied elements on the continent tended to be less of a problem as time passed—especially after D’Olier and his mission became common knowledge among the top commanders—but in some ways the problem persisted to the end On more than one occasion the similarity of the initials USSBS (painted on Survey vehicles) to USSR led Germans who could read English to flee on sight.  Much more difficult was the problem occasioned by the Survey’s being only one among many organizations actively engaged in gathering Intelligence information about the defeated enemy. As early as 1944 there had been established in London a Combined Intelligence Objectives Subcommittee (C.1.0.S.) whose mission was to coordinate the activities of all agencies that would be involved in post-hostilities investigations. But in the event, the natural competi- tion that prevails among Intelligence agencies led to a thoroughly disordered situation. The original plan of the C.1.0.S was that “T” (Task) Forces under SHAEF would seize certain Intelligence objec- tives and guard them until the arrival of the particular agency having priority in each case. In the confusion that accompanied the advance of the armies, however, Survey teams often found that one or another Intelligence agency had beaten them to the spot,