tors) to take their “assimilated rank’’ to mean that they could give orders to soldiers on matters not related to research. Some who held the assimilated rank of colonel, and hence were referred to collo- quially by the military as ‘‘ass colonels,’’ managed on occasion to make of themselves just that. Summing up problems of this sort, one team leader reported that  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 63 --- 88 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  In general, there is less than SO percent operating efficiency as compared to a similar civilian research job in the States. The research director will always be faced by conditions far from ideal as each of his personnel will be a researcher, administra- tor, and a soldier—and he may be none of these things by inclination.  These, then, were some of the problems faced by the Survey’s investigators in the field. They have been treated at some length not to detract in any way from the value of the work performed by the Field Teams, but rather to make clear the turbulent milieu in which the investigators worked. Theirs was no simple research task, its parameters and implications fully identified beforehand. Rather, they found themselves in an unreal world performing an unprece- dented task in the midst of extremes of every sort. Writing to T. P. Wright late in April, Commander Johnston vividly captured the scene.  Kassel was a complete wreck. Until you have seen one of these ruined cities you cannot really believe what they are like. In all of the central part of Kassel there did not appear to be a single habitable dwelling or other building. The place is simply a mass of rubble. Where the people are living is beyond me except that we did see quite a few who were apparently existing in the cellars. When we were there the town had been taken only about two weeks before, and the people were just beginning to drift back and were trying to make some sense out of what they had left.... Again, as in Frankfort, we were able to se