ated; (ii) no directive defining the objectives of the Survey has been issued; and (iii) the necessary personnel with proper qualifications have not been made available largel because no authorization for such personnel has been given.  Coinciding as it did with the active involvement of Assistant Secretary Lovett, Koenig’s energetic report was well received in Washington, and major decisions were taken within days of his arrival at the Pentagon. President Roosevelt’s letter to Secretary Stimson, drafted by Lovett and dated 9 September, was received in the War Department on 16 September; the search for a chairman was accelerated; and the Personnel Department approved a tentative manning table of sixty officers and sixty enlisted men which, while well below the level requested, at least represented progress of a sort. Three informal letters from this period vividly portray the turbulent state of affairs both in Washington and in  London.47  On 16 September Major Thomas G. Upton, who had accom- panied Colonel Koenig to Washington, wrote to Major Colbert, temporarily in charge of the London office, advising that the letter  is on the President’s desk, and it is understood it will be signed. But nobody is there to sign it at the moment... . Harvard was asked to take the job, but refused as they said they were not ina position, as a matter of policy, to do this sort of thing. Then Dean David of the Harvard Business School was requested to take the Chairmanship—he has done several excellent jobs for the War Department—but he declined due to reconversion needs of the Business School. At the moment Compton of Tech is being approached. If he declines, the next to be approached will be Walter Gifford of A.T.&T., Dykstra of Wisconsin, and Sproul of Cal....The order is subject to change. ... The matter is being pushed actively by Sec’y Lovett. The Colonel dined with him and General Anderson, and David of the Business School the other night, and it was discussed at length. There