e facts in the record of past accomplishments, the Survey was looking in the wrong direction. Instead, he argued, they should seek to identify develop- ing trends and developing capabilities, and their conclusions (here  Home at Last 143  above all!) should state categorically what these trends and capabilities portended for the future employment of air forces. Utterly future-directed in his thinking, he was all but overwrought by the insistence of Mr. Alexander that (1) the civilian leadership was not competent to suggest strategic principles for future warfare, and (2) the Survey’s task was essentially historfcal, to record what happened, period. Still perplexed over how best to make his case in September 1945, Anderson zeroed in on the failure of the report to stress the importance of attaining air superiority. Alexander's lengthy interjection at the press conference, reflecting Anderson's influence, was little solace; the final conclusion, in writing, published, was what counted.  As it turned out, much of General Anderson's concern was unwarranted. The ground rules for the 24 October press conference included the stipulation that public release might not occur prior to 4:00 P.M. EST, 30 October 1945. Beginning with the evening newscasts on that date, and continuing in newspapers the following day, a number of myths were perpetuated and most headline writers set up their stories in such a way that General Anderson’s worries proved largely unnecessary. Lowell Thomas on NBC and Raymond Gram Swing on the ABC Radio Network both treated the matter on the evening of 30 October. Following the Foreword to the Over-all Report, comments at the press conference, and an AAF press release of 30 October, both newscasters led their listeners to understand that the Survey had been President Roosevelt’s idea, that it had been composed primarily of civilians, and that ‘therefore’ its findings could be taken as “objective and impartial.”’ (It was apparently widely believed—the AAF