ic item Nr. 2, Japan's Struggle to End the War.  12. J. Kenneth Galbraith, for example. In Major Beveridge’s files is a “draft outline of final report left by Galbraith on Tokyo desk.”” The final lines of the draft refe® to ‘conclusions to be derived from this miserable business.” There is a line drawn through “miserable,’’ and pencilled in immediately above is the word “appalling.” Other report writers, however, were as ruthlessly logical as General LeMay. “High explosives seemed to cause only localized damage without any possibility of a catastrophe bonus. The incendiary was the logical weapon.” A Report on Physical Damage in Japan, p. 38; and, “The limiting capabilities of bombsighting equipment and unusual Japanese weather combined to reduce the effectiveness of . visual bombing from very high altitudes. The attendant threat of this condition to retard the tempo of bombing operations could not be accepted.” This statement, as well as any other, reflects the view of the airmen charged with producing results. It is from the Military Analysis Division report on the Twentieth Air Force (cited above, USSBS Pacific item Nr. 66), p. 32.  13. Times change, of course, and each war (conflict, police action, etc.) differs in  Notes to Pages 107-111 205  some way from those preceding it. But those repelled by bombing of any form and sharply insistent about “‘telling it like it is’’ must allow the historian to tell it like it was. For an analysis of how, in the public mind, the word target became synonymous with the word city, see Robert C. Batchelder’s discussion of “The Evolution of Mass eo" in his Irreversible Decision (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1962), PP- OF.  14. The best statistical tables for the Japanese campaign appear in the final report of the Aircraft Division, The Japanese Aircraft Industry, USSBS Pacific item Nr. 15. Like the Oil Division's final report for Europe, this report is the single most valuable report for Japan among those produced outside the