advance party that departed London by air, flying east to Guam where they arrived on 20 August.  D’Olier and his principal assistants arrived back in Washington on 23 August. The Japanese surrender had come sooner than ex- pected, and pressures were mounting to redeploy the Survey as quickly as possible. A Spearhead Team of twenty-two research ex- perts, ten photographers, and ten microfilm operators left London for Washington on 16 August. Rushed across country, they were met at San Francisco by B-29s which flew them to Guam where they arrived on 1 September, joining General Gardner’s party. The group on Guam began at once to recruit officers (mostly from the Sixty-fourth Engineers), and on 4 September General Gardner led a  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 75 --- 112 Strategic Bombing in World War Two small advance party to Tokyo to secure living and working quarters and generally to coordinate activities with the occupation author- ities. While all this movement was going on, Paul Nitze joined D’Olier in Washington to complete the organizational phase for the Japanese venture.  Figure 3 on the following page shows the completed organiza- tion of functions for the Survey’s work in Japan. Note that the direc- tors are tied less closely to the various Divisions than they were in Europe. This reflects not only a reduced level of direct involvement by them in the investigation phase, but also the decision to expand the number of Divisions while keeping the number of directors at a manageable level. 3 Also, a number of men had distinguished them- selves in Europe as Division or Branch chiefs, and it was not thought necessary to ride herd on their daily activities.“* General Gardner’s position as deputy to the chairman reflected a higher status than that enjoyed by General Sorenson in Europe. With Lieutenant Colo- nel Strickland assisting him and effectively in charge of the Services Division, Gardner was able to act in effect as the executive vice-  president wh