ed as the “‘principal objectives,” one Overriding “intermediate objective” was stipulated; this was the German Air Force, particularly its fighter strength.  lf the growth of the German fighter strength is not arrested quickly, it may become literally impossible to carry out the destruction planned and thus to create the conditions necessary  for ultimate decisive action by our combined forces on the Continent.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 10 --- 16 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  The worst fears of the planners materialized during the summer and autumn of 1943. Growing in strength, the Eighth Air Force launched a series of attacks, many of them in formations numbering upwards of two hundred aircraft each, against targets specified in the C.B.O. Plan. But once beyond the range of their fighter escorts, and this meant whenever they penetrated German air space, the bombers suffered severe losses. In August a double mission was launched against the ball bearing plants at Schweinfurt and the Messerschmidt aircraft complex at Regensburg. Of 376 B-17s despatched, 315 found their targets and attacked; but in the ensuing air battles, sixty of the bombers were shot down—a loss of 16 percent of those despatched and 19 percent of those attacking. Worse was to come.  During the second week of October the Eighth launched four major efforts against targets deep inside Germany. On the last of these, on 14 October against Schweinfurt, the force penetrated into Germany well beyond the range of the then available escort fighters. Here was the test of a theory; even the selection of the target reflected the long held hope of destroying a particular element of industry whose loss would result in a ‘‘bottleneck’”’ in production. The Luftwaffe rose in defense and of the 291 bombers despatched, sixty failed to return, seventeen suffered major damage, and 121 sustained reparable damage. Although the attack got through to the target and caused considerable damage, such a rat