p near Rome. How Mr. D’Olier came to be considered for the task that lay ahead, how the task itself was identified—these are the basic questions to which these opening chapters will address themselves.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 21 --- 4 Strategic Bombing in World War Two The Origins of “Strategic Bombing” ©  When Franklin D’Olier was asked to assume the chairmanship of a select committee that would seek to evaluate the effects of strategic bombing in Europe, the Army Air Forces had been flying bombing missions over Europe for just over two years. Yet when twelve B-17s of the Eighth Air Force attacked Rouen on 17 August 1943, this marked the beginning’ of a strategic air war that had conceptual roots running at least as far back as H. G. Wells’s War in the Air.  In its infancy in World War I, military aviation played an occasionally spectacular, increasingly important, yet largely unessen- tial part? Yet during the war virtually every theory, attitude, ideal, hope, and debate that was to mark the course of air warfare a quarter of a century later was foreshadowed. The German air offensive against Great Britain beginning in 1915, and the creation of the Royal Air Force and of its Independent [Bombing] Force in 1918, were each, in the most literal sense, epochal events.  World War I did not produce agreement as to the best employment of aircraft in battle; it merely provided material for the continuing controversy. “They should serve as extensions of the eyes of the ground commander,” said some. And this, indeed, was the function assigned to them at the beginning; but it was not the sole function long. Technological improvements led to further experiments and soon there were ground commanders who envisaged the best use of aircraft to be that of acting as a sort of mobile artillery, applied directly in support of ground armies. By war's end, spurred on largely by the German example, a third vision arose—that of an air force operating independently of armi