y at Maxwell Field, Anderson delegated Colonel Benjamin Cain of his Division to represent him in negotiations with the chairman’s office.  In a late summer meeting with Admiral Ofstie and Mr. (formerly Lieutenant Commander) Walter Wilds, Colonel Cain “agreed to the final changes.”5! Following the meeting, Admiral Ofstie took the corrected galleys to the Government Printing Office,52 from which emerged, in November 1946, The Campaigns of the Pacific War, in design and format like the other USSBS reports and bearing the standard Foreword explaining the Survey's mission. The title page read: The Campaigns of the Pacific War: United States Strategic Bombing Survey (Pacific); and then in smaller print at the bottom, Naval Analysis Division.  The release of Campaigns was interpreted by General Anderson as opening the door to a renewed consideration of his own report on the “Over-all Air Effort in the War Against Japan.” It is even conceivable that he had instructed Colonel Cain to clear Campaigns so as to provide such an opportunity. However that may be, Anderson acted quickly. On 26 November he had Lieutenant Colonel McMurrin resubmit his report to Mr. Nitze. In a memoran- dum of 24 December to Walter Wilds, Nitze made it clear that his patience was wearing thin.  A Change of Scene 129  1. I recommend that the accompanying report... be returned to Major General Anderson with a copy of this memo. 2. Last summer the Vice Chairman of the Survey wrote the Under- secretary of the Navy that the Survey did not approve the report prepared by the Naval Analysis Division entitled,-‘‘The Air Effort Against Japan.”’ 3. In subsequent conversations the Survey informed the Navy Department that it was not the intention of the Survey to publish an overall analysis of the air effort against Japan prepared by the Military Analysis Division. 4. This statement was made to General Anderson and with his agreement. S. As a result of this assurance the Navy Depart- ment agreed that the overall r