d, ... and that the expatriation of populations and destruction of life were on an unparalleled scale. . . . Thus the reader, who has no desire to hear of all these misfortunes ... is repelled by the author's subject by the time that he has finished his preface.  Dionysius of Halicarnassus  Thus did grumpy old Dionysius, as crusty a pedant as the Augustan Age produced, dismiss the work of the world’s greatest historian. Yet when he spoke of how the “badness” of his subject was sufficient to repel the readers of Thucydides, the old rhetorician expressed an attitude of mind that has remained fiercely dominant in the Western tradition—or at least in that part of it that in any age can be identified with the intellectual or liberal elements. ‘“‘War is evil; evilness is unpleasant (not to mention ungodly); dwelling upon unpleasantness is to be avoided; hence, war is hardly a fit subject to spend much time reading about.”” Among modern practitioners in the field of military history, a general feeling exists that this attitude of mind has at length been overcome; in my own mind I suspect they misread minor progress for success. The attitude is still widespread and in part accounts for the little attention paid to the reports of the Strategic Bombing Survey. That question—To what use was put the  work of the Survey?—is one of several to be considered in this chapter.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 96 --- 154 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  Among others to be considered are the following: How well did the Survey perform its appointed task? What shortcomings in military planning, techniques, and organization were revealed by the Survey? Was the composition of the Survey such as to assure its ability to perform the intended task? Certain other questions, many of them adumbrated in the Preface, have already been answered in the narrative. Nonetheless, it might be well to summarize some of the conclusions that may be drawn at this point.  The roots of the idea that