Ofstie, in his turn, escalated the ‘‘great Anderson-Navy war” in the months that followed.!4 2  In the same letter to the secretary of war cited above, Anderson also complained about a problem that had plagued the Survey’s report writers from the very beginning-—the selective citing of statistics. Referring to figures given on page eleven of the chairman’s report, Anderson cited the following example:  ...the primary mission of submarines is to sink ships. In the furtherance of this mission, they devoted practically all of their effort in the Pacific and sank more than SO percent of the Japanese merchant fleet. The Army Air Forces sank only 19 percent of the Japanese merchant fleet, according to the Survey's figures, but, in so doing, devoted only 1.7 percent of  _ their total effort. This latter fact is neither analyzed nor stated in the Summary Report. Simply the figures on tonnage sunk are presented. This type of presentation, even though innocent of bias, can easily confuse the layman and invites an improper evaluation of the potentialities of weapons.  Then as now, however, the problems inherent jin dealing with statistics, artfully or innocently chosen, could never be solved to everyone’s satisfaction. And it is only fair to note that the official history of the Army Air Forces in World War II can be shown to have taken liberties similar to those complained of by General Anderson. Consider, for example, the following sentences:  The blockade depended on interdiction and attrition of shipping; in both respects air power had been important, accounting by USSBS estimates for 40 percent of all shipping sunk. Mines planted by B-29’s in a campaign that lasted only five months sank 9.3 percent of all merchant tonnage lost during the war.  Now it is perfectly possible for the layman reading these lines to interpret ‘air power’ as Army Air Forces (40 percent) and to assume that the following sentence about the mining campaign is meant to imply an additional 9.3 percent