that General MacArthur and Admiral Nimitz agreed with Arnold that the D’Olier mission was a vital service to the nation—that Arnold succeeded in convincing  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 74 --- 110 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  him.!9 As for Henry Alexander, he had originally agreed in October 1944 to serve only in a temporary capacity, for some sixty days, to see the project through its initial organizational phase. Subsequently D’Olier and Lovett had prevailed upon him to stay on, and so he re- mained actively involved throughout the European phase of opera- tions, becoming in time the dominant single personality and the author of the chairman’s final report. Alexander could not, however, be convinced to continue in a similar capacity in Japan.  D’Olier first put the question to him during a transatlantic telephone conversation on 4 July 1945. After some verbal sparring on Alexander's part, an exchange wherein Alexander made it clear that he could participate only on a ‘‘very part time basis” and no farther from New York than Washington, D’Olier dropped the subject. Two days later, D’Olier called again. Excerpts from that conversation make clear the tempered enthusiasm of both of them for continuing with the job.  D. Well it looks very much, Henry, as if we will have to say yes to General Arnold.... We are telling him that whilé in our present situation we are about eighty percent military, in this Japan situation we believe at least ninety-five percent will have to be military.  And later in the conversation:  A. Well, I think, Mr. D’Olier, that a relatively small group of civilians, using a large number of many of the young, able officers that we have in our crowd could probably handle the job.  D. Exactly. That is the way it will work out.  A. We have some very good young officers here from among whom we could build up quite a staff, and then supplement that  with some new people.  D. I agree with that. ... What do you think about my trying to i