as an ideal layout for individual and divisional offices and was used as such. ... [The chairman and directors would come] over trom London on the week-ends, hold large conferences . . . and thus keep in close touch with all phases of the operations. This week- end custom was somewhat abused by groups and individuals who made it their custom to come to Bad Nauheim to the flesh- pots, but on the whole, the frequent conferences, with their reiterated speed-up theme, were valuable. ... An operation of this magnitude under such circumstances was not, of course, all smooth running. There were inevitable clashes of authority and inevitable jealousies and injustices. A few officers and civilians unfortunately so far forgot their duties and responsibilities as to use their position in a conquered territory for their own advantage. These few, however, were found out.... Bad Nauheim on the whole was a pleasant place. However, although there was very little of the debris of total war in the shape of heaps of rubble, there was plenty of it in the shape of the hundreds of mutilated Nazi soldiers, most of them mere boys, ‘who jammed most of the hospitals and hotels and who eyed their conquerors, ne curiously, some sullenly, and some with obvious hate.  At the end of May, Mr. D’Olier returned once again to Washington, giving as his reason a sickness in his familv. Less than a week later, however, the real reason for his return became evident. The Joint Target Group, planning the air assault on the Japanese home islands, insisted on sitting down with the directors of the Survey to discuss, in the light of German experience, the selec- tion of targets in Japan. On 6 June, following a meeting with General Arnold, D’Olier telephoned London from Washington and ordered Alexander, Nitze, Ball, and General Anderson to return to the States at once; Searls (Munitions) and Russell (Oil) were already with D’Olier.  The summoned directors departed by air on 7 June, arrived in Washington on 8 J