e more southern portions of Germany in and around Strasbourg and the Saar area. Within two weeks, twenty-six additional teams were scheduled to depart London for the continent. Comprising altogether 369 people, these teams joined another 110 men already on the continent running the various Re- gional Headquarters or performing liaison duties.!7 For the meeting at Cologne Mr. Nitze had sent out instructions for the chiefs of each team to bring in from the field a summary of all data and experi- ences thus far collected and encountered.  The two days of meetings at Cologne resulted in a voluminous report to Mr. Alexander in Washington detailing the work thus far completed in the area north of the Moselle and west of the Rhine.2 Received in Washington on 11 April, the report was edited by Alex- ander and Ball, presented to Assistant Secretary Lovett on the twelfth, and discussed with him in detail on the thirteenth. Express- ing himself pleased with the effort to date, Lovett stressed the impor- tance of speeding up both the collection of data and the reporting of conclusions, however tentative; the air offensive against Japan was finally underway in force and the Joint Target Group wanted every scrap of information it could get its hands on.  For the next four months the main effort of the Survey was devoted to the field investigation. While a detailed account of the personnel and activities of each Field Team has been provided else- where,22 it is appropriate here to generalize from these accounts, showing by example the types of difficulties experienced by the teams, the means by which team members gathered information, and a few of the more notable adventures embarked upon. First the  difficulties.  The Survey at Work 85  The first continuing problem for the investigators antedated the appointment of the chairman. The earliest experimental teams sent out by Colonel Koenig, when meeting up with the ground forces in France, had great difficulty explaining who they we