ve some very good young officers here from among whom we could build up quite a staff, and then supplement that  with some new people.  D. I agree with that. ... What do you think about my trying to interest General Cabell?  A. He is very fine.  D. If we could get him, don’t you think he would be a very good executive officer?  A Change of Scene 111 A. Yes, I should think so.  D. In other words, if we could get him, we really could make him the business manager or executive vice president and really do this job for you and me.  A. I should think so, yes. D. I will try to get him.  A. Right. I think he would be fine.22  Late in July, D’Olier returned to London from Washington. There he received Alexander’s definite refusal to continue in any but an advisory role, the vice-chairman insisting that his duties at J. P. Morgan and Company could be neglected no longer. The problem of a replacement was solved by the elevation of Paul Nitze to the posi- tion of vice-chairman, a position he had come to share with Alex- ander in fact if not in name.2! While D’Olier and Alexander con- centrated.on winding up the work in Europe, Nitze concentrated on planning for redeployment to the Pacific.  As General Sorenson had been selected for an assignment to AAF Headquarters, it became necessary to find another senior military executive. When General C. P. Cabell once again insisted that his involvement in planning the air war disqualified him from duty with the Survey, Mr. D’Olier turned to Brigadier General Grandison Gardner, formerly commander of the AAF Proving Ground at Eglin Field, Florida, and now scheduled to head an AAF Evaluation Board for the Pacific Theater.22 Gardner's orders were changed and late in July he went to Europe with D’Olier. After several weeks there Gardner led an advance party that departed London by air, flying east to Guam where they arrived on 20 August.  D’Olier and his principal assistants arrived back in Washington on 23 August. The Japanese surrender ha