ainst the eastern area.”3 Air leaders were not alone in suggesting that air action might be the answer to present difficulties. While on a visit to the European theater shortly thereafter, General Marshall...  had taken the initiative in formulating plans to bring about the defeat of Germany by 1 January 1945. The chief of staff in discussions with air leaders made it clear that he was not satisfied that full pressure had been put in the right places, and he suggested that long-range objectives of strategic bombard-  The Survey at Work: 79  ment bg abandoned for an all out effort to force an early victory.  In the face of such suggestions emanating from the very pillar of authority, one should not be surprised that slowly, but nonetheless perceptibly, the American air forces drifted-away from their intended precision attack, and came to meld their efforts with those of RAF Bomber Command in an effort to club Germany into surrender. Also affecting this trend, however, were operational factors.  As winter approached, the typically horrid flying weather over Germany returned. Yet by then the potential force available to USSTAF was so great, and the situation on the ground so disap- pointing, that it was unthinkable not to use the bombers simply be- cause visual bombing was not possible. If Parkinson is right in hold- ing that ‘‘work expands to fill the time available,” a corollary might be suggested to the effect that ‘the degree of military force applied tends to.expand to match the capability available.’’ Whether or not valid in any general sense,» this corollary does suggest what happened to the strategic air war between October 1944 and April 1945. To be sure, in most cases the targets selected for attack were still identified as those producing oil, aircraft, munitions, motor transport, and so forth. But the bombing techniques required by the cloud cover over most targets were in no sense capable of providing results in line with the American doctrine of precision