d, will effectively vitiate the military potentiality of Airpower. If this policy is pursued, Airpower will be robbed of its flexibility and will lose the ability to effect decisive concentration during that phase of war wherein air operations constitute the major effort. . . . The establishment of specialized aviation within the ground arm to perform only surface support operations and the assignment of land-based aviation to the Navy would, in effect, produce three competing air forces and would prevent the effective employment of the Airpower of the Nation.!3  As should be clear from General Anderson’s choice of words, he had emerged from the war with the conviction that air warfare, if it were to reach its peak effectiveness, must be controlled and directed in its entirety from a central point. This view, only natural in one who had agonized over the “‘piecemealing”’ of the air effort in both Europe and the Pacific, could never be accepted by soldiers and sailors who looked on the air weapon as another tool to help them in their own elements. Recognizing this, cooler heads—especially Generals Arnold and Spaatz—did their best to convince Anderson to settle for something less than total victory; advising him to concentrate on the ‘‘good”’ parts of the report and ignore the rest, they at length prevailed upon him to accept the report as the best that could be obtained in the circumstances. As a result, so far as the public could tell, the AAF expressed no reservations about the  os  Home at Last 149  chairman’s report. But privately Anderson remained adamant, and no one was more aware of Anderson’s true feelings than Admiral Ofstie. It was in large part owing to Anderson’s aggressive deter- mination to squeeze out every possible advantage for the future Air Force that Ofstie, in his turn, escalated the ‘‘great Anderson-Navy war” in the months that followed.!4 2  In the same letter to the secretary of war cited above, Anderson also complained about a problem that ha