ook him into custody. The following day he was spirited out of Berlin on a C-47 by Captain Nichols, and Colonel Ames was left with the task of explaining to the Russian authorities why it had been felt necessary to borrow the services of their man Wagenfuehr for a few weeks. “Both at this time and on two subse- quent visits,” the team reported laconically, ““Major Zurlin Lvov of the Russian Economic Administration was not in, which may have been just as well.”  No account of Field Team activities would be complete without a record of the names of those killed and wounded in the performance of duty. On 4 May near Chemnitz a team from the Machine Tools Section of the Equipment Division ran up against a German road- block. The Germans opened fire, killing one soldier and one civilian, and wounding two other civilians. On 20 May, the explosion of an undetected land mine near Bookhorn resulted in an identical casualty toll. The Survey’s ultimate Roll of Honor reads as follows:  Killed  Mr. Thomas M. Skove, Cleveland Twist Drill Co.  Mr. Rudolph Nadel, Mabon and Company, New York City Staff Sergeant Albert H. Johnson  Private First Class Rodney E. Jacobson  Wounded  Mr. Benjamin W. Bickle Mr. Lawrence A. Beaudin Mr. Harold W. Carson Mr. Albert C. Ingersoll  While the Field Teams worked over targets in Germany, joined occasionally by the various directors, a number of.events occurred at the topmost level of‘the Survey that require brief mention here. Among the most important of these was the continually increasing prominence of Paul Nitze, who came to occupy a position roughly on a par with Alexander and D’Olier. Writing to Professor Bowman on 1 May 1945, the chief of the Physical Damage Division described Nitze’s role as follows:  The Survey at Work 95  At times that Mr. Alexander has been here, Mr. Nitze occupies an adjoining office as his assistant. At the time Mr. Alexander left and Mr. D’Olier had not yet arrived, Mr. Nitze acted in the capacity of Chairman of the Sur