selves (such as those originally responsible for producing a report on the steel industry—a report neither completed nor published) grew impatient and insisted on returning to their parent companies. Then, of course, there were the academics, whose work year began in September and who were wary of getting caught out of a job in the middle of the school year.  21. Nitze’s earlier accomplishments have been recorded in Chapters 4 and 5. His role during the five-week-long confrontation with the JTG in Washington was  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 122 --- 206 Notes to Pages 111-112  exceptionally valuable, D’Olier describing it on 19 July as follows: “Paul is the one who has done the whole job, helped very substantially by Ernie Williams, because they are now convinced that transportation is absolutely the prime target and they are ; going at it just as soon as they possibly can.” NA, 243, 1, 45, 311.3. Officially, Alexander continued on the rolls, organizational charts for the Pacific listing both him and Nitze as vice-chairmen.  22. Gardner had been the original choice (after Cabell) for Sorenson’s job in Europe. Arnold's refusal to release him at that time was cited in Chapter 4. Born in Pine Valley, Utah, in 1892, Gardner held a B.S. degree from Utah Agricultural College (1914) and an M.S. from M.I.T. (1927); commissioned in the Air Service in 1917; continuous service thereafter, primarily in the Materiel Command as an Aircraft Engineering and Armaments officer; student and instructor at ACTS, 1932-37.  23. Note that of all the directors, the names of only two are shown as actively in charge of specific Divisions, Mr. Spaght of the Oil and Chemical Division and Dr. Thompson of the new Medical Division. Alexander, Wright, Searls, and Likert did not go to Japan.  24. E.g., Lieutenant Colonel Chapman, Commander Johnston, Mr. Ruggles, Major Hales, Mr. Ingersoll, Mr. Mitchell.  25. Technically, the Military Analysis Division was redesignated as Army and Army Air