e Military Analysis Division to be denied the same right?54  While all this was going on, even Mr. D’Olier, at home in New Jersey, was becoming confused. Having noticed news- report on Admiral Ofstie’s Campaigns report, he wrote plaintively to Colonel McMurrin.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 84 --- 130 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  Dear Colonel MecMurrin,  I have seen several references during the past few days to the report of the Naval Analysis Division, which I suppose is Admiral Ofstie’s report. | was wondering if you could con- veniently send me a copy of this report.  Do you happen to know whether it had the approval of the Survey or whether it was his special report?  Sincerely,  (signed) Franklin D'Olier°5  McMurrin replied to D’Olier on 31 December, explaining the background as best he could, enclosing a copy of Nitze’s memoran- dum, and asking the chairman whether he agreed with the vice- chairman’s recommendation. D’Olier replied on 3 January 1947 that he agreed ‘absolutely 100 percent.”’° By this point, however, everyone’s wires were crossed and a general meeting of the minds was necessary. McMurrin wrote to D’Olier again on 14 January 1947 expressing General Anderson's dismay that by some means or other an exception had been made to the Survey’s announced policy in allowing the Naval Analysis Division to publish their report. Hoping to put an end to acrimonious debate, D’Olier advised Nitze that he should meet once again with General Anderson.  In February, another meeting was held, after which Nitze sent General Anderson’s report to Admiral Ofstie for his comments. Ofstie received the report on 3 March and was appalled at what he read. Beginning with a forceful attack on the original bases of U.S. strategy in the Pacific, Anderson’s report appeared to represent special pleading at best, deliberate dissimulation at worst. For Ofstie, its conclusions, which included a carefully worded, yet very plain, justification for a theory of “preven