ure and addressed to General Fairchild in Washington. This letter, attached to which was a copy of the Spaatz- to-Arnold letter, brought General Fairchild up to date on what had occurred at USSTAF and asked for any additional suggestions *‘as to membership, functions, organization and sponsorship of the pro- posed committee.” In an interesting paragraph General Anderson added some comments, probably at General Spaatz’s suggestion, im- plying that the selection of a Chairman had been discussed at some length.  Since the date of General Spaatz’s letter, it has occurred to us that someone like Mr. Lewis Douglas, former head of the War Shipping Administration and president of the New York Mutual Life Insurance Company, might be an even better choice to head the committee than any newspaper publisher we could think of, although Patterson or Sulzberger should certainly be acceptable if Douglas or someone like him is not available. The trouble with most newspaper publishers is that it is hard to convince the public that they are really independent thinkers. . . . Perhaps you will have an opportunity to advise General pened directly on these matters, and I certainly hope you will.  While awaiting a reply from General Arnold, the small planning cadre at USSTAF settled down to the business of defining an approach to the problem. Colonel Ames was designated as the  An Idea in Search of Definition 33  project officer, and was joined occasionally by General Cabell, since 1 April Director of Plans, USSTAF. With the assistance of a few junior officers who could be spared from other duties, Ames began holding a series of conferences with members of numerous agencies in England that had contributed to the bombing offensive. In addition to the staffs at Eighth Air Force and USSTAF these included the British Air Ministry, the Economic Objectives Unit of the Economic Warfare Division in the U.S. Embassy (EOU/EWD),3 the London field office of OSRD,4 and the joint British-American bomb d