vance units of the ground armies, members of the Spearhead Teams spent a good deal of their time dodging enemy bullets.26 Remaining for the most part insoluble, however, was another problem cited by Nitze: the wanton destruction committed by Allied soldiers.  The predisposition of conquering troops to lay waste the aban- doned properties of a defeated enemy has troubled (or exhilarated) | battle commanders since warfare began. Especially during the final | month of the war, the armies were moving too fast to bother with setting up tents for billeting overnight; the practice was simply to seize a building, expel the occupants, and make oneself at home. If a wine cellar could be located in the building or nearby, then the chances of the property’s remaining undamaged would decrease _ proportionately. But conquering soldiers were only half the problem; ' bands of marauding DP’s (displaced persons) released from forced labor or concentration camps swarmed over the countryside. Desperate for food, determined on revenge, and fired by liquor, they descended on villages, plundering, raping, and killing. For the Sur- vey’s Field Teams, the results of these depredations were sometimes discouraging. They had known in advance that the bombing itself ' would destroy many records; they assumed also that the retreating German armies and officials evacuating plants and ministries would destroy others; but the activities of Allied soldiers and marauding bands of Russians and Poles had not been foreseen.  V  i  The Survey at Work 87  The wanton destruction that has been carried out by our Gl’s, the liberated forced laborers, and by others in most industrial plants is beyond all description. Engineering departments, offices, accounting departments, and so forth have simply been turned upside down. Desks, chairs, typewriters, lamps, files, and everything else have been smashed up and spread indiscrimi- , nately on the floor. In most places you wade knee-deep in debris of that sort. The