ed, both in Washington and London a definitive move was afoot that would lead to the creation of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS). The London end of that move was being made partly by the leaders of the fight for the Oil Plan as against the Rail Plan. They saw here in a dramatic fashion the need for an authoritative, unbiased, factual analysis of bombing effects. 8  ERE A TET OT  CHAPTER TWO  A QUESTION IS RAISED: “HOW EFFECTIVE IS BOMBING?”  Our engines threw against theirs, and theirs against ours; but never did I hear tell that ours had done very much damage.  John, Lord of Joinville, describing a fight with the Saracens in the Nile Delta, December 1249  On September 18th [1914] the first experiments with dropping bombs from the air were made by Major Musgrave. One bomb was dropped, and it exploded but not exactly where nor how it was expected to explode.  On October 7th [1914] a German left a card on us, pour prendre conger, from the air. He dropped a bomb on the Aerodrome. It fell in the field, on the opposite side of the road to where No. 5 Squadron were established. Theoretically, it was a beautiful shot, practically it hit a turnip. And this was to be the case with many bombing efforts in the future.  Maurice Baring, R.F.C.H.Q., 1914-1918  When General Arnold asked Franklin D’Olier to take on the difficult task that the President had suggested to Secretary of War Stimson, he was taking the final step in a long process whose tangible roots can be traced back as far as early 1943. Far from being the President’s suggestion, or Secretary Stimson’s for that matter, the idea of @onducting an evaluation of the bombing  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 30 --- 22 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  offensive, or a ‘‘survey” as it came to be called, had evolved within the Army Air Forces. In its original form the idea was not at all unlike the normal military practice of conducting in-house ap- praisals of military operations, be they mock man