egion. And now, in this morbid extension of the Great War, he was himself a ‘‘War Dad,”’ his son serving as a major in the Army Air Forces.  After an exchange of pleasantries, General Arnold, addressing Mr. D'Olier as ‘‘Colonel,” got down to business. The general explained to Mr. D’Olier that he had a job for him to do, a very important job, one of such consequence that the future not only of the Air Forces but also of the nation’s entire postwar defense policy might be affected by its outcome. Explaining that the matter was not one he could discuss over the telephone, General Arnold asked if Mr. D’Olier could possibly arrange to receive his personal emissary the following day. Perhaps stunned, perhaps only intrigued, but certainly not feeling himself at this stage in any position to say no, Mr. D’Olier agreed to do so. Early in the afternoon of the following day Colonel Bradley J. Gaylord,’ a former business associate of Mr. D’Olier now serving  All the Winds of Doctrine 3  with the Army Air Forces, presented himself at D’Olier’s office in Newark. With him he carried a letter from General Arnold that explained in broad, general terms the nature of the “tough job” General Arnold had in mind.4 Briefly, the letter advised ‘‘Colonel D’Olier”’ that the President had suggested to the secretary of war the need for a comprehensive survey of the effects of the strategic bombing offensive against Germany. Such a study, the letter went on, would have a considerable influence, not only on the future of the military establishment, but also on the planning of future factories, industrial establishments, and even cities. After mentioning that “Mr. [Robert A.] Lovett [assistant secretary of war for air] and I feel that you have the necessary qualifications to head this survey as  Chairman,” General Arnold concluded with the hope that Mr.  D’Olier might find it possible to take on the task “not only as a national service but as a benefit for the Army Air Forces, so that we can be p