upon some valid method for selecting targets. At the heart of the whole theory devised at the Air Corps Tactical School lay the assumption that within any national economic system there were certain connecting links which once destroyed would throw the entire system, or at least large parts of it, into chaos. It was in connection with attempts to identify such targets that the first recommendations emerged calling for a continuing evaluation of the effectiveness of air attack on enemy industrial and economic targets. A brief account of the early attempts to solve the target selection problem will make clear why such continuing evaluation was  ———————————————————  A Question Is Raised 23  deemed necessary.  The theory developed at the Air Corps Tactical School was based in part on studies of the industrial patterns within the United States. The assumption was that railway systems, electric power grids, and manufacturing processes in general would bear certain marked resemblances in any of the industrialized nations; if a particularly vulnerable element could be located within a complex in the United States, then it would probably follow that a similar vulnerability existed at roughly the same point in any given process or complex in other countries. But this method, based on conceptual analogy, could not be followed up in the absence of specific data. Soon after the War Department reorganization of March 1942, the new Headquarters Army Air Forces launched a concerted effort to gather information about the German economy. The designated office of responsibility for the AAF was the Target Information Section of the office of the Assistant Chief of Air Staff, Intelligence (AC/AS, Intelligence).  The Target Information Section was not entirely unprepared for its task. As far back as the spring of 1940 its organizational predecessor—the Intelligence Section of the Air Corps Information Division—had begun to compile “‘air intelligence” relating to the industrial structures