e Combined Chiefs of Staff met at Casablanca to determine an overall strategy for the defeat of Germany. Among the decisions confirmed at that conference was that an invasion of the western European continent could not be launched in force until at least the spring of 1944. At the same time it was determined that in order to prepare the way for such an invasion, the Eighth Air Force and the RAF should launch a sustained bomber offensive from bases in the United Kingdom. The ultimate objective of that offensive was stated to be ‘‘the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial, and economic system, and the under- mining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened. This is construed as  *“Diversions,” like “‘strategic”’ as applied to bombing, is a potentially loaded word. In these pages it is used in the same sense that the bomber commanders used it during the war, i.e., to denote any sort of bombing mission directed by higher authority that had the effect of diverting part of the strategic bomber force from the primary target systems that the bomber commanders considered most profitable. Confounding the problem was a lack of agreement among the bomber commanders; what was a “primary objective” to General Spaatz was more often than not a ‘‘diversion” in the eyes of Air Marshal Harris. For a discussion of such semantic difficulties as late as 1944, see Webster and Frankland, 3, 42-43.  All the Winds of Doctrine 15  meaning so weakened as to permit initiation of final combined opera- tions on the Continent.” The primary targets for the time being were listed in the following order of priority: (1) German submarine con- struction yards, (2) the German aircraft industry, (3) transportation, (4) oil plants, and (S) other targets in enemy war industry.  During the first half of 1943, the Eighth Air Force concentrated on the anti-submarine campaign,”* its remaining efforts during t