arly in 1944, five bases were constructed in southern Bengal, some sixty miles from Calcutta; at the same time construction of for- ward bases near Chengtu, China, was begun. From the Chengtu bases it was possible to reach only Kyushu, southernmost of the Japanese home islands. For this reason it was soon determined that the operations out of China would only be preliminary to the main  campaign—that to be launched from bases in the Mariana Islands, /  to be invaded in mid-summer of 1944. To conduct these operations, | the JCS established the Twentieth Air Force, to be made up of the |  XX Bomber Command (China) and the XXI Bomber Command |  (Saipan, Tinian, and Guam in the Marianas). To avoid getting, entangled in the MacArthur-Nimitz struggle for supremacy in the  Pacific—as well as to avoid either ground or naval operational con-  trol of the bombers—General Arnold got the JCS to agree that they  would take on themselves the authority for controlling the Twentieth  Air Force, with Arnold acting as their ‘‘agent.”’  A Change of Scene 105  the JCS listed aircraft production and repair facilities as first prior- ity. On 24 November he sent his bombers on their first mission to Japan, the specific target being an aircraft plant in the northwest part of Tokyo.  The results of the first mission, like those of most precision at- tacks in the coming months, were not totally safisfactory. The main difficulties arose from a:combination of crew inexperience, opera- ting the aircraft at extreme range limits, and—worst of all—atmos- pheric conditions over the target areas. Cloud cover over targets was no new problem to the AAF; they had lived with it for more than two years over Germany. The problem in Japan, however, was com- pounded by the extreme wind velocities—up to 200 knots—encoun- tered at 25,000-30,000 feet, the normal pre-planned bombing alti- tudes. Trying to fly in tight, self-defending formations in such winds  proved almost impossible; worse, if the formation su