imate of the “overall production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies.” Although the request was intended to produce a basis for planning munitions production, a group of brilliant young officers in the Air War Plans Division, all former instructors at the Tactical School, saw in it an opportunity to present a full-blown plan for a strategic air offensive. Known as AWPD-1, this plan postulated that the major contribution of the Army Air Forces would be a strategic bombing offensive designed so to weaken Germany’s war-making capability that an invasion, if necessary, could be accomplished. To do so would require an immediate start, the creation of 239 combat groups, and the provision of 63,467 aircraft and 2,164,916 men. Given such emphasis and resources, reasoned the planners, such an air offensive could reach full strength by April 1944. The plan recom- mended that the primary target objectives be Germany’s electrical power grid, transportation network, and petroleum industry.  A Brief Sketch of Operations Over Europe Through Spring 1944  Less than three months after the presentation of AWPD-1 the United States found itself at war with Germany. In the hectic months that followed, the AAF worked night and day to organize, train, and equip a strategic bombing force that could begin operations from bases literally thrown together in England.’¥ From the outset the American commanders were beseeched by their Royal Air Force counterparts to set aside, as unworkable, their theory of daylight bombing. The British had started out with a theory of employment remarkably similar to that derived at the Air Corps Tactical School. They had quickly found, however, that once their bombers ventured beyond the range of fighter escort the rate of loss inflicted by the Luftwaffe rose to unacceptable levels. Worse yet, the British experience with so-called precision bombing had failed miserably, many crews having missed their intended targets by distances up to five mil