at happened to Vincent O. Davis in his Postwar Defense Policy and the U.S. Navy, 1943-1946 (University of North Carolina Press, 1966, pp. 154-55) and later in The Admirals Lobby (University of North Carolina Press, 1967, p. 219).  Following Legere closely (indeed, all but tripping in his hurry to keep up), Davis told how the report was written by the Air Force ‘some six months after the USSBS had submitted its final report, closed its records, and gone out of existence... ;’’ how “the Air Force then gave its pamphlet a counterfeit cover to match the covers on the official USSBS reports and somehow contrived, in a way not yet clearly understood by outsiders, to insert it as Report No. 71a in the USSBS report series as if it were an authentic part of that record.” He then quoted some remarks of Legere’s about “the bogus booklet.”  Such stories, once repeated, have a curious way of becoming part and parcel of the revealed or traditional wisdom among that circle of writers who address themselves to matters of so-called defense policy. Most recently into the lists comes Robert L. Gallucci whose Neither Peace Nor Honor: The Politics of American Military Policy in Viet-Nam was published by the Johns Hopkins University Press in June 1975. In an otherwise valuable and thought-provoking analysis of the bureaucratic politics (imperatives?) involved in bombing policy in Vietnam, Gallucci parrots Davis’s story about the Air Force’s ‘sneaking [sic] one of its own volumes into the collection of 316 [sic] other volumes of the United States Strategic Bombing ed (USSBS) authored by an independent civilian agency” (p.  Presumably there’s a moral in all this. If so, the reader is left to draw it on his own, the present writer being satisfied simply to raise the question. At the same time, perhaps the present account may keep still other writers from assuming, for whatever reason, that 71a, Air Campaigns of the Pacific War, represents the final conclusions of the Survey as a whole, or o