he need to obtain a much larger number of civilian technical and industrial experts. The second mat- ter reflected the concern shown by the top commanders he had  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 50 --- 62 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  talked with that the Survey should form a ‘Military Division,” headed by a senior AAF officer with the assistance of officers from the other services, to advise the civilian members of the Survey on the sorts of things that Colonel Castle had described. Although they had not envisaged such a requirement at first, D’Olier and the others were now convinced that for their own good they would need such assistance. Driving airplanes, dropping bombs, and measuring the results, it had become clear, was not so simple a matter as might be guessed from reading headlines in The New York Times. Contri- buting to this decision was a vague feeling of uneasiness about some of the people they had met who were already working on evaluation problems without any real experience in operations. As Mr. Alex- ander put it with reference to EOU/EWD: “‘It consists of a bunch of young fellows out of OSS and FEA. They are bright, but I am not at all sure how much sense they have. I find them rather short on giving one a feeling of open-handedness in discussing matters.”  The third major difficulty requiring assistance in Washington related to attacks against oil refineries in Germany, the majority of which were in locations that would come under Soviet control when hostilities ceased. Tentative discussions of this matter with the Soviet members of the European Advisory Commission had led to fears that the Russians were very skeptical about what might be the “real” designs and purposes of the Survey and that they therefore might impose objections. It was decided that Mr. D’Olier should propose to Secretary of War Stimson that the President make a personal appeal to Marshal Stalin. Leaving Mr. Alexander in charge in Lon- don, D’Olier and Perera depar