y, there were considerations of a personal and _ political nature that would tend to place limits on the extent of the Survey’s evaluation. Mr. D’Olier, after all, had been ‘given a job to do’’ by General Arnold and Assistant Secretary Lovett. That Secretary of War Stimson and the President had signed certain papers was beside the point; D’Olier knew as well as anyone else that the Joint Chiefs of Staff were running the American side of the war. And now that war, at least in Europe, was drawing to a victorious close and there was still the war in the Pacific to go. What would be served by producing a contentious or critical report, one that singled out errors and named names? Arnold, Spaatz, Eaker, Doolittle, and all the others—men whom D’Olier had come to admire for their courage and their willingness to shoulder enormous responsibility—these men had led the way; thousands of others had given their lives.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 61 --- ~  8&4 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  Surely D'Olier must have felt that if he could help these men in some  , |way by making clear what the effects of bombing had been, then well  4)  and good. But that his people would serve any useful purpose by iraking them over the coals must have seemed a sterile prospect. If, jas turned out to be the case, the final reckoning would include a {number of major criticisms, it was nonetheless clear by April 1945 that fact-finding was the order of the day so far as the chairman was icpncerned.!8 ( By the first of April when Mr. D’Olier, Judge Cabot, and Colonel Perera arrived at Cologne from Washington, the field investigations of the Survey were underway on a large scale. Twelve Field Teams were operating in the area around Cologne and Krefeld and five additional teams were in the more southern portions of Germany in and around Strasbourg and the Saar area. Within two weeks, twenty-six additional teams were scheduled to depart London for the continent. Comprising altogether 3