s decided that Mr. D’Olier should propose to Secretary of War Stimson that the President make a personal appeal to Marshal Stalin. Leaving Mr. Alexander in charge in Lon- don, D’Olier and Perera departed for Washington on 28 November, planning to return within two or three weeks. Also returning to Washington were Dr. Bowman, because of sickness in his family, and Mr. Searls, whose immediate presence in Washington had been demanded by Mr. Byrnes of the Office of War Mobilization.  Back in Washington, D’Olier found that the War Department had authorized the Survey a complement of 300 officers and S00 enlisted men. Still unresolved was the total number of civilian specialists that might be recruited, but the figure of 300 was suggested as a guide for planning.¥* Authorized strength, however, was less a problem than actual strength, so most of D’Olier’s and Perera’s time was taken up with figuring out ways to identify and recruit civilians with extensive backgrounds in production manage- ment. In this respect the greatest problem centered around one  The Survey Is Organized 63  major unknown factor—when would targets in Germany become available for inspection? The sort of men they desired were for the most part still performing important duties on the home front; to withdraw them and then have them sit on their hands awaiting the end of the war in Europe was looked upon as inefficient at best and more than likely impossible at worst. For the moment, D’Olier de- cided to line up as many volunteers as he could with the understand- ing that they need not depart the U.S. until such time as their ser- vices could be put to urgent use. This whole problem of timing was exacerbated on 17 December when word reached Washington of von Runstedt’s breakthrough in the Ardennes. The resulting “Battle of the Bulge” had the effect for the Survey of increasing the already turbulent character of the milieu in which its members were trying to organize themselves.  As a senior military advi