. Bombers Smash at Cologne,” dropping 4,000 tons of missiles. After  2 Se aR RE Sor  oa tas een = SS > EES  arse  A hn Ato Tes  SSB Re ete se  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 3 --- 2 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  }  nearly three years of worry and frustration, Americans were in a buoyant mood. The war was going well, and if the boys wouldn’t be home by Christmas, that in itself was no reason not to hope for Easter. Although FDR's fourth campaign was approaching a climax, politics took second place in the American mind to the progress of the war. Optimism was the order of the day,“ so much so that some feared the consequences of a general letdown in enthusiasm and effort. Appearing with the President in Omaha the evening before, at the national convention of American War Dads, Captain Eddie Ricken- backer warned that “‘one of the greatest underlying menaces of the moment with respect to maintaining the high pressure of our war effort is too much optimism.’’ He warned that ‘‘swivel chair strate- gists” and ‘‘typewriter tacticians”’ were “threatening the backbone of our will to sustain the war effort . . . with their twaddle about the early conclusion of the war.”  Perhaps Mr. D'Olier noticed this report, appearing as it did close by extensive coverage of Wendell L. Willkie’s funeral in Rushville, Indiana. War was not new to Mr. D’Olier, who had been commis- sioned a captain in the Field Artillery in 1917 and had accompanied the A. E. F. to France where he had organized the A. E. F. Salvage Service. Discharged in 1919 as a lieutenant colonel of the General Staff Corps, he had been decorated with the Distinguished Service Medal and the Cross of Commander in the French Legion of Honor. That same year he was elected the first national commander of the American Legion. And now, in this morbid extension of the Great War, he was himself a ‘‘War Dad,”’ his son serving as a major in the Army Air Forces.  After an exchange of pleasantries, General Arnold, addressi