eassigned overseas and were serving under General Spaatz at USSTAF Headquarters. Cabell,24 now a brigadier general, had for several months commanded the Forty-fifth Heavy Bombardment Wing prior to becoming Spaatz’s Director of Plans. Lieutenant Colonel Ames, whose special tact and analytical skills had resulted in his assignment to the Advisory Council,2> had recently been appointed a special assistant to Major General Frederick L. Anderson2® in the latter’s dual capacity as USSTAF Deputy Commander for Operations and military air advisor to the European Advisory Commission.27 Cabell and Ames, now together again, revived their interest in surveying the results of air operations, and concluded that they could give Fairchild’s ideas an important impetus from the field. Ames made the proposal in a memorandum to General Anderson that the latter approved, discussed with General Spaatz, and asked Ames to revise into the form of a letter from General Spaatz to General Arnold. The resulting letter started a chain reaction of correspondence lasting six months and leading to the creation of the Strategic Bombing Survey.28  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 34 --- ——  CHAPTER THREE AN IDEA IN SEARCH OF DEFINITION  I do believe you think what now you speak, But what we do determine oft we break. Purpose is but the slave of memory,  Of violent birth but poor validity;  Our wills and fates do so contrary run That our devices still are overthrown, Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.  Hamlet, Act II1, Scene ii  Time dissipates to shining ether the solid angularity of facts.  Emerson, Epigraph to History  I often wish that I could rid the world of the tyranny of facts. What are facts but compromises? A fact merely marks the point where we have agreed to let investigation cease.  Bliss Carman  The letter signed by General Spaatz on S April 1944 began with some general comments about the desirability of conducting “an intensive survey in Germany and the occupied co