e the heavy bombers had flown both types of mis- sions—D’Olier and Fickel made their essential division along geo- graphical lines: (1) the Survey would operate alone in Germany proper; (2) in France and Belgium, such studies as the Evaluation Board had begun, regardless of their nature, they would finish, but there would be agreement before other studies were initiated; (3) all matters of flying tactics and techniques would be the business of the Evaluation Board exclusively. Or, as General Arnold had announced in a meeting on 14 October in Washington, “If Dr. Sproul is inter- ested in tactics and technique, give him a copy of Jake’s report.”’ 6  The same group that had gone to WIDEWING attended a confer- ence at PINETREE (Hq, Eighth Air Force) with General Doolittle and his Deputy for Operations, Major General Orvil A. Anderson, on Monday, 13 November.+’ At this meeting they were given a thor- ough briefing on the day-to-day operations of Eighth Air Force and its subordinate units. On 16 November, leaving Nitze in charge in London, D’Olier, Alexander, Perera, and Koenig set out to meet the top commanders on the continent.  The Survey Is Organized 61  The first stop was at General Spaatz’s forward headquarters at St. Germain-en-laye near Paris. During a two-day stopover there, Gen- eral Spaatz took D’Olier and Alexander to meet General Eisenhower at SHAEF Headquarters nearby. The group then flew to Naples where they met with Generals Eaker, Cabell, and Currie in the Royal Palace at Caserta.28 Two days later they flew to Fifteenth Air Force Headquarters at Bari where they met Major General Nathan F. Twining and his staff. Returning to Naples, they next headed for Rome (taking time out for an aerial tour of devastated Monte Cas- sino) where they spent Thanksgiving Day, returning to Paris on the 24th and to London on the 25th.  In the absence of D’Olier and Alexander, Mr. Nitze struggled with the problems of the Economic Section, meeting again with Mr. Pin- cus on the