l could find many reasons rhe to encourage the creation of a viable air force. If his armies a fact, have to come to grips with the Wehrmacht, their fate a sa sealed unless there were a force able to deal with the by then iceman Luftwaffe. The immediate problem of bolstering the News o ie Philippine Islands led him by 1941 to adopt an earlier Japenese ata buildup of air power in the Philippines might deter “sin id aggression in the Far East. Also relevant was his awareness, intinent ore beginning of any talk about invading the European inthe ate? that any landing on the shores of Europe was unthinkable + sence of assured air superiority over the point of assault. For €se and many other reasons, th i i i Betvehinenbiiee ooter rs: ‘ e occasionally bitter wrangling Period was laid to rest ae fon asso much of the inter-war us encouraged from above, the Army Air Corps planning staff  Set to . . work in the summer of 1941 to create an overall plan for the  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 8 --- 12 | Strategic Bombing in World War Two employment of strategic air forces in the European war. The immedi- ate occasion of their doing so was a request from the President in July, addressed to the secretaries of war and navy, to prepare an estimate of the “overall production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies.” Although the request was intended to produce a basis for planning munitions production, a group of brilliant young officers in the Air War Plans Division, all former instructors at the Tactical School, saw in it an opportunity to present a full-blown plan for a strategic air offensive. Known as AWPD-1, this plan postulated that the major contribution of the Army Air Forces would be a strategic bombing offensive designed so to weaken Germany’s war-making capability that an invasion, if necessary, could be accomplished. To do so would require an immediate start, the creation of 239 combat groups, and the provision of 63,467 aircraft and 2,164,916 men