ten in a sense which shows a realistic appreciation of the relative combat capabilities of opposing forces at this time.  Comment No. 12. Recommend deletion of the entire para- graph. It is neither realistic nor factual.  Comment No. 32. Following “‘repeated strikes” add, “‘... by FEAF and the fast carriers of the Third Fleet...’ Both these forces operated in this area and the text should so state.  Comment No. 36. Delete: ““By January 1945 Japan was in fact a defeated nation.” This statement is hardly true. Her capacity to wage war had been seriously weakened. Her chances for victory were now apparently past. However, she had yet to announce her unconditional surrender. She was prepared for further resis- tance and did resist. That resistance cost us heavily in the loss of lives. It would have been inconsistent, for us to have paid such prices to a nation already defeated.  By the time the Survey returned to Washington in January 1946, the pent-up bitterness between General Anderson and Admiral Ofstie, and their respective staffs, had poisoned relations between the two to the point where their value to the Survey had been measurably decreased. (To conclude this discussion it is necessary to violate strict chronology at this point. The redeployment of the Survey as a whole from Tokyo to Washington will be treated in the  A Change of Scene 127  following chapter.) On General Anderson’s part, the increasingly unhappy situation had been exacerbated by what he looked upon as some unnecessarily fuzzy language included in the chairman’s Summary Report (USSBS Pacific Report #1, released to the public on 1 July 1946, also treated in the following chapter, along with Anderson’s reactions thereto). But the straw that broke Orvil Ander- son’s back was the publication late in 1946 of the Naval Analysis Division Report, The Campaigns of the Pacific War, USSBS Pacif- ic Report #73.  When the Military and Naval Analysis Divisions had originally set to work in Tokyo, they, like eac