what campaigns and operations each would cover. It was agreed that each Division would be given the opportunity to comment on the reports of the other before any report reached the chairman’s level. Then began the war of words, of which two examples, one from each side.  When Admiral Ofstie received the draft of the Military Analysis Division’s report, The Fifth Air Force in the War Against Japan, he prepared a three-page memorandum containing, among others, the following comments:  pp4-S: Criticism not based on fact. pS: Is this an objective report on the Sth Air Force or primarily a medium of propaganda? If  | the latter, as it appears to me, it has no place in an USSBS | publication. p7: continuing propaganda. pp60-61: Not factual.  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 82 --- (l 26, Strategic Bombing in World War Two  p64: should insert “Army and Navy’’ before ‘‘Air Forces.” CVE’s furnished the ground support for Lingayen landings. pp65-66: Implication of course is that these were Army aircraft. Fact is they were mostly naval. p68: Childish. p73: “Air trans-  , port alone can support large intra-theater operations... .” Utter nonsense.4  Much the same sort of reaction was induced in the Military Analysis Division when they received a draft of a report by Admiral Ofstie’s people on “The Philippines Campaign:”  Comment No. 2. This sentence concluded that the defeat in the Philippines campaign would constitute the final battle. We now know that this was not true... . Recommend that the sentence be deleted or modified to show recognition of campaigns that followed that of the Philippines.  Comment No. 9. This entire paragraph leads to both faulty and dangerous conclusions in terms of future military organization and structure. It is recommended the paragraph be rewritten in a sense which shows a realistic appreciation of the relative combat capabilities of opposing forces at this time.  Comment No. 12. Recommend deletion of the entire para- graph. It is neither re