ombing in Germany had been that which, in the final three months, had destroyed the Germans’ ability to transfer goods between factories and the front lines. Numerous instances had been uncovered where war materials, in perfect work- ing order, had been piled up inside and outside plants, lacking only, the means to get them to the armies. Japan, by this stage of the war effectively isolated, should now, they argued, be prohibited from moving either troops or supplies within and among the home islands. By that means, regardless of production rates, Japan would be rendered unable to conduct warfare. At a lower order of priority, the directors listed oil and chemical plants, and the electrical power system—especially transformer stations. 7  Summoning back a number of their experts (Williams on Trans- portation, Dale and Asbury on Oil, Mitchell on Electrical Power), D’Olier and Nitze stayed on in Washington until late in July, sub- mitting paper after paper, argument after argument. Repeatedly they stressed their joint conclusion that enemy civilian morale was not a productive target, that while morale can be adversely affected by air attack, there can be no predictable translation of morale effects into} , behavior effects. And behavior, not morale, was what counted.  Finally, on 18 and 19 July, D’Olier and Nitze met at length with General Spaatz, then back in Washington on his way to take com- mand of the strategic air forces in the Pacific theater. Spaatz, whose opposition to area attacks in Europe had long been a matter of record, tended to agree with the recommendations of the Survey. So also did General Eaker, who had returned from the Mediterranean in March to become General Arnold’s deputy. The end result of all these discussions was a Pyrrhic victory for the Survey. On 23 July a new target directive, one incorporating most of the Survey’s recom- mendations, was given to General Spaatz to carry with him to his new headquarters on Guam. Too late to have any effe