ssertation, Harvard, 1950). Legere's study is informed by the special access granted him to the JCS files. The Air Force side of the story is the subject of Perry M. Smith’s The Air Force Plans for Peace, op. cit.  25. Msg, WAR 41558, copy in Spaatz Collection, Box 225.  26. Ltr, Arnold to Spaatz (signed for Arnold by the Acting,Chief of the Air Staff), SJun44, in Spaatz Collection, Box 15, folder for June 1944. Conant, president of Harvard University, was serving under Vannevar Bush (OSRD) as chairman, National Detense Research Committee (NDRC). Roberts, an associate justice of the Supreme Court since 1930, had conducted the Pearl Harbor investigation.  27. Ltr, Arnold to Spaatz, 3Jun44, in Spaatz Collection, Box 15, folder for June 1944. In addition to Conant, the following were suggested as potential nominees: Mr. Louis H. Brown, president of Johns-Manville Corporation and former president, National Association of Manufacturers; and Mr. Lewis W. Douglas, president, Mutual Lite Insurance Company. The format and style of this letter are not similar to those drafted by General Kuter; its insistence on the limited scope for the survey and the importance of speed reflect AC/AS, Intelligence concerns; the questions it pro- posed be answered concern almost exclusively questions of target selection; one sen- tence reads~-“Major Colbert, who has been offered to you, is familiar with our views on the scope of the survey.”  28. Memo, “Survey of Results of CBO,” 6Jun44, copy in NA, 243, 1, 76, 384.3. Related papers in NA, 243, 1, 53, 314.7.  29. A note at the bottom of the memo, in Arnold’s hand, reads: “This was taken up and approved by General Marshall and Admiral King. | assued them that it would be coordinated with the RAF. Go ahead. H.H. Arnold.” It is interesting to observe how Arnold held on to his options: nowhere in the memo is there any reference to civilian direction of the proposed survey. We can probably assume, however, that this matter was broached in conversa