f books appeared that relied heavily on information gathered by the Survey. Among them were a number of studies of a highly specialized nature, of which some of the better known are: Irving L. Janis, Air War and Emotional Stress: Psychological  ne re a aa an  Looking Back: An Epilogue 167  Studies of Bombing and Civilian Defense; '4 Fred Charles Iklé, The Social Impact of Bomb Destruction;!5 Alexander H. Leighton, Human Relations in a Changing World: Observations on the Use of the Social Sciences;4© Burton H. Klein, Germany's Economic Preparations for War; 17 Alan S. Milward, Fhe German Economy at War; 18 Jerome B. Cohen, Japan's Economy in War and Reconstruc- tion;'9 and Horatio Bond, ed., Fire and the Air War.?® Containing perhaps the most thorough analysis of the internal consistency of the Survey reports is Jmpact of Air Attack in World War II: Selected Data for Civil Defense Planning, a nine-part report prepared for the Federal Civil Defense Administration in 1953 by the Stanford Research Institute in cooperation with the Institute of Research, Lehigh University. For this study, the entire USSBS file at the National Archives was made available; the Final Report in the series analyzes the Survey’s source materials and groups them into categories as to “most satisfactory,” “least satisfactory,” etc. All general statements are accompanied by specific examples and page references to the Survey reports in question.  As mentioned earlier, the Survey reports have proved especially useful to historians of the war, whether writing on air topics specifically or preparing general histories. To be sure, the use made of the reports by historians has been uneven at best, owing in part to the great bulk of the full corpus of reports and in part to their occasional inconsistencies. Also contributing to what I have called the unevenness of their use by historians and other writers has been a tendency shown by some to use selected parts of the reports to provea point already dec