df --- Page 88 --- 138 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  MacArthur, D’Olier and Nitze departed via aircraft early on S December. General Gardner, as deputy to the chairman, remained in Tokyo for another month overseeing last-minute operations. The last formal staff conference was convened by Gardner on 21 December; the official minutes for the meeting read, in toto, as follows: “*1. General Gardner announced that Christmas would be a holiday.”  The majority of those returning to the United States were transported by the Navy, arriving at San Francisco between 14 and 20 December. Civilians and military alike were granted a two-week delay en route (furlough) to spend the holidays with their families, those continuing with the Survey having been ordered to report to the AAF Annex at Gravelly Point, Virginia, on 7 January 1946. Preparations in Washington had been in the charge of Lieutenant Colonel Charles Hurley, who since late 1944 had been the administrative workhorse tor the Survey in Washington. After over- seeing the processing of civilians and equipment en route to the European Theater, Hurley had gone to Germany for several months as commanding officer of Headquarters (Forward) at Bad Nauheim, returning to Washington in July 1945 to oversee two redeployments (Europe to Japan, then Japan to Washington). His patient, meticu- lous preparations in Washington went to the extent of finding hotel and apartment space for those returning to Gravelly Point.  Not everyone who had work to finish did it at Gravelly Point. Dr. Monro Spaght, for instance, following the example set by his predecessor, Mr. Robert Russell, reestablished the Oil Division in San Francisco.! Similarly, crowded conditions in Washington led to the establishment of the Naval Analysis Division in a “Tempo” behind the Munitions Building, and the Hiroshima and Nagasaki teams of the Physical Damage Division at Fort Belvoir in Virginia; the coding and analysis of Morale Division interviews were done at Sw