1a, Air Campaigns of the Pacific War, a report whose uniqueness is attributable to its bias rather than its legitimacy.  “The great Anderson-Navy war,’ as Edward Mead Earle once facetiously referred to it in a letter to Major General Orvil Anderson, was but one minor skirmish in a much greater war, in this case the war of words over the inevitable question of who—which service or branch thereof—won the war. As already shown, the war over who won the war had gotten underway in 1943, intensified during 1944, and by the summer of 1945 had become a matter of more pressing interest than any other single factor of concern to those planning the future of the various services. All such planning had to take into “account a growing awareness that the military services might somehow be administratively ‘‘unified’” in the near future. The Strategic Bombing Survey, given its charter, could not avoid becoming involved in the debate over so-called unification of the armed services, a debate in which the record of the late war could be presumed to weigh heavily.  Any basic change leading to what came to be called unification could not be brought about without seriously affecting vested interests (whether of power, place, prestige, status, or habit) in the War and Navy Departments. A more important consideration for the conservatives, however, was what would happen to the enormous Air Forces that had been created. If they were to receive equality with the Army and Navy, which of the three would achieve dominance? And how would Air Forces be defined? Would semantics win out, for instance, and the Air Forces come to include all flying vehicles, including the Navy’s air arm? For the carrier admirals, victors at long last over the battleship admirals and now warding off the advances in status of the submarine admirals, this was a life or death question. And what of the Navy’s Marines? Would the semantics of “‘land, sea, and air’ lead to the dismember- ment or transfer to the Army of the