ander has been here, Mr. Nitze occupies an adjoining office as his assistant. At the time Mr. Alexander left and Mr. D’Olier had not yet arrived, Mr. Nitze acted in the capacity of Chairman of the Survey in addition to his other duties. Since Mr. D’Olier has been here Mr. Nitze has been acting as Assistant Chairman. At all of the staff meetings he sits at Mr. D’Olier’s elbow and to all intents and purposes acts as a presiding officer in the meetings. Due to his ability, Mr. D’Olier has leaned very heavily on him and | feel that many of the policies of the Survey are definitely set by Mr, Nitze due to the confidence that higher authority has in him.  Another important development was the arrival in April of J. Kenneth Galbraith to direct the Overall Economic Effects Divi- sion.4® As mentioned earlier, the search for a top-flight economist had been long and arduous. From the beginning, Assistant Secretary Lovett had all but insisted that the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration play some part in the Survey. Both he and D’Olier corresponded at length with Donald David, dean of the Business School, and sought in vain to get either David or one of his top professors to head the economic study. One after another, vari- ous prospective candidates fell by the wayside, either from lack of interest or from being found too theoretical or academic.  When Paul Nitze returned to the States briefly in February, he carried with him some notes drawn up by George Ball listing a num- ber of possible candidates for the economic post. Among these names was that of Galbraith of whom Ball wrote, “If you decide to tackle Ken Galbraith (who is now on the editorial staff of Fortune), you might mention my name as | know him quite well. Galbraith is an extremely energetic fellow of first rate intellectual capacity and a good deal of experience in running large research projects. He would, I think, do a very good job.” 7 Taking his lead from Ball, Nitze met with Galbraith, convinc