o take his place on the AAF Evaluation Board).20 The flight over was uneventful, the party arriving in London on the morning of 6 November. Later in the day D’Olier, Alexander, and Perera called at 20 Grosvenor Square where Colonel Koenig had secured offices recently vacated by General Eisenhower's staff, lately moved to France.  Colonel Koenig, with the assistance of Major Colbert and Colonel John G. Zierdt,2! spent most of Monday and Tuesday outlining to Mr. D’Olier and the directors all that had taken place in London since July. Essentially, effort had thus far outweighed results, and while the organization numbered some 150 people only a hesitant beginning had been made. By far the best prepared portion was Colonel Zierdt’s Physical Damage section. A carefully selected list of targets had been identified for investigation by Field Teams, the composition of the Field Teams had been thoroughly planned, and a few experimental investigations were underway on targets in France.  But then this was to be expected, in a way, since the investigation of targets solely for the purpose of determining the extent and type of destruction by various weapons was hardly a new science; and Zierdt was an Ordnance officer who had available to him not only the Ord-  The Survey Is Organized 59  nance manuals governing such work but also the considerable expertise of the British personnel at R. E. 8.  The Economic Section, under Major Colbert, was in no sense as well prepared. In the first place, the investigation of the economic effects of bombing was a new science and, accordingly, there were far fewer people around who could claim any experience at the task. This difficulty had been met at first by attempting to get the Eco- nomic Warfare Division at the U.S. Embassy to take on the task of devising the approach to the economic investigation. While several tentative approaches had been tried, the results to date had been disappointing, owing in part to personality problems between Ko