objective study of the war, I find “Air Campaigns” to be in major part a vicious and deliberate attempt to discredit the entire Naval service. That is my summary of the manuscript, but I am appending a somewhat detailed analysis should you be interested in the basis of my conclusion... .In the circumstances, Mr. Nitze, I would con- sider the publication of the proposed volume to be directly contrary to the principles under which the Survey operated and decidedly inimicable to the best interests of the armed services and the government, either at this or any future time... . 1 cannot believe that the Directors would willingly associate their names with a paper so completely lacking in character and honesty of purpose.  And from the equally empassioned enclosure:  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 85 --- 132 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  The volume presents a completely inaccurate and entirely biased account of our war against Japan which is of absolutely no historical value, consistently misrepresents facts, and indeed, often ignores facts and employs falsehood. From this light treatment of the Pacific war, the authors have arrived at a series of biased conclusions which, lacking any degree of factual support, not only are entirely unjustified but impose a threat to our future security. The central theme of the volume is the development of the idea that air power alone made possible our victory in the Pacific, a theme which is labored on every page. As used in this volume, the term air power apparently denotes a force which is not only irresistible but also is completely independent from any consideration of logistics requirements or design restrictions.  Underlying the main theme that air power alone won the war is a vicious and deliberate attempt to discredit the naval service. No opportunity is lost to belittle the efforts of the Navy, to charge the Navy with incompetence and to ridicule the Navy concept of warfare....In asserting that air power was th