hange. ... The matter is being pushed actively by Sec’y Lovett. The Colonel dined with him and General Anderson, and David of the Business School the other night, and it was discussed at length. There is no doubt that as soon as it does break, it will do soina big way. ... We have had a lot of talk on the P. D. side, and hope to see Burchard on Monday. That picture was confused due to misunderstanding. . . .  An Idea in Search of Definition 49  Colbert’s reply of 21 September described continuing experiments on the Continent,*” listed the names of some new “recruits,” and bewailed the fact that “the German-speaking group—‘Lost Bat- talion’—was snatched away by the Ground Forces and shipped to the far shore.” Finally, Upton reported to Colbert on 22 September that the President's letter had been received and that  we are pushing the recruiting here of research men, inter- rogators . . . and industrial advisors. ... My chief worry now is that we will get our authorization ... and our strong directive but will not be organized to cope with the number of men or the actual physical problem of recruiting, looking after and briefing them.  Encouraged by the interest being shown in Washington, Koenig left on 24 September to return to London. All his problems, however, had not been solved. Knowing that an interval of at least several weeks would elapse before a chairman could be appointed and arrive in London, Koenig had to make a decision. Should planning and recruiting be brought to a halt pending the appointment of a chair- man who might turn out to have some very specific ideas on how to proceed and with whom? Or should Colonel Koenig, with the President’s letter as his authority, continue building up the survey in the hope that the eventual chairman would not find too much with which to disagree? Koenig chose the latter course, primarily on the basis of the then widespread assumption that the war in Europe might be over within a few months. Two restrictions only were ap