l, and General Anderson to return to the States at once; Searls (Munitions) and Russell (Oil) were already with D’Olier.  The summoned directors departed by air on 7 June, arrived in Washington on 8 June and met with the JTG on 9 June. On 11 June they were interrogated at length by some fifty to sixty officers repre- senting all the services, and on 12, 14, and 15 June held further meetings with the JTG. As a result of these deliberations, a report was prepared and sent to General Arnold, then visiting units in the Pacific. Then on 19 June, D’Olier, Alexander and Nitze met with General Marshall and the secretaries of war and navy. Following this  File: --- macisaac_bombing.pdf --- Page 69 --- 100 Strategic Bombing in World War Two  meeting, Alexander returned to London where Judge Cabot had been temporarily in charge. D’Olier, Nitze, and General Anderson, however, stayed on for a while in Washington. The results of their meetings with the JTG had brought out several important differ- ences of opinion, and Mr. D’Olier was determined not to leave until he had done all he could to bring the thinking of the JTG in line with that of the Survey directors.  The directors had entered upon their discussions with the JTG with mixed feelings. They had not yet finished their work in Europe and were concerned lest anything they said at this point might have to be changed in the light of later findings. What was wanted of them now was advice on target selection, predictions and recommen- dations about Japanese targets based on experience in Germany. Still trying to weigh results in one area, they were not at all sure that what held good in Germany would be equally valid in Japan. All of these reservations were expressed at the outset, but the air staff leaders were adamant. Explaining the situation after his return to London, Alexander related how  all the services had a great desire that the Survey should throw everything it had into the hopper. They wanted our judgment and some