suing air battles, sixty of the bombers were shot down—a loss of 16 percent of those despatched and 19 percent of those attacking. Worse was to come.  During the second week of October the Eighth launched four major efforts against targets deep inside Germany. On the last of these, on 14 October against Schweinfurt, the force penetrated into Germany well beyond the range of the then available escort fighters. Here was the test of a theory; even the selection of the target reflected the long held hope of destroying a particular element of industry whose loss would result in a ‘‘bottleneck”’ in production. The Luftwaffe rose in defense and of the 291 bombers despatched, sixty failed to return, seventeen suffered major damage, and 121 sustained reparable damage. Although the attack got through to the target and caused considerable damage, such a rate of loss by the attacking force could not be consistently borne. Clearly, until the German : aan were driven from the skies, a new technique was necessary.4  From November 1943 through the third week in February 1944, the principal ally of the German Air Force—foul weather—became the dominating factor in the air war. Throughout the entire period there were less than half a dozen days on which the weather permitted visual bombing over Germany. 2 In the interim, experiments were begun with radar-aided bombing techniques (to make it possible to bomb through cloud cover) and a thorough reorganization of the strategic air forces was accomplished. On 1 November 1943 the Fifteenth Air Force was established under Major General Nathan F. Twining, and by December it had moved into place with its headquarters at Bari, Italy, and most of its bombers in a complex of bases around Foggia. Early in January Lieutenant General Ira C. Eaker, who had com- manded the Eighth’s bomber forces in England, went to Italy to take command of the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces (MAAF), head- quarters at Caserta. (Eaker was replaced at Eighth Air Force b