timulus was a sincere, if largely intuitive, conviction that the “warfare of the past” was just that—that the warfare of the future would be dominated from the air. Accepting this as given, those in a position to do something about it were then duty bound to find the ways and means of assuring that if war came, the United States would be prepared to wage and win the war in the air. Like most revolutions in thought, that fostered by the military aviators between the wars far outpaced in vision the means by which it  Allthe Winds of Doctrine 7  could be carried into effect. Yet when the War Department authorized the establishment of eleven special service schools for the Air Service in February 1920, the door was wedged open and in the room beyond lay opportunity.  Among the schools created in 1920 was the Air Service Tactical  School at Langley Field in Virginia. From a rude and makeshift beginning this school, in the persons of its instructors and students, was to mold a theory for the employment of air forces in war that would be tested all too soon. Throughout its history, the curriculum at the Air Corps Tactical School! covered all aspects of aerial tactics and strategy. But beginning around 1926 and rapidly accelerating after 1932, the strategic role of air forces emerged as the dominant theme. The reason was not simply that the strategic role offered the best possibilities for an independent mission; also relevant, and perhaps equally so, was the trend of technological advance in air- craft. With the appearance of the B-9 and B-10 in the early thirties and with the first flight of the experimental B-17 in July 1935, the means to apply what had hitherto been only a theory seemed at hand. And reinforcing the dreams of the strategic air theorists was the then apparent impossibility of building a pursuit aircraft!® that could match in speed, range, or altitude the multi-engined bomber. With the addition of a means, the B-17, to a goal, independent operations, there