ombers despatched, sixty failed to return, seventeen suffered major damage, and 121 sustained reparable damage. Although the attack got through to the target and caused considerable damage, such a rate of loss by the attacking force could not be consistently borne. Clearly, until the German | were driven from the skies, a new technique was necessary.4  From November 1943 through the third week in February 1944, the principal ally of the German Air Force—foul weather—became the dominating factor in the air war. Throughout the entire period there were less than half a dozen days on which the weather permitted visual bombing over Germany.*~ In the interim, experiments were begun with radar-aided bombing techniques (to make it possible to bomb through cloud cover) and a thorough reorganization of the strategic air forces was accomplished. On 1 November 1943 the Fifteenth Air Force was established under Major General Nathan F. Twining, and by December it had moved into place with its headquarters at Bari, Italy, and most of its bombers in a complex of bases around Foggia. Early in January Lieutenant General Ira C. Eaker, who had com- manded the Eighth’s bomber forces in England, went to Italy to take command of the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces (MAAF), head-  quarters at Caserta. (Eaker was replaced at Eighth Air Force by  Sar Rock: REGS Bie  =. All the Winds of Doctrine -  Major General James E. Doolittle.) Among Eaker’s new responsibili- ties was general supervision of the activities of the new Fifteenth Air Force. But to coordinate the operations of the Eighth and the Fifteenth, a new headquarters was established in London, the command being given to Lieutenant General Carl A. Spaatz, who had been General Eisenhower's air deputy in North Africa. The new command, christened United States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF), was made responsible for the overall direction of the American strate- gic air effort in Europe. While these changes were taking place the bomber force