armor could conduct daylight attacks without sustaining serious losses. *” Early in 1941 Spaatz urged that every effort be made to expand American production of four-engine bombers. The British, he said, had committed themselves to short-range planes only to find that they urgently needed long-range bombers.°  In August and September General Emmons and Colonel Spaatz also learned the well-kept secret that the British had developed a system of electronic early warning and fighter control without which the RAF Fighter Command probably could not have defeated the Luftwaffe during the Battle of Britain. it Actually, the basic principle that very short radio waves produced echoes when reflected from targets had become known quite early by scientists in all nations of the world. In 1925 scientists of the Carnegie Institution and Naval Research Laboratory had devised and used radio pulse ranging to explore the ionosphere. Using these same principles, the Naval Research Laboratory and Army Signal Corps scientists had developed prototype radio ranging and detection equipment, which would later be called radar. On 18 and 19 May 1937 the experimental Signal Corps radar equipment and also an infrared aircraft detector were demonstrated to the secretary of war and a group of high-ranking Army officers, including General Arnold. On 21 March 1938 the New York Herald Tribune printed a very accurate and comprehensive description of radar. The Army had begun to develop a radar set to direct antiaircraft artillery guns and searchlights, and the Air Corps had stated a requirement for the development of an early warning radar that would have a range of 120 miles. 152 Electronic development in Germany had produced a prototype radar in 1938, but neither the Wehrmacht nor the Luftwaffe considered  99  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 121 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  the production of radar equipment sufficiently important to divert available facilities to it. In 1939, however