nding had been reduced in favor of operating forces. "There are those in high positions in the Air Force today," charged Maj Gen Donald L. Putt, the director of Air Force Research  275  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 297 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  and Development, "who hold that research and development must be kept under rigid control by ‘requirements’ and ‘military characteristics’ promulgated by operational personnel who can only look into the past and ask for bigger and better weapons of World War Il vintage. ... They have not yet established that partnership between the strategist and the scientist which is mandatory to insure that superior strategy and technology which is essential to future success against our potential enemies."  In a letter to Secretary Symington on 15 January, Dr Theodore von Karman, chairman of the USAF Scientific Advisory Board, doubted that the Eberstadt criticisms applied directly to the Air Force, but he observed they probably held a meaning for all of the military services. Von Karman reminded Symington that the facilities of the Air Materiel Command at Wright Field were inadequate for research in an era of supersonic flight, and he noted the impression that the Air Force had made research and development too subservient to the procurement of materiel. "When research work becomes too closely allied with operational and procurement problems," he postulated, "one gets too little farlooking research work."!2 Writing to Vandenberg on the same day that he addressed Symington, von Karman urged that the Air Force should again establish the position of deputy chief of staff for research and development. "Air supremacy," von Karman noted, "will be an indispensable factor in the event of another war. In the air battle, technical surprise and general technical superiority will always be decisive . . . DECISIVE technical superiority INTIME OF WAR will goto the side which most rapidly and exhaustively transforms new technical de