l pressure suit; the boost-glide vehicles would need a habitable cabin. Looking toward design of space capsules, the Air Force employed High Man manned balloon flights. The first High Man flight occurred 2 June 1957 when Capt Joseph W. Kittinger reached an altitude of 95,000 feet. The second flight on 19 August 1957 carried Ma aj D David G. Simons to 102,000 feet and remained aloft for more than 32 hours.” Some of these ventures occasioned heavy-handed sarcasm, but each of them sought to develop. more knowledge about man’s role in a space environment.  Visualizations of Satellites and Space Stations  During the later 1940s the Army did not officially share the Air Force and Navy interest in space satellites, but even at this time Dr Wernher von Braun was a foremost publicist for a manned space station. By the autumn of 1954, von Braun was advancing a proposal that a complete space station could be built in 10 or 15 years at a cost of about $4 billion. He believed that the nation that first possessed a space station would be in a position to rule the earth. When Secretary Wilson was queried about earth satellites and space platforms at a news conference on 16 November, he said that he knew nothing about US military scientists working on plans for a space platform or earth satellite and would not be alarmed if the Russians built one first. He was quoted as adding: "I would rather keep my feet on the ground, figuratively speaking as well as physically speaking. I don’t know that anyone knows how you would rule the world with a space station. It is a little dreamy, I think." A month later at another news conference, when told that the Russians might orbit a satellite before the United States, Wilson retorted: "I wouldn’t care if they did. = 08 Already on record as opposing "boondoggling research," Wilson told newsmen on 6 June 1955 that he considered the military research and development effort to be fully adequate. Speaking in his usual candid fashion, he went on to de