arrived in Paris in November 1917, he divided the Air Service, Zone of Advance, into Tactical Aviation and Strategical Aviation and placed Colonel Gorrell in charge of the latter organization, which was to be a  24  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 46 --- THROUGH WORLD WARI  planning staff pending the arrival of bombardment squadrons. For staff support, Gorrell obtained Majors Harold Fowler and Millard F. Harmon and borrowed Wing Comdr Spencer Gray, a British Royal Navy Air Service officer. These men drew up a proposal for a bombing campaign, which they submitted to Foulois on 28 November 1917. This paper pointed out that the Germans were reported to be building great numbers of large Gotha bombers in preparation for a bombing campaign. The Gorrell plan, therefore, stated that it was "of paramount importance that we adopt at once a bombing project . . . at the quickest possible moment, in order that we may not only wreck Germany's manufacturing centers but wreck them more completely than she will wreck ours next year." The plan proposed that the bombing attacks would be mounted by day and night from airfields in the Toul-Verdun area against industrial plants around Diisseldorf, Cologne, Mannheim, and in the Saar Valley. Up to 100 squadrons should be directed against each of these targets in turn, the idea being to keep a given target under a sustained bombardment up to five hours at a time. Such an assault would overwhelm target defenses, wreck manufacturing works, and shatter the morale of workmen.?”  In Great Britain popular dissatisfaction with the ability of the the air defenses to deal with Zeppelin and Gotha attacks against London forced a reorganization of aviation affairs. On the advice of a board headed by Lt Gen Jan Christian Smuts (with strong support from Winston Churchill), the British government set up a separate Air Ministry in December 1917. In the culmination of this reform in April 1918, the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Servic