istance the Soviets.  However, the Soviets achieved qualitative surprise and demonstrated on 1 May 1955 that their offensive capabilities had risen to a new plateau much sooner than had been anticipated. "We now have a good system to fight the Tu-4," observed General Partridge, who became commander in chief, Continental Air Defense Command, on 20 July 1955, "unfortunately the Russians came along a little more rapidly than we anticipated in their technical developments, and they introduced the jet bombers and the Bear more rapidly than was forecast." Partridge also warned that "the defenses which we are... planning ... take care of the Soviet threat up through the manned bomber, but the Soviets are said to be building an intercontinental ballistic missile, and we must somehow devise a defense against this type of attack.'8 The immediate air defense problem in 1955-56 concerned the development of capabilities to counter the Soviet Bison and Bear, both of which would likely possess a standoff missile equivalent to the Hound Dog. With one aerial refueling, moreover, the Soviet Bear would be able to fly a circuitous route and evade existing early warning lines in the Arctic. Since it was a turboprop aircraft, the Bear not only would have a very long range, but also would be able to operate effectively at low altitudes. After General LeMay had assessed the new Soviet bomber capabilities, which would be magnified once they developed intercontinental ballistic missiles, he observed: "The best thing that the Air Defense Command can do for SAC is to provide warning time. That is the most important thing they can do for us."" Less optimistic than his predecessors about the kill  533  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 555 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  capabilities of the Air Defense Command, General Partridge returned to a more limited concept of air defense. "As a matter of doctrine," he stated in April 1956,  we believe that the best defense is a good offense, and