orporate Joint Chiefs of Staff and "anytime there is a conflict in doctrine . . . it can, and undoubtedly would, be straightened out.""’ In a summary of his position, General White remarked: "I vigorously supported the Reorganization Act of 1958. I think it is a step forward."? During hearings on the reorganization bill before the Senate Committee on Armed Services, General Spaatz described the measure as inadequate in that it failed to give the secretary of defense an administrative control over the services. "In my  584  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 606 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  opinion," Spaatz said, "the Defense Department will never be properly organized until full administrative authority is vested in the Secretary of Defense; and that condition is so stated in the law in no uncertain terms.""?  Ina strong statement made to the Senate Committee on Aeronautical and Space Sciences on 22 April 1959, General LeMay described the Defense Reorganization Act of 1958 as a step in the right direction that ought to be pursued further. "Today more than ever before in our history," he stated,  there is need for centralized control and direction over our Armed Forces. ... Modern weapons and improved deliverysystems are changing the concepts of military operations and confusion or indecision can be fatal inthis newera. As our weapon systems improve and become more versatile it is becoming more and more apparent that the functions and weapons of individual services are beginning to overlap. Forces are of necessity becoming functionally oriented. To meet this changing condition I firmly believe we will need a modification in our military structure. I believe that we must eventually progress toward a single service, with a single Chief of Staff, and one staff to operate the Armed Forces. ... The DOD Reorganization Act of 1958 was a step in this direction. ... I feel that sooner or later we must go beyond this. Semiautonomous combat organizations are not the comp