Department of Defense was only one of the customers of this production agency. Since 1946 many scientists had been more interested in the employment of the atom for peace than for war."  As early as April 1942, atomic scientists Edward Teller and Enrico Fermi discussed the possibility of developing a fusion or thermonuclear weapon that would yield infinitely more power than the fission-type atomic weapon. But the decision had been made to develop the atomic bomb. And, although a small research program on the thermonuclear energy was continued, the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) gave no major consideration to the question of undertaking active development of a thermonuclear weapon, which would be better known as the H-bomb. Immediately after Truman’s announcement in September 1949 that an atomic explosion had occurred in the Soviet Union, a staff paper was prepared in the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy advocating that an H-bomb be developed, to which the Atomic Energy Commission replied that it was doing all that it could in the thermonuclear field. On the Atomic Energy Commission, however, retired Adm Lewis L. Strauss reasoned that the United States could not afford merely to seek to maintain an arithmetic lead over the Russians in stockpiling A-bombs. Therefore, on 5 October he proposed to his colleagues that the time had come for a quantum jump in the form of an intensive effort to develop the thermonuclear weapon. The Atomic Energy Commission’s General Advisory Committee of scientists and engineers opposed a crash program to develop an H-bomb on both technical and moral grounds, and the majority of the membership of the Atomic Energy Commission did not favor an all-out thermonuclear program. On 9 November, however, the entire problem was laid before President Truman. Writing to Truman on 25 November, Strauss recommended that the president direct the Atomic Energy Commission "to proceed with the development of the  283  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Pa