t if an aggressor does attack, we will be able to retaliate with the utmost violence and to seize and hold the advanced | positions from which we can divert the destruction from our homeland to his."  The President’s Air Policy Commission sought to base its military aircraft procurement recommendations on a firm estimate of the date by which an enemy nation might be expected to possess nuclear weapons. The commission found that expert opinion on the subject varied from that of some highly qualified persons who said that other nations might already possess the weapons to that of other equally well-qualified persons who estimated that other nations would not possess atomic weapons in quantity for fifteen years. The commission thus set its own date of 1 January 1953 as A-day—the date when the US air arm should be able to deal with a possible attack against the United States. The commission stated that a future hostility might well be a localized conflict or a practice war such as the Spanish civil war had been, but it urged that the United States must assume that "if the enemy can do it he will make a direct air assault on the United States mainland regardless how or where the first shooting starts." The commission recommended that immediate steps be taken to build the Air Force to 70 groups (6,869 first-line aircraft) and the Air National Guard to 27 groups (3,212 first-line aircraft) and to equip the 34-group Air Force Reserve adequately. The Air Force was also judged to require an additional reserve of some 8,100 aircraft. It recommended that the 70 groups should be ready for service by 1 January 1950 and the complete Air Force program should be in being by the end of 1952. The commission found it more difficult to evaluate Navy requirements for aircraft. Although the Navy would not be required to oppose a hostile surface fleet in the future, it would be expected to keep supply lines open to forward air bases and to overseas sources of essential war materials. The a