fortress-type weapons system around a critical area. .. . The tremendous countering power represented by our strategic air arm is . . . a most powerful element of our national defensive structure and warrants continuing high priority consideration." Based on this assessment, Chidlaw reasoned:  Atomic and hydrogen bombs plus a means of delivering them to a target add up to an overriding need for insuring national survival as to the first step in any nation’s military strategy. ... This being so, it seems to me that the number one task — chronologically — of each service is to make certain that after the initial attack there remains the means and the reason to accomplish its assigned missions. .. . We must, with accuracy and timeliness, make a true estimate of the threat facing us, then build sufficient defense to insure that our counter offensive can be launched with crushing impact.  Speaking from retirement about his old air defense speciality, General Saville cautioned that a proper defense of the nation required a system designed to ensure  332  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 354 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  the detection, identification, interception, and destruction of attacking air vehicles well before they reached a bomb-release line. "We dare not," Saville said, "concentrate our air defense on merely warning the population to take shelter to save their lives from direct attack." As he had done before, Saville continued to emphasize that air defense was, in the language of the poker player, "an ante-raising operation." "Only a fool would run into a hornet’s nest of opposition," he went on to say, "with aircraft too slow or so poorly armed that they would be shot down before they reached their objective. . . . So the first and greatest dividend of air defense is its ability to keep a war from starting by making an attack a difficult and unattractive venture."“! Unlike other Air Force thinkers who assumed that there was a diminishing utility in expenditure