r, he appeared before a Senate investigating committee in what he described as an "atmosphere of sputniks and intercontinental missiles, when accusations and denials seem to be flying around." LeMay observed: "Our main deterrent power today is a manned bomber and a nuclear-weapons system. It is going to be our main deterrent and our main protection." Believing that "the proposals that are in the mill on increasing the missile program are ample for the time being, maybe a little bit strong," LeMay argued that the main danger lay not so much in the far future but in "not modernizing the force that we are depending on today to keep us out of trouble, not doing it fast enough." To LeMay and Power the modernization of the Strategic Air Command required new manned aircraft as well as missiles.  Representing the culmination of some four years of preliminary studies and intensive design competitions, the Air Force awarded a contract on 1 June 1957 the North American Aviation Company to initiate development of a long-range Mach-3 jet interceptor to be designated the F-108. Following a similarly long, intensive study and design competitions, the Air Force awarded North American another development contract on 24 January 1958 for weapon system 110A—a revolutionary Mach-3 intercontinental jet bomber that would be designated as the B-70. The two development programs were carefully designed to mesh and save developmental costs. The cost of developing common items such as engines, escape capsules, and fuel systems was to be spread between the two programs. It was planned that both new planes would enter the operational inventory by 1965 and would complement missile capabilities in the decade 1965-75. In this period the Air Force assumed that surface-to-surface strategic bombardment missiles would be vitally important. However, because of uncertainties about reliability, accuracy, flexibility of employment, and relative immobility, the use of missiles would be limited, initially at