.»  Emerging Soviet Threats  In the winter of 1946-47 the United States began to recognize that its policy of cooperation with the Soviet Union was rapidly breaking down. The antics of the Soviet representatives in the United Nations, the Iranian crisis of 1946, the Greek civil war, and Soviet pressure on Turkey gave the United States a better appreciation of the bipolar nature of world power and of the challenge of Soviet expansionism. As W. Barton Leach wrote in February 1947, "if we have war it is going to be with Russia," but "if we have no war with Russia we shall have no war at all for at least two decades." Although Leach had returned to academic life at Harvard University from his wartime service in the Army Air Services, he remained a close friend of General Vandenberg’s and he may well have expressed some degree of Air Force thinking.» linan appearance before the House Subcommittee on Appropriations also in February 1947, Brig Gen George A. Lincoln again demonstrated — with increasing urgency —the close relationship between military capabilities and foreign policy. "The War Department’s broad policies . . . ," he stated, "must be based on those of our State Department. Conversely, the State  221  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 243 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Department, in formulating its national policies must take into consideration the capabilities of the armed forces to maintain a respectable position in the world which makes our emissaries respected."”“ Revealing clearly for the first time that the United States recognized the menace of the Soviet Union, President Truman requested authority from Congress on 12 March 1947 to extend military and economic assistance to Greece and Turkey to enable them to combat internal Communist subversion and external Soviet pressure. In view of the deterioration of relations with the Soviet Union, General Spaatz began to speak openly of a war with "a continental empire" and the ‘problem of winning aga