rcraft for deeper-in reconnaissance. Success of local campaigns depended on blinding the opposing intelligence service; thus, both sides developed fighter aircraft and employed them over active sectors in barrage patrols designed to sweep enemy aircraft from the skies. The appearance of a technologically superior Fokker fighter aircraft over the front lines in June 1915 gave a working air superiority to the Central Powers and demanded extreme efforts on the part of the Allies to develop higher performance pursuit aircraft and better tactics. By 1917 the Germans also developed an armed Junkers strafing aircraft that was especially designed for attacks against troops and equipment. As the ground war stalemated, German Zeppelins began bombing attacks against England in January 1915 to weaken the British psychologically. On the Allied side in 1916, the Italian aircraft manufacturer, Gianni Caproni Count di Taliedo, prepared a memorandum for Allied headquarters that proposed to destroy German and Austrian naval vessels by bomber attack against fleet bases. In January 1917, Caproni argued that his large triplane bombers, if built in sufficient numbers, could destroy Austria’s factories, thus ending the war with Italy’s main opponent.  18  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 40 --- THROUGH WORLD WARI  US Military Preparations  Recognizing that the United States was lagging in aeronautics, Congress approved a measure on 3 March 1915 that established the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) as an independent agency for the "scientific study of the problems of flight with a view to their practical solution." This action was hardly taken, however, before the new evidence emerged to show the lowstate of readiness of Army aviation. On the Mexican border in March and April 1916, the 1st Aero Squadron valiantly attempted to support Brig Gen John J. Pershing’s punitive expedition against the Mexican outlaw Pancho Villa. However, a combination of poor flying m