as changed to the Air Corps, the implication being that the Air Corps was capable of independent as well as auxiliary operations. An additional assistant secretary of war was authorized to perform duties delegated to him by the secretary, and air sections were authorized in the General Staff divisions. A five-year program for expansion of Air Corps personnel and aircraft was to be initiated. The Air Corps attained little autonomy within the War Department by these actions; and no  50  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 72 --- THROUGH WORLD WARI  decision was made to delineate the coast defense responsibilities of the Army and Navy, as air officers had desired. In hearings on the legislation, Patrick suggested that it would be economical and practical to combine Army and Navy flying training under one agency, but he noted that "naval officers . . . feared they would lose a certain measure of control over their air component, and .. . insisted also that all of the flyers with the Navy should be trained in naval tactic and should understand all of the tactics employed in naval battles." Thus Patrick’s suggestion was not accepted.  For the time being, the Air Corps Act of 1926 ended the struggle for an autonomous air force. General Patrick continued to insist that a department of defense with army, naval, and air components would be the ultimate solution to the defense problems of the United States, but he privately expressed the opinion that the best that the Air Corps could hope for in a span of years in which nations were reducing their armaments was some expansion and considerable modernization. Patrick accordingly hailed the Air Corps Act as "a long step in the right direction." Viewed in retrospect, the Air Corps Act of 1926 was only one of several pieces of legislation that manifested a belief within Congress that the pioneering years of aviation were ending. On 24 June Congress had enacted the Morrow board recommendations relevant to the Navy: the appo