ng:  81  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 103 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Air warfare may be waged against hostile land forces, sea forces, and air forces, or it may be waged directly against the enemy nation. The possibility for the application of military force against the vital structure of a nation directly and immediately upon the outbreak of hostilities is the most important and far reaching development of modern times.  The concept of bombardment invincibility and of the defensive character of air battles was not implicitly accepted through the Air Corps. Even at Maxwell Field, in the five years that he served as an instructor and post officer prior to his retirement in 1937, Maj Claire L. Chennault argued that pursuit aviation was a weapon of opportunity that might be employed either offensively or defensively. To support his contention, Chennault devised and advocated a workable plan for aircraft warning and pursuit control services based upon visual aircraft observers and radio and telephone communications nets. Lt Col Millard F. Harmon subscribed wholeheartedly to the requirement for the development of bombardment, but he was "irked [to] no end" at the lack of prestige accorded to pursuit. Named to head a board of GHQ Air Force officers at Barksdale Field to review the Air Force text in 1935, Harmon suggested that it was entirely possible that a hostile air force could be defeated by air combat and other activities. His board also argued that defense of the United States was the established national policy —not the destruction of vital elements within enemy nations.*! Maj O. S. Ferson, a member of the board at Barksdale, argued that improved interplane radio communications would enable an air commander to control large airborne forces and thus to fight major coordinated air battles.°* Lt Col A. H. Gilkeson, commander of the 8th Pursuit Group, stated bluntly that "this recent academic tendency to minimize, if not entirely dismiss, the consid