ean conflict was "a big limited-war operation" and if a limited war of similar size occurred in the future its requirements would have to be met by the mobilization of reserve forces.!  In presenting the Air Force assessment of the Lebanon and Taiwan crises, General White asserted: "The Soviets have been contained not by the US battalions and ships and tactical aircraft that we deployed but to a great degree by the established capability of American long-range air power." In the case of the Quemoy crisis, however, White added that "the Chinese Communists and perhaps the Russians themselves received a considerable shock with the rapidity with which we reacted and with the efficiency of our forces that were there — and by ‘our forces’ I am including the Chinese Nationalists.""®? General Power saw Lebanon and Quemoy as illustrations of the deterrence of both general and small wars, "Quemoy," he said, "was even better than Lebanon, because here we took a firm stand for a pile of so-called useless rocks. But it was notice to the world that this country stands for something, that we have principles and oppose the principle of blackmail through military force. If we were willing to stand up and risk war for some so-called useless rocks, what better proof could we give of our determination to stand up to a more serious incident?" Power said that during the Quemoy crisis the Strategic Air Command had been prepared to back up the other forces with planes that could carry "any yield weapon." While he did not think it would be efficient to employ SAC crews to drop conventional weapons, Power pointed out that he could "convert into that posture very rapidly in a matter of hours." Lebanon and Quemoy, Power said, "were real actions to deter war. The reason we could prevent those actions from expanding is that we had the Strategic Air Command backing these forces up. In a delayed analysis General LeMay emphasized the role the American military aid and friendly foreign forces had pl