cond function should continue to be handled by the chief of the Air Corps as a staff officer of the War Department.”  The War Department required little time to effect the top-level change recommended by the Baker board. The position of assistant secretary of war for air had been left vacant when F. Trubee Davison resigned at the outset of the Roosevelt administration, and this post remained vacant.>! On 24 August 1934 the War Department announced that four additional Air Corps officers were being detailed to General Staff divisions, bringing the number of Air Corps officers on the high staff level to nine, a proper quota in view of the relative size of the Air Corps.> 2  Because a GHOQ air force represented a new concept, the War Department proceeded more cautiously with its organization. On 31 December 1934 the secretary directed that the GHQ Air Force be organized and begin operation at a headquarters at Langley Field on 1 March 1935. Headquarters of the Air Force’s three wings would be at Langley Field, Virginia; March Field, California; and Barksdale Field, Louisiana. All Air Corps pursuit, bombardment, and attack groups were assigned to the GHQ Air Force? Lt Col Frank M. Andrews, an experienced Air Corps officer who had been serving on the War Department General Staff, was announced as commanding general, GHO Air Force, with a temporary rank of brigadier general. On 19 February 1935 the War Department provided Andrews with tables of organization for the new command, and he was  74  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 96 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  directed to service test the new organization and make a final report on its effectiveness before 1 February 1936.  Along with its other organizational changes, the Baker board had recommended the creation of an Air Corps board to formulate uniform tactical doctrine. As has been seen, such a board had existed on paper since 1922 and had been moved with the Air Corps Tactical School from Langley to Maxwell in 1931. Fo