he unacceptable." The Air Staff believed that the description of an air mobilization phase at a war’s beginning weakened the Air Force’s emphasis on  371  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 393 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  an air force in being. The strong assertion in the manual that "strategic bombing operations are normally conducted independently of ground and naval forces" was said to be contrary to the more moderate Air Force position that Army and Navy forces were essential for the defense of overseas air bases required for a strategic air campaign. "In the preparation of this high level doctrinal publication," the Air Staff advised,  it is necessary that it be as timeless and far thinking as possible. .. . This publication on air employment is of such importance, covering high level doctrine and the principles of aerial warfare, that it should not be burdened with detailed instructional and procedural methods which are constantly changing. On the other hand, this type publication should cover general over-plans for doctrine and strategy which would stimulate flexibility of thought and action at all levels of command.  In the spring of 1948 the Air University assigned responsibility for preparing the category 2 "Commander’s Guide" to the Air Command and Staff School at Craig Field and for drafting the category 3 "Commander’s Handbook" to the Air Tactical School at Tyndall Field. Each of these institutions, in turn, assigned the responsibilities for drafting the various books in the volumes to specific instructors. These instructors were unable to begin any serious attempts to write before the summer vacation period, and even then they could do little more than to prepare some highly tentative drafts on their assigned contributions. On 22 December the Air Force director of training and requirements asked that the drafts of the category 2 and 3 manuals be delivered to him in order that he might use them to provide guidance to the Air Staff in negotiations t