ublished the Air Force Information Policy Letter for Commanders and the monthly Supplement to the Information Policy Letter for Commanders. In September 1961, the secretary specified that the Air Force Policy Letter would "provide concepts, doctrine, facts, references, and suggestions for all Air Force commanders and their staffs in meeting their responsibility to advance understanding inside and outside the Air Force.” At this juncture, Maj Gen Dale O. Smith observed that printed doctrinal manuals apparently could not keep pace with technological advances. For this reason he suggested that true Air Force doctrine — definable as military thought on how to conduct war — might well be the unspoken and sometimes unconscious beliefs that truly guided Air Force actions. "Actions, not pronouncements," he said, "are the real indicators of doctrine."  By 1960 the Air Force had laboriously assembled a body of thinking that was described as doctrine. It was essentially simplistic—concerned with the employment of air power in a World War II-type scenario. The feeling in high places in the Air Force was that these principles of air power were enduring. This first volume traces the development of Air Force rationale from the first thoughts of the employment of military aviation in 1904 to the year 1960. It records the emergence of the Air Force as a manifestation of Air Force thought, and will, insofar as possible, record the way in which the Air Force attempted to manage the exploration of ideas about what air power could and should do.  After 1960, however, the administration of President John F. Kennedy changed the military strategy of the United States from a primary reliance on an air strategy to one of flexible response to a broad spectrum of hostile threats. Thus, it soon became evident from policy trends that aerospace doctrine would be subject to reasoned change caused by shifting circumstances arising from analyses of: (1) the principles and aims of US society and gove