on Armed Services on 2 May, White justified the reorganization on the grounds that it would establish a peacetime organization that could meet wartime requirements, provide a system that would better enable the Joint Chiefs of Staff to act with corporate responsibilities and corporate views, assign clear-cut authority and responsibility to the secretary of defense, and provide better defense at a comparable cost."I completely agree," White said, "with the President’s concept that separate ground, sea, and air warfare are gone forever, and that peacetime preparation and organization must conform to this fact." In response to questions, White admitted that the reorganization measure might mean "that some of the things that we perhaps consider vested interest of the Air Force might go by the board." However, he added, "I think and a great many of us in the Air Force think that even if that happened, it would be for the good of the over-all national defense.”  When White appeared before the Senate Committee on Armed Services on 19 June, he continued to support the reorganization bill although he regretted that the House of Representatives had placed limitations on the authority of the secretary of defense to transfer, reassign, abolish, or consolidate combatant functions within the Department of Defense. "This could hold up action for many months," White explained, "on a change of major importance to the security of our country.". Even though the law would limit the secretary’s authority, White considered that the "best possible organization" of the Defense Department was being effected. He thought that the reorganization would result "in greater uniformity .. . as far as doctrine and training are concerned" since the unified commands would be operating directly under the corporate Joint Chiefs of Staff and "anytime there is a conflict in doctrine . . . it can, and undoubtedly would, be straightened out.""’ In a summary of his position, General White remarked: "I vigoro