the Navy would be authorized to conduct "operations from shore bases for overseas scouting, and for the observation and patrol of sea communications and their defense against raids."  65  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 87 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Notwithstanding this agreement, both Patrick and Fechet continued to fear that the Navy intended to take over coastal air defense. The matter came to a head in August 1930 when Secretary of War Patrick J. Hurley received a copy of a Navy letter to President Herbert Hoover containing severe criticism of the Army program for coastal air defense. In an effort to clarify the apparent confusion, Army chief of staff General Douglas MacArthur and chief of naval operations Adm W. V. Pratt reached an agreement between themselves on 9 January 1931, which General MacArthur described in these terms:  Under it the naval air forces will be based on the fleet and move with it as an important element in performing the essential missions of the fleet afloat. The Army air forces will be land based and employed as an element of the Army in carrying out its mission of defending the coasts, both in the homeland and in overseas possessions. Through this arrangement the fleet is assured absolute freedom of action with no responsibility for coast defense.  Admiral Pratt apparently entered into this agreement because he wished to develop the Navy’s fleet as an offensive rather than a defensive force. The Navy’s General Board, however, strongly disapproved of the agreement since it feared that the Air Corps might lay claim to the Navy’s air stations ashore. After a detailed study had been made by the War Plans Division, General MacArthur issued an order on 3 January 1933 specifically requiring the Air Corps "to conduct the land-based air operations in defense of the United States and its overseas possessions."  Beginnings of the GHQ Air Force  When Maj Gen Benjamin D. Foulois moved up from assistant chief to become chief of the Air Corps