ce 1920, which limited it to not more than six air bases on the coasts of the United States.!”! In the opening phase of the GHQ Air Force war games in the northeastern United States, however, General Andrews employed B-17 and B-18 bombers in sea search and simulated attack missions against vessels bound toward the United States. In one mission, on 12 May, three B-17s successfully located and simulated attacks against the ocean liner Rex at a distance of 725 miles out of New York.” To the Air Corps, the interception of the Rex proved the value of the B-17 for coastal defense, but the demonstration of effectiveness apparently displeased either the Navy or the War Department General Staff.  What happened next has never been exactly documented. General Arnold later suggested that the Navy protested the flight of the B-17s so far out to sea and that the War Department agreed to limit Air Corps patrol activities. Ira C. Eaker, who was then a major, recalled that he was in General Andrews’s office when General Craig telephoned and verbally instructed him to limit Army flights to a 100-mile zone off the nation’s coasts. According to Arnold, the War Department would not put this order in writing; nonetheless, it was binding and evidently represented a coordinated Army-Navy policy.1 Indicating that old policies had somehow changed, a revision of the manual Joint Action of the Army and the Navy, issued on 8 August 1938, authorized shore-based naval aircraft "to operate effectively over the sea to the maximum distance within the capacity of aircraft development."!™ Army aircraft, on the other hand, had to operate at a reduced range. As the report on the annual tactical inspection of the GHQ Air Force made on 28 July 1939 protested, "navigation training in the GHQ Air Force has suffered because of the 100-mile restriction, except by special permission, placed by the War Department on the distance to which airplanes may fly to sea." ‘  Westover protested that disapproval of the W