ce and all of the associate technical fields since the end of World War II. ... The techniques and actual developments involved in the X-15 are one path to man’s flight into space." Douglas recalled that no one at first had perceived the military worth of the airplane, and he asserted: "We must press forward with projects for the weapons of day after tomorrow, more advanced missiles and aircraft for flight outside the  550  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 572 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  atmosphere, and satellites even though we cannot foresee precisely their employment." To General White "almost everything in space" fitted into the Air Force mission. "We foresee," he said, "that we are not only going to have manned bombers and missiles, but that eventually we will have manned space vehicles as combat weapons in the future.">>  The assertions by General White and others that the United States needed to establish military capabilities in space seemed at odds with President Eisenhower’s national space-for-peace policy. Conceptual studies done in the Office of the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff (Plans and Programs) also indicated that control of space would be a far more complex matter than control of the air. The techniques for control of the air had rested on an air force’s capability to destroy air bases, to intercept enemy aircraft in flight, and to destroy planes by antiaircraft fire. Aircraft possessed great maneuverability. For the foreseeable future, however, space vehicles would be confined to the general vicinity of courses or trajectories selected at the time of their launchings. They would travel at extremely high velocities and would lack any great degree of maneuverability. a  In a major speech delivered to the Air Force Association’ s Third Jet Age Conference in February 1958, General White indicated that he had given thought to the space-for-peace policy and to means whereby control might be exercised in space. White said:  The United States must win a