n an activation step, the Joint Chiefs of Staff should be divorced from service affiliations and used as the nucleus for a national military council that would advise a single chief of staff of the armed forces, who would be supported by a national military staff. In an operational step, new unified commands would be organized to include a strategic, a mobile strike, a continental US defense, an Atlantic, a Pacific, a research and development, and a logistics command. In a cleanup step, the Departments of Army, Navy, and Air Force would be discontinued and activated as commands, with support and training functions. In the final step, the Army, Navy, and Air Force commands would be integrated into a unified personnel and training command.” Navy officers soon began to refer to the single service study as the "Air University Black Book of Reorganization Papers."”” For his own part, General White defended the Air University’s so-called Black Book as a necessary study, which was apparently more familiar to Army and Navy officers than to Air Force officers. He saw no reason why Air Force officers should not be studying the concept of a single service. But he added, "I can tell you right now the Air Force does not advocate a single service.">’  New Authority for United Commands  The apparent Air Force enthusiasm for increased unification of the military services was not shared by the Department of Defense or by the Army and Navy. In April 1959 Deputy Secretary of Defense Donald A. Quarles expressed confidence that the 1958 reorganization would "discourage improper use of the research and development program as a means of carrying on a kind of warfare between the Departments in an attempt on the part of each to enlarge its area of roles and missions." Quarles also believed that "some degree of this rivalry between departments is wholesome and productive."”” In his report of the first full year of operations under the 1958 reorganization act, Secretary McElroy stated that th