g on a general war." Gavin believed that the Russians, in the event that they decided to venture the risk of a general war to achieve an objective, "would start on the basis of.a limited objective to put themselves in a better position, and perhaps ultimately cause enough deterioration of our position to where they could win without risking any attack upon the USSR." He repeated the Army position "that we are far more likely to be involved in a peripheral war than in a general war."  The new concept that limited war was a major threat, together with the impending development of Army antiaircraft missiles, led General Gavin to advance the idea that "in the missile era the control of the land will be decisive." By controlling the land, military forces would possess the launching platforms necessary to control the air. Gavin argued that air superiority was "one of the most misunderstood terms" in the military vocabulary. "When first it came into use," he said,  it was presumed that it was a condition of affairs in a battle area that would enable one side to gain complete moral and physical superiority over the other. We learned in World War II that it was a fleeting stage of affairs indeed and while one side could enjoy complete air superiority such as we presume the allies did in the winter of 1944-1945, from time to time the enemy could strike suddenly and achieve in a local area a surprising degree of air superiority with a great posture of resources on his side. .. . With the performance of aircraft as we now see them coming along, that is where they fly at higher speeds and much greater turning radius, air superiority to us is going to be something quite different we believe than anything we have seen in the past. . . . It does not seem possible to control the land areas by merely flying over them with the type aircraft and type defenses that will be related to each other in the future. ... Sowe do not think that the term “air superiority" as it was applied in 194