ad been destroyed by the air attacks; the very efficient destruction carried on by the B-29s.  169  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 191 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  It was just a question of time before the Japanese would have been forced to this same surrender. The atomic bomb undoubtedly hastened that surrender.  Army Air Forces leaders also accepted the point of view that World War II had been won by combined arms. Thus, in April 1944, Maj Gen Follett Bradley could argue that the "true expositor of military things to come must . .. evaluate correctly the effect of air power in combination with land and sea power on a battle, a campaign and a war, and he must know something of the technique by which that effect is produced."! In October 1945, Arnold hailed the command decisions of February 1943 by which "the air had been consolidated under an air command, coordinated with similarly concentrated land and naval forces. ... With this change it became possible to exploit fully the versatility and weight of air power and to exert fully the over-all commander’s strategic will in the air.""“6 In November 1945, he wrote that the doctrine of the air force comprehended the fact "that it is the team of the Army, Navy and Air Forces working in in close cooperation that gives strength to our armed services in peace or war." Speaking of the termination of hostilities in the Pacific, General Doolittle said in November 1945: "The Navy had the transport to make the invasion of Japan possible; the Ground Forces had the power to make it successful; and the B-29 made it unnecessary." In its broad aspects, however, he pointed out that "the recent war was won by teamwork. .. . No single service won the war. The Navy fought magnificently as did the Ground Army and the Air Army. .. . The smooth functioning of the team was the direct result of having unity of command — one supreme commander in each theater of war."  The emphasis upon combined forces was accompanied by a subtle down