at continued to give first priority to precision attacks against aircraft engine factories but made incendiary attacks against urban industrial concentrations in Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, and Kawasaki a strong second priority. While the fire raids were desired by Washington, General LeMay kept his own counsel on the tactics that he would employ on the great Tokyo fire raid, which would be mounted on the night of 9-10 March 1945. He called for a stream of bombers from the three wings to come in low (4,900 to 9,200 feet) and to drop their incendiaries on fires started by pathfinder crews. Since gunners who would be unused to night attack might shoot at each other’s planes in the dark, LeMay ordered both guns and gunners removed from the B-29s. The weight saved by the removal of armament and the low attack altitude would permit the B-29s to carry very heavy loads of firebombs. Many aircrewmen were certain that LeMay’s radical tactics would do nothing but get them killed. Yet, even though over the target in a steady stream in the early morning hours of 10 March, the B-29s sustained only moderate losses as they kindled fires that destroyed about one-fourth of metropolitan Tokyo. LeMay had staked his professional career on the decision to operate the bombers at a low level. "This decision, combining technical acumen with boldness of execution," General Hansell said later, "was one of the classic air decisions of the war,"116  With 385 B-29s available in his combat wings, General LeMay was able to order combat missions every fourth to sixth day, depending on the weather, which was the most serious obstacle affecting operations. Daylight precision-bombing attacks against industrial targets were conducted from medium levels, and fire raids continued against Tokyo, Kobe, Osaka, and Yokohama. On 27 March the XXI Bomber Command began to mine Japan’s shipping channels and harbors. On the same day, other B-29s struck Japanese airfields on Kyushu. And, as he was authorized to do in an