nd its possessions, aircraft with superior range were vital. The board recommended a heavy bomber with a range of 2,000 miles and a medium bomber with a 1,000-mile range; it judged that a pursuit fighter with a range of 500 miles would satisfactorily perform such support as bombers might require. The report functionally divided air power into Army aviation (to include training and special purpose aviation, observation and liaison, and overseas garrison aviation) and GHQ aviation (which included striking and defense forces). The major function of the GHQ aviation striking force was to attack and destroy enemy aviation at its bases, whether on land or sea; the GHO aviation defense forces were intended only to provide reasonable protection to the most vulnerable and important areas. GHQ aviation was also to include a nucleus of aviation properly trained to support ground troops and capable of expanding to meet war requirements. In General Marshall’s words, the Air Board report established "for the first time a specific mission to the Air Corps, and provides for its organization on functional lines."  Given the approval of the Air Board report, Lt Col Carl Spaatz, chief of the Air Corps Plans Section, called for an early completion of the Air Corps basic doctrinal manual that had been held up for so many years. Early in October 1939 Spaatz called Col D. B. Netherwood, who was now the director of the Air Corps Board, to Washington. In conferences with the new G-3 Air Section, Netherwood not only received permission to junk the old statement of basic doctrine that had been prepared by the G-3, but also secured authority to prepare a small basic doctrinal manual that could be elaborated by several more detailed field manuals. A draft of the basic manual was put together while Netherwood was in Washington, and the completed project was published as Field Manual 1-5, Employment of the Aviation of the Army, on 15 April 1940.15  In approving the Air Corps basic field manual, w