solated situation. From the very beginning, the Korean War was fought under the shadow of the global atomic air capabilities of the Air Force, particularly those of the Strategic Air Command. In July 1950, before Military Air Transport Service planes were fully committed to the trans-Pacific airlift, two Strategic Air Command medium-bomber groups joined another already in England. Early in August, an atomic-capable B-29 group went to Guam and another group augmented by two aerial refueling squadrons deployed to Northeast Air Command bases in Labrador and Newfoundland. At Vandenberg’s request, the Joint Chiefs of Staff authorized the temporary movement of four B-29 groups to the Far East to augment firepower in Korea in July and August 1950. In September and October, SAC fighter pilots delivered 180 F-84E aircraft to American air units in Germany.  According to General LeMay, the dispatch of the four Strategic Air Command B-29 groups to participate in the Korean conflict represented a severe reduction in general war deterrent capabilities. LeMay explained Air Force decisions to invest in modern aircraft rather than supply stocks—particularly aircraft engines—had made the Strategic Air Command "a one shot outfit, incapable of sustained operations.""% Following the strategic bombing campaign against North Korea, two of the SAC B-29 groups returned to the United States in October 1950, but the sudden appearance of Communist MiG-15 jet fighters demanded the hurried movement of a SAC F-84 jet fighter-escort wing and an Eastern Air Defense Force F-86 fighter-interceptor wing to Korea in November 1950. Once again this emergency deployment reduced SAC’s global combat capability and badly depleted the air defense of the United States. Early in December 1950, when the Chinese Communists were attacking, General MacArthur asked the Joint Chiefs of Staff to return the two SAC B-29 groups to the Far East. However, the Joint Chiefs proved unwilling to risk the groups on forward air