the United Kingdom, ball bearings represent a potential bottleneck in German industry, particularly in the manufacture of war material." t Although about 12,000 tons of bombs were dropped on the ball-bearing plants in a series of attacks over several months beginning on 17 August 1943, the United States Strategic Bombing Survey later found that "the attacks on the ball-bearing industry had [no] measurable effect on essential war production."!  By the organization of USSTAF in January 1944, General Spaatz had a growing capability to destroy selected strategic targets in Germany. In the months that followed the Big Week, however, USSTAF strategic bombing capabilities were  157  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 179 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  diverted to attacks against German V-weapon sites and to missions in direct or general support of Allied ground troops in Europe. Even though Spaatz was permitted to begin attacks against Germany’s oil resources on 12 May 1944, a massive, sustained air campaign against strategic air targets in Germany did not begin until after D-day, when Allied ground troops were safely ashore on the Normandy coast. The intensive strategic air campaign undertaken in September 1944 against Germany’s transportation was described by the United States Strategic Bombing Survey as "the decisive blow that completely disorganized the German economy." Contrary to the intention of early AAF planners, the German electric power system was never a principal target. "Had electric generating plants and substations been made primary targets . . .," the United States Strategic Bombing Survey stated, "the evidence indicates that their destruction would have had serious effects on Germany’s war production." In addition, by December 1944, German reserves of fuel had become insufficient for sustaining effective military operations. Under the full force of strategic bomber attack and with war requirements multiplying more swiftly than production could h