91  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 313 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  assistance together with American air support and a moderate aid program for the Chinese economy might have prevented the Chinese Communist victory. "The decision to withhold previously pledged American support," Gen Douglas MacArthur would write, "was one of the greatest mistakes ever made in our history."  Following the withdrawal of American military forces from Korea in June 1949, the mission of General MacArthur’s Far East Command was limited to the defense of the geographical region including Japan, the Ryukyus, the Marianas, and the Philippines. In an interview with a newspaper correspondent in Tokyo early in 1949, MacArthur did not include the Republic of Korea within America’s defense responsibilities. "Now the Pacific has become an Anglo-Saxon lake," MacArthur was quoted as saying, "and our line of defense runs through the chain of islands fringing the coast of Asia. It starts from the Philippines and continues through the Ryukyu archipelago which includes its broad main bastion, Okinawa. Then it bends back through Japan and the Aleutian Island chain to Alaska." In an apparent effort to clarify a position relative to Formosa, Secretary of State Acheson in a speech before the National Press Club on 12 January 1950 stated that the defensive perimeter of the United States ran from the Aleutians to Japan, then to the Ryukyus, and then to the Philippines. Should an attack occur in some area outside this perimeter, Acheson stated that initial reliance for resistance to such an attack would be expected from the people subjected to the attack and "then upon the commitments of the entire civilized world under the charter of the United Nations which so far has not proved a weak reed to lean on by any people who are determined to protect their independence against outside aggression." In explaining this speech, Acheson later maintained that he had said exactly what he meant to say. "N