ce the task of codifying the Air Force’s fundamental beliefs, but, as the foregoing quotations reveal, they also have employed a diversity of discourse to categorize these fundamental beliefs. Indeed, the above mentioned Air War College study concluded that "there appears to be a fine line of demarcation between concepts and doctrine on the one hand, and doctrines and principles on the other hand." They added: "It is difficult to differentiate between concepts which existed in the minds of some farsighted individuals in the Air Force and the doctrine which was accepted as official by the War Department. Also doctrine is easily confused with strategy." Adding additional complexity to any attempt to analyze basic Air Force thought patterns is the fact that the terms used to categorize fundamental Air Force beliefs apparently varied with the persons using them and certainly varied with the time period in which the terms were employed. It is not too hard to imagine why early Air Force thinkers began to refer to their fundamental ideas as doctrines. The term doctrine had an old meaning in military establishments as a teaching, or, in a collective sense, a body of teachings.  In teaching the art of war, however, Marshal Ferdinand Foch laid great emphasis upon doctrine: The writings of this hero of the Marne and Yser strongly influenced the post-World War I US Army. Where commanders in the past had preferred to remain mysterious (to handle armies like pawns on a chess board) Foch had taught at the Ecole de Guerre that commanders should instead make their intentions known to their subordinates. "We have, then, a doctrine," he explained. "All the brains have been limbered up and regard all questions from an identical point of view. The fundamental idea of the problem being known, each one will solve the problem in his own fashion, and these thousand fashions, we may  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 25 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  be very sure, will act to dire