eral basis and then we were all going to be cut proportionately because there was no agreed on strategic plan against which to buy." Symington, therefore, took personal responsibility for raising the Air Force budget request to more than $11 billion. As a result, the uncoordinated original estimates of the three military services received by Forrestal totaled more than $30 million.>! The indications were that no such amount of money would be available. During fiscal year 1949 the Bureau of the Budget had expected that the treasury would have a $5 billion surplus, but, because of an economic recession, there would be a deficit of almost $2 billion. In the summer of 1948, acting on advice from the Bureau of the Budget and apparently without consulting the National Security Council or the Joint Chiefs of Staff, President Truman established a ceiling of $14.4 billion on the national defense budget for fiscal year 19502*" The wide difference between the military requirements submitted by the individual services and the presidential ceiling forced the secretary of defense to make decisions.  In an effort to return responsibilities for stating force requirements to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Secretary Forrestal secured the appointment of a budget review board of three officers from the services headed by Gen Joseph T. McNarney, commander of the Air Materiel Command. As early as 10 July, Forrestal also submitted a formal request for budgetary guidelines to the National Security Council. When he received no response, he evidently sought bits and pieces of advice elsewhere. Walter B. Smith, US ambassador to Russia, told Forrestal that the Russians did not, in his opinion, have the industrial competence to develop the atomic bomb in quantity for "five or even ten years." General Vandenberg reassured Forrestal that the Air Force could drop the atomic bomb "where, how, and when it was wanted." Working in terms of requirements for balanced forces, the McNarney board reduced the s