iddle 1950s and would soon be covered by Soviet intermediate range ballistic missiles. 8 Seeking to provide increased security and to compound the enemy’s offensive force requirement, General LeMay recommended in 1956 that no more than one squadron of B-52s and one wing of B-47s should be located on a single base. The Air Force accepted the objective of so dispersing the B-52s during fiscal year 1958, but it could not immediately afford to disperse the much larger number of B-47 wings. >? As eventually worked out, the solution for the dispersal of the B-47 wings included thinning them down to one wing per base and designating an additional 80 to 100 alternate airfields to which B-47s would disperse in periods of international tension.  The survival of strategic aircraft on a given air base was related to the degree of alert practicable and the warning time available. With the distant early warning (DEW) line in operation against Soviet jet aircraft, LeMay counted on getting two hours’ tactical warning time and believed that it would be possible to get something like 60 percent of his aircraft into the air in this time. Against a Soviet ICBM attack, however, the zone of interior bases could count only on about a 15-minute tactical warning; overseas bases would be fortunate to get as much as 10 minute’s advance notice of Soviet IRBM strikes. As a part of their normal training some aircraft crews were always in a state of readiness for missions and could quickly be diverted to retaliatory strikes. Already looking forward to the era of intercontinental  512  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 534 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  missiles, LeMay began preparations in 1956 to secure a degree of ground alert readiness that would enable his wings to launch as many aircraft as possible in 15 minutes. "If we can get this alert concept worked out to a point where we can operate under it with a high degree of efficiency," he said, "then I think that even though the Russians ha