. . It is visualized that this manual will be the top level Air Force document from which will be derived all other Air Force publications relative to air power and joint operations." Power directed the Air University to revise FM 100-20 and to provide recommendations for the type of Air Force publication that would be employed to disseminate doctrine.” Without awaiting action on this problem, the Air Force in August 1947 summoned representatives of the Air University, the Air Defense Command, the Tactical Air Command, and the Strategic Air Command to form two panels to provide guidance for an Air Force position in regard to air defense procedures, doctrine, and organization. Headed by Col Richard H. Carmichael, chief of the Air Power Employment Section of the Air University’s Evaluation Division, the Air Defense Policy Panel held meetings during the winter of 1947-48 and made its final written report to the Air Force chief of staff on 2 February 1948. The report concluded: "The security of the nation from air attack rests primarily upon our strategic air offensive capabilities, but air defense is necessary and can achieve a degree of effectiveness which may mean the difference between victory and defeat." It recommended that a unified continental theater of operations comprised of Army, Navy, and Air Force forces operating under a single commander would provide the most effective and economical organization to ensure the security of the United States against air attack.  When the Air University was directed to revise FM 100-20 and to recommend a system of doctrinal publications, General Schlatter took account of the fact that the Air University’s Evaluation Division had only 18 officers and that not all of them could be assigned to a manuals project. He, therefore, directed that the Evaluation Division monitor and evaluate such projects, which would be carried out in the Air University’s schools and colleges. He specifically directed the Air War College to revise t