e the open skies proposal was in conception and under consideration, however, it had important effects upon US space policy. In view of the growing interest in scientific satellites, von Braun had proposed in June 1954 that a Redstone missile should be used to launch a small slug into orbit. Since a Redstone was successfully test fired on 24 May 1955, it appeared to be the most practical booster for launching the American IGY satellite. At a meeting on 26 May, however, the National Security Council expressed the opinion that, because of the soon-to-be-proposed open skies policy, the American scientific satellite ought not to be launched into orbit by a military missile. In the Department of Defense, Assistant Secretary Donald Quarles directed the services to submit plans for a scientific satellite and established a committee of scientists and engineers to evaluate the proposals. The committee evaluated these recommendations during June and July 1955. For their part, the Army and Navy favored acceptance of an Orbiter project to be boosted by the Redstone missile, but the Navy suggested an  547  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 569 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  alternate plan calling for the use of a modified version of the old Viking test missile that was free from military implication. The Air Force was not able to make a serious proposal for the IGY satellite that would not interfere with the progress of its ICBM program. After evaluating the proposals, the committee was said to have believed that the whole satellite project was actually premature. On 4 August it, nevertheless, reported that a small satellite could be put in orbit during the international geophysical year. The committee noted that use of an Atlas booster would give the greatest assurance of success, but it respected the Air Force belief that such an employment of the Atlas would interfere with the ICBM program. The majority of the committee recommended use of an improved Viking missile