red  99  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 121 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  the production of radar equipment sufficiently important to divert available facilities to it. In 1939, however, Hermann Goering, the Luftwaffe commander, preempted some 100 warning radar sets that had been ordered by the German navy and sited them along Germany’s coast and borders.  But only the British had fully developed the potential of radar. Recognizing the vulnerability of the British Isles to German air attack, the British Air Ministry had established a special Committee for the Scientific Survey of Air Defense under the chairmanship of Henry T. Tizard in 1934. In a highly secret program, Robert Watson-Watt and other scientists had devised radio direction finding (RDF) equipment. A chain of these RDF stations was sited to guard Britain in a hurried program following Munich. As a result of expedited research, the British developed air-to-surface vessel (ASV) search radar by September 1938 and experimental airborne-intercept (AI) radar by June 1939. The demonstration of a working model of a new type of microwave radar tube in February 1940 portended an additional important breakthrough in the whole field of radar.” "Unless British science had proven superior to German," Winston S. Churchill subsequently wrote of the Battle of Britain, "and unless its strange sinister resources had been effectively brought to bear on the struggle for survival, we might well have been defeated, and being defeated, destroyed."»>>  In the United States during the 1930s the existence of radar was a heavy secret and the air warfare theorists at the Air Corps Tactical School were uninformed about its potential. As long as aircraft warning services depended upon visual reports of ground observers (who could not be stationed within enemy territory), the problem of massing fighter defense against a bombing attack was practically insurmountable, considering the great advantages the bomber force had i