at successful air defense must be capable of destroying an attacking force or an aggression potential before the attack can be launched or the potential realized"!  In his book Air Power: Key to Survival, published in 1950, de Seversky continued to attach great importance to air dominance. "We can undertake nothing through military force," de Seversky also told an Army War College audience in March 1952,  unless first we have secured command of the air. To gain command of the air, we must win the air battle. .. . The idea that we can send a lot of bombers, either from bases abroad, or from bases at home or from aircraft carriers, and destroy everything in Russia without first winning command of the air is, in my estimation, sheer bunk. ... Therefore, the battle for command of the air is just as much in the cards today as it was in the last war....Just the same as it would have been impractical in the last century to control a part of the ocean—just a patch of the ocean. .. . So the air battle will be widesprea and will be fought for the command of the entire air space, clear around the globe.!  172  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 194 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  Development of Tactical Air Power  In a talk with one of his assistants on 22 August 1945, Maj Gen Lauris Norstad, who was then the chief of Army Air Forces plans, stated that the conception of the tactical air force was "one of the greatest developments" of World War II. However, he immediately added that the atomic bomb might have made a tactical air force "as old-fashioned as the Maginot line." The Air Force would continue to debate the effect of nuclear weapons on air power at the same time that it was recording the doctrinal lessons of World War II applicable to tactical air power.  The experience of World War II left no doubt as to the impact of air power on land battles. "The Normandy invasion," Gen Dwight D. Eisenhower explained on 16 November 1945,  was based on a deep-seated faith in the