k F. Everest, the Fifth  337  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 359 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Air Force undertook to neutralize the greatest portion of the rail lines supporting the Communist ground force. He asked that Naval Forces Far East employ its carrier aircraft against sections of Korea’s east coast railways, while the FEAF Bomber Command maintained a continuing interdiction of four key railway bridges. Begun suddenly on 18 August 1951, the United Nations Command’s comprehensive railway interdiction campaign evidently took the Reds completely by surprise and initially was very successful. Fighter-bombers destroyed railway track much faster than the Reds could repair it, and night-flying B-26 intruders took a respectable toll of the motor truck convoys that jammed the roads in a desperate effort to supply frontline Communist divisions. nt  During the summer of 1951 the Communists had been busily expanding their Manchurian airfield complex around Antung: the Communist air forces were apparently galvanized into action by the initial success of the United Nations railway interdiction campaign. Displaying flying skill that left no doubt in Weyland’s mind that they were Russians, MiG flight leaders led their formations in determined assaults against F-86 Sabre barrier patrols south of the Yalu. Enjoying superior numbers, other MiG formations evaded the Sabres and penetrated well southward into Korea to pounce on rail-cutting fighter-bombers. On 15 September, Weyland warned Vandenberg that the Communist air forces were getting out of control. "If the present trend continues," he said, "there is a definite possibility that the enemy will be able to establish bases in Korea and threaten our supremacy over the front lines." Near the end of September, Fifth Air Force reconnaissance pilots discovered that the Communists had begun building three major jet airfields within North Korea. Supported by F-86 barrier patrols and escorted by F-84s, FEAF Bomber Command B-