become so terse that the meaning is clouded and darkness descends upon the reader.  In addition to the problem of delimiting the characteristics of the operational manuals, the Evaluation Staff had difficulties getting assistance from the Air Force operating commands and in procuring the assignment of officers needed to maintain its strength. As a working procedure, the Evaluation Staff undertook to prepare a draft of a manual, submit it to the operational command for review, and then form a committee including representatives from the operating command to revise the draft. The Strategic Air Command participated enthusiastically in the review of the manual on strategic air operations and sent officers to the Air University to work with a review committee. The Air Defense Command was  390  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 412 --- AF WRITES ITS DOCTRINE  willing to work in this same fashion. The Military Air Transport Service (MATS) found so little wrong with the draft on the global air transport manual that it did not want a review committee. In fact, MATS so readily concurred with the proposed draft that Momyer was not satisfied that it had been given "the detailed review necessary for expressing sound doctrinal matter." In view of the number of manuals projected in the theater air warfare field, Momyer regretted that the Tactical Air Command "has not been able to participate to the extent that I believe is necessary." °6 Tn his annual Air War College report filed on 1 July 1952, General Wilson pointed out that the Evaluation Staff had suffered not only from a lack of technically qualified personnel but from a shortage in its authorized strength. Authorized 20 officers — 18 of whom were to be qualified in doctrinal areas — the Evaluation Staff had only 12 officers assigned in the doctrinal area in November 1952. As a result of this demonstration of deficiency, the Air Force brought the Evaluation Staff up to its assigned strength and desired experience capabilit