ical air power will be entering into direct combat with enemy ground forces—not only supporting our ground forces in their fight against the enemy ground forces. ... Clearly, it is not acceptable to relegate tactical air to only a supporting role. It is no longer sufficient even to declare that tactical air and ground forces cooperate equally. Rather, tactical air must now be conceived as having a role in the battle against enemy ground forces at times completely on its own.  The Air Force officially accepted the concept on 29 June 1953 when it issued a revised regulation governing the organization of the Tactical Air Command. This regulation defined tactical air operations  as the application of all air power, under the command or operational control of a theater or area commander, against an enemy’s military potential and capabilities in being, normally only within the theater area of responsibility. Restricted only by limitations of equipment and capabilities of designated units, tactical air operations may encompass any task necessary in the furtherance of the theater mission.  In explaining the change in tactical air doctrine Brigadier General Ferguson noted that tactical air power  was considered a supporting arm until recently when new weapons were introduced which in themselves produce decisive results. . . . The formidable nature of this new source of firepower, in fact, reverses the orthodox relationships of air and ground forces. Specifically, it is quite reasonable to say that we should look for a modification in our tactics and in our concepts of war . . . which would point toward the exploitation of tactical air atomic attacks by highly mobile ground forces.  Many Army officers who served in Korea insisted that the ground forces ought to possess their own organic close-support aviation, but the several joint evaluation  347  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 369 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  boards that met in the Far East Command during an