terrent to general war, so can this total firepower deter local war. The right measure of this total firepower can, in turn, resolve local conflict if we fail to deter the aggression. . .. We deter with our total capability, including all lessor facets thereof; we will elect to use that portion required and best suited to the resolution of the particular conflict." The policy of any nation, especially in the nuclear age, demanded that if conflict must be waged it would be done in a manner as to involve the least risk of aggravating the conflict into general war. This approach required the rapid and resolute application of force, neither too little nor too much. "Those principles," White thought, "call for a military capability, within (and not separate from as in addition to) total US forces, which is instantly ready, flexible, and selective including nuclear firepower." He emphasized that the application of force would vary. The Strategic Air Command certainly would not be unleashed to handle minor disputes, but it could dispatch aircraft to warn, repulse, or destroy aggressor forces in significant local conflicts. "If the conflict is so small as to obviate the need for the balancing power of nuclear weapons," he continued, "then the United States certainly has the capability to handle the conflict." General White urged that it would be impossible to preconceive and tailor a force that would be appropriate to the many types of  463  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 485 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  limited conflict that could occur: it would be much wiser to select and adapt portions of the joint and allied general war capabilities and use them as political requirements might dictate at the time.?? Appearing before the Senate Preparedness Investigating Subcommittee on 17 December, General White acknowledged that local war might be said to be the primary job of the Tactical Air Command, but he considered that the Strategic Air Command could "because of its long