go into the carrier go on some other weapon system which I would conceive to be more important.""®? Responding to a question, Doctor York was quoted as saying that the Lebanon emergency had demonstrated the importance of carriers, destroyers, and possibly cruisers as "distant bases." He added, however, that in a major war against a "highly sophisticated enemy like Russia, they are going to be blown up."!”’ Nonetheless, as a result of what Secretary McElroy described as "soul searching . .. at the very highest level of Government," the Department of Defense budget for fiscal 1960 included the construction of another Forrestal-class aircraft carrier. "The importance of the carrier as a means of projecting our military power for a limited war situation into the peripheral areas  615  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 637 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  of the world," he explained, "was very clearly demonstrated in both Lebanon and Taiwan."!*! Where the CASF deployment to Lebanon had encountered problems where overflight rights were denied and where available airfields were scarce and became congested, the Department of Defense noted that the aircraft carrier was "a very important cold war instrument" since it provided "a very effective limited warfare capability in places where overflight rights for aircraft are often unobtainable and in place where landing fields often do not exist."  In the months prior to Lebanon and Quemoy, both Secretary Dulles and General Twining had voiced the opinion that tactical nuclear weapons might be used without necessarily expanding a small war into a general nuclear war. During these crises, however, the Soviets attempted to convince the world that any use of atomic weapons would mean general war. At the height of the Quemoy crisis on 7 September, Khrushchev wrote Eisenhower, warning: "An attack upon the Chinese People’s Republic... is an attack upon the Soviet Union."!”? In another letter on 19 September, Khrushchev declared that: "T