rate the Armed Forces. ... The DOD Reorganization Act of 1958 was a step in this direction. ... I feel that sooner or later we must go beyond this. Semiautonomous combat organizations are not the complete answer. We need central command and control. To achieve this, the barriers that are created by service interest must be removed. Combat elements having the same function or mission must be integrated into functional areas under single control. ... As I see it now, this can best be accomplished under a single chief; one who can make decisions on force structure, approve strategic plans and weapon systems and assign those systems for use by given elements of the Armed Forces.  The Air Force position was regarded favorably in some congressional committees. In its report on the Department of Defense appropriation bill in the summer of 1959, the House Appropriations Committee stated:  The President, the Secretary of Defense, the Congress, and the American people have aright to expect a betterjob from the JCS in the way of military guidance. Asa corporate body, the Joint Chiefs of Staff must set up plans for the guidance of the various commands and the respective services. Hard decisions are required, and the President, the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs must assume the major responsibility for tailoring military forces to requirements. Each year the question which confronts us of "who gets what" is becoming more difficult to cope with.  In September 1959 the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives recommended an Army-Air Force merger as a beginning step to end waste and confusion in the Pentagon. "While each service tries to accommodate and adapt its mission concept to the space medium," the committee reported, "the logic of new weapons technology has virtually destroyed the traditional basis for services organized around strategic land, sea, and air missions. ... There is historical irony in the fact that the Air Force achieved its