sistance for fiscal year 1953, would be less than $60 billion!  Since the Air Force had stated requirements for an expansion to 155 wings (138 combat and 17 troop carrier), the acceptance by the Joint Chiefs of only 143 wings committed the Air Force to a program that Finletter described as having no fat in it. Except for "a very small number of wings" to be left in the Far East at the end of the Korean War, Finletter stated that the 143-wing program contained "no wings capable of fighting anywhere else outside of the air defense of the United States, the strategic air operations against any aggressor, and the tactical air operations in Europe." As established, the 143-wing objective placed emphasis upon the strategic air force and the air defense force, which Vandenberg stressed as being "complementary parts of the air weapon system and... each... essential to the air defense of the United States." The Strategic Air Command’s share of the 143-wing strength included seven heavy bombardment, 30 medium bombardment, 10 strategic fighter, four heavy strategic reconnaissance, and six medium strategic reconnaissance wings. Representing a substantial increase, 29 fighter-interceptor wings were programmed, most of them to be assigned to the Air Defense Command. Designed "to operate where the Army operates," the tactical air units of the 143-wing program were computed in terms of training requirements in the United States, a heavy commitment to the NATO area, and a minimal establishment in the Far East. Tactical air units would include two tactical bomber, five light bombardment, six day fighter, 22 fighter-bomber, five tactical reconnaissance, four heavy troop carrier, and 13 medium troop carrier wings.  Secretary Finletter hailed the 143-wing authorization as "a decision of great moment" that broke the division-by-services defense funds allocation pattern, but Truman’s decision to hold military spending below $60 billion delayed the earliest date of readiness of the moderni