of staff, pointed out that new weapons were causing the roles and missions of the services to overlap more and more. To provide a military organization "that will help us all to be free of conflicting service loyalties and confusing influences," White favored further integration of forces into joint commands and a free transfer of officers between the services. In an appearance on a national television program on 3 June 1956, former Air Force Secretary Thomas K. Finletter stated that it was "absolutely necessary that we coordinate all of these services and put them into a single service." During 1956, Gill Robb Wilson (president of the Air Force Association), Professor Barton Leach, and retired Gen Elwood R. Quesada endorsed an integration of the military services.  In an article published during the winter of 1956-57, Col Albert P. Sights, Jr., a member of the Policy Division of the Air Force Directorate of Plans, provided a suggested blueprint to the way in which United States national defense forces could be organized to accomplish the basic tasks of defense deriving from the national objectives. Sights conceived that the basic national defense tasks were maintenance of nuclear deterrence, continental defense, a strategic reserve, and peripheral defenses in the Atlantic and Pacific. He visualized that the various combat functions that were dispersed in 17 unified, specified, and single-service organizations ought to be consolidated into five autonomous task-centered combat commands, which could be designed as the strategic atomic, continental defense, Pacific defense, Atlantic defense, and strategic reserve commands. A chief of military operations should be appointed to provide a centralized direction and control of these combat forces in peace and war. The three military services should  575  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 597 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  be reduced to supporting elements of the combat organization. The secretary of defense shoul