rd to ignore the basic precept that all truths change with time." He pointed out that money limitations would not indefinitely permit continuing an overlapping of missile and aircraft capabilities. More thought should be given to missiles and to the effect that antiaircraft missiles would have on high-level bombing. White thought that Air Force officers had never respected antiaircraft artillery; thus, he directed SAC to begin a study of the potential effect of nuclear antiaircraft missiles on high-level bombing. White also stated that he wanted Air Force officers to stop criticizing Snark and Rascal. His guidance was not intended to curtail individual thinking but to stress that the Air Force would need to present a solid front on the subject of missiles. "With the advent of the guided missile," White emphasized, "the US Air Force is in a critical era of its existence. It is essential that we all pull together in the effort to properly utilize this family of new weapons system for the defense of our Nation."? °  In his address to the Air Force commanders on 30 September, White presented an Air Force credo on missiles; this statement was soon released to all major  514  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 536 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  commanders and to the public as the Air Force policy on missile development and employment. This policy statement read:  1. The USAF has long recognized the potential of missiles. According to current roles and missions the Air Force has the greatest need for such weapons.  2. Missiles and aircraft can be combined, capitalizing on the performance and characteristics of each, to create a formidable instrument of air power considerably greater than the use of missiles or aircraft alone. The creation of such an instrument is a primary object of the Air Force.  3. Missiles, as they are perfected, will supplement and complement the manned aircraft. However, to preserve the required capability and flexibility of operations, it is esse