d fitted with whatever armament possible.!4 Working through the Christmas holidays, the Air Corps Board completed its report on 3 January 1940. This report, "Fire Power of Bombardment Formations," noted that the firepower of American bombers was decidedly greater than that of European bombers. It recommended increased numbers of guns as practicable, better sighting systems, and increased gunnery training. It also recommended that consideration be given to developing a long-range fighter, a means whereby bombers could refuel accompanying fighters in flight, or a means by which bombers could carry, release, and recover high-performance pursuit aircraft. Despite the demonstrations of the vulnerability of bombardment aircraft, the Air Corps Board recommended that no thought should be given to reducing the importance attached to bombardment aviation in Air Corps doctrine. While pursuit escort was highly desirable for bomber penetrations into heavily defended areas in order to minimize losses of bombardment aircraft, the absence of such pursuit protection should not justify the abandoning of important missions.  Even though he remained committed to heavy bombardment, General Arnold continued to be troubled about the ability of bombers to operate in the face of strong hostile fighter operation. Accordingly, on 2 March 1940, he instructed the Air Corps Board to obtain a consensus at Maxwell Field on the types of pursuit and fighter aircraft required and the steps that could be taken to develop them from existing aircraft types. Taking into consideration the existing defensive mission of the Air Corps, the board after seven days of study recommended that highest priorities be given to the development of a fighter-interceptor for local air defense. The only possible solution that the board could see for developing bomber escort aircraft was to adapt some bombers to defensive purposes. While the board was not entirely certain that such would be necessary if the bomber defenses