mmand’s Composite Air Strike Force. At the same time these changes were in the offing, the Air War College took another step originally  397  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 419 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  proposed by General Wilson in July 1952. "An organization such as the Air War College," Wilson had reasoned, "should develop over a period of years a library of its own military writings." Activated in May 1954, the Air War College Studies Group became responsible for editing and preparing for publication at the newly established Air University Press the best of the student theses, lecturers’ manuscripts, and writings of the Air War College staff.  As soon as the Air Force issued Air Force Manual 1-2, United States Air Force Basic Doctrine, on 1 April 1953, General Twining sent out a personal letter to each major air commander requesting that they send their comments and suggested changes to the Air University, which would make periodic substantive reviews of the doctrine. The major air commanders generally welcomed the manual and had few changes in mind. Only General Weyland, then commanding the Far East Air Forces, recommended substantial changes and he merely desired an elaboration of the principles of war as they pertained to the employment of air forces. After the comments were received, neither the Air Staff nor the Air University believed that any substantial revision was in order, and the new edition of Air Force Manual 1-2 published on 1 April 1954 contained only a few minor editorial changes.!3  Within a few months, however, the new doctrinal thinking at the Air University indicated that AFM 1-2 ought to be broadened in scope. The work would be undertaken by a new group of Air Force thinkers. A rotation of personnel and the internal reorganization of the Air War College Evaluation Staff in July 1954 was marked by the assignment of Col Ephraim M. Hampton as Air War College deputy for evaluation and Col Jerry D. Page as chief of the Doctrin