S, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  provided the ground rules for American defense policy. "Actually," Radford explained,  there is no local defense which alone can contain the massive land power of the Communist world. Consequently, local defenses must be reinforced by the deterrent power of strong counteroffensive forces possessing the capacity for devastating counter blows deep into enemy territory. In other words, an Allied strategic concept of operations must be based on the combination of local defenses, deterrent power, and an ability to strike swiftly and powerfully. Our current defense program is geared to that concept. .. . In developing the collective physical shield . . .a growing reliance can be placed upon Allied forces now being strengthened in many areas of the free world.... But the essence of our concept is the capacity to strike in devastating strength at any element of the enemy’s power. There can be no alternative. A workable deterrent will cause a would-be aggressor to hesitate, particularly if he knows in advance that he thereby not only exposes those particular forces he uses for aggression, but he also deprives his other assets of "sanctuary" status.  Radford emphasized that "if the Armed Forces of the Soviet Union committed aggression in force against this or that nation to whom we were tied in a collective security arrangement . . . this would be the beginning of World War III. i"  Air Force Views on Massive Retaliation  According to one observer the majority of Air Force officers Appeared to be strongly in favor of the military strategy of massive retaliation.” "History may show," stated Air Force Magazine, "that the ‘massive retaliation policy’ of the Eisenhower Administration marked the turning point in the Free World’s successive retreats and indecisive stalemates in dealing with the onrushing tide of aggressive Communism." ° Writing as vice chief of staff of the Air Force, Gen Thomas D. White described the new national security policy as being a p