ns would be deployed to defend the industrial area of the northeastern United States and southeastern Canada — eight squadrons would be sited in the United States and two in Canada. These reductions would save an estimated $500 million in the fiscal year 1961 budget. White asked for the authority to apply this money to accelerate development of the Midas satellite system, which was designed to detect hostile ICBMs at the earliest possible moment after they were launched; to speed construction of the second and third BMEWS installations; to procure additional Atlas missiles and to accelerate the development of a mobile Minuteman missile; to improve the capabilities of century-series fighter-interceptors; and to continue technical development for an advanced fire control and missile system for a long-range fighter-interceptor.”°°  In justifying the Air Force proposal to divert funds previously committed to air defense to offensive purposes, General White explained: "Of course, our philosophy is based on the fact that offense is the best defense. .. . I am perfectly certain that . . . air defense could absorb the national budget, and still could not guarantee 100-percent defense. So, in the final analysis, it is a matter of judgment at what level you balance out between offense and a minimum of adequate defense." General Estes summed up the North American Air Defense Command’s requirement for a "mixed force of weapons, each of which has the capabilities which are not directly attainable in the other type of weapon, to take on any attack." "Manned interceptors," Estes said,  complement Bomarc by having capabilities that are unique in having a human operator aboard. The manned interceptor provides the only means in peace time for positive identification and in war it is flexible in terms of redeployment to meet threats in different areas and in capability for reattack. The interceptor can kill one bomber and then go on to kill a second. It can be recovered, refueled, and