n that against Japan. Although he did not believe that a supercarrier would be of value in a continental war, he saw a great requirement for the employment of aircraft carriers in antisubmarine warfare. He said that he was "not only willing but insistent that the types of carriers which can help meet the threat of an enemy submarine fleet shall be developed fully and kept in instant readiness. The sea lanes must be kept open."  Speaking as the newly appointed chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Bradley deplored the fact that too many secrets were being spread on the record. Nevertheless, he felt forced to disclose the military plans and preparations of the United States. With reference to the corporate Joint Chiefs of Staff, Bradley said: "We all believe that the No. 1 priority for the Air Force must be strategic bombing ability." The Joint Chiefs "considered the fact that we were able to retaliate quickly as one of the big deterrents to war today." He identified Soviet Russia as the major adversary to the United States and saw Europe as "the first prize for any aggressor in the world today." His basic concept of US military operations in a future war included the defense of the United States and North America, early retaliation from combat ready bases, the seizure of forward bases to permit attacks against  255  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 277 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  enemy targets from shorter ranges, and—the ultimate necessity—the ability "to carry the war back to the enemy by all means at our disposal" including "strategic bombardment and large-scale land operations." In a continental war, he believed there would be little requirement for island-hopping and predicted that "large-scale amphibious operations, such as those in Sicily and Normandy, will never occur again."  In his discussion of strategy, Bradley defined strategic bombing as "violent airborne attacks on the war-making capacity or potential of an enemy nation." He jus