der in chief, US European Command, reported that war might well be imminent. "For many months, based on logical analysis," Clay messaged, "I have felt and held that war was unlikely for at least ten years. Within the last few weeks, I have felt a subtle change in Soviet attitude which I cannot define but which now gives me a feeling that it may come with dramatic suddenness."”™4  233  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 255 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  When he appeared before the House Subcommittee on Military Appropriations on 16 March 1948, Secretary Forrestal conceded that the international position of the United States had deteriorated. "Wars," he said, "are usually caused by the assurance on the part of an aggressive power that it possesses sufficient superiority to overcome any possible obstacles to the success of its military efforts. ... Since the United States is a democracy —a form of government which traditionally does not start a war of aggression—its national defense policy must be directed at preventing the development of that tempting imbalance of power." Forrestal admitted that the president’s commission and the congressional board had shown that the nation’s air strength was less than its strategic position required. "There is no question," he said, "but that our national security would be greatly enhanced by such a powerful Air Force." He argued, nonetheless, that the armed forces budgets had "to strike a balance between funds which are available and expenditures which might be considered strategically desirable or even essential." Thus, Forrestal supported the $10 billion military budget, which would maintain the Air Force at 55 combat groups and would keep the Army and Navy in an appropriate balance with this force. "While the Air Force and naval aviation alone may be the cutting edge," he concluded, "we must also have the logistical organization to back them up, the adequately equipped Ground Force to seize and hold the bases from whi