ced students to examine the whole scope of air organization. Prepared as a seminar activity in the first class of the Air War College, problem no. 4, "Proposed Reorganization Army Air Forces," was completed on 6 January 1947. This study recommended that the Headquarters United States Air Force should be "a policy and planning staff with virtually all the operational activity of the Air Forces to begin at the major command level below this staff." Believing that "wars are waged with two weapons—men and materiel—and the combination of the two provide for operations," the Air War College study recommended that all headquarters staffs in the Air Force should be organized into three activities: personnel and administration, materiel and logistics, and plans and operations. Possibly reflecting the views of Maj Gen Orvil A. Anderson, who was a founding commandant of the Air War College, the study also recommended that the most effective utilization of air power in an overall strategy required the consolidation of air defense, strategic striking, and tactical support forces into a single command. The study accordingly proposed to eliminate the Strategic Air Command, the Tactical Air Command, and the Air Defense Command and to place all air power capabilities under a single Air Combat Command.  Whether by design or coincidence, Spaatz accepted the three-deputy system recommended by the Air War College when he reorganized Headquarters United States Air Force on 10 October 1947. This reorganization divided Air Staff functions between the deputy chiefs of staff for personnel and administration, operations, and materiel, and the comptroller, who would later be recognized as a deputy chief of staff. Some of the functions that had been exercised by the deputy chief of staff for research and development necessarily passed upward to the new statutorily created Research and Development Board of the National Defense Establishment. The October reorganization of the Air Staff placed the