eless, emphasized that the Air Force should not completely close the door on the development of aircraft with built-in range. Since much of the information about the B-36 was still speculative, the panel recommended that the Air Force ought to continue the funding of the 95 B-36s that were on order. The latter serial models of these B-36s could be equipped with improved engines, and it might be possible to convert some of the earlier serial B-36As into aerial tankers. At sessions held on 27-30 January 1948, the USAF Aircraft and Weapons Board accepted the Heavy Bombardment Committee’s recommendations, and Spaatz formally approved them on 3 March 1948.20}  In the winter of 1947-48, the Soviet Union began revealing its aggressive designs upon Western Europe. According to unofficial reports reaching the US State Department late in 1947, the Soviet general staff sought permission from the Soviet government to push troops straight into Western Europe, thus preempting the rebuilding of Western Europe with military force before Marshall Plan aid could become effective. As the story was told, however, the Politburo overruled the Red Army and issued orders for internal Communist strikes and revolts throughout Western Europe. The organization for revolution was activated in December 1947, but the essential structure of most European governments held up despite an agonizing week of strikes and disorders. 02 On 24 February 1948, however, a Communist coup d’état overthrew the government of Czechoslovakia, which had been a model of democratic rule in central Europe. Few Communist acts of aggression shook the Western nations as profoundly as the loss of this friendly republic to the forces of Soviet subversion. Sina top-secret message from Berlin on 5 March, Gen Lucius D. Clay, commander in chief, US European Command, reported that war might well be imminent. "For many months, based on logical analysis," Clay messaged, "I have felt and held that war was unlikely for at least ten y