d States Air Force was still a new military organization in June 1950. Thus, at the same time that Vandenberg faced the problem of mobilizing larger air striking forces, he also had to speed decision-making capabilities in the Air Staff and to build a comprehensive field organization for the growing Air Force. The headquarters organization, field establishment, and force composition had to be tailored to new strategic concepts, since the strategy of minimum deterrence followed up until 1950 had not prevented the outbreak of conflict in Korea. In the House of Representatives, Chairman Vinson was openly apprehensive about Air Force capabilities for air defense and tactical air warfare. In the Senate, Paul Douglas urged that the internal organization of the Air Force ought to be established by law, as had long been the case with the Army and Navy. ‘  304  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 326 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  Although the Air Force began to reorganize its field commands in the autumn of 1950, it asked for more time to evaluate the global air situation —including Korea—before taking a stand on an Air Force organization act. At the request of General Stratemeyer, Vandenberg sent Col Ethelred Sykes, who had been serving as a special assistant to Secretary Finletter, to Tokyo early in August 1950 to analyze the air warfare lessons being learned there. Within the headquarters of the Fifth Air Force in Korea, Maj Gen Earle E. Partridge organized a tactical airpower evaluation (TAPE) section. On 6 October, General Norstad, the Air Force vice chief of staff, initiated an even larger evaluation project. "Regardless of . . . limiting conditions," Norstad said, "we must utilize the Korean experiences for future planning purposes." He sent Maj Gen Glenn O. Barcus and a team of senior officers to Tokyo to make a broad evaluation of the effectiveness of the Air Force in Korea. Believing that there also would be a requirement for an investigation by an informed but impa