arget, such asa city. I say, technically, I don’t think anybody in the world knows how to do such a thing, and I feel confident it will not be done for a very long period of time to come. ... I think we can leave that out of our thinking. I wish the American people would leave that out of their thinking.  In making up its five-year research and development program, the Army Air Forces chose to believe von Karman rather than Bush. "There is great danger that the Air Force," stated General Knerr, secretary-general of the Air Board, in February 1946, "may find itself in the position of the Coast Artillery and the Navy in the not too distant future thru failing to realize that the airplane can well join the battleship and antiaircraft artillery as ineffective weapons carriers. The aerial missile, by whatever means it may be delivered, is the weapon of the Air Force."41 During 1946, the Air Force accordingly negotiated a contract for Project MX-774 with Consolidated-Vultee Aircraft for study and investigation of missile guidance and control, rocket engine swiveling, and lightweight missile structures — the whole project looking toward the eventual development of an intercontinental ballistic missile. Another contract was negotiated with North American Aviation for rocket propulsion and for research and development of a pilotless aircraft, which would become known as the Navaho. In yet another contract, the Rand Corporation was asked to investigate the feasibility of a minimum-orbital satellite that would provide photographic reconnaissance of inaccessible areas of the earth.“  Despite the fact that it attached great importance to its five-year research and development program, the Air Force was not notably successful in getting funds for it. For fiscal year 1947, Congress appropriated $186 million for AAF research and development.!*9 General LeMay was certain that all of this money could have been obligated by the end of the fiscal year, though not at a uniform rate. The