ed, the Military Air Transport Service was able to put most of its capabilities into the Berlin Airlift. Maj Gen William H. Tunner took command of the augmented Airlift Task Force (Provisional) in Europe on 30 July. Ultimately employing US Air Force, Navy, and Royal Air Force transport aircraft, Tunner soon geared up Operation Vittles to its maximum capacity; the airlift carried a total of 2,325 million tons of food, fuel, and supplies into Berlin before the blockade was ended. One of the most important immediate lessons of the airlift, according to Tunner, was the inherent efficiency of large transport planes to accomplish important airlift missions”!  "For the first time in history," stated Air Force Magazine in September 1948,  the United States is employing its Air Force as a diplomatic weapon. . . . Today, in keeping with its coming of age as the nation’s first line of defense, the USAF has taken on two big assignments in international affairs. .. . One is what has been called "the return of the American Air Force to Europe," the arrival of two groups of Strategic Air Command B-29s in England. ... The second is the Berlin Airlift. ... The first chapters of the "role of air power in diplomacy" are being written here.  Earlier in the summer, Forrestal had feared that the British might not be willing to accept forceful diplomacy that carried a risk of war; but, in October, Chancellor of the Exchequer Sir Stafford Cripps assured him that "Britain is placing its main reliance on the development of fighter aircraft to insure the security of Britain. Britain must be regarded as the main base for the deployment of American air power and the chief offensive against Russia must be by Air." When Forrestal visited Britain in November 1948, Winston Churchill told him that the United  236  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 258 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  States ought not to minimize the destructive power of atomic weapons lest the Russians receive dangerous encour