ing, and successful air offensive against a major enemy, and Plan B to prevent the loss of a war at the outset of hostilities through effective retaliation but not a sustained offensive action. Plan A included the Air Force’s 70-group program with 20,541 aircraft plus the Navy program of 14,500 aircraft, or a total of 35,041 aircraft to be procured between 1949 and 1953, when procurement would begin to level off. Plan B was substantially the same program, but with less reserve aircraft. "We believe," stated the Joint Congressional Aviation Policy Board, "that when... a unified plan has been determined, the total requirements of the armed services may be materially reduced below the totals of the estimates prepared unilaterally." 6 As an additional means of maintaining a desirable mobilization base, both the congressional board and the president’s commission suggested that the armed services should give thought to contracting with civilian firms for part of the military’s aircraft maintenance. Contract overhaul of military aircraft should result in monetary savings and would build up civil staffs trained in such work for use in a mobilization emergency.  Some of the men who worked on the President’s Air Policy Commission report expressed regret that the commission had not been more critical of the weakness of the overall defense plan for the United States.!88 De Seversky later suggested that the president’s commission "strategically didn’t make much sense" except to the aviation industry, because it recommended everything that flew—strategic aviation, tactical aviation, naval aviation, marine aviation, airlines, helicopters, and private flying. He described the division of the strategic problem into two phases, according to whether or not Russia had atomic weapons, as being unrealistic. "That, I thought," said de Seversky, "was a great fallacy because improved explosives don’t necessarily change strategy; they may change tactics, but they do not change strategy. Whet