aircraft." "As we integrate rockets and missiles into the Army fire support system," the Army briefer added, "we are increasingly able to provide much of this needed fire support with our organic weapons." Although the Army of the future would have decreased requirements for air superiority and air support, it would have a greatly increased need for tactical and strategic air transport aviation. Admitting that what he was suggesting exceeded the Army’s stated requirements to the Air Force, Gavin specified that the Army needed a capability simultaneously to airlift one division in each combat theater, one division in the United States, and one division from the United States to a combat theater. General Wheeler testified that Air Force tactical airlift capability was sufficient to lift about one division and that studies had shown that the combined military and civil reserve air fleets would not be able to meet the requirements of all services during the first 30 days of a general war.) Summing up the position that the Army would be the decisive military force of the future, Gavin stated: "First we must aggressively continue our development of our surface to air missile family and in continuation of this development program acquire an antimissile capability. Second, the role of the man who fights on land with modern equipment and supported by missiles will be of decisive importance in future combat. Our nation... must have both strategic and tactical mobility to enable it to fly its power when and where needed in support of our national policy and to the degree needed, and finally, we believe that in the missile era the control of the land will be decisive.""*!  When General Taylor appeared before the Symington committee in June 1956, he viewed reports that the Soviets were reducing their ground forces and increasing their strategic striking arms with cool skepticism. At this time Taylor repeated his plea that a "new atmosphere" was being created by "a condition of m