From the very beginnings of hearings on the proposal to unify the armed services," he pointed out, "the Air Force has favored centralization and clear definition of authority and responsibility for the positions of the Secretary of Defense and the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff." He personally favored the Hoover recommendation to designate the departmental secretaries as under secretaries of defense. "I would say," he concluded, "that any diminishing of the power and prestige of the Air Force as a result of making the Air Force a military department instead of an executive department would be very much in the interest of the United States."  With a few modifications, President Truman’s recommended amendments to the National Security Act passed the Senate unanimously on 26 May 1949. But, in the House of Representatives, Chairman Vinson’s Committee on Armed Services was openly skeptical of the bill. "What has been worrying me. .. ," Vinson told the new secretary of defense Louis Johnson as hearings began on 28 June, "is that the Congress is frozen out, kept at arms’ length, from the problems of the three Departments, I cannot reconcile this with the constitutional responsibility of the Congress, and I think this bill should be amended to keep Congress a part of the team."° Vinson felt that the secretary of defense already possessed powers that were adequate for the purposes of unification. While the House Armed Services Committee was considering the legislation, Congress passed and President Truman signed into law on 20 June the Reorganization Act of 1949, which authorized the president to institute reorganization plans within the executive branch, unless a house of Congress should veto the proposal by a majority vote within 60 days. In accordance with this authority, Truman submitted Reorganization Plan No. 8 on the National Military Establishment to Congress on 18 July, which proposed to accomplish most of the earlier legislative recommendations by executive acti