tactical doctrine for the Air Corps, work on this project could not get under way prior to the final publication of War Department Training Regulation  88  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 110 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  440-15 in October 1935. Even when this regulation appeared, Colonel Rudolph, the Air Corps Board’s director, pointed out that it did not contain the fundamental principles that were needed to guide Air Corps development. For one thing, the Army was not definitely committed to provide aviation for coastal defense. Rudolph pointed out these facts to General Westover in May 1936. Consequently, Westover instructed the board to prepare a study on the functions of the Army air force. This study recommended that the War Department commit itself to develop air forces for continental defense, immediate support of ground combat, and conduct of strategic offensive operations. In April 1937 Brig Gen Henry C. Pratt, commandant of the Tactical School and ex officio as president of the Air Corps Board, requested that the War Department approve these functions as a guide for both the board and the school. The War Department refused to do so, noting that such strategic questions had no place in an Air Corps field manual.!!!  In response the Air Corps Board reduced the scope of its field manuals project to two volumes: the first to deal with tactics, technique, and training, and the second to deal with maintenance, base functions, logistics, and staff data. Giving priority to the first volume, the board forwarded a complete draft to the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps on 11 March 1938. General Pratt pointed out that the manual represented "an enormous amount of work, thought, and study . .. and constitutes the best available thought on the use of a D-day air force." After making some suggested changes in wording, the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps submitted the draft manual to the War Department on 14 September 1938. The General Staff reviewed the draft