k with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and devote additional time to the Department of Defense and Congress. For this reason, he believed that command decisions ought to be made by any one of the officers who served as chief of staff, vice chief of staff, or a deputy chief of staff. He wanted each deputy chief of staff, in the conduct of business within the field of authority, to act as if he were the chief of staff. Each deputy chief, however, had to coordinate his actions with the members of the top command to prevent confusion; during the Air Force buildup, the deputies were frequently so  305  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 327 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  busy in their own offices that they had no means for coordination other than by passing papers through a time-consuming interoffice pipeline.  In an effort to speed the process of making basic policies and decisions, Vandenberg established the Air Force Council on 26 April 1951. At first, only the five deputy chiefs of staff served on the council, with their senior member acting as chairman. In July 1951, however, Gen Nathan F. Twining, who had become vice chief of staff, began to serve as permanent chairman of the council, whose membership now consisted of the five deputy chiefs of staff and the inspector general. The council met each Thursday and acted on an agenda that the members prepared prior to meetings. Vandenberg insisted that the council members were "wearing the hat of the Chief of Staff" and that they had to "leave the interests of their own particular shops back at their shops." "The Air Council," General LeMay explained later when he had become vice chief of staff, "is a tool of the Chief of the Air Force, used to make sure that all major decisions that he has to make have been looked at and all the recommendations that have come to him have been looked at by the senior members of his staff."107  At the same time that the Air Force Council was formed to expedite the work of the top comm