, the air planners urged that pursuit complements should be kept at a minimum level consistent with safety so that the strength of the bombardment strike force would not be reduced. Much the same line of reasoning was applied to air support aviation. Ground operations were not to be mounted until strategic air campaigns had already attained a preponderant air superiority; in appropriate situations, available combat aviation would support theater operations of ground armies. Both for training with ground forces and for eventual overseas employment in air support forces, however, the air force required pursuit aircraft, light bombers, dive-bombers, observation aircraft, photomapping planes, and transports and gliders. In addition to the transport aircraft required for employment of airborne forces, the air planners placed a requirement for long- and medium-range transport aircraft that would provide quick delivery of essential aircraft and engine spares from air depots to worldwide operating units.  However, because they did not have any available valid production data based on historical experience, air planners could not project a definite schedule for fielding the air units visualized. The planners expected that by 1943 or 1944 the  110  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 132 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  Army Air Forces would include 203 groups and 108 observation squadrons and a grand total of 59,727 airplanes. Of this force, 10 groups of B-25s and B-26s, 20 groups of B-17s and B-24s, 24 groups of B-29s, and 21 groups of pursuit would be committed to the air offensive against Germany. The smaller bombers would be used only because they were available. The planners specified that an ideal force from a standpoint of economy would consist entirely of B-29s. The major difficulty in mustering the air attacks against Germany appeared to be the scarcity of airfields in England and in the Middle East, the latter area being tentatively designated as the operating l