t cars, and 250 locomotives to air attack.”®  Following the collapse of the vaunted Chinese Communist spring ground offensive, United Nations Command forces drove forward on all fronts in May 1951 to clear the Republic of Korea of hostile invaders. With their forces badly beaten and on the run, the Communists decided to take advantage of the willingness of the United Nations to negotiate a Korean cease-fire. The armistice talks began in Korea on 10 July 1951. At this time the conflict entered a new phase that ultimately would be concluded by accomplishing new undertakings, some of them remote from the Korean battleground. At the Kaesong truce talks, Lt Gen Nam I], the senior Red delegate, gave a frank appraisal of the reason why the numerically superior Communist ground armies had not prevailed in Korea. "Without the support of the indiscriminate bombing and bombardment by your air and naval forces," he said, "your ground forces would have long ago been driven out of the Korean peninsula by our powerful and battle-skilled ground forces." At the juncture when the all-out ground battles were ending, Weyland also looked  303  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 325 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  backward and drew lessons. "There is a tendency among many," he said, "to regard all... air operations against ground forces merely as support of the Army... . Would it not be better to recall that land, sea, and air forces are committed in support of the over-all mission of the theater commander? .. . If we take such a view, it should . . . be less difficult to see that over-all strategy must be geared to the air situation and the capabilities of the friendly air forces as much as to ground forces concepts of maneuver and fire... . If the objectives and situation are such that, in order to be successful, air power must be exploited to the fullest, then the ground forces must support the air forces."”  Rebuilding the Worldwide Air Force  Viewing his service as secretary of the