composed of various types of weapons — subsonic, supersonic, and hypersonic."  Although the Air Force successfully secured continued budgeting for its air defense programs in fiscal year 1959, many factors began to impinge on the level of air defense progamming during calendar years 1958-59. In January 1958 Secretary McElroy remarked that he was "not enthusiastic about the solution we have among roles and missions . . . in the area of continental air defense" and revealed that the Joint Chiefs of Staff was reviewing the matter. As has been seen the congressional appropriation of military construction funds for fiscal year 1959 called upon the secretary of defense to determine which missile or combination of missiles would be employed in a given area. Early in 1959 McElroy again stated that air defense continued to be a field in which the Department of Defense was having difficulty making decisions?” In March 1959 Senator Symington was very critical of the fact that the Air Force was  spending $5.5 billion every year to defend against ... bombers, but... not spending enough to maintain a position in the modern weapons of reasonable equality with what we agree the Russians are probably doing. ... We are cutting down on producing Atlas and on producing supersonic B-58s, and so forth, and yet we are still spending $5.5 billion annually to defend ourselves against something which we know the Russians are cutting down very heavily on and haven’t many of.  Despite these criticisms, the Air Force continued to program air defenses for fiscal year 1960 that would defend against a mixed aircraft and missile attack. Fighter-interceptor strength would be reduced to 25 wings, this reduction was justified by the increased effectiveness of century-series interceptors, an increase in the number and effectiveness of air-to-air missiles, and the acquisition of an initial operational capability with Bomarc A missiles.” Rather than sacrifice funds required for the development of the Mac