ervice had begun to fly missions to search the upper atmosphere for evidence of atomic explosions anywhere in the northern hemisphere, and on 3 September 1949 one of the search planes picked up a radioactive air sample over the North Pacific. After reviewing the evidence, aspecial committee of Atomic Energy Commission experts stated positively that an atomic explosion had occurred somewhere in Asia between 26 and 29 August 1949. "We have evidence," President Truman told the American people on 23 September, "that within recent weeks an atomic explosion occurred in the USSR."?”  What was surprising was not that the Soviet Union had developed an A-bomb but that it had done so more rapidly than had been predicted. In a magazine article published during October 1949, General Bradley cautioned that the Soviet A-bomb  is no occasion for hysteria. . .. For an industrially backward country, the making of an atomic bomb is not so difficult as the problem of turning it out in quantity and delivering it. As long as America retains (as it can) a tremendous advantage in A-bomb quantity, quality and deliverability, the deterrent effect of the bomb against an aggressor will continue. Sustained research and development can keep us far in the lead with methods for intercepting enemy bomb-carriers. No one can predict what the weapons of the future may be; in the long run our promise of security lies in the combined, unparalleled inventiveness and industrial skill of Western Europe and America.  Developments in Nuclear Weapons  In spite of an official analysis that "the fission bomb was not a mortal threat to the United States," both because of its finite destructive power and the fact that the Soviets would require several years to stockpile such weapons, American officials were shaken by the knowledge that the Soviets had the A-bomb.”? The immediate effect of the Soviet nuclear capability was to stimulate research and development in the field of nuclear weapons: the products of the e