commission began its hearings, Secretary Dern informed it that the War Department endorsed the report of the Baker board. Brig Gen C. E. Kilbourne, assistant chief of staff, War Plans Division, moreover, instructed all officers summoned to testify to familiarize themselves with the approved policy and not to express personal opinions unless they were so identified.” William Mitchell seized the opportunity before the  71  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 93 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Howell commission and denounced the Baker board report. The testimony of Air Corps officers was marked by restraint. Colonel Arnold stated his personal opinion that an independent air force would be desirable, but he evidently stated off the record that a GHQ air force ought to be organized and given a two-year trial. Other Air Corps officers favored no immediate change in defense organization until a GHO air force hadbeentested.“! In spite of a general reticence to talk, Maj Donald Wilson, Captains Harold Lee George and Robert Olds, and Lt Kenneth Walker freely expressed many of the ideas that were being taught at the Air Corps Tactical School.  When he appeared before the Howell commission, Captain George emphasized that "the object of war is now, and always has been, the overcoming of the hostile will to resist. ... When that will is broken down, when that will disintegrates, then capitulation results." Reasoning that the strength of opposing air forces would never permit a nation to utilize its potential to build air power after a war began, George defined air power as "the immediate ability of a nation to engage effectively in air warfare." "Future wars," he predicted, "will be fought by the air forces which are in existence when the war breaks out and not by air forces which are created after the war commences." George argued that in a future war air forces would be in action for weeks or months before land forces got into action and that an air force, therefore, re