ition on 24 December 1958 and shortly thereafter York assumed responsibilities for research and engineering responsibilities in the guided missile field that had been exercised by the director of guided missiles. Secretary McElroy desired to retain Holaday as director of guided missiles in order that he might "push forward" the high-priority missile projection programs. McElroy also was determined to preserve ARPA as "a fourth operating agency for research and engineering projects.""" Until this time ARPA had gotten most of its ideas from the military departments, but McElroy served notice that he wanted it to become “a think factory" and to plan a 10- to 20-year program for the military use of the space environment.  During the spring of 1959, congressional investigators wanted to know whether ARPA should be continued. In an appearance before the Senate Subcommittee on Governmental Organization for Space Activities, Under Secretary of the Air Force Malcolm A. MacIntyre and General Schriever praised the work of Johnson. However, they stated their strong conviction that research and development  591  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 613 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  management for space systems ought to be returned to the services that would operationally employ the space weapon systems. Without claiming any exclusive Air Force jurisdiction over the realm of aerospace, MacIntyre and Schriever demonstrated that the Air Force’s defensive and offensive missions were so affected by potential developments in space as to demand that it be recognized as the nation’s primary aerospace force. "The Air Force," Schriever said, "has two combat mission responsibilities: one is strategic air and the other is air defense... . I feel that by 1970, and perhaps long before that, in certain cases, that these combat missions of the Air Force will be taken over, to a large extent, by what you would call space weapons systems — ballistic missiles, satellites, and space craft.