orter range and higher performance bombers.2  Heading a long visit of distinguished Navy witnesses, Admiral Radford expressed his opposition to the B-36 because it had "become, in the minds of the American people, a symbol of a theory of warfare—the atomic blitz—which promises them a cheap and easy victory if war should come." He believed the B-36 to be an obsolete aircraft suited only for city bombing. "Are we as a nation," he asked, "to have ‘bomber generals’ fighting to preserve the obsolete heavy bomber — the battleship of the air?" He insisted that a proper air strategy ought to be built around short-range jet aircraft such as the B-47 and naval jets that would operate from advanced land bases and aircraft.carriers to establish control of the air over hostile territory and then wage strategic air warfare campaigns.2”” Rear Adm R. A. Ofstie made a distinction between strategic air warfare, which was directed against an enemy’s will and ability to wage war, and strategic bombing, which he and the Navy witnesses arbitrarily described as an indiscriminate blitz against urban areas. Ofstie supported strategic air warfare and accurate attacks on precise military targets, but he deplored the strategic bombing that had unwisely destroyed Germany and Japan. Ofstie thought that the concept of instant retaliation had produced an illusion of power and even a kind of bomb-rattling jingoism. The strategic bomber force, moreover, was an independent force that served none of the primary demands for national security — the defense of Western Europe, the protection of forward bases, the early reduction of enemy military potential, or command of the sea. "Must the Italian Douhet continue as our  252  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 274 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  prophet," he asked, "because certain zealots grasped his false doctrines many years ago and refuse to relinquish this discredited theory in the face of vast, costly experience? Must we translate the historic