d ARPA’s continuation as "an operating element paralleling the research and engineering organizations of the military departments," but Johnson’s self-limiting policies did not permit this. Johnson personally believed that the three services ought to be combined into a single service, and he had no desire to make ARPA into a fourth service thus making things four times as bad as before.*! Johnson also stated: "To ARPA, space is. .. a place to discover new and better ways to do old military jobs; new ways to warn of impending attack, to communicate the alert to our forces, to actively defend our Nation." If space was thus to be a place where old missions could be performed more effectively, no new concept of space power would supersede the old roles and missions of the military forces. At the completion of ARPA research and development, moreover, operational space weapon systems were to be turned over to a military service for production and employment. As a method of procedure, ARPA allocated most of its research and development projects to the military services. In the disposition of funds so allocated to the military services in the first year of its existence, ARPA placed 80 percent with the Air Force (including original Air Force funds in the Discoverer, Sentry [Samos], and Midas projects that were transferred to ARPA and then reallocated back to the Air Force), 14 percent with the Army, and 6 percent with the Navy.  As enacted in August 1958, the Defense Reorganization Act created the director of defense research and engineering, with authority to direct and control, assign or reassign, and manage research and engineering activities within the Department of Defense with the approval of the secretary of defense. President Eisenhower appointed Doctor York to this position on 24 December 1958 and shortly thereafter York assumed responsibilities for research and engineering responsibilities in the guided missile field that had been exercised by the director of guid