years. With all-out developmental priorities, including prime weapon systems management by the Western Development Division and Ramo-Wooldridge team and a new concurrency concept of development, the cycle of development to unit deployment of the SM-75 Thor and the SM-65 Atlas was reduced to 3.3 and 4.9 years respectively. Had the Thor and Atlas been developed on a "fly-before-buy" basis, the Air Force estimated that their development-to-deployment cycle would have been nearly four years longer.” By early 1957 it was evident that the pilotless aircraft and the ballistic missiles would enter the operating inventory not at staggered intervals but at approximately the same time, and it was equally evident that the ballistic missiles would be the superior weapons.  By the spring of 1957 the Air Force had invested $679.8 million in the research and development of the Navaho during the many years of the program. Facing the fact that the high-altitude, cruise-type Navaho had been superseded by the Atlas and Titan, the Air Force canceled the Navaho program on 8 July. Although the Navaho program never produced a weapon system, the Air Force considered it as "anything but an unqualified failure." The Navaho program had permitted a continuing development of the large liquid-fueled engines that, in the end, powered the Atlas, Thor, and Jupiter missiles. The inertial guidance system developed for the Navaho enabled the Navy’s Polaris-equipped submarines to make the accurate fixes of their positions at sea that they would need for missile firings. The design for the Mach-3 B-70 bomber was heavily based on a scale-up of the Navaho. And the North American X-10 test vehicle that was developed during the program provided many of the design features that would be incorporated into the Hound Dog GAM-77, a lightweight air-to-ground missile that was developed speedily in place of the never satisfactory Rascal. At the cancellation of the Navaho, moreover, the North American Company was abl