d been the Air Force’s assistant deputy chief of staff for operations in the winter of 1950-51, stated that the original North Korean aggression probably could have been halted by the threat of the employment of the atomic bomb but that "the United States at that time was unwilling to use such a threat and, therefore, possibly increase the dangers of world conflict." Late in 1950 atomic weapons were still configured for strategic rather than tactical applications. Unlike the Soviet Union, which had many targets vulnerable to atomic attack, Communist China appeared to offer few targets for an atomic bombing campaign. The great strength of Communist China was manpower; the People’s Republic of China was relatively independent of complicated logistical support facilities and was getting most of her weapons from the Soviet Union. According to General Everest, one other factor bore on the situation. In his opinion, the United States had accepted the position that atomic weapons would be used only when the issues to be resolved were vital to the United States. Everest said that these vital interests were not defined, but he was certain that an attack against the North American continent or against the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allies would have been vital and would have been met with atomic firepower.®?  During their conversations in December 1950, Truman and Attlee agreed that the United Nations should avoid a general war with China, primarily because of the threat of a global war. Much of the thinking lying behind this decision became apparent during Senate hearings in May and June 1951. Secretary Acheson believed that air attacks against Communist bases in Manchuria would "increase — and materially increase —the risk of general war in the Far East and general war throughout the world." The Joint Chiefs of Staff opposed the extension  299  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 321 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  of the war to China on military grou