ffective use of these weapons required new formations, force structures, and tactics.  The new body of literature on the subject of limited war reinforced the Army position on strategy and may well have affected the thinking of Navy leaders. Although the Navy strongly supported strategic deterrence during the early years of the New Look, Navy leaders, following the retirement of Admiral Radford as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on 15 August 1957 and the appearance of the Soviet Sputnik on 4 October 1957, became strong advocates of preparedness for limited war. "Given a shield of mutual deterrence," Secretary of the Navy Thomas S. Gates announced in December, "power to prevent limited aggression and to win limited war becomes decisive." Admiral Burke, upon becoming the new chief of naval operations, argued that the United States by its emphasis on general nuclear war was in imminent danger of losing sight "of the necessity to maintain adequate strength to combat limited war in areas remote from this country—limited wars requiring United States control of the seas." He continued, "There is also a growing tendency to consider a nuclear war as being adequate to cope with limited war.  465  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 487 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  This is a fallacy. For a war to remain limited, there must be restraint in the selection of targets and in the use of nuclear weapons."2!9  Already having begun to believe that the tactical nuclear defenses of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization needed to be strengthened, Secretary Dulles appeared for a brief moment to be flirting with the concept that Europe might be the scene of a limited nuclear war. In an article prepared for publication in Foreign Affairs, which was released on 18 September 1957, Dulles expressed a belief that the development of small and clean nuclear weapons would benefit free world defenses. "In the future," he wrote,  it may thus be feasible to place less reliance upon d