okohama. On 27 March the XXI Bomber Command began to mine Japan’s shipping channels and harbors. On the same day, other B-29s struck Japanese airfields on Kyushu. And, as he was authorized to do in an emergency, Nimitz directed that approximately 75 percent of the XXI Bomber Command’s combat effort be flown against airfields on Kyushu and Shikoku in the period between 17 April and 11 May. Recognizing the gravity of the situation caused by Japanese suicide air attacks against the American forces at Okinawa, LeMay did not strongly resist this commitment of his forces even though he suggested that bomber attacks could not completely neutralize the hostile airfields. The Iwo-based long-range fighters of the VII Fighter Command also made sweeps over Japanese airfields on Honshu and Kyushu, but without scoring very good results. Hostile planes were widely dispersed and the enemy pilots did not come up and fight.  Believing that an all-out air attack could force Japan to surrender prior to a surface invasion, LeMay was willing to commit his command to maximum operations, even at the risk of exhausting all available crews. In the waning weeks of May and the early days of June, the XXI Bomber Command returned to strategic  164  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 186 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  air attacks and completed the conflagration of Japan’s five principal urban industrial areas. The 58th Bombardment Wing, arriving from India, began missions from Tinian on 5 May. Another B-29 wing that had been especially equipped to make radar attacks against oil storage facilities rounded out the XXI Bomber Command’s strength when it arrived on 26 June. By late spring 1945, Brig Gen Emmett O’Donnell, Jr., commander of the 73d Bombardment Wing, which had been first into action from the Marianas, noted a general conviction throughout the bomber command that the Japanese could not stand up under the terrific amount of damage that the B-29s were placing upon them. "I thought personally,"