rianas, noted a general conviction throughout the bomber command that the Japanese could not stand up under the terrific amount of damage that the B-29s were placing upon them. "I thought personally," recalled O’Donnell, "in a couple of weeks it would be all over." When Arnold visited Guam early in June, LeMay told him that 30 to 60 of Japan’s cities and every industrial target in the home islands would be destroyed by 1 October. In the air, the B-29s were virtually unopposed. "The record will show," LeMay later commented, "that in the last two months of the war it was safer to fly a combat mission over Japan than it was to fly a B-29 training mission back in the United States."  Atomic Attack at Hiroshima and Nagasaki  Meanwhile the Japanese government had begun to seriously consider ways to end the war. On 20 June 1945 Emperor Hirohito told his council that it would be necessary to have a plan to close the war at once. Early in July the Japanese government asked the Soviet Union to intercede with the United States to stop the war, but the Soviets refused to relay the proposal. These peace feelers faced much internal opportunities as Japan’s militarists continued to play for time; they believed that if Japan could somehow survive the air attacks she might be able to inflict such a high rate of casualties on American surface invaders as to be able to get a negotiated peace. The reiteration of the unconditional surrender formula in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945 gave new strength to the Japanese militarists.!!° Top-level American officials in Washington knew of Japan’s desire to end hostilities, but in September 1944 the Combined Chiefs of Staff had committed the United States and Great Britain to the seizure of "objectives in the industrial heart of Japan." This strategy was reaffirmed at Yalta in February 1945. To help ensure the success of this strategy, the Allies granted the Soviet Union territorial concessions in East Asia in return for its promises to