air is controlled by its sister services."!*! "In spite of the fact that air power can never be decisive in total war," General Bradley told an audience in November 1951, "the air battle must be won if a war is to be won. 1  While the doctrine of control of the air was firmly implanted in Air Force thinking as a result of conventional air operations in Europe, some second thoughts about the influence of nuclear bombing capabilities indicated a trend back toward Douhet. Written largely by Maj Gen Orvil Anderson and published in 1947, the concluding report of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, Air Campaigns of the Pacific War, observed that  air superiority is not an end in itself. Air superiority was necessary in the past war in order that surface operations could be successfully undertaken and in order that decisive - bombing of the enemy’s vital components could be accomplished. If science and technology produce an air weapon which can, unaided, penetrate enemy defenses and accurately deposit its bombs, it may not be necessary to fight the conventional air battle and obtain conventional air superiority before the decisive attacks on an enemy's economy are mounted. Any force, having successfully made such attacks, however, probably would quickly inherit air domination for the exploitation phase of the war.  In a lecture in June 1949, General Anderson warned that conventional ideas of air superiority would not always hold good: "You will reach the point in the distant future when you won’t even think of opposing air in the air. It will be moving too fast.... You'll fight them at the launching site or you won’t fight them." "Future defense and future security," Col David A. Burchinal pointed out in the autumn of 1949, "would seem to stem from the basic premise that successful air defense must be capable of destroying an attacking force or an aggression potential before the attack can be launched or the potential realized"!  In his book Air Power: Key to Survi