rd had believed that it would be impossible to develop all-purpose aircraft in the future. The board pointed out that F-80 and F-84 fighters already were marginal in their capability to intercept aircraft of the B-29 type, and that, based on the design analysis of the few B-29s that had been forced down in the Soviet Union during World War II, the Russians had built a copy of the B-29 known as the Tu-4. Since the Soviets were building a long-range air force around the Tu-4, the mission of American defense would demand the development of a pure interceptor aircraft to be available by 1953-5441 Having determined that the new interceptor would be developed as a weapon system, the Air Force put its electronics and control system under development contract in July 1950 and initiated a design competition for the development of an air vehicle. As these decisions were being made, the explosion of a Soviet A-bomb and the beginning of the Korean conflict demanded an immediate augmentation of United States defense against a Soviet Tu-4 air attack capability, which might take the form of one-way missions flown against the United States. A temporary network of radars known as Lashup was rushed to completion in California and in the vital northeastern and northwestern sections of the nation. Other "islands" of air defense radar were established in Alaska and in the Northeast Air Command. Beginnings were made to a more permanent system of modern radars to replace Lashup. On 10 November 1950 the United States and Canada agreed to construct a line of aircraft control and warning radars across southern Canada that would be known as the Pinetree line. In an interim action to provide defense against the Tu-4 threat, the Air Force developed and procured F-94, F-89, and F-86D all-weather fighters for the Air Defense Command. The F-94 and the F-86D were adaptations of existing aircraft.”  The Air Force description of the pure interceptor aircraft that would be needed for service in 1954 a