enormous tactical air force, and transport and cargo planes in support of and for use by our Army." De Seversky now maintained that aviation designed to support the Army should be budgeted to the Army. "Just aviation— an amorphous mass of aircraft, no matter how large, no matter how useful it may be to the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps —if it is not designed to win and maintain command of the air," he wrote, "does not constitute air power.""’ In an article prepared in July 1954 for the American Peoples Encyclopedia, de Seversky wrote: "Air power is the ability of a nation to assert its will via the air medium. .. . Only when an aircraft is designed to assist and increase the efficiency of the air force in its task of establishing command of the air is it an instrument of air power."’’ In an amplification of this article for Air Force Magazine, de Seversky asserted that a lack of basic  438  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 460 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  understanding of what constituted military air power was the root of the confusion reigning in the national defense effort. "The scope of the Air Force’s mission," he maintained, "must be fully understood if our country is to shake off the curse of the present antiquated philosophy of balanced forces strategy."  Believing that the real meaning of air power was getting lost in a maze of diverse definitions, Air Force thinkers attempted to provide a definition that would be nationally acceptable. Cols Jerry D. Page and Royal H. Roussel of the Air War College Evaluation Staff prepared an article in which they accepted the doctrine that air power was an entity. In this frame reference they thought of air power as "those military forces ... which are employed and directed as a single instrument by the military agency charged primarily with the responsibility for conducting operations through the air." They concluded: "Unlike air power, military auxiliary aviation is invariably confined in its use to support of