y committee reported, "any such level of protection is unattainable and in any case is completely impractical, economically and technically." Even though no system could provide a complete air defense that would destroy all attacking aircraft, the committee found an urgent need for a system "much better than that which is assured under present programs." It specifically recommended that a distant early warning line should be built. Early warning of the approach of hostile aircraft was declared to be the "first essential of an effective active air defense and of a civil defense capable of avoiding a large loss of life." The estimated cost for the full implementation of the Kelly report recommendations ranged from $20 to $25 billion over six years. As a result of the Kelly committee’s recommendations, the DEW line would be built, but not as a crash project. The electronic fence would be sited along the 70th parallel, not as far north as recommended by the Summer Group.  333  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 355 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Secretary Finletter’s Assessments  Spurred on by the Soviet atomic explosion and the local war in Korea, the United States made progress in rebuilding a worldwide air force. But as Secretary Finletter went out of office in January 1953, he was uncertain whether the United States would face up to defense requirements that would exist in about 1955, when the Soviets would possess an "absolute air atomic capability." To counter this threat, he urged that "the first and cardinal job of military planning must be to create a strategic air arm capable of accepting a sneak and devastating attack by assault and sabotage and to have enough left over to go back and utterly devastate Russia." When he spoke of the strategic air arm, Finletter had in mind both the Strategic Air Command and the atomic air units of the Tactical Air Command. Following this concept, he would soon advocate the consolidation of the whole atomic air potent