ir Command in a fighter and reconnaissance configuration in the 1956-60 time period. What the Strategic Air Command actually wanted was an intercontinental range fighter that could precede bombers to a target area in an advance wave and eliminate hostile interceptors, probably by delivering nuclear weapons against airfields. The only fighter that the Air Research and Development Command could visualize for this  506  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 528 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  role would be as big as a medium bomber. SAC, declining to receive such a plane, modified the 137-wing program to increase its B-47 wings from 26 to 28, with a corresponding reduction in fighter wing authority. In May 1956 SAC inactivated another fighter wing and replaced it with a unique light strategic reconnaissance wing equipped at first with RB-S7 aircraft. The five strategic fighter and one strategic fighter reconnaissance wings that SAC retained continued to be equipped with F-84F and RF-84F aircraft.!°!  Neither the B-47 nor the B-52 were supersonic aircraft, but studies initiated by Boeing and Convair in 1946 indicated the feasibility of a supersonic jet bomber and outlined its characteristics. After renewed studies started in 1949, the Air Force published a general operational requirement for a supersonic bomber in 1952. Both Boeing and Convair submitted designs, and the development contract was let with Convair in February 1953 for an XB-58 aircraft, a bomber that in many respects would resemble a blown-up version of Convair’s F-102 Delta Dagger fighter-interceptor. Following the new development concept, the B-58 would be developed as a complete weapon system with Convair as the single prime contractor. After reviewing the B-58 program at a master planning board meeting in December 1954, a Strategic Air Command representative liked the supersonic capabilities of the aircraft but bluntly stated that the plane’s lack of intercontinental range was somewhat less than what SA