to fight major coordinated air battles.°* Lt Col A. H. Gilkeson, commander of the 8th Pursuit Group, stated bluntly that "this recent academic tendency to minimize, if not entirely dismiss, the consideration of the fighting force as a powerful and extremely necessary adjunct of the air force has led to the teaching of doctrines which have not been established as being true and might even be fatally dangerous to our aims in the event of armed conflict." Gilkeson urged that "a superior fighting force will always gain control of the air in at least a restricted sense."®  In an effort to develop facts on pursuit aviation, General Westover directed the Air Corps Board in 1935 to determine whether the Air Corps had a requirement for developing an interceptor. In February 1937 the board reported that the most efficient means of neutralizing an enemy air offensive was to attack operation against the bases that supported the offensive. The board recommended that friendly defenses against hostile aircraft would be necessary, and it recommended an immediate development of an interceptor that would have aircraft cannon and at least 20 percent greater speed than proposed bombardment planes. The board also recommended that immediate steps be taken to provide ground observer posts and aircraft reporting nets in the United States and its overseas possessions. Without having waited for the delayed Air Corps Board report, the Air Corps - Technical Committee in November 1936 had already identified military characteristics for an interceptor aircraft. During fiscal year 1937 the Air Corps  82  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 104 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  ordered an XP-37, which would be the progenitor of the P-40, and an XP-38, which would become standard as the P-38 Lightning. Like the XP-39, which was ordered in fiscal year 1938, the Lightning would be a short-range, cannon-equipped interceptor.  Thoughts on Air Support Aviation  During the 1920s, possibly because of Mi