t that the Soviet government and its satellites were willing to risk a general war by multiple aggression all over the world, unless confronted by substantial military strength.""” Calling Korea a very special situation, Secretary Finletter pointed out that the United States was compelled to participate in a peripheral war in Korea, which was not a part of its global strategy, to demonstrate its national will and determination to resist aggression. "The western world," he noted, "has a very large periphery which fronts on Soviet Russia. In my opinion, it cannot defend that whole periphery with armed force. The real basic might of the western world, of which the United States is the center, is the capacity and will, if absolutely driven to it, to make war on anybody who attacks."  In the last week of June 1950, President Truman with advice from the National Security Council and the Joint Chiefs of Staff heeded the request of the United Nations Security Council that all member nations "furnish such assistance to the Republic of Korea as may be necessary to repel armed attack and restore international peace and security in the area." In instructions received in Tokyo on 27 June, General MacArthur was authorized to employ air and naval forces in the area south of the 38th parallel in the hope that this support would enable the Republic of Korea army to rally and withstand aggression. On 30 June the Far East Air Forces (FEAF) and the Naval Forces Far East were empowered to attack military targets in North Korea. Later that day MacArthur was authorized to move  293  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 315 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  ground combat troops from Japan and employ them against the North Korean People’s Army. In authorizing these responses to the aggression, the Washington authorities approved the requests for conventional actions as they were made by MacArthur. By a fortunate circumstance, moreover, the Communists had launched their local aggression