terrence expected a change in security policy when newly appointed Secretary Gates began to put together the defense budget for fiscal year 1961, they were doomed to disappointment. According to General Taylor there was to be no change in the basic national security policy. The Eisenhower administration ruled that the international situation, the state of military technology, and the general economic situation which prevailed in the autumn of 1959 demanded that the fiscal 1961 military budget not exceed the level of expenditures during fiscal 1960.7 Although service requests for fiscal 1961 budgeting totaled $43.9 billion in new obligational authority, the final defense budget submitted to Congress in January 1960 amounted to $40.5 billion.2>4 When he appeared in defense of this budget on 13 January 1960, Secretary Gates pointed out that military forces could not be arbitrarily categorized as general or limited war forces. "All forces," he emphasized, "are a deterrent to and would be employed in a general war. Most of our forces could be employed in a limited war, if required. For example, air defense aircraft and antiaircraft missiles can be, and in fact are, deployed overseas. The aircraft of the Strategic Air Command could also be used if needed." When he spoke of the enemy, Gates asserted that  625  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 647 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  in order to maintain a valid deterrent we have to maintain a deterrent force capable of knocking out his military power and not just bombing his cities. What we would actually do depends on circumstances, but we are adjusting our power to a counterforce theory; or a mixture of a counterforce theory plus attacks on industrial centers and things of that character. We are not basing our requirement on just bombing Russia for retaliation purposes. . . . The validity of our deterrent must be of such a character... that an enemy will believe his military power will be devastated.  In his appearances be