nd activated the 7th Air Division to command strategic air units in Great Britain.!*° At about this same time the Joint Chiefs of Staff made an allocation of atomic weapons to the defense of Western Europe.  As soon as atomic weapons were allocated to the defense of Europe, General Cannon informed the Air Force that the tactical air force ought to be charged to employ them. "A tactical fighter-bomber unit capable of delivering atomic weapons," he wrote in February 1951, "promises to be one of the most devastating striking forces that will be available to the military establishment." His position soon became quite clear. "I personally consider it extremely important," he said, "to have the strategic air forces tend to their own knitting, keep their minds on their own jobs and not be diverted from their primary mission." Cannon thought that the mission of strategic air forces was to effect the progressive destruction and disintegration of an enemy nation’s morale and war-making capacity. At the outset of hostilities with the Soviet Union, he expected that the strategic air forces would be needed to help the tactical air forces to gain air superiority and interdict the advance of Soviet ground troops, but he maintained that such diversions ought to be as moderate as possible.  In the Air Staff, officers who were looking for a means of augmenting theater air power in Europe before the spring of 1952 apparently looked with some favor on Cannon’s thinking. In the Office of Assistant for Atomic Energy, Col John D. Stevenson authored a plan looking toward the establishment of tactical air division in the United Kingdom that would be equipped with atomic-capable B-45 and F-84  310  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 332 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  aircraft. Given authorization from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Air Force in July 1951 directed the necessary modification of aircraft and ordered the Tactical Air Command to organize the atomic air division. Even though they d