s. "Strategy," wrote Maxwell, "is the act of infusing into a plan and/or applying a central idea, design, or timing which will give the greatest possitlt advantage in a campaign or situation. The strategy is the specific design  ed. "  Prior to World War II, the Air Corps Tactical School’s teachings frequent tly had gone beyond the somewhat narrow confines of officially approved doctrine.” But, probably because it held that the principal characteristics of doctrine that would be reasonable and progressive, the Air Corps Tactical School did not differentiate between the doctrinal and the nondoctrinal in its teachings.” As early as March 1943, however, AAF officers were referring to ideas that did not have the proven validity of doctrine as concepts. "No concept, particularly one pertaining to a new weapon,” wrote Col Charles G. Williamson on 3 March 1943, "can reasonably be stated as a fixed and permanently inviolable rule, but must be accepted as a guide until actualities justify, in the mind of the proper authority, a change in concept. nid Writing in the winter of 1948, Maj Gen Robert W. Harper, deputy commander of  7  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 29 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Air University, described Gen Billy Mitchell as being among the "visionaries and missionaries" of the Air Force. "For atomic warfare," Harper wrote, "new concepts of Air Power will have to be formulated." Early in 1951 Air Force regulations charged Air University with the responsibility for developing doctrine. But in its charge to the Air War College, Air University specified that the Air War College’s mission consisted not of developing doctrine but of "the conduct of special studies and evaluation which will provide sound air power concepts" and "the preparation  . of doctrinal manuals." The first objective of the Air War College Evaluation Division . was "to develop doctrines and concepts for the employment of air power." 6 In September 1951, General Edwards stated th