ce reconnaissance pilots discovered that the Communists had begun building three major jet airfields within North Korea. Supported by F-86 barrier patrols and escorted by F-84s, FEAF Bomber Command B-29s began a series of daylight strikes against these airfields on 22 October. Until this time the FEAF Bomber Command had lost only six B-29s in combat over Korea; but in late October, over the Communist airfields, the Reds destroyed five B-29s and inflicted major damage on eight others. At 20,000-foot altitudes, the straight-wing F-84 Thunderjets could not fend off attacking MiGs without losing flight control, and the MiGs appeared in too great numbers to be handled by the few available Sabres.  "Almost overnight," Vandenberg stated after making a fast trip to the Far East, "Communist China has become one of the major air powers of the world." In terms of the damage that they could do with iron bombs, the old B-29s had taken prohibitive losses. But the pessimistic predictions that the old B-29s would not be able to operate any longer did not reckon with the operational versatility of the FEAF Bomber Command. The command already possessed a small shoran bombing capability and soon converted all of its aircraft to operate only at night with this electronics guidance. Safe from Communist interception, the night-flying B-29s successfully neutralized the Communist airfields during November. Earlier in the summer, Vandenberg had refused to convert one of the Fifth Air Force’s fighter-bomber wings to F-86 fighter-interceptors on the grounds that the Air Defense Command ought not to be weakened and that the Air Force did not have enough supply support to maintain two F-86 wings in active combat in Korea. On  338  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 360 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  22 October, however, Vandenberg directed the Air Defense Command to send 75 F-86s to Korea; on 1 December the Fifth Air Force’s second F-86 wing went into action. In mid-December the Communists abrup