ant since the maintenance of the command at a level of strength needed to survive a hostile first strike ensured that it would possess capabilities needed for a first strike. The concept of finite deterrence vastly changed this strategic equation, and in January 1959 General Power insisted: "You always must have a capability to strike first, because obviously if these people thought we never could start a war, why, then they could just take this world away from us, piece by piece, because they would know that as long as they do not strike us, we could never do anything about it. So you must have a capability to strike first."’2! Unless the United States possessed a superiority of force, General Schriever demonstrated that it could not possess what he called a positive deterrent. He defined positive deterrent as a posture  which permits this country to take the initiative militarily if it wants to take the initiative, or one which inhibits the Soviet from taking the initiative in the fields of limited warfare, in the field of economic and psychological warfare. Such a deterrent posture is achieved only if we can knock out all of this military capability to strike us. This means hard targets, in fact every military target which has the capability of waging total war against this Nation.  In the process of developing the reasons for maintaining a first-strike capability, Air Force spokesmen were careful to note that they did not contemplate preventive war or the initiation of a war on a nation’s own timing. Nevertheless, they offered the opinion that the first-strike capability might be used for preemptive war, or. attacks that might be made by a nation which had received positive tactical warning of an impending enemy attack. A preventive war might be launched months in advance of an anticipated attack, but a preemptive attack could be made hours or even minutes before the launching of a hostile strike.2”3 If the United States strategic force had the ability to make a