though nothing was immediately published on the extremely sensitive subject, air targeting apparently became much more exact in the years after 1955-56 when the very high altitude U-2 reconnaissance aircraft began operating over foreign soil. "We know what targets must be destroyed," stated an Air Force planner in 1959. "Our war plans are based on this target analysis." Although the Air Force was apparently willing to accept counterforce as an objective, the Strategic Air Command (SAC) continued to plan operating tactics which envisioned that strategic air attacks would be speedily accomplished against all target systems in one mighty effort. Such an all-out attack would provide the largest degree of protection to SAC crews. By a predominant use of large nuclear weapons, moreover, one crew could be counted upon to destroy many individual targets with single weapons, thus achieving a "bonus effect" that was thought to be quite important in view of the many targets requiring destruction and the limited size of the Strategic Air Command. Even though Soviet cities were not targeted for air attack, many of them would be destroyed by nuclear weapons aimed at military objectives in their vicinity.  Meeting Crises in Lebanon and the Taiwan Straits  Although General Taylor considered that the conversion of the Navy and the Marines to his views on nuclear stalemate-limited war was "quite an achievement," the Army position was not accepted by the Department of Defense or by the Air Force. "One of the most pressing objectives of the Defense Department," Secretary McElroy stated in January 1958, "must be to make it obvious to any potential enemy that we have available and are prepared to use weapons of retaliation so devastating that the cost to an aggressor of an attack on us would be unbearable."  In April 1958 McElroy foresaw "less and less likelihood of limited war that would demand sizable forces." While he granted that limited conflict "could occur in primitive countries,"