reation of an air division within the War Department General Staff, to be headed by an assistant chief of staff who would be responsible for military aviation. Alarmed by the rumored possibility that the Navy might try to take control of continental air defense and organize a large shore-based air force — said to be favored by Rear Adm Ernest J. King, chief of the Navy’s Bureau of Aeronautics— the Air Corps Tactical School forwarded a study to Westover on 13 January 1936 that proposed to establish a United States air force as a part of the War Department under a chief of air staff. Under this plan, the chief of the Air Corps would become the deputy staff. Westover was unwilling to accept either General Andrews’s suggestion or the Tactical School proposal. He instead urged on 17 January 1936 that the GHO Air Force be placed under the chief of the Air Corps. During the next two years, both Andrews and Westover continued to urge that unity of command was required in the Air Corps. However, Gen Malin Craig, who became Army chief of staff on 2 October 1935, was quite opposed to according preferential treatment to the Air Corps.  With the secretary of war’s approval of the Drum board report, the Air Corps had an approved requirement for an expansion to 2,320 aircraft that were to be organized into 27 bombardment, 17 pursuit, 11 attack, and 20 observation squadrons. Several of these squadrons were committed to overseas air garrisons in the Philippines, Hawaii, and Panama; most of the observation squadrons were to be in the National Guard. The War Department did not indicate a time schedule for achieving the limited Air Corps expansion. As a matter of fact, it was going to authorize personnel increases in the Air Corps only in conjunction with an ordered expansion of the basic ground forces.  At its organization in March 1935, the GHQ Air Force consisted of four bombardment, three pursuit, two attack groups, and four reconnaissance squadrons, with a total of approximately 1