hat the activity would be known as the General Headquarters Air Service Reserve.” Marshal Foch believed that the  25  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 47 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  enemy’s army was the enemy’s strength; he maintained that bombers should attack the enemy’s economy only as a secondary function. The military representatives of the Allied Supreme War Council on 3 August 1918 accordingly established an Inter-Allied Bombing Force that was to operate against the German economy only after requirements of the armies in the field had been met or in lulls between ground battles.”  Although the Allies moved toward acceptance of strategic bombing, the amount of effort that could be devoted to attacks against Germany’s economy was not large. From 6 June 1918 to the Armistice, the British Independent Air Force consisted of only nine squadrons, some of which were equipped with planes that had been obsolete for several years. In these months, the Independent Air Force dropped some 550 tons of bombs on about 50 targets. Trenchard recognized that his effort was spread very thinly, but his major hope was to disrupt enemy morale.*! Had the war continued, the US Air Service would have joined the strategic bombing effort. Back in the United States, however, indecision as to which bombers would be produced and then slowness in production denied the Air Service a bomber force. In line with the original Bolling recommendations, the United States initially undertook to manufacture Caproni bombers; it also decided to produce British-designed Handley-Page bombers. Since it would be difficult to ship the bombers across the ocean, Handley-Page parts would be manufactured in the United States and the planes would be assembled in Great Britain. On 28 June 1918 an Air Service, Night Bombardment Section, was opened in England to superintend the equipment and training of a night-bomber force, but none of the expected Handley-Page aircraft became available before the Ar