e Air Forces to attain proper results, is the lack of an authoritative and concise statement of AAF doctrine and employment policies. A ready guide is not available, and each combat zone is improvising its own doctrine or interpreting older doctrines that have not been kept up to date." General Arnold, in early March, recognized that his "seasoned and experienced officers are spread far and wide" and that the AAF needed a "tool of instruction whereby every officer may acquaint himself with both an over-all and particularized view of Air Force structure and objectives." Consequently, Arnold charged Brig Gen Byron E. Gates, chief of AAF management control, to direct the preparation and publication of a volume that would "present . . .a comprehensive picture of the objectives of Air Forces in Theaters of Operations and of the organization available to attain those objectives." The completed volume was published on 1 June 1943 under the title The Air Force in Theaters of Operations: Organization and Functions. It included six booklets with a total of 27 chapters that completely described the organization and missions of the Air Force as they existed in the spring of 1943. "The volume," Arnold stated, "represents Air Force doctrine. It is not rigid doctrine. It is subject to change when change is indicated. It points out what can be done with the means at our disposal, but it must not prevent us from utilizing those means fully in other ways and for other purposes."”  In many ways The Air Force in Theaters of Operations was the most ambitious and comprehensive doctrinal publication ever issued by the Air Force, and it was conveniently organized as a series of looseleaf pamphlets that could, in theory, be revised and kept up to date. However, the publication appeared at the very moment when air organization and doctrine were changing profoundly and most of it was almost immediately out of date. Despite a statement in the introductory chapter, "Air Force Mission and Organi