o troops on the ground for enhancing their effect against the hostile troops." In this paper, Mitchell divided combat aviation into four branches (which would be classic for many years): pursuit, bombardment, attack, and observation aviation. Pursuit aviation was "designed to take and hold the offensive in the air against all hostile aircraft" and it was to be the branch with which "air supremacy is sought and  33  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 55 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  obtained." Bombardment aviation was "organized for the purpose of attacking enemy concentration points of all sorts at a distance from their front lines. Probably its greatest value is in hitting an enemy’s great nerve centers at the very beginning of the war so as to paralyze them to the greatest extent possible." Attack aviation was a specialized branch that had only begun coming into being when the war ended in Europe. Attack planes would be heavily armed and armored "flying tanks" that would prosecute low-level attacks against hostile troops, tanks, artillery, motor vehicles, railway trains, or anything of that sort. Observation aviation was the branch "concerned more with the troops on the ground than any other." In the conduct of combat air operations, Mitchell envisioned that the superior command would outline the broad plan of operation and that the Air Service commander would prepare detailed air plans in conjunction with the Army G-3 operations and G-2 information branches, When approved by the superior commander, these plans would become orders.”  Aviation Is Integrated into Army and Navy  Despite the ardent pleadings of aviation enthusiasts, the War and Navy departments acted in unison during 1919 and 1920 to integrate aeronautics into the existing establishment. One of Mitchell’s most telling arguments in favor of a separate air force had to do with its potential effectiveness for the coastal defenses of the United States. Allegedly to meet this line of argumentati