ted States would be able to reduce its forces considerably. Such a new strategy, Twining stated, would represent "the only way we can provide the forces for the country within a  458  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 480 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  reasonable standard of financing."1®° Twining’s remarks brought into the public domain a fact that had troubled Air Force leaders for several years. While the original New Look guidance had emphasized nuclear weapons, it had been broad enough to require the maintenance of conventional air capabilities. The thesis that the armed forces must prepare for nuclear general war and nonnuclear local wars presented a serious dilemma. "By trying to be strong in both conventional and atomic capabilities .. . ," Col Robert C. Richardson argued, "we may become weak in both. At best, money and time will be wasted on obsolete weapon systems because of specious reasoning that atomic weapons will never be used. ut 87 Making strong allusions to "warped thinking," Brig Gen Dale Smith had written: "Air Forces provide the ideal weapons for limited war, but to be most effective, the political restrictions applied to a limited war must favor the air weapon rather than favor enemy manpower."188 Writing in May 1956, General Weyland pointed out that tactical nuclear weapon capabilities were essential to the mobile tactical strike forces. "With nuclear weapons," Weyland thought, "these forces can be compact and yet be so effective as to provide the decisive balance of power." He emphasized that tactical nuclear weapons were not "weapons of mass destruction" and that they could be selectively employed against primary military targets. "We should never again, in my opinion," he concluded, "restrict our selection of weapons or target area as we did in Korea. The best weapon to do the job with the least loss of life should be selected for each target under consideration."  In the summer of 1956 the Joint Chiefs of Staff rejected Radford’s proposals