hat what it started as localized conflict would remain localized. The only condition under which this assumption could apply would be for one nation to be absolutely and positively guaranteed that the other lacked either resolution or intelligence. For if a nation is determined to survive and preserve its way of life, it must avoid risk of extinction, regardless of how that extinction might be brought about and if a nation is intelligent, it must realize that objectives can be won just as surely in piecemeal advances as by one all-out blow. Therefore, combine both intelligence and resolution in a nation, and you have a nation against whom you dare not instigate limited actions unless you are ready to accept the possible consequences of all-out war. . . . This leads us back to where we started. An enemy cannot start a shooting war unless he has already won the decision phase, and he dare not, in the face of strength, resolution, and intelligence on our part, start a so-called "limited action" unless he is in the same position.  As late as mid-1956 General Twining appeared to be basing his thoughts on limited war on the assumption that the United States would continue to possess strategic forces superior to those of the Soviets. "It is conceivable," he said in June 1956, "that if the aggressor rationalizes that our retaliatory force would make it impossible or too costly for him to win a general war he might then choose the alternate of peripheral or small wars." Under these circumstances tactical air forces coupled with Army and Navy forces would provide "a powerful deterrent against peripheral war.")6 Intelligence information arriving in the United States during 1956, however, indicated that the Soviet Union was giving little attention to the preparation of forces for limited wars but was instead bending every effort to develop long-range air and rocket forces, which in a few years might well exceed the strength of the strategic forces of the United States. At the h