itions. The bill provided that the Army’s surgeon general and the Navy’s Medical Department would serve the Air Force, and it charged that the Army’s quartermaster general, chief of engineers, judge advocate general, and chief of chaplains with extendin their functions and duties to meet the needs of the Department of the Air Force.!  When the House Committee on Armed Services began hearings regarding the Air Force Organization Act on 10 January 1951, Finletter stated that the Air Force ought to be permitted to attain more experience before its internal establishment was codified. However, out of deference to Vinson, he and Vandenberg would not  314  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 336 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  oppose the legislation if it was amended to remove restrictive provisions. Both Finletter and Vandenberg insisted that, under the direction of the secretary of the Air Force, the chief of staff should command rather than supervise the Air Force. The National Security Act of 1947 had authorized the chief of staff to command the Air Force. Although Vandenberg was willing to supervise support activities of the Air Force, he maintained that it was essential that he retain command over the strategic and the air defense forces. "When we are dealing with things like the type of explosives we have today, and... because half an hour may make the difference between the destruction of something and the saving of it based on information that Washington may have .. .," he explained, "I want to have clear command." Finletter and Vandenberg also opposed the legislative creation of adjutant general, inspector general, and other specialized corps within the Air Force. "Rather than having badges and differentiations," Finletter said, "what we are trying to get in the Air Force is one unified command without distinctions." He was willing to accept a unified medical service but maintained that the Air Force could not depend upon other services to provide medical, quarterm