airman, Combined Operational Planning Committee, England, from June 1943 to January 1944 and as assistant chief of staff for operations of the VIII Bomber Command from January to June 1944, was critical of the division of fighting air and exploitation air represented in the command arrangements for air power. Anderson thought that all air power should have been concentrated for coordinated attacks against Germany until the strategic air campaign had been successfully completed; after that point, he  150  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 172 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  continued, all air power could have been used to support exploitative surface operations. The Eighth Air Force had 15 fighter groups and the Ninth Air Force 18 fighter groups by the time of the Overlord invasion. When the Ninth Air Force established itself in Great Britain on 16 October 1943, it took control of those fighter groups designated for it which had arrived in Great Britain. This was said to be necessary in order that the groups might receive fighter-bomber training, but the Eighth Air Force was actively in combat and retained the right to request fighter support from the Ninth Air Force. Anderson recollected that this decentralized command structure often made it difficult to coordinate requirements for fighter support. When he was asked about Anderson’s statements on command arrangements, General Spaatz held a different viewpoint: "There was no difficulty in using Ninth Air Force fighters when we needed them," he said. "If we had a mission we could always get them."  While the combined bomber offensive against Germany was designed to prepare the way for a surface invasion of the Continent, the buildup of Anglo-American bomber forces was relatively slow; in the end the major weight of the strategic bombing attack followed rather than preceded the invasion of Europe. Weak at the war’s beginning, the RAF Bomber Command did not begin strategic bombing attacks against Germany until May 1940. A