Sands, New Mexico; Fort Bliss, Texas; and other installations. Keller determined that about 4,000 military and 11,000 contractor personnel were working on missile programs. He concluded that the best contribution he could make to the programs would be to head a small organization that would act as a consultant and adviser to everyone involved with guided missiles. President Truman accepted this recommendation and on 24 October 1950 appointed Keller to be the director of guided missiles for the Department of Defense. Truman charged Keller to direct and coordinate the activities connected with research, development, and production of guided missiles. From his observations of the military services’ missile programs, Keller came to several other conclusions. He saw no reason why one service could be charged to conduct research and development on a missile system that might be assigned to another service when it became operational. Keller also thought that engineers tended to avoid "the dirty, stinking work of getting the little problems cleaned up." He commented that quite frequently when they met problems engineers tended to veer off to a new conception rather than concentrating on the solution of the problem. Keller believed that the development process had to stabilize its objectives long enough to find out what made a piece of hardware malfunction. Keller promptly embarked on a campaign "to get hundreds of missiles out flying so that there can be some kind of a sensible evaluation of the field for general policy guidance." Keller was impatient with the military concept that logistical support concepts ought to be worked into the plan for the development of a weapon system. "We must get a workable article first," he said.  Based on his mandate from President Truman and his understanding that highest priorities should be given to the development of air defense missiles, Keller picked out the Nike, Terrier, and Sparrow as programs for expedited development.  487  File: