ations. The War Department General Staff did not agree with these independent ideas. It insisted that "even independent air operations are carried out as part of the general plan of the Commander-in-Chief . . . and must be designed to support the general strategic purpose which he desires to attain.""®  War Department General Staff Reorients Air Programs  Early in the 1930s the War Department had been willing to permit the development of experimental long-range bombers, apparently because General MacArthur held a permissive attitude toward such an endeavor. The attitude of the War Department General Staff switched abruptly after October 1935 when General Craig became Army chief of staff. Beginning in 1936 General Craig and his deputy chief of staff, Maj Gen Stanley D. Embick, pressed the entire Army to reduce expenditures for research and development.” In June 1936 the War Department turned down Westover’s request for authority to buy a test quantity of XB-15s and enough B-17s to equip at least two groups. At a General Staff conference on bombardment held on 28 August, both Westover and Andrews argued that the four-engine bomber would be the most effective weapon that the Air Corps could procure, but the General Staff held that the "bulk of bombardment aviation operating with a mobile Army should be the size and capacity of the standard B-18 medium bomber." Alleging that no action could be taken until the YB-17s were thoroughly service tested, the War Department cut B-17 procurement out of the Air Corps budget requests for fiscal years 1937 and 1938 and added twin-engine bombers. Because of the successful service tests of the YB-17s in the summer of 1937, however, the War Department later authorized the Air Corps to procure 26 B-17Bs from fiscal oar 1938 carryover funds and 13 B-17Bs from current funds in fiscal year 1939.  Although the Air Corps was not obtaining the type of aircraft that it felt necessary for its missions, the War Department procurement actions of