. Fifth, in the light of these realities the force contemplated . . . is down to the "bare bones."24  In view of the prominence accorded to the Air Force in the defense budget for fiscal year 1953, Air Force leaders fully presented their concepts of air power to Congress early in 1952, Finletter related air power to deterrence. "What we are trying to do," he said, "is to create and maintain a military force sufficiently strong — with relationship to a possible enemy’s capability — to be able to persuade him not to attack us— and then back off this protective shield of strength to work to achieve peace. Nothing must be held back in terms of money or national effort which would prevent us doing the very best we possibly can to prevent the happening of such a catastrophe." 201 Th view of the wide interest in the subject, Vandenberg again explained the meaning of air superiority. "The most inefficient way to operate one’s air force against another force," he said, "is to try to destroy it in the air. ... The main defense of the United States lies in the strategic air arm’s ability to destroy the bases. That is the only efficient way to knock a possible air force out of the air and get air superiority. In the meantime, however, you must utilize also as much as possible planes to cause them attrition in their attack; to blunt their attack against us." Referring to the situation over North Korea, where neither side had destroyed the other’s air bases, Vandenberg showed that local air superiority fluctuated between the Communists and the United Nations air forces according to which side put forward the most effort at a particular time. Under these circumstances, Vandenberg continued: "Air superiority is a fleeting thing .. . until either the factories that produce the aircraft or the oil and/or the sietistite and the airplanes z are eliminated. Anyone with a small force can get local air superiority at times." 1202 Y ater on General Bradley was asked to comment on Vandenber