nternational Security—The Military  576  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 598 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  Aspect, whose report was prepared under the direction of Henry A. Kissinger and was released late in 1957. This report forecast four trends that would be of particular importance to national security: weapons technology would become increasingly complex, the rate of technological change would increasingly complicate the tasks of defense relative to offense, the Soviet bloc would continue to gain in overall military strength, and the concept of scarcity in nuclear weapons would disappear from the defense calculations of the United States, the Soviet Union, and to a lesser extent Great Britain. Based on this strategic estimate the panel described three major defects in the organization of the Department of Defense:  1. The roles and missions assigned to the individual military services had become competitive rather than complementary because they were out of accord with weapons technology and the principal military threats to national policy.  2. The organization and responsibilities of the Joint Chiefs of Staff precluded the development of a comprehensive and coherent national defense doctrine.  3. The secretary of defense was so burdened with the negative tasks of trying to arbitrate and control interservice disputes that he could not play his full positive part in the initiation and development of high military policy. e  To remedy the central weaknesses that it described as inherent in the existing organization of the Department of Defense, the Rockefeller panel recommended changes in service roles and missions, the status of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the authority of the secretary of defense. In the matter of roles and missions, the panel recommended that the military departments be removed from the channel of operational command and be charged to support the unified operational commands. It further recommended that all operational mili