og of war in an all-out modern conflict. First Germany and then France and Russia accepted the strategic concept of offense a l’outrance—a headlong offensive that would attain victory before an enemy could maneuver or react and before battlefield reconnaissance would be worthwhile.’®  Reflecting popular fears of aerial bombing, the first days of World War I were marked by many false alarms of hostile air raids. The Germans in their declaration of war handed to France on 3 August 1914, apparently were sincere in alleging that French aircraft had bombed the railroad near the German city of Nuremberg on the day before. As hostilities began on the Western Front, the air orders of battle were fairly evenly matched: each side had about 180 airplanes, the Germans had 12 Zeppelins, and France and Britain together had 13 dirigibles. The much feared Zeppelin did not perform well in early fighting; the Germans lost one Zeppelin when it was attempting to bomb the forts at Li¢ge on 6 August and two others were shot down on 21 August when they attempted to reconnoiter under low clouds in the Belfort area. In the confusion of the active field campaign, neither the attacking German armies nor the Anglo-French defense forces made effective use of reconnaissance aircraft.  The employment of reconnaissance aircraft became more effective as the German attack continued. When the exhausted opposing armies entrenched late in 1914, aerial vehicles became virtually the sole source of intelligence. In some measure, aircraft reconnaissance added to the stalemate of trench warfare since neither opposing army could make large local buildups of munitions and reserves without being detected and countered. Both the Allies and the Central Powers exploited fixed balloons for frontline observation and aircraft for deeper-in reconnaissance. Success of local campaigns depended on blinding the opposing intelligence service; thus, both sides developed fighter aircraft and employed them over active sector