s strategy was reaffirmed at Yalta in February 1945. To help ensure the success of this strategy, the Allies granted the Soviet Union territorial concessions in East Asia in return for its promises to join the war against Japan when hostilities were concluded in Europe. ee  In the spring of 1945 the question was not so much whether Japan would be invaded but how the effort would be ordered and commanded. Arnold thought that a supreme commander should be appointed, with coequal status for ground, naval, and air force subordinates—an arrangement that would permit all AAF units in the Pacific to serve under one top air commander. Not willing to accept this proposal, the Joint Chiefs, on 3 April 1945, instead approved a directive that designated General MacArthur as commander in chief, Army forces in the Pacific, and named Admiral Nimitz as commander in chief, Pacific, with command over  165  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 187 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  all naval forces. The Joint Chiefs agreed on 2 July to authorize the establishment of the United States Army Strategic Air Forces (USASTAF), Pacific, under the command of General Spaatz, with a headquarters on Guam. Under this plan, the Headquarters and Headquarters Squadron, XXI Bomber Command, was redesignated as the Headquarters Squadron, Twentieth Air Force, and the Eighth Air Force was to be redeployed from Europe to command new B-29 wings based on Okinawa. The Joint Chiefs of Staff would direct USASTAF operations; Arnold would act as Joint Chiefs’ executive agent for USASTAF, 2!  Under the new command organization, the Twentieth Air Force had five wings and 21 B-29 groups plus the fighters based on Iwo Jima that previously had been assigned to the now inactivated XXI Bomber Command. Employing 923 B-29s the Twentieth operated virtually at will over Japan during July; after 4 July, General Kenney’s Far East Air Forces began to strike targets on Kyushu from bases on Okinawa. During the Okinawa crisis