it must be the full-fle ace but more economical element of our offensive air power as a general war deterrent.  In September 1956 Brig Gen Henry P. Viccellio, commander of the Nineteenth Air Force, deployed Mobile Baker —a token composite air strike force consisting of one squadron of F-100C day-fighters, one squadron of F-84F fighter-bombers, a flight of B-66 tactical bombers, and a flight of RF-84F reconnaissance aircraft — from bases in the United States to Europe. Employing in-flight refueling, the F-100s made the Atlantic crossing in 4 hours and 55 minutes. After arriving in Europe, the atomic-capable strike aircraft participated in an operational exercise. "As SAC is a deterrent to major war," wrote General Viccellio, "so will the Composite Air Strike Force be a deterrent to limited war."53  Other Air Force leaders held somewhat different views on the likelihood of limited war. In response to a journalist’s question posed to him in December 1955 as to whether air power could prevent small wars, General LeMay observed: "We believe that, by working hard and maintaining our efficiency at the highest possible standards, that is the best thing we can do to assure [that] wars large or small will not happen. ... I think that most wars are started when one nation thinks it could  450  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 472 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  beat the other one. If they didn’t think they were going to win, they certainly would never start it." LeMay developed his thought more fully in an article published in September 1956 in which he defined the decision phase of a future war as the preparation of combat ready air atomic forces in a time of nominal peace. "Only a foolhardy nation," he continued,  would ever base its power strategy upon the doubtful assumption that what it started as localized conflict would remain localized. The only condition under which this assumption could apply would be for one nation to be absolutely and positively guaranteed that the