iate." General Twining agreed with this conclusion.!”> Tersely summing up a belief that deterrence was a "delicate  445  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 467 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  balance of terror," Rand analyst Albert J. Wohlstetter concluded: "To deter an attack means being able to strike back in spite of it. It means, in other words, a capability to strike second,"!4  Based upon their examinations of the nature and requirements of a deterrent posture, Air Force leaders seriously questioned whether a nuclear stalemate could exist and whether, if it could exist, it would serve to eliminate general war. In April 1956 Brig Gen Sidney F. Giffin, vice commandant of the Air War College, remarked that stalemate described an end situation in the game of chess in which neither of two opponents could win or lose. He considered the term inappropriate toa situation that should be described as a "precarious balance of power" that might at any time be "tipped through the indifference or carelessness shown by one side or through the moral or technological advances achieved by the other." aad Expanding upon this same theme, Col Robert C. Richardson postulated that to maintain a stalemate "both sides must have stocks of atomic weapons and the means for their delivery while at the same time lacking defenses capable of protecting their vital areas from destruction by the enemy." If either side developed "pay-off" defenses against air attack, the stalemate would never occur. In view of the normal processes of evolution of weapon systems, moreover, Richardson thought it unlikely that an exact parity in weapons, delivery forces, or defenses would occur for any length of time or endure for any length of time. "I suggest," he concluded, "that the so-called atomic ‘stalemate’ or ‘stand-off is more of a psychological than a real deterrent. At best it is a cliche born of the natural tendency to rationalize away the prospects of total atomic war."  That any effective nu