n selected officers under simulated combat conditions" and to "develop, prepare, and standardize training literature and. . . other training material. "20 On 12 November the Army Air Forces established the Army Air Forces Board and the directorates of Academic Training, Tactical Development, Operations and Facilities, and Training Aids within the School of Applied Tactics. The Directorate of Academic Training consisted of the departments of Air Defense, Bombardment, Air Support, and Air Service. The AAF Board was to be comprised of a chairman, an executive, and additional members to be appointed by General Arnold as well as the commandants of each of the school’s department. The board was charged to "determine major questions of policy and doctrine for all activities of the school and such other matters as may be assigned to it by competent authority." The director of tactical development was responsible for conducting test operations of aircraft and equipment and for improving the strategy, tactics, and techniques of air warfare. The Army Air Forces undertook to exercise control over the School of Applied Tactics through the director of military requirements; the directors of air defense, bombardment, air support, and base services were to approve the doctrines, tactics, and techniques taught in the department of the school.?4  The terse language of Army Air Forces regulations gave the impression that the AAF Board was to be aschool activity, but on 16 November 1942 General Fairchild instructed Brig Gen Hume Peabody, the commandant of the AAF School of Applied Tactics, that the board ought to be developed as an Army Air Forces activity. "The purpose of the Army Air Forces Board," Fairchild wrote, "is to study the over-all picture of Air Force matters with a view to making recommendations to the Commanding General, Army Air Forces, on such matters as Air Force strategy, technique, organization, equipment, training, etc., of all units making up an Air Force and of th