rinal manuals." The first objective of the Air War College Evaluation Division . was "to develop doctrines and concepts for the employment of air power." 6 In September 1951, General Edwards stated that the Air War College had the mission of "promoting sound concepts on the broad aspects of air power in order to assure the most effective development and employment of the air arm.  By the autumn of 1951, Air Force usage already suggested that the term concept was more visionary, more dynamic, and more comprehensive than the term doctrine. An Air War College study of Air Force ideas proposed to establish concept at an orderly position in Air Force thought. "In the field of ideas," according to this study, "there is evidently a degree of general acceptance ranging from the first nebulous ideas of an individual, up successively through concepts, doctrines, and principles. The point at which an idea becomes a concept, a concept a doctrine, and a doctrine a principle is not always clear. Thus at any one time our Air Force perine may be said to be partly concept, partly doctrine, and partly principle."* 8 In his pioneering book US Military Doctrine, Brig Gen Dale O. Smith, who had worked with the Air War College students in the preparation of their study, accepted the proposition that Air Force thought progressed from ideas to concepts to doctrines, the last having gained enough official support to be taught at service schools or to be accepted at the highest military staff levels. General Smith additionally proposed that a service doctrine which was accepted by the president, the Congress, or the people of the United States became an executive, a legislative, or a national "policy."  General usage thus accepted the proposition that a concept was a hypothesis that had not received the acceptance required by doctrine, but there was less agreement as to whether doctrine was confined to the service level of the armed forces.” In 1957, for example, Col Wendell E. Carter contem