eas.pdf --- Page 532 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  missiles had unique characteristics but were still characterized by relatively large circular error probabilities and would be operationally inflexible once they were launched. "It appears unlikely," he wrote,  that guided missiles will completely replace aircraft in any mission area during the foreseeable future. It looks as if the future force structure will be mixed in varying degrees depending upon the job to be accomplished. ... A look at the technical estimates of the surface-to-surface missiles’ future capability in relation to manned aircraft and the targets to be attacked indicates that about fifty percent of the Strategic Air Command’s mission could sometime be accomplished with guided missiles.  General Twining suggested early in 1957 that the phaseout of manned bombers and fighters would have to be slow and could not be undertaken until missiles were operational and had proven their worth. In Twining’s opinion, missiles with large warheads would be effective against area targets but would not be effective against precise targets such as enemy airfields for many years. "As I see it now," he said, "I would employ a bomber force to go get the airfields rather than gamble on missiles."!>* Expressing basic agreement with the Air Force chief of staff, General Schriever stated: "This ballistic missile is largely a retaliatory weapon, and it would be used against an enemy’s economy."~~ Summing up the Air Force position on a mixed force, Col James B. Tipton of the Air Force plans directorate pointed out, in May 1957, that "the unique characteristics of missiles of all types, both offensive and defensive, make them superior to manned systems in many respects and they will replace manned systems when demonstrated capabilities indicate those tasks which they can do better or cheaper. In most respects, however, missile systems are complementary and not competitive." ?  As it had been projected to do, the Strategic Air Comm