, each one will solve the problem in his own fashion, and these thousand fashions, we may  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 25 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  be very sure, will act to direct all their efforts to a common objective.""° In his introduction in The Principles of War, Foch promised: "In the course of the practical applications our strategical studies will lead us to, you will also arrive at what we call the doctrine or mental discipline, which consists first in a common way of objectively approaching the subject; second, in a common way of handling it, by adapting without reserve the means to the goal aimed at, to the object." Teachings derived from history, Foch emphasized, would come "out in the shape of a theory of war which can be taught . . . and in the shape of a doctrine, which you will be taught to practice."!”  In spite of the newness of aviation and its subsequent lack of history on which to base doctrine, Brig Gen William Mitchell referred to "our doctrine of aviation."8 Moreover, in the draft of what could well be called the Air Force’s first doctrinal manual, which was prepared for instructional purposes at the Air Service Field Officers School in 1921, Maj William C. Sherman wrote: "In deriving the doctrine that must underlie all principles of employment of the air force, we must not be guided by conditions surrounding the use of ground troops, but must seek out our doctrine .. . in the element in which the air force operates." Although the Air Service and Air Corps were unable to make much of an impact upon the War Department’s official field service and training regulations, the chief of the Army’s air arm, in common with the chiefs of other Army arms and services, enjoyed certain liberties in issuing the doctrinal literature for the Air Service and its successor, the Air Corps. The War Department General Staff emphasized, however, that doctrine should be formulated only by the chief of an Army arm or service? "Doctrinal liter