will not be great for some time." Possibly as aresult of the experience with Langley, the Board of Ordnance and Fortification declined to enter into negotiations with the Wrights in October 1905 "until a machine is produced which by actual operation is shown to be able to produce horizontal flight and to carry an operator."  15  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 37 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  The Beginning of Army Aviation  Because of interest expressed by President Theodore Roosevelt, aviation matters received added emphasis in the War Department in 1907. On 1 August Brig Gen James Allen, the Army’s chief signal officer, established an Aeronautical Division within the Signal Corps, and the Board of Ordnance and Fortification reopened negotiations with the Wright brothers. In a letter to the board on 10 October, Allen was skeptical of the value of the Wright plane. "The military uses of a flying machine of any type," he thought, "will be only for purposes of observation and reconnaissance, or, as an offensive weapon, to drop explosives on the enemy." For either purpose, he believed that the airplane would be less efficient than the dirigible balloons that were already being used by France, Germany, and England. "For the purpose of dropping explosives on an enemy," he asserted, "a high speed aeroplane is hardly suitable. .. . In passing over the enemy’s works a flying machine should travel at least 4,000 feet above the earth. . .. Traveling at the rate of thirty miles an hour at this altitude, even after cossiderable practice, it is not thought a projectile could be dropped nearer than half a mile from the target."” Even though the airplane lacked range, load-carrying capability, and came out second best in an effectiveness comparison with the dirigible, the Board of Ordnance and Fortification nevertheless instructed General Allen on 5 December 1907 to solicit bids for the delivery of a heavier-than-air flying machine designed to carry two persons and s