ding logistical support across the Himalayas to the forward operating bases at Chengtu. In final analysis, only about 14 percent of the command’s capability could be employed against the enemy, the remaining 86 percent being absorbed by the use of B-29s as tankers to haul fuel from India into China. At the start of its operations on 15 June 1944 the XX Bomber Command sent 47 B-29s to attack the Yawata iron and steel works on Kyushu. By January 1945, the command had dropped about 800 tons of bombs on targets in the Japanese home islands, but the raids were of insufficient weight and accuracy to produce significant results. Several daylight precision attacks were flown against coke ovens in Anshan, Manchuria, but these attacks were later determined to have had little strategic significance since Japanese iron and steel production already had been severely curtailed because of a loss of shipping needed to transport raw materials.  In an effort to get results from the XX Bomber Command, Arnold put General LeMay in command on 29 August 1944. In the months that followed, LeMay substantially improved the operating record of the B-29s. But there was little that he could do to increase the effectiveness of attacks against Japanese targets that were too far distant from the Chengtu bases. In the autumn of 1944, the XX Bomber Command was used to attack targets on Formosa, in Burma, at Singapore, and in the Netherlands East Indies. In January 1945, LeMay was transferred to the Marianas; in the following months the XX Bomber Command also moved to Pacific bases. Looking backward at the XX Bomber Command’s experience, Brig Gen John B. Montgomery, who had been the deputy chief of staff for operations  161  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 183 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  of the XXI Bomber Command, concluded that the piecemeal employment of the B-29s had proved a psychological boost for China’s sagging morale, but from a military standpoint he suggested that the B-29 e