VIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  reported that it would be possible to proceed with the manufacture of an efficient A-bomb that could be transported and dropped by fighter-type aircraft.“4 Where nuclear weapons previously had been available only for strategic air warfare employments, they could now be developed for tactical air warfare applications.  Thoughts on Nuclear Air Power  Under the privilege of academic freedom and with the understanding that their views did not necessarily represent official viewpoints, the faculty and students of the Air University had begun to make analyses of the effect of nuclear weapons on warfare as early as 1947. An Air War College seminar studying the import of the atomic bomb on strategy and tactics concluded in April 1947 that "the initial blow suffered by any nation from an atomic attack can be decisive." 5 Based ona detailed analysis of the threat to the United States posed by the Soviet Union, Air War College students conjectured in June 1948 that "all measures short of direct military action to contain the threat of Communist domination are of doubtful effect in meeting other exacting requirements in preserving our national life. Military action using weapons of mass destruction, prior to the Soviet development of these weapons, in final essence appears to be the only ultimate means of attaining security of our nation and the world," Speaking to the Air Command and Staff School in June 1949, Maj Gen Orvil Anderson sought to outline the new patterns of air warfare in an atomic age. He said:  In World War II no fighter cap ever . . . gave adequate protection to any surface target... The attackers always came through. . .. They always paid in attrition ... but air came through, and the indications are strong that as technology advances the ability of air to come through at lesser and lesser costs is quite clear, quite apparent. You will reach the point in the distant future when you won’t even think of opposing air in the air. ... We'll go