ontrol of all military aviation, while the Air Force believed that the Navy was trying to encroach upon the strategic air prerogatives of the Air Force.”? On 1 March 1948 the Joint Congressional Aviation Policy Board reported that there were basic differences of opinion between the Air Force and the Navy as to the mission of naval aviation set forth in Truman’s executive order and in the provisions of the National Security Act of 1947."As an example," the board reported, "the Navy interprets the law to permit it to develop any type of weapon and to base its plans and requirements on the utilization of any weapon. The Navy contends that it is complying with the law in disregarding the executive order on this point because the law and executive order are in conflict."  197  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 219 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Secretary Forrestal told Gen Omar N. Bradley, shortly after the latter became Army chief of staff in February 1948, that the large aircraft carrier had already been approved and would be built. Forrestal, nevertheless, concluded that the time had come to decide "who will do what with what." Hence, he assembled the Joint Chiefs of Staff at Key West, Florida, on 11 March 1948 to thrash out roles and missions. As basic guidance, Forrestal demanded that the three services each recognize the need for mutual support of each other’s legal missions. According to Forrestal, the Joint Chiefs reached basic agreement that the Navy would proceed with the developments of weapons that it considered essential to its functions — including the 65,000-ton aircraft carrier and nuclear bombs that could be transported on naval aircraft — provided that the Navy would not develop a separate strategic air force. The Air Force recognized the right and need for the Navy to participate in an all-out air campaign and to attack inland enemy targets, for example, airfields from which hostile aircraft might be launched to attack a fleet. The formal ag