t which constitutes the most serious threat to the operations of the supported ground force." At best the air support command would provide a centralized control for observation groups, transport groups, or other combat air units assigned or attached to it. Both Colonel Schlatter and Col William E. Lynd, who had shared in drawing up the manual, considered FM 31-35 to be highly tentative and subject to change. 6 Asa matter of fact, ground force officers did not like the centralized control of support aviation inherent in the air support command, for they frankly favored the attachment or assignment of air units directly to the ground units they would support. Beginning on 7 December 1942 a special Air Support Board with ground and air members met in Washington to revise the manual. Even though this board proposed no radical changes in the manual, the revised manuscript was not approved by either the Army Air Forces or the Army Ground Forces.!  Recognizing that the Army Air Forces had much to learn about air defense and directing fighter interceptor forces by radar and radio, the Air Force Combat Command (shortly before its demise) laid plans for the establishment of a special school to deal with these matters. On 26 March 1942 the Third Air Force accordingly established an Air Defense Operational Training Unit at Orlando, Florida. When the reorganization of the Army Air Forces was completed, the Orlando activity was designated as the Fighter Command School and placed directly under Headquarters Army Air Forces. In its mission statement, Col Gordon P. Saville, director of air defense, charged the school to train air defense personnel to develop doctrines, tactics, and techniques of air defense; to test air defense equipment and operational procedures; and to recommend the organization of air defense for the United States and overseas theaters. A pursuit group, an aircraft warning regiment, a searchlight battalion, and other necessary troops were assigned to the school