pearance before the Preparedness Investigation Subcommittee of the Senate Armed  618  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 640 --- IMPACT OF MISSILES AND SPACE  Services Committee on 11 March, Taylor urged that the defense budget ought to be made functional by mission areas rather than to continue to make appropriations by services. Such mission areas could include general war forces and limited war forces. "There is," he explained, "a fundamental need to determine standards of sufficiency in the various categories of military forces which we maintain and to which all services contribute."“°°  General Taylor’s charge that the United States possessed thousands of units to deliver strategic nuclear strikes when only hundreds were needed—a condition soon popularly described as "overkill'—drew support from Navy officers in appearances both in and out of Congress. Early in February 1959 Admiral Burke informed the House Subcommittee on Appropriations that he believed the United States possessed too much retaliatory power and ought to put more money into limited war capabilities. "Right now," he said, "I think there is nothing Russia can do to prevent her from being destroyed. ... What we can destroy would be the ability of Russia to continue a war... . We would break her back... . You would not strike every military target, but you would strike enough of them to prevent Russia from recovering. You would break her back."”2’ Admiral Hayward reasoned that deterrence of war comprised "what the Russian planner thinks, not what you or I think. If he thinks he is going to be destroyed no matter what he does, he is not going to start it." Hayward added: "If you have a system that is invulnerable to surprise attack and effective so it would be possible to be effective even if a man read in the New York Times we were attacked, and still destroy your enemy, this is the thing you are working for. ... Any system completely vulnerable to a surprise attack is a weak one, deterrence shou