against Air Corps flights of more than 100 miles out to sea finally was rescinded by the issuance of an Air Corps circular that permitted air operations over the sea to the maximum range of multiengine aircraft.  An Air Power Mission for the Air Corps  President Roosevelt’s decision to emphasize air power touched off an expansion of the Army Air Corps, but it did not end the controversy as to what the mission of the Air Corps should be. Looking toward this end, Secretary of War Woodring appointed an Air Board on 23 March 1939 to consider and recommend the fundamental policies that would govern the tactical and strategical employment of the Army’s air force under current national policies, including hemispheric defense. Woodring designated Arnold as president of the Air Board and named as members Generals Andrews and Beck and Brig Gen George V. Strong, the assistant chief of staff, War Plans Division. Colonel Spaatz privately stated to General Arnold that the Air Board could not perform its tasks until it first  92  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 114 --- GROWTH OF THE AF IDEA  determined the Air Corps’ mission, the doctrines for its employment, and the characteristics of the forces it would require.) At its first meeting on 31 March, the Air Board agreed to study each of these matters.”  To provide an input to the War Department Air Board, the Air Corps Board at Maxwell Field was required to expedite the preparation of its study "Employment of Aircraft in Defense of the Continental United States." To hasten the work, the Air Corps Board found ideas in studies made at the Tactical School and in the answers to a questionnaire it sent out to the GHQ Air Force and its unit commanders. Completed on 7 May 1939, the Air Corps Board study visualized the primary purpose of the national defense as being to hold US territory inviolate, to discourage an enemy from attempting an invasion, and to defeat an invasion if it were attempted. The Air Corps Board assumed th