ad in the New York Times we were attacked, and still destroy your enemy, this is the thing you are working for. ... Any system completely vulnerable to a surprise attack is a weak one, deterrence should be inevitable."*”° Some days later Hayward told inquiring senators that he believed "in the years to come, any system that is vulnerable to surprise attack will fade from the scene."”°? What the Navy had in mind in the way of future deterrent capabilities began to be evident on 5 February when Admiral Burke stated: "To knock out the Polaris weapon system ... the enemy would have to knock out all the Polaris submarines simultaneously. They would have to kill all of these submarines at the same time they initiated their attack. I think that this is impossible."""- When asked during a national television interview on 22 March how many Polaris submarines would be needed, Burke replied: "You can take from the number of Russian cities the number of megatons it takes to destroy a Russian city, the reliability of the missiles, the accuracy of the missile, and you can compute it pretty accurately yourself. And then you double it just to make sure and you come out someplace in the neighborhood of perhaps 30."  As advanced by Navy spokesmen, the strategy of minimum deterrence — or finite deterrence as it was soon called apparently to avoid a connotation of gambling with the nation’s safety — visualized that a positive threat and a capability of destroying between 100 and 200 Soviet civilian centers of population would be sufficient to deter the enemy.” Writing under the title, "Finite Deterrence, Controlled Retaliation," in the US Naval Institute Proceedings in March 1959, Comdr P. H. Backus, executive secretary of the Navy Ballistic Missile Committee, provided a coherent description of the strategy of minimum or finite deterrence.  619  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 641 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Backus reasoned that the Soviet capability to deliver thermonu