sipation of American resources in a remote, indecisive struggle." While returning homeward aboard the cruiser Helena, Eisenhower held talks with several of the men who would serve in his cabinet, including John Foster Dulles and Charles E. Wilson, who would become the secretaries of state and defense respectively.  In his book War or Peace, published in 1950, and in later speeches and articles, Dulles had expressed his conviction that strong military forces could prevent war and that the wars of the past had begun because aggressors had miscalculated their opposition. "Many believe," Dulles had written, "that if the Kaiser had known in advance that his attack on France by way of Belgium would have brought England, and then the United States, into the fray he would never have made that attack. ... Many also believe that if Hitler had known that his war would involve the United States he would not have started it."” Dulles also believed that "the original Korean attack would not have occurred if it had not been assumed either that we would not react at all, or if we did react only at the place and by the means that the aggressors chose."” Aboard the Helena and in additional conferences in Honolulu, Dulles held the position that the United States could not mount an adequate static defense everywhere around the Communist perimeter. Rather than spread its defenses thin, the United States should clearly manifest its intent to resist aggression and should concentrate its attention on deterring attack by  420  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 442 --- STRATEGIC IMPLICATIONS  maintaining a strong retaliatory power capable of striking swiftly at sources of aggression. Admiral Radford agreed that American military power was spread-eagled. "The sooner we could gather some of these forces back into the palm of our hand, and turn them into truly ready forces for deployment anywhere," Radford later observed, "the better our strategic position would be." While Radford and Wilson