o depend on air support as a substitute for artillery firepower, Army commanders preferred to rely upon the supporting fire of their own organic artillery within the first thousand yards beyond the front lines.!  As has been seen, Army and Army Air Forces officers were so generally satisfied with the tactical air system employed in Europe that it was in effect engrossed in War Department Field Manual 31-35, Air-Ground Operations, with little difficulty in August 1946, There were, however, evidences that at least some influential Army officers did not like the cooperative air support system. Writing in 1949 about his experiences as commander of the US Fifth Army in Italy, Gen Mark Wayne Clark was willing to admit that his forces had received "splendid air support of all kinds by both British and American planes." "Nevertheless," he continued, "the command setup was never satisfactory from my point of view and it still is not satisfactory. ... I believed then, and my experiences in Italy did not change my view, that ground troops cannot be successful in battle unless adequately supported by combat aviation, and that such planes as are used for this purpose are necessarily auxiliary weapons, as is the artillery, and that they should come under the direct orders of the ground commander."!”” The Army’s chief historian found that satisfaction with air-ground cooperation was greatest at the higher command levels and less pronounced at the lower levels. "The air and ground forces of the Army," he wrote, ",.. did not develop an effective air-ground battle team in World War II. The Marines did, in cooperation with naval aviation and their own."!80  At the same time that some Army officers wished a closer command subordination of tactical air units to ground control, some Army Air Forces commanders visualized a much more decisive role for tactical air power. According to Gen Omar Bradley, Maj Gen Elwood R. "Pete" Quesada, commander of the IX Tactical Air Command (which was pai