ncy charged primarily with the responsibility for conducting operations through the air." They concluded: "Unlike air power, military auxiliary aviation is invariably confined in its use to support of operations which have definite land and sea boundaries." They defined "military auxiliary aviation" as being "composed of those products of the national air capacity which are diverted or withdrawn from the air power total for the primary purpose of conducting land or sea operations under the military agencies charged with those responsibilities." Taking a semantic shortcut, Prof Barton K. Leach abruptly defined "United States air power ...as the United States Air Force.""” When he appeared before Senator Stuart S. Symington’s committee, which was investigating air power in April 1956, General LeMay did not define air power. However, he stated that intelligence indicated that the Soviets would possess more long-range jet bombers than the United States by 1958-60. He stated, "We are drifting into coordinating our tactics and weight of effort, timing of things, and that sort, and we are drifting towards what we airmen have maintained all along, to fight an air power battle requires a single commander." LeMay urged that a single air commander would be required to achieve the "primary single goal of destroying Soviet air power."  The new definitions of air power were not acceptable to other national leaders. Admiral Carney stated: "Air power is not a compartmented thing peculiar to any one agency; it is needed by the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps for the accomplishment of their assigned roles and missions; it is needed to expedite the business of other governmental agencies, or industry, and of the population at large.” Speaking pointedly in response to LeMay’s testimony, President Eisenhower on 4 May discounted the charge that the United States was lagging behind the Soviet Union. "We have," he told reporters, "the most powerful Navy in the world... and it featu