nited States and selected base areas. (c) To provide the air components necessary for the advancement, intensification, and/or diversification of our initial offensive until forces generated from inadequate mobilization bases have become available.  Seeking to pool resources that could be used for more than one purpose, the Air Force on 1 December 1948 established the Continental Air Command at Mitchel Field as a superior headquarters to the Air Defense Command and the Tactical Air Command. The Continental Air Command received direct command over the six air forces formerly assigned to the Air Defense and Tactical Air Commands, both of which were reduced to the status of operational headquarters. The Continental Air Command also took over three of the Strategic Air Command’s fighter groups” 36 Although the consolidation of commands was a product of austerity, Col William H. Wise, deputy chief of the Air University’s Evaluation Division, hailed it as being fundamentally correct and called for further consolidation. "An Air Force Combat Command," he recommended,  should be so organized and constituted as to make it readily feasible toemploy maximum strength in the performance of the mission at hand, be it strategic, tactical, or defensive. . . . Since an Air Force properly organized and equipped to achieve success in the decisive phase will be capable also of performing the necessary tactical operations in the exploitation phase, the peacetime maintenance of a specialized air arm at the expense of the strength and effectiveness of the decisive air echelons is unwarranted. The soundness of this concept is already recognized in the Air Force, but how soon corrective action can or will be accomplished is a matter for conjecture.  Since the budgetary limitations would force the Air Force to reduce its combat strength to 48 groups and 10 separate squadrons and to change its aircraft purchase programs, General Vandenberg assembled the USAF Senior Officers Board in Washingto