e are getting evidence of that character. No doctrine is sacro-sanct, and of all military doctrines that of our Air Corps should be the last to be so regarded."  Even though the Woodring program authorized the procurement of four-engine bombers for the Air Corps, the War Department General Staff apparently had approved the program with severe misgivings. The whole matter was thrust back into controversy in May 1938, when General Westover, mindful of the fact that the B-17s were already four years old, requested the War Department to authorize the Air Corps to undertake the development of a new high-altitude, 4,000-mile-range bomber, that could carry two tons of bombs. General Embick exploded into action. "Our national policy," he wrote on 9 May, "contemplates preparation for defense, not aggression. Defense of sea areas, other than within the coastal zone, is a function of the Navy. The military superiority of a plane the size of even the B-17 over the two or three smaller ships that can be procured with the same funds, remains to be established, in view of the vulnerability, air base limitations, and complexity, of the former type. . . . If the equipment to be provided for the Army Air Corps be that best adapted to carry out the specific functions appropriately assigned it under Joint Action as an integral part of the national defense team, there would appear to be no need for a plane larger than the B-17, and only the relatively small number of the latter desirable as potential reinforcing units for Oahu or Panama."”’  At General Embick’s instigation, the War Department referred Westover’s request for the development of a high-altitude, long-range bomber to the Joint Army-Navy Board for review. On 29 June the Joint Board reported that it visualized no likelihood that the Army Air Corps would be called upon in time of war to perform missions requiring the use of bombers with greater capabilities than those of the B-17. It believed that the Air Corps would be called