f the importance of the strategic striking force on 10 May, Vandenberg visualized a future war:  An alert enemy will strike us first. Further, our defense forces in being will kill some of the attackers but only a small percentage. To be really effective, we must have an air defense capable of killing enemy air power at its source. We ourselves must strike effectively before much else can be done by anybody. As was the case in the last war, it is up to the Air Force to carry the war to the enemy and to gain air superiority before surface operations in force can be successively undertaken.  Asked to explain the Air Force philosophy of air defense on 7 June, General Saville emphasized the "relationship between Air Defense, the Air Offensive, and Time." "I believe it’s obvious to us all," said Saville,  287  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 309 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  that when we had exclusive ownership of the A-bomb we had a relative position in which we were going over the enemy and drop A-bombs on him and he was going to drop TNT on us. ... And, at that time, it was perfectly proper completely to ignore the Air Defensive business, go into the air offensive and give complete preoccupation to the air offensive. But when the enemy starts A-bomb stockpiling, you get a different situation. You're back into the relative war again.  Saville thought that the time had come to go back to the "15-year old theory... that a well organized air attack once launched cannot be stopped. . . . I think you have to stop it before it is launched and you can do so by offensive means only." Thus, Saville believed that the time had come for the Strategic Air Command to take the counteratomic offensive as its number one mission. Although Saville suggested that no form of air defense could be more than 60 percent successful, he urged that the United States must build a centralized air defense system of a magnitude that could be calculated in terms of its monetary costs both to the