al war throughout the world." The Joint Chiefs of Staff opposed the extension  299  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 321 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  of the war to China on military grounds. "It would be militarily foolhardy," they declared on 3 January, "to embark on a course that would require full-scale hostilities against great land armies controlled by the Peking regime, while the heart of aggressive Communist power remained untouched." At the Senate hearings, Bradley stated: "Red China is not the powerful nation seeking to dominate the world. Frankly, in the opinion of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, this strategy would involve us in the wrong war, at the wrong place, at the wrong time, and with the wrong enemy."  Believing that the American people needed to know the facts about the nation’s air power and the relationship of the Korean War to global Air Force responsibilities, General Vandenberg published an article entitled "The Truth About Our Air Power" on 17 February 1951. He further developed his thought in two days of testimony before the Senate committee investigating the military situation in the Far East. He wrote, as a basic principle, that air power was indivisible and could not properly be characterized as strategic, tactical, or defensive. "The overriding purpose of every plane, whether it is a bomber or a fighter," he declared, "is to win the air battle on which final victory on land or sea is predicated." In an atomic age the air battle had to be won by an air offensive since no amount of money, however great, could provide static air defense which could "keep out a determined enemy attacking in strength.” 1 Looking backward at the nineteenth century, Vandenberg pointed out that the British navy had maintained a world balance of power and had given the world many years of peace. In the twentieth century, air power was the only force that could maintain a world balance of power. With this thought in mind, Vandenberg demonstrated that the