e sea, over it and underneath it, the Navy; and one in the air, the Air Force." The Navy and the Marine Corps strongly opposed a single service. "We have very little duplication now left in the services," Admiral Burke testified. "What could happen is the elimination of one whole element, so you don’t have that element at all, and thereby leave yourself wide open, betting that just one thing is going to happen."  In its support for the Department of Defense Reorganization Act of 1958, the Air Force had assumed that the new organization would increase the importance of unified commands and, by vesting primary responsibility for stating force requirements in the unified commanders, would permit a more realistic allocation of available defense dollars. The Department of Defense budgetary allocation of funds by military services remained unchanged, however, and in the summer of 1958 the secretary of defense accepted $41.25 billion as an initial planning objective for the fiscal year 1960 defense budget; he determined that allocations to each service would continue to be approximately the same percentage of the whole as had been the case in fiscal year 1959. Thus, even though they were theoretically reduced in stature by the defense reorganization, the military departments continued to exercise the power of the budget. In explaining the problem, General White observed that "as a service chief, I am always trying to get the best I can for my service." But within the Air Force, White had to resolve the competing requests for funds submitted by the Strategic Air Command, the Air Defense Command, and the Tactical Air Command. Each of their commanders were men who were charged with, as White said, "a specific responsibility and they are exceedingly dedicated to their job." As has been seen, General White and the Air Staff initiated a reduction in the forces to be available to the Continental Air Defense  587  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 609 --- IDEAS, CONCEPT