nment requiring alert forces. After attending a briefing in Omaha, Secretary of the Air Force Donald A. Quarles stated on 9 February 1957 that a "tried and proven manned bomber force should not be reduced and replaced by an untried missile force. However, it is vital that the Air Force get on with development and procurement of missiles."  Writing in the summer of 1957 shortly after he became Air Force chief of staff, General White agreed that the ballistic missile was "less flexible than the manned bomber." He pointed out, however, that "its addition will definitely add a considerable measure of flexibility to our forces as a whole." General White reasoned:  Its reaction time and speed of flight are very valuable characteristics in a situation requiring immediate response to an attack. The ballistic missile will also permit greater versatility for our forces by relieving the manned bomber of those heavily defended targets where the cost of attacking with bombers would be too high and where precise accuracy is not mandatory. In considering the characteristics of the bomber and the ballistic missile, it appears that for many years to come an optimum force will make best use of both weapons.  Even though White believed that "there is no question that SAC, as presently constituted, is the only thing between us and oblivion and will be for a long time to come," he also believed that the Air Force was late in realizing the potential of missiles and that "the top level of the Air Force does not know enough about missiles." Addressing an Air Force commanders conference on 30 September 1957, White warned: "The senior Air Force officer’s dedication to the airplane is deeply ingrained and rightly so, but we must never permit this to result in a battleship attitude. We cannot afford to ignore the basic precept that all truths change with time." He pointed out that money limitations would not indefinitely permit continuing an overlapping of missile and aircraft capabilities. Mo