te their pressing concern for European recovery, both President Truman and Congress showed increasing alarm about the state of preparedness of the American aircraft industry. At the recommendation of the Air Coordinating Committee, Truman appointed a committee on 18 July 1947 headed by Thomas K. Finletter and charged it to make an objective inquiry into national aviation policies and problems and to assist him in formulating an integrated national aviation policy. The President’s Air Policy Commission assembled on 29 July, held formal hearings from 8 September to 3 December, and completed its report on 30 December 1947.1 Meanwhile, Congress—where the Republican party held a majority—felt "a general concern over national security and the threatened bankruptcy of the aircraft industry and civil air carriers." Authorized on 22 July 1947, atemporary Joint Congressional Aviation Policy Board was formed with Sen Owen R. Brewster as chairman. This board organized an advisory council of civil aviation representatives and retired military leaders, including General Arnold. The congressional board held its first meeting on 15 September. Although it held frequent meetings of its advisory council and staff, after the first session the panel chose to use the elaborate testimony of the president’s commission rather than call witnesses. The Joint Congressional Aviation Policy Board made its report to Congress on 1 March 1948,173 Although the conclusions of the Finletter and Brewster investigations were quite similar, the Brewster board was more pronounced in its criticism of the defense establishment. From the outset of its investigation, moreover, the Brewster board believed that "the primary problem of national aviation policy was one of providing well-balanced military and naval air forces rather than one of finding means to maintain an aircraft industry. If the former were accomplished," the board believed, "the health of the latter would be assured."  225  Google  File: --- f