eptember, Khrushchev wrote Eisenhower, warning: "An attack upon the Chinese People’s Republic... is an attack upon the Soviet Union."!”? In another letter on 19 September, Khrushchev declared that: "Those who carry out plans of atomic attack on the Chinese People’s Republic should not forget that not only the US but the other side possesses not only atomic but hydrogen weapons and also the corresponding means of delivery, and should such an attack be delivered on the Chinese People’s Republic, then the aggressor will receive a fitting rebuff by the same means." President Eisenhower rejected Khrushchev’s threat as abusive.!™4 But the threat that local war could expand into general war if nuclear weapons were used could not be ignored. Vice Adm Charles R. Brown, commander of the US Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean, subsequently stated: "I would not recommend the use of any atomic weapons no matter how small, when both sides have the power to destroy the world. . .. I have no faith in the so-called controlled use of atomic weapons."!?>  The experience of Lebanon and Quemoy thus appeared to justify General Taylor’s argument before the National Security Council earlier in 1958 that, in many limited war situations, the United States would not wish to employ nuclear weapons. "We would always go into a military operation prepared to use nuclear weapons," Taylor explained in March 1959, "because we never know what the outcome is going to be. The decision to use them . . . would be determined by the President."’”° About this same time, Gen Henry I. Hodes, commander in chief, US Army Europe, defined limited war as a conflict "in which atomic weapons may not be used freely or on a large scale in the beginning and one in which our national survival is not at stake at least initially."!?” Much of this thinking on tactical nuclear weapons coincided with Gen O. P. Weyland’s already expressed belief that flexibility demanded the retention of conventional ordnance delivery characteri