ld  348  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 370 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  army. The Department of the Army was favorable to Ridgway’s proposal, but it approved a lesser allotment order by which four helicopter battalions, each with three companies, would be assigned to each field army. The Air Force, however, demurred, arguing that such an allotment of Army helicopters would duplicate the helicopter services that could be provided by the rotary-wing groups of assault transport wings. Gen John E. Hull, deputy chief of staff of the Army, pointed out on the other hand that the Army had never cited any requirement for support by Air Force rotary-wing aircraft within the combat zone against which the Air Force was justified in programming units.” This jurisdictional controversy remained deadlocked until 4 November 1952, when, after intervention by Secretary Lovett, a second memorandum of understanding was jointly approved by the Army and Air Force. This understanding fixed the maximum weight of Army fixed-wing aircraft at 5,000 pounds but prescribed no weight limit for helicopters. It specifically recognized that Army aviation would have the function of transporting Army supplies, equipment, personnel, and small units within the combat zone, an area precisely defined as extending 50 to 100 miles deep behind the front lines. The Air Force remained responsible for airlifting Army supplies, equipment, personnel, and units between points outside the combat zone to points within the combat zone and also for the air movement of Army troops, supplies, and equipment in the assault and subsequent phases of airborne operations.  While the Korean hostilities provided new lessons looking toward a future employment of theater air forces, those battles also reemphasized old air power lessons, which, albeit, tended to be obscured by the peculiar circumstances prevailing in Korea. The Strategic Air Command demonstrated well the flexibility and versatility of its force by emp