ing about counterinsurgency warfare and the military operations in Southeast Asia.  The existing state of professional historical art does not provide much guidance as to the way a history of military ideas ought to be approached. Edward Mead Earle’s Makers of Modern Strategy, Military Thought from Machiavelli to Hitler is a monumental study of military thinking that is worthy of emulation, but Earle’s volume is a series of case studies of the ideas of the Great Captains drawn from their formal writings. The authors in Earle’s book focus attention upon a relatively few individuals and assess their specific contributions to the art and science of warfare. A study of Air Force thought, on the other hand, involves a consideration of the views of a substantially large number of men, most of whom did little formal writing. Although air officers have not been prolific writers, they have expressed their beliefs freely, especially before congressional committees and commissions. In fact, one may almost say that the Air Force has developed an oral rather than a written tradition. Speeches, lectures, and testimony of Air Force leaders have provided the richest source of data for this study of the ideas, concepts, and doctrine of the Air Force. Since such lectures are considered privileged, quotations from or citations to a National War College, Army War College, or Air War College lecture have been cleared with the lecturer, even though they may have been unclassified as to military security. To a man these lecturers have been generous and enthusiastic in granting approval to quote or cite their work.  A constant concern in developing the narrative has been the problem of how to present the matters under consideration in the most meaningful manner. Since ideas and concepts are frequently interpretations of facts and not facts themselves, a  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 15 --- thinker may predict meanings before events transpire or, even more likely, continue o