velopment responsible for much of the planning that had been formerly done in Washington by the directorate of military requirements. But in late July 1943, just as General Saville was beginning to secure personnel for the directorate of tactical development, he was ordered to North Africa to take command of the XII Fighter Command.  The new strategic and tactical concept of the Army Air Forces made the four departments of the School of Applied Tactics obsolete. General Peabody, the school commandant, and Brig Gen Eugene L. Eubank, who reported to Orlando as director of tactical development in September 1943, faced this fact and began to reorganize the school and the AAF Board. Peabody’s announced object was to achieve an organization that would accomplish deep thinking,°? Earlier in the year, Dr Robert L. Stearns, the educational adviser at the School of Applied Tactics, had pointed out that the research (or tactical development) function ought to be separated from the academic function since both were full-time tasks.” The reorganization, which was authorized in revised AAF regulations dated 8 October 1943 and effected three weeks later, incorporated this principle. The AAF Tactical Center was established under the command of General Peabody as the superior headquarters over a consolidated School of Applied Tactics and a Demonstration Air Force, whose tactical units and field installations were organized into model strategic and tactical air forces and a model air defense wing.  The reorganization of the AAF Board was the work of General Eubank, who had earlier served as AAF director of bombardment. Under a revised AAF regulation published on 8 October 1943, the AAF Board was declared to be an agency of Headquarters Army Air Forces and was empowered to develop tactics, techniques, and doctrines and to determine all military requirements for the Army Air Forces. The assistant chief of air staff, OC&R, the commander of the AAF Tactical Center, the commander of the A