er Dulles had suggested that the National Security Council ought to be made a top policymaking body that would unify foreign, military, and domestic policy. In his State of the Union message to Congress on 2 February 1953, President Eisenhower pledged to provide the National Security Council with "the vitality to perform effectively its statutory role."!° In his presidential campaign, Eisenhower had spoken of a need for restudying the operations and functions of the Department of Defense. Before leaving office, Secretary of Defense Robert A. Lovett prepared a memorandum that outlined several defects in defense organization that had become apparent during the Korean emergency. To maintain civilian control with the department, Lovett recommended that the secretary of defense should be recognized as the president’s deputy commander in chief of the armed services and that the unified commanders should be made responsible to designated secretaries of the military departments rather than to individual chiefs of staff. He pointed out that the "two hat" status of the Joint Chiefs made it difficult for them to maintain broad nonservice points of view. He further showed that the statutory Munitions Board and the Research and Development Board had built-in rigidity, since representatives of the milit departments sat on these boards as judges and claimants of their own requests.  Seeking a thorough view of the administrative problem of the Department of Defense, Secretary Wilson appointed a Committee on Department of Defense Organization headed by Nelson A. Rockefeller on 19 February 1953. The committee heard witnesses and reported on 11 April. Eisenhower accepted most of the committee’s recommendations and transmitted them to Congress on 30 April as Reorganization Plan No. 6. This plan reaffirmed the power of direction, authority, and control of the secretary of defense; channeled responsibility and authority over unified commands through secretaries of the military department