government-financed aircraft plants, two of which would be put into operation, the remainder to be temporarily in reserve.'”” President Roosevelt’s announcement that he would present an Air Corps expansion program to Congress in his State of the Union message early in January 1939 left little time for planning. The Office of the Chief of the Air Corps had no staff agency that was able to state immediately what the complexion of the Air Corps ought to be. Arnold quickly began to transfer into his office a roster of experienced Air Corps officers. This group included Lt Cols Carl Spaatz, Joseph T. McNarney, Ira C. Eaker, and Maj Muir S. Fairchild. When Captain Kuter stopped on a flight to Bolling Field to refuel, he found orders to report to the basement of the Munitions Building where Major Fairchild and Captain Kenney were attempting to determine how big an air force was needed and for what it was needed. Many of the answers came from an Air Corps Tactical School map problem that had focused on the defense of the Western Hemisphere against an Axis air threat from the direction of Dakar and Natal. Largely on the basis of this strategic concept, the Air Corps stated requirements for a 5,500 airplane program that promised to fall within the cost figure of $500 million that Roosevelt had said he would request for airplanes. When the plan went to the War  91  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 113 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Department General Staff for review, however, the War Plans Division insisted that an augmentation of ground combat strength would have to accompany the Air Corps buildup to combat Axis intrigue in South America. When Roosevelt was briefed on the final plan, he complained that the War Department offered him everything except the airplanes he wanted. On 12 January 1939 he asked Congress for $300 million—instead of $500 million—for the Air Corps. In three months Congress passed the emergency Army air defense bill substantially as requested