hed.  In view of the dissension that had accompanied the preparation of the Theater Air Operations manual and the Air University’s plan to expand the subject with additional manuals, the Air Force assembled a wide-ranging conference on theater air forces during September 1953. This meeting included Evaluation Staff project officers and representatives of the Tactical Air Command, the Far East Air Forces, US Air Forces in Europe, and the Air Staff. The Evaluation Staff had prepared  394  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 416 --- AF WRITES ITS DOCTRINE  draft manuals on counterair, interdiction, and close air support, but the conferees decided that a single manual would suffice. The group also reviewed the manuscripts and agreed on desired language changes. With all commands represented in one room, one of the participants in the conference later recalled that coordination of the subject matter for the manual was surprisingly easy to accomplish. Completed in draft on 28 February, this single manual was printed on 1 March 1954 as AFM 1-7, Theater Air Forces in Counterair, Interdiction, and Close Air Support Operations. The Air Force subsequently printed AFM 1-9, Theater Airlift Operations, on 1 July 1954, and AFM 1-11, Theater Air Reconnaissance, on 1 December 1954.'1!  Viewed as a series, AFMs 1-3 through 1-11 represented the greatly refined results of more than 30 years of intermittent research, study, analysis, and codification. Although it had served as a project agency for their preparation, the Evaluation Staff described the manuals as "products of the entire Air Force." They had not been written in an "ivory-tower" atmosphere but in close collaboration with representatives of the Air Staff and of the major commands. The manuals expressed basic operational doctrine in broad terms. It was expected that the major commands would prepare command manuals describing how things were to be done.!!? However, the Air Force Directorate of Operations was not entir