t overthrew the prowestern government of Iraq. Because of widespread unrest both Lebanon and Jordan feared a similar fate. In this crisis the government of Lebanon immediately sought military assistance from the United States, while Jordan appealed to the United Kingdom to send in troops to prevent disorder. Following President Eisenhower’s decision to assist Lebanon, Adm James L. Holloway, Jr., the commander in chief, Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean, was designated commander in chief, Specified Command Middle East, to execute Operation Blue Bat for the reinforcement of Lebanon. Within 24 hours, elements of the US Sixth Fleet landed a battalion of Marines near Beirut. Augmented by C-124 transports of the Military Air Transport Service (MATS), the United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) airlifted Army Task Force Alpha from Rhein-Main Air Base to Lebanon via Adana Airfield in Turkey and began to provide logistical support to the Americans in Lebanon and to the British forces in Jordan. At 1000 hours on 15 July the Joint  611  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 633 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Chiefs of Staff directed that the Tactical Air Command dispatch Composite Air Strike Force (CASF) Bravo under the command of Maj Gen Henry Viccellio to Incirlik Air Base at Adana, Turkey. Taking off within two hours from Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, the first F-100s refueled three times en route; after following a circuitous route to avoid certain Mediterranean countries, they arrived at Incirlik in less than 13 hours. Within 24 hours 36 F-100s were at Incirlik and ready to support the ground forces. Troop carrier congestion at the forward base then forced Task Force Bravo to hold a part of its forces in France. However, within 50 hours the entire CASF — two F-100 squadrons, one B-57 tactical bomber squadron, and one RF-101/RB-66 composite tactical reconnaissance squadron—was in Europe, and in less than four days it was established at Incirlik. The Tactical Air