16,000 planes and 30,000 engines by 1 July 1918. Congress immediately appropriated funds for the requisite production, but, for some reason, Ribot had not specified what type planes ought to be produced.”!  To determine specific US aircraft requirements and to coordinate Allied patent problems, Secretary of War Newton D. Baker sent an aeronautical commission, headed by newly commissioned Maj Raynal C. Bolling, aleader in civil aeronautics, to Europe in June 1917. Earlier in 1917, Bolling had worked closely with Foulois, now a major, to justify the $640-million congressional appropriation for the production of aircraft and expansion of the Air Service. Secretary Baker apparently believed that Bolling's background in business would enable him to deal with Allied war producers.” The report filed by Bolling on 15 August 1917  19  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 41 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  provided the doctrinal and technical bases for building the Air Service, American Expeditionary Forces (AEF). Bolling reported general agreement that the United States would immediately require aircraft for use in training, aircraft for use strictly in connection with the operation of US ground forces in the field, and after these immediate requirements were met, fighting airplanes and bombers that would be "in excess of the tactical requirements of its Army in France." Since he did not know how large the US Army field force would be, Bolling was unable to suggest the extent of the air force component of the field force, but he recommended that an air force which could be used "independently of United States military forces" should be about 37.5 percent fighting airplanes, about 25 percent day bombers, and about 37.5 percent night bombers. The composition of the bomber force would actually vary according to the number of fast fighting machines that the enemy operated on a given portion of the front at a given time. In an extended discussion of the bomber force he des