g force, who has the capability that no other armed service has, that of seizing, occupying, and retaining ground taken." Although Ridgway thus continued to visualize the Army’s primary role as a force in general war, his valedictory criticism of the national defense strategy submitted to Secretary Wilson in a formal memorandum on 27 June 1955 emphasized the Army’s role in limited war. Sometime between 1958 and 1962, Ridgway urged, the Soviets would possess a nuclear capability sufficient in size to inflict critical damage on the United States, and they would also have effected greatly improved air defense measures against American nuclear bombers. In this period US nuclear air superiority would have lost its significance. Soviet strategy would be directed toward employments that would preclude the use of nuclear weapons on a worldwide basis. Free world military forces, except in Western Europe, were isolated detachments around the Soviet periphery. While US military policy statements referred to a mobile-ready  453  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 475 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  force, Ridgway bluntly charged that "no adequate mobile-ready force now is in being and the actual creation of such a force must compete with increasingly emphasized nuclear-air requirements." Ridgway concluded, "It is my view that the commitments which the United States has pledged create a positive requirement for an immediately available joint military force of hard hitting character in which the versatility of the whole is emphasized and the preponderance of any one part is de-emphasized. an (Emphasis in original.)  Even before he had been selected to succeed Ridgway as Army chief of staff, Gen Maxwell D. Taylor felt that the Army had been lagging behind in the national defense effort. Struck by what he believed to be a "departure from the dogma of Massive Retaliation" in the National Security Council guidance paper of January 1955, Taylor, shortly after becoming Army ch