ent of four-engine bombing planes was rescinded. a  Efforts to Describe Air Doctrine  At least in theory the chief of air corps was responsible for preparing Air Corps doctrine. In June 1935 General Westover had first directed the Air Corps Board to formulate a uniform tactical doctrine for the Air Corps. But with never more than five full-time members, the Air Corps Board had found it difficult to complete the doctrinal manuals project. At the top level in Washington —as Colonel Kraus pointed out — the War Department General Staff exerted "an important influence on the tactical doctrine" of the Air Corps since "such doctrines obviously must be governed to a large extent by the characteristics of the weapons made available."18 Located as it was at Maxwell Field, the Air Corps Tactical School was far from sympathetic toward official Army doctrine. As a matter of fact, the Tactical School frankly questioned and invited academic disagreement with all doctrine. "Battles have been won too often," stated Capt Laurence S. Kuter, in a lecture on 2 March 1938, "by the judicious violation of doctrine. . . . Disagree with doctrine in the conference room—be familiar enough with it to violate it in the conference room — but know it well enough to know what it is and why you are violating ce? The school was able to think and teach about absolutes in war that were not necessarily related to current war plans. "Even though air warfare may be waged simultaneously against both the enemy armed forces and the enemy national structure," the school argued in 1938, "the main purpose of the air offensive will be to nullify the former so as to permit breaking down or conclusively threatening the latter."!1°  While the Air Corps Board was mindful of the mandate requiring it to provide a uniform tactical doctrine for the Air Corps, work on this project could not get under way prior to the final publication of War Department Training Regulation  88  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 110 ---