y prosecuting the Korean war. Each component contributes its own specialized capabilities to the attainment of the theater commander’s overall mission and in so doing assists the other components; however, no single service exists solely or primarily for the support of another." Generally endorsing existing Army-Air Force doctrine, Clark did not wish to see any far-reaching or drastic changes made, based solely on the often unusual conditions prevailing in Korea. :  Although Weyland and Air Force evaluation boards had long argued that United Nations Command air power could not be effectively employed as a unitary strength in the absence of a proper joint headquarters staff in the United Nations Command-Far East Command (UNC-FEC), Generals MacArthur and Ridgway had preferred to depend upon a staff that was predominately Army. The UNC-FEC headquarters staff also doubled in duty as the theater Army headquarters. General Clark, however, held that his staff "should be a joint tri-service operation, rather than an Army project," and on 20 August 1952 he announced that he intended to organize a joint staff and establish a headquarters for Army forces in the Far East. According to plan, the Army Forces Far East was activated on 1 October 1952; the reorganized Headquarters UNC-FEC began to function on 1 January 1953. "A truly integrated staff of the three services, in which men were picked for their ability rather than the color of their uniforms," Clark later observed, "is the answer to combined operations." As the theater air commander, Weyland also established a new means of integrating the capabilities of the Fifth Air Force and the FEAF Bomber Command. Comprised of representatives of the Far East Air Forces, the Fifth Air Force, and the FEAF Bomber Command, the FEAF Formal Target Committee began to meet biweekly in July 1952 to study target opportunities and to recommend operational employments. After Weyland approved them, the committee’s recommendations were distribut