form an increasingly large proportion of its own support with organic missiles; nevertheless, he wished to ensure "that as the Air Force support goes down that of the Army’s units is coming up proportionately."2-7  Aircraft and Missile Projection in Tactical Air Command  When they talked about the subject, the top-level defense leaders tended to equate tactical air power with the support of ground forces. However to General Weyland, who was at the head of the Tactical Air Command, the experience of World War II and Korea had demonstrated that close support of ground forces amounted to only 15 percent of offensive tactical air effort. "Attainment of air superiority through offensive operations and interdiction of communications systems," Weyland pointed out, "have always been and continue to be primary missions of theater or tactical air forces." Within the Tactical Air Command it appeared that the portent of tactical nuclear weapons promised to accentuate the lessons of World War II and Korea. Experience obtained from the testing of Army and Air Force forces under nuclear battle conditions during Exercise Sagebrush in November and December 1955 tended to confirm TAC’s thinking. "Air superiority," wrote Maj Gen John D. Stevenson, the Tactical Air Command’s director of plans,  has had a different meaning as a result of Exercise Sagebrush. No longer does the force with numerical air superiority alone necessarily enjoy air superiority. Air superiority cannot be established as long as the opposing force retains any bases from which to launch a strike force with an atomic capability. One of the most important lessons learned from the exercise was that the force initiating the attack attained a tremendous advantage. In fact in both tactical phases the force initiating attack was able to attain and maintain air superiority and to win the counterair war. Although initiating an attack is not recommended, an operational concept that will give friendly forces a chance of surviv