-mile MX-774 intercontinental missile did not promise "any tangible results in the next eight to ten years," Chidlaw recommended that it be deleted from the Army Air Forces program.” In Washington a staff study signed by Brig Gen Thomas S. Power, AAF deputy assistant chief of staff for operations, on 16 June 1947, based its recommendations regarding missiles on the basic assumption that "for the next ten years, long range air bombardment will be effected by means of subsonic bombers only." Given this assumption, the pressing requirement would be for operational bomber defense and standoff bombing missiles and conversely for surface-to-air and air-to-air interceptor missiles. The study posed an urgent requirement for an early development of a means to detect and destroy enemy supersonic guided missiles, and an early requirement for highly accurate surface-to-surface, 1,000-mile-range guided missiles. This study also  482  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 504 --- MISSILE TECHNOLOGY  stated an eventual requirement, probably by 1957, for a supersonic surface-to-surface missile with a range of up to 10,000 miles. The study recommended as its first priority, bomber-launched air-to-surface and air-to-air missiles; as its second priority, a 150-mile-range tactical surface-to-surface missile; as its third priority, bomber and missile interceptor missiles with associated detection and control means; and as its fourth priority, long-range surface- to-surface missiles. Gen Hoyt S. Vandenberg approved this order of priority on 18 June 1947. After coordination through the War Department, this list of priorities was transmitted to the Air Materiel Command as a directive on 12 August 1947 3  The full effect of the Army Air Forces’ decision was to subordinate the guided missile research and development program to the support of a strategic bomber offensive. The reorganization of the headquarters of the Army Air Forces that took place on 10 October 1947 with creation of t