mbers agreed to “assist the Party or Parties so attacked by taking action as it deems necessary, including the use of armed forces, to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area." The overall Western Union command structure established by the Brussels Pact would become a part of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).  When he forwarded the draft treaty to Truman on 7 April, Secretary Acheson pointed out that it did "not mean that the United States would automatically be at war if we or one of the other parties to the treaty were attacked." The United States would be obligated to take promptly the action which it deemed necessary, but the  *Greece and Turkey were invited to join NATO on 15 February 1952 and these two nations signed the treaty later that spring. The Federal Republic of Germany was admitted to NATO in 1955.  248  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 270 --- AF IN NATIONAL DEFENSE  decision would have to be made in accordance with the constitutional process under which only Congress had the power to declare war. President Truman sent the treaty to the Senate on 12 April 1949. In spite of spirited debate by opponents of US involvement in European affairs, the Senate voted 82 to 13 to accept it on 21 July 1949.6 While the North Atlantic treaty was under consideration in the Senate, the Soviets evidently realized that the Berlin Airlift had thwarted their efforts to starve West Berlin and that the Berlin blockade was leading to Western European military unification. First informally on 27 April and then formally on 12 May, the Soviets agreed to end the Berlin blockade. Continued for a while to build ap supply stockpiles, the Berlin Airlift officially ended on 30 September 1949,  The principle of collective security manifest in the Atlantic Pact permitted a formalization of the American military strategy that already had been necessitated by the presidential budgetary ceilings in fiscal year 1949. On 25 July, President Trum