directive had been forwarded to the Tactical Air Force-V Corps for consideration and testing. According to the plan, the organization and equipment specified in the draft training directive were to be tested in the course of regular joint maneuvers and field exercises; based on these field tests, the Tactical Air Command expected to prepare a publication that could replace Field Manual 31-35.” The beginning of the Korean War, however, forced the cancellation of most planned field exercises and maneuvers and also increased the need for revisions in joint air-ground doctrine. Because of the urgency of the matter, Brig Gen Homer L. Sanders, vice commander of the Tactical Air Command, and Brig Gen William S. Lawton, chief of staff of the Army Field Forces, went ahead with the publication of the Joint Training Directive for Air-Ground Operations on 1 September 1950. In a preface they described the directive’s purpose as being to establish "the urgently needed amplifications and revision of the principles, means, and procedures" set forth in Field Manual 31-35. They noted that much of the organization and technique specified in the directive had not been adequately field-tested, but they conceived that the directive’s provisions would be incorporated in a joint departmental level publication after adequate field testing.”® In Washington, Lt Gen Idwal H. Edwards, Air Force deputy chief of staff for operations, expressed pleasure that the Tactical Air Command and Army Field Forces had prepared "an excellent working doctrine for units of the field armies and tactical air force." "In my opinion," Edwards wrote on 2 November 1950, "this is the best available document on air-ground operations and it is one which will provide proper guidance and training in a vital phase of joint operations."  The expansion of the Tactical Air Command in the late summer of 1950, together with the establishment of the Ninth Air Force (Tactical) at Pope AFB on 1 August 1950, represented an Air For