of staff and chief of staff of the Air Force spanned the eight years after June 1953, "would be a stupid statement for me to make. Of course there is."!? General LeMay, who became vice chief of staff in July 1957 and chief of staff of the Air Force in July 1961, was similarly candid in a speech in Philadelphia in September 1961. "I seek weapon systems," LeMay said, "that I think can do the best job and afford the nation the most protection. In military thinking I am a conservative. I believe we shouldn’t discard a proven, reliable weapon system or concept unless we have something that is able to replace it and do a better job. In short, I believe in having protection along with progress."  The Air Force problem of providing "protection along with progress" greatly complicated all phases in the process of providing modernization. "In 1946, right after the end of the war," Dr Edward Teller stated, "we could have said: Let us develop ballistic missiles... . Well, we did go into the development of ballistic missiles, but at an exceedingly slow and small rate. We did not start a vigorous development because it could not be proved that these missiles [would] be really important." Although the Soviets apparently were willing to take great gambles in their development programs, Teller noted that Americans were willing to spend billions when they knew there was a big payoff in prospect but were conservative when it came to spending even a few millions on something no one could predict for certain would pay off. "In this intermediate range of practical research," he concluded, "we have been rather poor." ““ Speaking about barriers to Air Force missile development, Colonel Hall, who became chief of the Western Development Division’s propulsion development, pointed out: "The barrier to be overcome was not of sound, or heat, but of the mind, which is really the only type that man is ever confronted with anyway." Hall noted that the armed services were compelled "to justify their