al forces," he predicted, "a contest must take place for control of the air. The first battles of any future war will be air battles. The nation winning them is practically certain to win the whole war, because the victorious air service will be able to operate and increase without hindrances." He called for the development of a metal-skin aircraft, which would replace fabric-covered planes, and stated that the United States should possess about 5,000 modern airplanes, with twice that number in reserve. Fifteen hundred of the active aircraft should be assigned to the Army and Navy for observation and the remaining 3,500 planes should be held in an air striking force that would be about 60 percent pursuit, 20 percent bombardment, and 20 percent attack planes. He asserted that the Navy should possess 20 aircraft carriers, but no battleships, cruisers, or similar warships. Reductions in the Navy’s surface fleet would sustain the added cost of aeronautical development.®°  Seeking to secure some evidence with which to refute Mitchell’s charges that capital ships were vulnerable to air attack, the Navy secretly exploded a 900-pound bomb on the deck of the obsolete battleship Indiana in October 1920. It subsequently announced that the tests demonstrated that aircraft could not sink a battleship, but publication of photographs of the battered vessel led Mitchell to comment that "neither coast defense guns nor a defending fleet of battleships need fire a gun in repelling the attack of a foreign fleet if we have a properly organized Air Force.”*! In testifying on the Army appropriation bill in January 1921, Mitchell pointedly challenged the Navy to permit a live bombing test. "Aviation," he said, "must be ready when the war starts, because that is when aviation will be called on.  36  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 58 --- THROUGH WORLD WAR I  That is when it will have its greatest effect, and we want to keep the organizations we have in service equipped with modern equi