up and squadron and the tactics and techniques of bombardment, fighters, reconnaissance, air transport, and special air units. The Air University noted that "the interested agency on the highest level should be responsible for the doctrine promulgated in a given field."  Both the Air War College and Air University emphasized that the number and type of publications within the Air Force ought to be greatly reduced. The Air Staff also endorsed this objective on 5 March when it directed the Air University to proceed with the preparation of the recommended air employment and administrative instructions, which quite likely would be issued as a series of Air  368  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 390 --- AF WRITES ITS DOCTRINE  Force manuals rather than as a separate publications series./4 Although the Air Staff appeared to have approved the Air University’s planning, an Air Force Publications Board, which assembled in Washington early in 1948, refused to accept the plan of action. The Air Force regulation issued on the subject of publications on 26 April described 10 types of publications, including manuals. Manuals would include the types of material that had been called field and technical manuals, training standards, guides, handbooks, pamphlets, textbooks, and workbooks. Any Air Force command would be authorized to issue local command manuals on subjects peculiar to the command. Air Force manuals would normally be prepared by responsible functional Air Staff agencies, but, in certain instances, Headquarters USAF would delegate the preparation of the texts of manuals to a subordinate command. In those cases, the Air Staff would review and approve the draft manual. The air adjutant general was charged to edit and authenticate all Air Force manuals.  While Colonel Garland’s seminar was surveying the Air Force publications system, another Air War College seminar headed by Col C. P. Lessig was assigned the task of revising FM 100-20. Because of Garland’s recom