ate offices. But some persons believed that the secretary was concerned lest pressures from the State Department to increase military forces would make it difficult for him to carry out his mandate to limit military spending. 33 Because he thought it was improper for the National Security Council to be called upon to discuss matters that had already been agreed to at lower levels, Johnson abolished SANACC** Sensitive to charges that the Department of Defense was attempting to determine foreign policy, Johnson asserted: "The Defense Department is concerned with the military. .. . Neither the Secretary of Defense nor his assistants nor the Joint Chiefs of Staff nor the Chairman have... tried to fix... foreign policy. We have stayed out of that.... When foreign policy is determined, then our line is determined. Within that foreign policy it is our duty to work. "35 General Bradley  281  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 303 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  and the Joint Chiefs also attempted to adhere to this distinction between foreign and military policy. "We are asked the military implications of certain policies, and we try to restrict ourselves to military implications of various phases of foreign policy," he said. "This is our job as adviser to the Government on military matters. ... We have never, to my knowledge, advocated any action which is not in accordance with the foreign policy in effect at that time."  Soviet Nuclear Weapons and Technological Challenge  Although the leaders of the United States had recognized that no nation could maintain a complete monopoly on nuclear weapons, responsible American scientists had not expected the Soviet Union to detonate an atomic weapon before 1952, at the soonest. Early in 1949, an Air Force long-range detection service had begun to fly missions to search the upper atmosphere for evidence of atomic explosions anywhere in the northern hemisphere, and on 3 September 1949 one of the search planes picked up a radi