n influential circles. Writing on 23 September 1956, Prof Walt Whitman Rostow desired the United States to outstrip the Soviet Union in the nuclear arms race, but he also urged: "We must develop American capabilities in the general area of limited war. We must round out the spectrum of deterrence down to the level of guerrilla operations."2° Many of the analysts at the Rand Corporation endorsed the strategy of limited war. Civilian scholars began producing a body of literature on the subject. William W. Kaufmann edited a volume of essays entitled Military Policy and National Security, published in 1956, that focused attention on limited war. Appearing in 1957, Prof Robert E. Osgood’s Limited War: The Challenge to American Strategy argued that limited war had become the most likely form of armed conflict and that the United States should develop its military policy on this assumption.2)7 Also published in 1957 was Prof Henry A. Kissinger’s Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy, which became extremely influential at national policy levels. Although the volume reflected Kissinger’s opinions, it had grown out of panel discussions initiated in 1954 by the Council of Foreign Relations. Under the chairmanship of Gordon Dean, the members of this panel included such active duty military officers as General Gavin and many of the civilians who had earlier participated in Project Vista. Believing that complete defense unification was out of the question, Kissinger called for the reorganization of the armed services into a strategic force and a tactical force, each to be combat ready for the accomplishment of separate missions in general or limited war. He believed that Western Europe could be successfully defended with tactical nuclear weapons; but he argued in great detail that the effective use of these weapons required new formations, force structures, and tactics.  The new body of literature on the subject of limited war reinforced the Army position on strategy and may well ha