e the United States still possessed a military advantage in atomic air power.  According to Gen J. Lawton Collins, the Army chief of staff, the Joint Chiefs of Staff were opposed to an air campaign against North Korea’s cities both because the United States might have to rebuild them and because they did not wish to spread enmity among the North Korean people. "What we had in mind," he said, "was what actually transpired in the Ukraine. When the Germans went into the Ukraine, there is no question but what if they had used their heads, they might well have gotten a great deal of support from the Ukranian people in their fighting against the Russians."”” President Truman flatly refused to accept the idea that the United Nations should charge the Soviet Union with full responsibility for the Korean conflict and demand that Moscow put an end to it. Acting on peremptory orders from Truman, General MacArthur attempted without success to recall his statement to the veterans organization. General Anderson was immediately  295  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 317 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  suspended as commandant of the Air War College and subsequently requested retirement. Secretary Johnson resigned as head of the Department of Defense on 12 September. Secretary Matthews, however, remained in office after he explained to Truman that he had heard preventive war talked so much that he had used the phrase in his speech without realizing its full implications to the administration’s policy. Symington’s suggestion that stronger action be taken on the basis of America’s preponderance in atomic air power apparently did not meet the approval of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, at least two of whom reportedly "did not feel that atomic advantage was a sufficient guarantee to deter the Soviets."  Tactical Air Operations  In accordance with the terms of the United Nations Security Council resolution of 27 June 1950, the mission of the United Nations Command forces in Korea d