f State John Foster Dulles ever exactly defined massive retaliation. As has been seen, the acceptance of massive retaliation in 1954 did not lead the Joint Chiefs of Staff to change the categories of target systems for strategic air war planning purposes. During the Sputnik crisis, however, the Air Force gave some serious thoughts to a counterforce strategy and for the first time assigned some specific meanings to massive retaliation. Speaking in 1959 General White said that the strategic target priorities continued to be: "One, to destroy the enemy’s capability to destroy us — that would be the first priority; next would be to blunt the enemy attack against our deployed military forces in Europe and in Asia; and, third, systematically destroy the Soviet Union’s ability to wage war." If it were given strategic and tactical warning, White pointed out that the United States could implement these orderly attack priorities, but he noted that the growth of Soviet capabilities to attack the United States made it likely that a United States second strike might have to be somewhat improvised. "In case of a surprise attack," he suggested, "the mission would be . . . to do the greatest possible damage to the Soviet Union as a whole with attention to applying that destruction in such a way as to do as much damage as possible to their residual military striking force." Following this same line of reasoning, Col Robert C. Richardson demonstrated that massive retaliation had always been a specific response within the whole American strategy. "Massive retaliation," Richardson wrote,  relates principally to what happens after the enemy tries a surprise attack against the United States proper. The deterrent to an attack of this nature lies in the Strategic Air Command’s capability, even after having been hit first, to strike back, "retaliate," with sufficient atomic power to wipe out the enemy’s major urban centers. This is massive retaliation. The targets are cities; the forces use