ontract with Ramo-Wooldridge to provide the scientists and engineers needed to analyze complex technical and scientific questions and direct systems engineering for the several associated contractors that made up the development team. With their military counterparts in the Western Development Division, the Ramo-Wooldridge technical and scientific personnel were integrated into what Schriever described as "a development- management team, with all elements working on a side-by-side, counterpart basis."°! Given final assurance by the Atomic Energy Commission that a small high-yield warhead could be expected, this team made final the configuration of the Atlas missile in the last quarter of 1954. In the first six months of 1955, contracts were let for the Atlas airframe and nose cone, guidance and control, and propulsion systems.”  At its meeting in July 1945 the Atlas Scientific Advisory Committee had suggested that the United States begin developing an alternate strategic missile to the Atlas at once. The committee had several reasons for its position. Convair’s plants were near the California coast and to depend on a single type of strategic missile would make the program extremely vulnerable to hostile attack. In addition, the Atlas was "a big pressurized metal sack" that might collapse under violent maneuvers and a missile with a more conventional structure would offer more prospects for growth potential. While this reasoning was valid, the Air Force was  491  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 513 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  hard put to justify developing a second strategic missile in view of rather stringent expenditure limitations.” Some further indecision resulted after 2 December 1954, when the Air Force issued a general operational requirement for a tactical ballistic missile with a range of 1,000-2,000 miles. Schriever feared that the development of a tactical missile would compete for the use of existing test facilities, thereby delaying the A