or use in the Air Service as Training Regulation No. 440-15, Fundamental Principles for the Employment of the Air Service. m  While the doctrinal project was in progress, General Patrick gave close attention to the pitiful plight of aircraft procurement and the poor state of health of the nation’s aircraft manufacturers. While the development of experimental aircraft had made substantial progress since 1918, the quantity procurement of new aircraft and accessories had been penalized by the tremendous stock of equipment still on hand from World War I. Some new planes — such as the Martin MB-2, which could carry 2,000-pound bombs — had been procured, but the Air Service had been able to purchase only a few of the many prototype planes that it wished to see developed to meet specific requirements. 01 Tn his report for fiscal year 1922, Patrick pointed out: "No nation can afford to support, in times of peace, an air force capable of meeting the requirements of war, and because of the rapid deterioration of aeronautical equipment in storage the proposition to maintain a sufficient war reserve of aircraft is equally untenable." In effect, the Air Service had to plan to use viable aircraft manufacturing companies for the production of its mobilization requirements in a war emergency. Aircraft production in the United States, however, was at such a low ebb that it would not be able to meet the Army’s plans to mobilize six armies for a war emergency. General Patrick recommended that a program for the production and purchase of modern aircraft be considered and that a definite amount of aircraft purchase funds should be provided by Congress from year to year. He also stated that a properly balanced Army aviation force ought to have about 20 percent of its strength in air service units and the remaining 80 percent in air force or combat aviation. Because of reductions in Air Service strength and the requirement to keep enough observation units to conduct training with ground f