," he asked, "because certain zealots grasped his false doctrines many years ago and refuse to relinquish this discredited theory in the face of vast, costly experience? Must we translate the historical mistake of World War II into a permanent concept merely to avoid clouding the prestige of those who led us down the wrong road in the past?" é  Appearing as the next principal witness for the Navy, Brig Gen Vernon E. Megee, assistant director of Marine Corps aviation, emphasized the Marine Corps belief in tactical air power. "The evidence appears conclusive," he stated, "that in both the Atlantic and Pacific battle areas, tactical aviation, not strategic bombing, was the decisive factor." He charged that the Air Force was neglecting the development of tactical air power, and further asserted that the Air Force’s "traditional doctrinal insistence on coequal command status at all levels of contact with the ground forces .. . deprives the Army commander of operational control over his supporting elements and requires that [the] ultimate decision must be made at the level of the highest echelon, in case of dispute between ground and air commanders." 72 Continuing the Navy testimony, Fleet Adm Ernest J. King pointed out: "Mass bombing is merely a specialized task and big bombers alone will not assure us command of the air. Without control of the air, the job of the soldier, the sailor, and even the job of the strategic airman becomes more difficult, perhaps impossible."” As an advocate of air power, Adm Louis E. Denfield, chief of naval operations, favored an initial air offensive by the nation’s total military air power — Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps —at the outset of a war. He believed that the airplane had materially altered the conduct of war, but that it had not changed the basic principles and objectives of war. "The defeat of the armed forces of the enemy," he said, "is still the primary objective of war. Air power is not an end in itself."  Because of the nat