ze. Under the Air Force Combat Command, test and experimentation in air defense was centered at I Interceptor Command at Mitchel Field. Major Saville, now the executive officer of I Interceptor Command, visited Great Britain early in 1941. In the autumn of that same year following the nation’s first large-scale air defense maneuvers, Saville prepared the draft of an air defense doctrine that integrated pursuit interceptors, antiaircraft artillery, barrage balloons, and signal air warning units into a coordinated air defense establishment. This draft manual distinguished, for the first time, between air defense (which was a direct defense against enemy air operations) and operations against enemy air forces (which were said not to be properly within the scope of air defense). 1 The draft of the manual provided a basis for air defense training and organization, but it would not be officially approved and published. Based upon the agreement between Emmons and McNair, the air support section of their respective commands was made responsible for the supervision of cooperative air-ground training and for the development of air support doctrine. With the passing of time, the air support section would produce a doctrine manual. However, during 1941 no one knew how an air support command was to support an army or what its composition would be. The only War Department letter touching on the subject on 7 October 1941 merely stated: "Air Support Command may be attached to army or armored force upon entry into Theater of Operations or as directed by the Theater Commander." 2  With the Air Corps Board in a moribund state, the Army Air Forces turned to other devices for basic thinking. On 11 October 1941 the assistant chief of air staff for operations assembled a special board of knowledgeable officers headed by Col Earl L. Naiden to study and make recommendations on the future development of  107  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 129 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  pur