e cohesive definition early in 1957. "Air power," it said, "is the hard core of any modern defense organization. It comprises those military resources, together with their effective command, control and employment, which enable a nation to use the air for its own purpose and to deny its effective use to the enemy." Given effective command and control that recognized the unitary nature of global air warfare, the Evaluation Staff's definition was broad enough to include Army antiaircraft defense as well as Navy air defense and aviation resources.”” Emphasizing a dynamic and inclusive concept of air power, Maj Gen James Ferguson, Air Force director of requirements, wrote in April 1958: "Air power is the total of elements needed to apply force in the appropriate degree. It is offensive, defense, reconnaissance, transport. It is general thermonuclear offensive, limited nuclear and conventional war, police action, or perhaps a show of force. It is deterrence and, if deterrence should fail, it is destruction of the ageressor."”’ Speaking to the National Press Club on 29 November 1957, however, General White declared that the US Air Force was "synonymous with airpower." "Just as our Army and its soldiers are synonymous with land warfare and the Navy and its sailors with sea battles," he said, "so are the USAF andits airmen synonymous with air warfare."" In April 1958 Maj Gen Jacob E. Smart, the Air Force assistant vice chief of staff, reiterated this same position that the National Defense Act 1947 had established the US Air Force as the service representing "the primary airpower strength of the nation."”? At the Air War College, Maj Gen Robert F. Tate, nevertheless, preferred the larger definition of air power. "I think we must," he said, "whether we like it or not, acknowledge that air power if properly used does lie in the Navy as well as in the Air Force, and perhaps eventually in the Army."  Although the discussions of air power appeared academic, the emphasis placed o