at had been described up until then as objectives, principles, strategy, tactics and techniques, long-range plans, general operational requirements, doctrines, and concepts. This intensive study would produce models or theoretical projections of military concepts and principles of military influence.™  As a part of the reorganization of US Air Force headquarters necessitated by the Defense Reorganization Act of 1958, the Air Force thought it necessary to transfer the responsibility of preparing basic air doctrine to the Air Staff. In July 1958 an Air Doctrine Branch was established under the Air Policy Division of the Directorate of Plans. This branch was to advise the Air Force chief of staff on possible doctrinal inputs that might be required by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, which was now vested with responsibility for making joint doctrine. For several months the Air Doctrine Branch served in this advisory role. But on 6 March 1959 responsibility for preparing basic air doctrine and for monitoring the preparation of operational doctrine manuals was transferred back to Headquarters USAF and to the Air Doctrine Branch from the Joint Staff. At this time Air Staff told Air University to revitalize its research activities and to fulfill its function as a doctrinal center for developing sound concepts concerning elements of military influence and aerospace power.  When the responsibilities for developing Air Force doctrine were transferred to Washington, it was expected that air doctrines could be kept more current. But Lt Gen W.E. Todd, commander, Air University, protested that AFM 1-2 was "so far out of date that it has practically become archaic’; the existing manual failed to recognize the impact of missiles and space technology. General Todd’s protest apparently sparked action. The Air Staff coordinated the revision and on 1 December 1959 General White signed a new printing of AFM 1-2. The new printing substituted the term aerospace in each instance where the word ai