problems and areas, each of which included specific objectives, but there was no consolidated statement of basic American purposes. The Joint Chiefs of Staff encountered this same problem. In October 1949 General Bradley told congressional investigators that in the absence of any authoritative definition, the Joint Chiefs of Staff had assumed that  the people of the United States have as their national objective a desire for peace and security without sacrifice of either the basic rights of the individual or the present sovereignty we cherish. .. . Secondly, we intend to maintain our political way of life and our form of government in our own country. ... Our third objective is to maintain, and to raise, if possible, our American standard of living. And fourth, we Americans would like to have peace and security for the entire world, and all the good that these conditions can bring.  Bradley conceived that the national objectives did not "demand a similar political way of life or a similar form of government in other countries of the world" and that they included a hope for "the successful development of an effective world organization, based on the United Nations." In their approach to the problem, the State Department planners finally decided that the basic national purpose of the United States was best expressed in the preamble to the Constitution: "to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure Domestic Tranquillity, provide for the common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity." In 1949 the House Committee on Armed Services was in agreement with these generalized objectives, but it suggested that the National Security Council ought to issue "a firm statement of principles upon which the Joint Chiefs of Staff may rely as an official expression of their civilian leaders."  Seeking "the containment of communism and ... the defense of America," the United States lent military and economic ass