on of the strategy of minimum or finite deterrence.  619  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 641 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  Backus reasoned that the Soviet capability to deliver thermonuclear intercontinental ballistic missiles had rendered obsolete the strategy and the force commitment of massive retaliation. Because of its vulnerability the Strategic Air Command was being compelled to disperse to hardened bases, but the hardening of SAC bases promised to set off an arms race since the Soviets could also harden their bases. To plan upon the blunting operations of the massive retaliation strategy—Backus equated blunting with counterforce—would also set off a spiraling arms race since proportional additions to the US deterrent or retaliatory forces would be required each time the Soviets added a new missile or a new air base. The weakness of the United States deterrent posture was its vulnerability. "If then," Backus reasoned, "our deterrent/retaliatory forces were relatively invulnerable, no matter what the Russians tried to do, we might in fact truly put behind us the frightening possibilities of general nuclear war." Backus asserted that the Polaris submarine would be the perfect weapon for finite deterrence since it possessed inherent invulnerability to a considerably higher degree than any other weapon system. If the Soviets knew that even if they launched a surprise attack the majority of their industrial concentrations would be reduced to rubble, they would not initiate a deliberate attack. In the event that the Soviets accidentally initiated a general war, Backus proposed that the United States should hit back instantly and hard by destroying two or three predesignated Soviet cities. In this case the United States would retaliate in a controlled manner, allowing time for negotiation between strikes. Such controlled retaliation would be destructive, but it would not reduce the world to rubble. Backus pointed out that the United States had compell