rred a middle way. "There are, on the one hand," he stated, "enthusiasts who believe that the coming into being of aircraft have practically scrapped all other combat agencies; and, on the other hand, conservatives who consider aircraft as merely auxiliaries to previously existing combat branches. The truth, of course, lies somewhere between those two views."  As an able but conservative administrator, he favored evolutionary rather than revolutionary changes in the national military organization.”© Unlike many of the Army-indoctrinated officers of his generation, Patrick had an open mind as to the future of aviation. After months of practice, he passed a normal test and was recognized as a qualified junior airplane pilot. While he had no hope of becoming a skillful pilot, Patrick believed that his ability to fly helped him win the confidence of many younger men whom he was trying to contact, direct, and guide "in an effort to make of the Air Service a united body of men all working toward one end."”’  A part of the chaos also stemmed from the vast mass of material that had been issued in the Army during World War I for instructional purposes. In the autumn of 1920, the War Department had issued instructions to each of its branches that all training data would be prepared in a new training regulation series. Looking toward the accomplishment of this and other tasks, General Patrick, during the reorganization of the Office of Chief of Air Service on 1 December 1921, replaced the Training and Operations Group with a Training and War Plans Division, which was made responsible for conducting service tests of new equipment and for preparing training literature. In the other branches of the Army, general boards representing the chief of the service handled test and training literature projects, but the Air Service did not have an Air Service board. In the absence of such an agency, the Air Service Training and War Plans Division assigned training literature projects to th