ch and April 1916, the 1st Aero Squadron valiantly attempted to support Brig Gen John J. Pershing’s punitive expedition against the Mexican outlaw Pancho Villa. However, a combination of poor flying machines and severe operational weather made it impossible for the squadron to provide desired observation to the ground forces.  As the United States reluctantly began to arm itself, the National Defense Act of June 1916 included a modest expansion of personnel in the Signal Corps, Aviation Section; large appropriations for Army aviation were included in the fiscal year 1917 appropriation. Looking toward industrial mobilization, Congress authorized establishment of the Council of National Defense on 29 August 1916. One of the groups comprising the council was the nucleus for the creation of the Aircraft Production Board on 16 May 1917. The Aircraft Production Board worked in conjunction with the Joint Army-Navy Technical Board in the selection and procurement of the aircraft chosen for large-scale production.”  The American Air Service in World War I  When the United States entered World War I on 6 April 1917, the US Army did not possess a single modern combat aircraft; but the beginnings of an industrial mobilization had been made. As a nonbelligerent, the United States had not shared Allied war secrets and badly needed information on which to base its war plans. In the first place, the hard-pressed Allies wanted rapid support from US industry. In a cable to President Woodrow Wilson on 26 May, Premier Alexandre Ribot of France asked that an American flying corps of 4,500 planes, 5,000 pilots, and 50,000 mechanics be sent to France during 1918 to"enable the Allies to win the supremacy of the air." If it were to meet this requirement, the United States would have to produce 16,000 planes and 30,000 engines by 1 July 1918. Congress immediately appropriated funds for the requisite production, but, for some reason, Ribot had not specified what type planes ought to be produc