itary services should  575  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 597 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  be reduced to supporting elements of the combat organization. The secretary of defense should be provided with an expanded civilian and military staff to assist him in directing the combat organization and the three support commands.  While this discussion was progressing, Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson manifested little concern for what he described as the "magic formula" of "complete unification." "The stifling of intelligent discussions for the sake of unanimity," Wilson thought, "will not guarantee the perfect answer. More important, it is foreign to our concept of a free society." He argued that a single chief of staff for the combined armed forces would "risk military dictatorship in our country." Wilson freely admitted that he had encouraged service rivalry in the development of new weapons and he saw no reason why he could not at an appropriate time  "simply interpret how the new weapons can fit into the previously agreed division of responsibility." nit 1 Speaking as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm Arthur W. Radford suggested that Finletter’s advocacy of a single service and a single uniform "would not solve anything ... we would still have compartmentation within this single uniform." Radford also thought that a single armed forces chief of staff would have a very difficult life. "His lot probably would be an unhappy one because he really would not have the authority that his title would imply unless we changed our system of government."  Representing long-standing Navy views, Adm Arleigh Burke, chief of naval operations, flatly opposed a single armed services chief of staff. "If you have a single Chief of Staff," Burke maintained, "with the power of decision and with authority to develop his staff as he sees fit, sooner or later he can... develop an organization that is case hardened on the outside. ... He can develop his own syst