fficers were assigned to the War Department general staff divisions. After a year’s delay while studies were made, the Air Corps was authorized a five-year expansion program in which it was expected to attain a strength of 1,650 officers, 15,000 enlisted men, and 1,800 serviceable airplanes. The only difficulty with the Air Corps Act—according to Secretary Davison—was that it was never fully implemented. The legislation was never popular with other agencies of the War Department who lost funds and personnel spaces to the Air Corps expansion, and there was jealousy that the Air Corps was permitted special representation at the secretary and General Staff level. "Those in higher places . . . ," Davison noted, "were looking more for an alibi rather than a means of carrying out this program." Davison also noticed that Congress did not appropriate authorized funds in full amounts and the Bureau of the Budget impounded some of the Air Corps funds that were appropriated.  As the Air Corps expansion got under way, the chief of the Air Corps continued to be responsible for the preparation and issuance, through the War Department General Staff, of training doctrine for all Air Corps organizations. Because of the small number of officers in his office, the chief of the Air Service had required the Air Service Field Officers’ School to prepare basic drafts of doctrinal manuals. Subsequently redesignated as the Air Service Tactical School in 1922 and the Air Corps Tactical School in 1926, the institution at Langley proved to be the only common location of experienced Air Corps officers who had enough time for creative thinking. Following the practice of other arms and services, an Air Service Board was established at Langley in 1922 and was redesignated as the Air Corps Board in 1926. But the Air Corps did not have enough senior personnel to assign to this board; thus, the commandant of the Tactical School and several of its staff members doubled as members of the Air Corps Boar