is power," Eisenhower emphasized, "is for our own defense and to deter aggression. We shall not be aggressors, but we and our Allies have and will maintain a massive capability to strike back."  On a visit to the United States the summer before his retirement as chief of the Air Staff of the Royal Air Force in December 1952, Air Marshal Slessor recalled the hundred years of Pax Brittanica that had rested on the power of British naval forces and visualized the establishment of a Pax Atlantica based on air power. "I believe the stability of the world," he said, "can be preserved just as surely as it was between Waterloo and Sarajevo. And this time it will rest on airpower— largely, but not exclusively, American Airpower." Slessor repeated these ideas in a series of talks on the British Broadcasting Corporation early in 1954. In an article entitled "Has the H-Bomb Abolished Total War?" published in Air Force Magazine in May 1945, Slessor asserted that total war waged with thermonuclear weapons "would amount virtually to mutual suicide." Reasoning from the premise that to win a war meant to create "world conditions more favorable for oneself than would have been possible if there had not been a war," Slessor concluded: "The world may take courage and hope from the fact that there is today not the slightest chance of anyone winning a war on that definition. ... What has now happened is that total war has been abolished in the only possible way —it has abolished itself, now that new ultimate weapons of atomic and thermonuclear power are in the hands of both potential antagonists." Slessor reasoned that the United States and Great Britain could not afford "to neglect the defensive altogether," that they would have to "give the necessary priority to a striking force, not vastly superior in strength to anything that anyone else has, but strong enough to do the job and efficient enough to put the weapon down where we want to, if we have to." He also argued that the two allies