ation of the Air War College Evaluation Staff in July 1954 was marked by the assignment of Col Ephraim M. Hampton as Air War College deputy for evaluation and Col Jerry D. Page as chief of the Doctrine Division. Assisted by Col Royal H. Roussel as project officer, Page promptly undertook the work of revising AFM 1-2 without delay. "Our own experiences in the doctrinal field," Page and Roussel subsequently reported, "lead us to believe that the total war capabilities of air forces—their capability to destroy in total war—are the most clearly understood of all their capabilities. Their great potential in times other than war is less clearly understood." 4 General Kuter agreed that Air Force doctrine had not stressed sufficiently the capabilities of air power throughout the entire spectrum of international conflict. Page and Roussel sought to expand the basic doctrinal manual so that it would take greater cognizance of the capabilities of air power in periods other than general war. Incorporating ideas received from Kuter, Hopwood, and Sleeper, Page and Roussel prepared a draft of a revised manual in August 1954, which they coordinated with key individuals at the Air University, in the Pentagon, and in Europe. After this coordination, Page and Roussel redrafted the manual in Joint Chiefs of Staff style and had it printed at the Air University preparatory to final review in Washington. On 4 January 1955, Kuter forwarded copies of the proposed manual to General White, now Air Force vice chief of staff, together with a chart that explained how the manual had been changed and the reason for the changes.  Following Air Staff and Air Force Council review of the new edition of AFM 1-2, General White notified Kuter on 1 February 1955 that the Air Force liked the new statement of basic doctrine; the vice chief noted that although the draft had  398  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 420 --- AF WRITES ITS DOCTRINE  retained the basic doctrine of the original manual, it had ma