policy. "I can visualize local war situations arising," he wrote,  where the threat of only atomic retaliation would severely prescribe the US bargaining position at the conference table and turn the mass of human opinion against us; whereas possessing a conventional retaliation, could place world opinion on our side... . I do not foster a large and expensive program, but rathera modest program designed to meet the limited requirements of a local war and the aircraft we visualize now and in the future. I, therefore, believe our policy must be to continue retention and modernization of a conventional capability until such time as small atomic weapons, pinpoint delivery systems and world education reach the point of reliability and acceptance so as to permit elimination of conventional weapons, yet retain the proper environment in which our national policy can thrive and be effective.  Weyland also took issue with the Strategic Air Command’s position that it could fight a local war without detriment to its general war posture. "I don’t think any unbiased Air Force officer," he wrote, "visualizes B-52s finding and dropping weapons on a small guerrilla troop concentration in the jungles of Indo-China— or some other area of concern in the local war problem. I not only think it illogical, but feel that it would be a pure malemployment of such an expensive force when we can do the job better and more economically with tactical air forces."26  At the same time that the major Air Force commanders were failing to reach complete agreement about a sole reliance on nuclear weapons, Secretary Dulles was emphasizing the importance of free world defense forces in an address before the annual luncheon of the Associated Press on 22 April. Placing emphasis on collective defense, Dulles noted: "It is agreed that the primary task is to deter war. ... It is also agreed that the principal deterrent to aggressive war is mobile retaliatory power. ... It is also agreed that it would be impru