n with other agencies to protect ground forces from hostile aerial observation and attack. In addition it furnishes aerial observation for information and for artillery fire, and also provides messenger service and transportation for special personnel." It stated further: "The organization and training of all air units is based on the fundamental doctrine that their mission is to aid the ground forces to gain decisive success." The regulation recognized the distinction between observation (which was an integral part of divisions, corps, and armies) and the GHQ air force (which was to be self-contained and capable of rapidly shifting its activities from one theater of operations to another). Obviously pleased with the training regulations, General Drum described it as "the most advanced thought in the world today on aviation."!42  In September 1925, less than a week after Patrick testified before the Morrow board, the War Department directed him to submit within five days a complete plan to implement his Air Corps idea. The heads of the Army branches that would support the Air Service were given a similar brief period to comment on Patrick’s plan. Each objected that the organization of the Air Service on the model of the Marine Corps would upset coordination between the branches of the Army. Secretary of War Dwight F. Davis, nevertheless, insisted that it was very important to pass an air bill through Congress in the spring of 1926 because it was necessary to increase the efficiency of the air force and because, in his opinion, the country demanded it. In the end, the War Department proved willing to accept the findings of the Morrow board and the Air Corps Act of 2 July 1926 constituted a legislative enactment of the Morrow recommendations. The name of the Air Service was changed to the Air Corps, the implication being that the Air Corps was capable of independent as well as auxiliary operations. An additional assistant secretary of war was authorized to perform dut