m bases that might be denied to them at the outset of a war. "Airlift on the scale we visualize," Vandenberg said, "would make it possible to move logistic support with and as the bombers move. If the bombers are forced to divert to alternate bases, the logistic support would likewise be diverted. Without this type support the strategic bombing force is neither truly strategic nor potent. To have truly strategic striking forces, logistics must be as strategically mobile and flexible as the forces it supports." And even after the Air Force decision had gone against him, General Tunner continued to insist that air transport capabilities should be consolidated into one operating command. "Air transport today," he wrote in the autumn of 1952,  is scattered among many commands of the Air Force as well as the Navy and Marine Corps, all of whom do not have the same standards of utilization and priority urgency for their use. I feel the consolidation of these aircraft into a single command is the most efficient way to do this job. This single command would be charged with the responsibility for airlift according to the urgency of the requirements of all the armed services —in other words, the first needs of the nation.  In its roles and missions, the Air Force was charged to provide an air defense of the United States, but such an air defense required the integration of the Army’s antiaircraft artillery battalions and the Air Force’s interceptor groups into one operational organization. In the course of along dispute, the Army Ground Forces had proposed in 1946 that the air defense mission actually ought to be divided: the antiaircraft artillery to be responsible for the air defense of local areas and the fighters to provide air defense beyond the range of the ground weapons. In 1949 the Air Force stated the doctrinal position that antiaircraft artillery battalions should be placed under the operational control of the Air Defense Command.!1 Until the spring of 1950 these di