eral Fairchild recalled some of the perplexities that had confronted him as a member of the Joint Strategic Survey Committee of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Joint Intelligence Committee had made many criticisms of the air target list included in AWPD-42; some of the criticisms appeared fully justified. When Gates’s executive, Col Guido R. Perara, joined in the conversation, Fairchild suggested that he (Perara) might like to find the answer to the fundamental matter  142  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 164 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  in question: "How can Germany be so damaged by air attack that an invasion of the continent may be possible within a relatively short period, say one year?" After thinking about the matter overnight, General Gates addressed a memorandum to Fairchild pointing out that nowhere in the War Department was there a group of analysts or research workers who were capable of assembling raw data and drawing conclusions from it. In search of a solution to the problem, Colonel Perara and Maj W. Barton Leach, who had been recruiting operations analysts for air force commands, proposed that a high-level committee of operations analysts should be formed to study Germany and to recommend target systems to General Arnold. The idea won Arnold’s prompt approval and General Gates assembled a small group of distinguished scholars and industrialists in a first meeting of the Committee of Operations Analysts on 10 December 1942. In early spring 1943 the committee made its first report on German target systems to Arnold. After completing this effort, the committee addressed itself to determining the strategic vulnerabilities of Japan to air assault.  The operations analysis function continued to slip further out of the domain of the AAF Board. Leach, who was promoted to colonel and served both as amember of the committee and as chief of the AAF Operations Analysis Division, provided general guidance to the buildup of some 17 operations analysis sec