ier general and became a captain when he stepped on the dock; within a few months, however, he was promoted to major.’ Even more important was the affect of the return to peace on the development of the airplane. "The airplane," Sherman wrote,  is in its infancy. Many of its features today show the crudity characteristic of all early efforts. But as we compare the airplane of 1918 with that of 1914, it is apparent that progress during that period was unbelievably rapid. This was due, of course, to the urgent demand of war. Now the acceleration of war has been lost; nor does there appear to be any great stimulus to advancement in commercial demand. We may expect, therefore, that progress will be materially slowed down, either until development makes the airplane widely useful to commerce, or until we encounter again the insistent demand of war.  In their assessment of the impact of the airplane on the art of war, the Mitchell group drew an important distinction between the effect of air action on land warfare and sea warfare. "On land," Sherman reasoned, "battle is determined by morale: The aim therefore is to destroy morale by methods that are based on unchanging human nature." Naval warfare, on the other hand, was a product of industrial and inventive genius and firepower. Aircraft, together with submarines, had the ability to destroy naval vessels, and it was obvious | that the airplane had altered the means by which sea power was to be attained. At a meeting of the Navy’s General Board on 3 April 1919, Mitchell urged that aircraft could successfully attack naval warships, stated that the aerial defense of the nation’s coasts should be assigned to land-based aircraft, and urged that the United States should organize a ministry of defense, combining army, navy, and air forces under one direction.” Mitchell was not again invited to appear before the Navy’s General Board, but he presented a steady flow of aviation ideas to the congressional committees that sat almost