not merely to permit but to seek all the help it can get from Naval Air in the use of air power, either strategically or tactically. Likewise, the Navy is assigned the exclusive role in the field of anti-submarine warfare; and ... the intent of the Navy is also to invite all the help it can get from the Air Force in carrying out this mission."  Although progress was being made in determining the roles and missions of the armed forces, at least two retired Air Force officers continued to believe that all  199  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 221 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  military aviation should be consolidated. In December 1948 General Doolittle criticized the National Security Act of 1947 as "an unfortunate compromise" that had failed to accept Army Air Forces recommendations that there be one separate autonomous Air Force, complete coordination of the three armed forces, a head to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and roles and missions designated by executive order rather than by legislation. Doolittle wished to concentrate all military aviation in the US Air Force: "One specialized branch of the Air Force," he said, "would operate with the Navy just as a specialized branch, the Tactical Air Force, now cooperates with the Army." In October 1949 General Spaatz wrote: "The Navy now spends more than half its total appropriation in support of naval aviation. The result is that the Nation is dissipating its wealth and wasting aviation talent in supporting two air forces." Specifically queried about the Spaatz article, Secretary Symington emphasized that the view that there should be one air force was not an official Air Force position. "I know of no officer in the Air Force," he said, "who agrees with the position that there should be one Air Force for the country."  Unified and Specified Commands  Although roles and missions were in dispute, the secretary of defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff successfully provided command and control arrangements for unified an