cision bombing attacks against the principal objectives. They did not favor attacks against cities unless the enemy people were known to be low in morale either because of sustained suffering and deprivation or because of a recognition that their armed forces could not win a favorable decision. The planners believed that heavy bombers — relying on speed, massed formations, high altitude, defensive firepower and armor, and simultaneous penetrations at many places—could make deep penetrations of German defenses in daylight hours. They, nevertheless, felt that it would be used to develop a large, heavily armed escort fighter that would have the range and speed slightly superior to the bombers it would escort.  Simultaneously with the strategic air campaign against Germany, other Army . Air Forces units would be dispersed in Alaska, Hawaii, Iceland, and South America to maintain hemispheric defense. To maintain a strategic defensive in Asia, the planners visualized a buildup of bomber forces in the Philippines and shuttling B-29 and B-32 aircraft from Alaska and the Philippines to a refueling and staging area in Siberia. This concept was so persuasive in fact that the planners urged immediate efforts be made to deploy four groups of B-17s or B-24s to the Philippines to deter the Japanese from moving toward the Netherlands East Indies. It was assumed that the hemisphere and Asian defensive forces would provide the aircraft needed to control adjacent seas against the operation of hostile seacraft.  In establishing requirements for pursuit aircraft, the planners reasoned that the principal role of pursuit was defensive—the protection of bases and vital areas—and that air superiority would be won by bombers. Because of an anticipated shortage of air bases, especially in England, the air planners urged that pursuit complements should be kept at a minimum level consistent with safety so that the strength of the bombardment strike force would not be reduced. Much the same line