nged the basic principles and objectives of war. "The defeat of the armed forces of the enemy," he said, "is still the primary objective of war. Air power is not an end in itself."  Because of the nature of the charges under investigation, Air Force leaders devoted most of their time to a detailed history of B-36 procurement. However, on 12 August Vandenberg described the strategic situation and the objectives and the capabilities of the Air Force. Disdaining to talk in riddles, he identified the Soviet Union as the "one military threat to the security of the United States and to the peace of the world." The aggressive thrust of the Soviets could be contained only by the economic and military power of Western nations. "The only war a nation can really win," he said, "is the one that never starts." "When reason, good will, and the accommodation of competing national interests give assurance of keeping the peace," he thought, "the maintenance of deterrent forces will be unnecessary. Until that day comes, the striking power of atomic weapons in the hands of this country is a prerequisite of national and world security."  As his statement continued, Vandenberg described the Air Force mission as being the defense of the United States against air attack, the maintenance of forces in being necessary to attack, immediately and effectively, the vital elements of an enemy’s war-making capacity, and the preparation of air power that would work in conjunction with surface forces. Even though all of these missions were  253  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 275 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  important, the Joint Chiefs had determined that the capacity for immediate retaliatory strategic attack was essential: this attack would blunt an enemy’s initial operations and lay a foundation for subsequent operations by land, sea, and air forces. Although the Air Force had given first emphasis to its strategic air elements, Vandenberg pointed out that the distinction made betw