port from Winston Churchill), the British government set up a separate Air Ministry in December 1917. In the culmination of this reform in April 1918, the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Service were recombined into the Royal Air Force, but, as a more immediate action, General Trenchard was directed to concentrate a bomber force at Nancy and begin attacks against German industrial centers. Since the British were already operating from Nancy, the US Air Service agreed with Trenchard’s suggestion in December 1917 that American bomber squadrons arriving in France initially operate with British units. Here matters stood on 5 February 1918 when Colonel Gorrell was transferred to the AFF General Staff. On 26 March Colonel Bolling was killed by German soldiers while reconnoitering the ground front. s  Although Gorrell’s successor in Strategical Aviation busied himself making plans for the eventual reception of US bombardment squadrons, the establishment of the British Independent Air Force at Nancy under command of General Trenchard on 5 June 1918 forced a reconsideration of American planning. Since the British Independent Air Force received its orders from the Air Ministry rather than from the Allied commander in chief Marshal Ferdinand Foch, the American Expeditionary Forces ruled that US bomber squadrons could not operate integrally with it. General Pershing’s chief of staff also notified General Patrick that all Air Service officers "must be warned against any idea of independence and ... that every force must be closely coalescent with those of the remainder of the Air Service and with those of the Grand Army." Believing that the use of the term strategical aviation had led persons to think that this activity was independent, General Patrick directed in June 1918 that the activity would be known as the General Headquarters Air Service Reserve.” Marshal Foch believed that the  25  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 47 --- IDEAS, CONCEPTS, DOCTRINE  ene