The smooth functioning of the team was the direct result of having unity of command — one supreme commander in each theater of war."  The emphasis upon combined forces was accompanied by a subtle downgrading of the significance of the role of strategic bombardment in World War II. In Secretary Patterson’s view, "the hammering that German industry and transportation took from the American and British air forces so seriously crippled the mobility of the German army that it was unable to withstand the combined assaults from the East and from the West."!4? Speaking of strategic bombing, Gen Jacob L. Devers, commander of the Army Ground Forces, said: "The Ground Forces recognize this strategic battle role of the air which must be Miccessfally conducted before the Infantry and Artillery can close with the enemy." 5° General Bradley concluded that strategic bombing in Europe "was ultimately an effective deterrent to the success of the enemy on the battlefield. . .. It had a decisive effect on the ultimate ability of the Allies to defeat Germany in a shorter time, saving many, many lives and dollars."  In the immediate aftermath of World War II, Air Force officers were inclined to agree that a second phase of ground conflict would characterize a future war. "Japan," General Spaatz said in March 1947, "was a peculiar situation, being an island empire. ... But when you are up against a continental empire you have the problem of winning against great masses of people with great internal resources. ... We had established almost complete air superiority over Germany at the time of the invasion, but it took a considerable amount of fighting to subdue  170  Google  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 192 --- AF THINKING AND WWII  Germany after air superiority had been established." Speaking in August 1949 after he had become chief of staff of the Air Force, Gen Hoyt S. Vandenberg announced: "My opinion of the effectiveness of strategic bombing in both Europe and in the Pacific wa