battle conditions that suit him." Dulles asserted: "The way to deter aggression is for the free community to be willing and able to respond vigorously at places and with means of its own choosing." He explained that the basic decision of President Eisenhower and the National Security Council was "to depend primarily upon a great capacity to retaliate, instantly, by means and at places of our own choosing." He pointed out that the Korean conflict had "been stopped on honorable terms . . . because the aggressor, already thrown back to and behind his place of beginning was faced with the possibility that the fighting might, to his own great peril, soon spread beyond the limits and methods which he had selected."  The timing of Dulles’s massive retaliation address coincided with a critical juncture in the foreign affairs of the United States. Dulles was scheduled to meet with Soviet and Western foreign ministers at Berlin on 22 January. Even though he reportedly felt that the chances of reaching any significant agreements with the Russians were slim, nothing could be lost from a candid emphasis upon America’s military power. The Eisenhower administration also wished to prevent Indochina from falling into the hands of the Communists. But despite large amounts of American military equipment and technical assistance to French forces, the Communist Vietminh forces, with an active assistance from the Soviet Union and Communist China, appeared likely to defeat the French in Vietnam, where guerrilla war had been in progress since 1945 and had been intensified after the Korean armistice. The massive retaliation address served to meet in part the policy vacuum that existed in Southeast Asia>4 Contrary to the wishes of Dulles, who feared that the Communists might be inspired to attempt a feat of force in Vietnam to support their diplomacy, the Berlin conference placed the problem of restoring peace in Indochina on the agenda for discussion at another conference to be held  428  F