n order to be successful, air power must be exploited to the fullest, then the ground forces must support the air forces."”  Rebuilding the Worldwide Air Force  Viewing his service as secretary of the Air Force in retrospect, Thomas K. Finletter remarked that Korea was the stimulus that broke the logjam of fixed military budgets in 1950, but he also observed that the Korean War "had the unfortunate effect of emphasizing the importance of the weapons and tactics of the past.""" General Vandenberg, however, saw four principal events as being instrumental in the substantial expansion of the Air Force that took place after 1950. The first was the explosion of an atomic bomb by the Soviet Union in August 1949. The second was the North Korean invasion of South Korea in June 1950, followed by the entry of the Chinese Communist armies into Korea in November. Both actions signified the willingness of the Communists to employ armed might for the achievement of foreign policy objectives. The third was the commitment of United States forces to assist in the defense of Western Europe. And the fourth was the calculation of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that by mid-1954 the Soviet Union would possess a stockpile of atomic weapons sufficient in size to mount a devastating attack against United States military installations, industry, and population centers.!° Recognizing that the Air Force was on trial in Korea, Vandenberg ordered that every effort be made to give the utmost support to the Far East Air Forces; nevertheless, the reorganization and buildup of the United States Air Force was pointed toward the major threat presented by the growing atomic capabilities of Soviet air power.  Even though it had gained a high level of experience in the global air battles of World War II, the United States Air Force was still a new military organization in June 1950. Thus, at the same time that Vandenberg faced the problem of mobilizing larger air striking forces, he also had to speed decision-