f our policy is to prevent war and not have it occur," he stated. "Our allies," he added, "believe this just as much as we believe it, and their immediate danger is much greater than ours because if general war broke out they would be in a most exposed and dangerous position."  Bases of American Action in Korea  As far as can be determined, the Washington authorities, without making any real consideration of the employment of an alternate strategy, accepted the orthodox surface strategy for handling the local war in Korea that General MacArthur presented during the last week of June 1950. At a later date, Lt Gen Albert C. Wedeymer, Army chief of plans, seriously questioned the wisdom of these initial decisions. "I think we Americans are surface-minded," he said. "We think in terms of the Army and Navy, and not up in the air with the new weapons that science has given us. I think that punitive action should have been taken with the Navy and with the Air Force, instead of putting ground forces in Korea."”* When he arrived in the Far East in July 1950 as the commander of FEAF Bomber Command, Maj Gen Emmett O’Donnell was confident that with five groups of B-29s and with incendiary munitions, he possessed a capability to destroy  294  File: --- futrell_ideas.pdf --- Page 316 --- SOVIET NUCLEAR WEAPONS  everything of value in North Korea within three months. "It was my intention and hope, not having any instructions," he later recollected,  that we would be able to . . . cash in on our psychological advantage in having gotten into the theater and into the war so fast, by putting a very severe blow on the North Koreans, with an advanced warning . . . telling them that they had gone too far in what we all recognized as being a case of aggression. ... Tell them to eitherstop the aggression and get back over to the thirty-eighth parallel or they had better have their wives and children and bedrolls to go down with them because there is not going to be anything left up in Kore